-- Hedge Fund Fight Over Madoff Claims Shows Contract Woes
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-08T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/hedge-fund-fight-over-madoff-claims-shows-contract-woes.html
Hedge funds Perry Capital LLC and
Solus Alternative Asset Management LP are fighting over whether
they had a contract when they agreed to trade $195 million of
claims on  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt firm, amid rising prices on
the claims.  Solus sued Perry July 3 for $20 million after the trade
fell apart, saying they had a legally enforceable deal, sealed
by phone and “instant messages” on Bloomberg LP terminals.
Perry denied there was a deal, “let alone one that can be
enforced in court.”  In a bankruptcy, a trader can’t get paid without a signed
document showing the seller “unconditionally and irrevocably”
sold, transferred and assigned the claim, with all rights
attached. Under  New York  State contract law, trillions of
dollars in debt trade telephonically with a confirmation by e-
mail or on electronic systems such as a Bloomberg terminal.  “A contract for the sale of debt doesn’t have to be in
writing,” said Robert E. Scott, a professor at  Columbia Law
School  in New York. “There are no statutory bars to enforcement
if there was a meeting of minds and a final understanding.”  The fight between the hedge fund firms comes as prices for
larger claims on the con man’s estate have climbed to about 65
cents on the dollar, from the low 60s, according to  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital
Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt. Solus claims
that Perry backed off from the trade because it “apparently
realized that it made a bad deal” and was “suffering a case of
seller’s remorse.”  Conditional Nature  Perry said it wasn’t motivated by a change in Madoff claim
prices. Its clients hadn’t booked a gain or loss on the claims
because of the “conditional nature” of its deal with the bank
selling the claims to Perry, it said.  There never was “even a draft agreement” to close the
trade, nor a “meeting of minds” over essential aspects of the
trade, it said in an Aug. 3 court filing.  “Simply put, legally and commercially, there has never
been a contract, let alone one that can be enforced in court,”
according to the filing.  David Rosner, a lawyer for Solus, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment on Perry’s answer.  Richard Perry  founded his hedge fund firm in November 1988,
after working at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  A so-called event-
driven manager, he trades stocks and debt of companies involved
in mergers and spinoffs and those emerging from bankruptcy.  Event Specialty  Solus, led by ex-Morgan Stanley analyst Christopher Pucillo, also specializes in “event and credit-related”
investments and manages $2.5 billion in assets, the New York-
based firm said in a February statement.  More than $43 billion of claims on bankrupt companies
traded in the past 12 months, according to SecondMarket Holdings
Inc., which tracks court filings that disclose the trades.
Defunct investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. accounted
for more than $41 billion of that amount, with brokerage MF
Global Inc. placing second, with around $1 billion of claims
changing hands.  The volume in Madoff claims is harder to track, as the size
of trades and names of buyers and sellers are mostly blacked out
in filings. CRT’s Sarachek estimates the number at about $200
million in the past 12 months, using his own list of trades and
data from the Madoff trustee.  Based on that estimate, the Solus-Perry trade would have
doubled the volume. Perry could argue that agreeing to sell
claims in bankruptcy implies an agreement to sign the final
papers needed to disclose the trade in court, said bankruptcy
lawyer Chip Bowles of Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,
 Kentucky .  Procedural Provisions  “Generally the claim transfer provisions of the  bankruptcy
code  are considered procedural,” so that Solus might be able to
enforce the deal under New York State contract law, Bowles said.  The Solus-Perry negotiations were complicated by the fact
that Perry didn’t own $195 million of claims, only an interest
in them bought from a Deutsche Bank AG unit. Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. didn’t own the claims either because it hadn’t
closed the trade with its seller, a so-called feeder fund to the
 Ponzi scheme , Kingate Global Fund Ltd. and a related fund --
which are suing the German bank for backing off the deal.  With the Deutsche Bank unit’s help, Solus and Perry were
ready to close their trade by early June, Solus said in the July
3 lawsuit.  Even though Solus has made repeated demands since then,
“Perry Capital has refused to honor the binding contract,”
Solus said in its filing.  Accepted Practice  According to Solus, “It is a common and accepted practice
for traders in this industry to negotiate and finalize legally
binding trades orally (i.e., telephonically) and confirm and/or
corroborate agreed-upon trades through Bloomberg instant
messages. That is precisely what happened here,” it said in the
lawsuit.  Perry says it “repeatedly” told Solus the deal was
subject to negotiation. Perry wanted Solus to step in and do the
trade with Deutsche Bank, freeing Perry of its obligations.
Solus preferred to leave Perry “in the middle,” so it could
buy an interest in the claims if it was potentially profitable,
and otherwise change its mind, according to Perry.  A written contract might help avoid such disputes, even if
traders who habitually work without one can fall back on state
law, experts said.  Not Great  Even with state law protection, doing without a written
contract is “not a great idea,” said  Stephen Lubben , a
bankruptcy law professor at  Seton Hall University School of Law 
in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Deutsche Bank took a cautious route, also “consistent with
longstanding industry practice,” it said, when Kingate a year
ago offered to sell $1.6 billion of Madoff claims at 66 cents on
the dollar, or about $1 billion.  Answering the feeder fund’s lawsuit over the broken trade
in January, Deutsche Bank said it had made clear from the start
that the deal was “expressly subject to” a signed sale
document, which was never agreed on or executed.  “If that was the case, then under New York law the
contract is not enforceable until that’s done,” said Columbia’s
Scott.  Kingate, which is being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands, said in its December suit that Deutsche Bank signed a
confirmation letter and assured the seller there wouldn’t be
problems with the already drafted purchase and sale agreement.
The confirmation letter states that it is a “firm, irrevocable
and binding agreement,” it said.  Trustee Suit  The bank said it backed away from the trade because
Kingate, which also is fighting a lawsuit by the Madoff trustee,
didn’t fulfill its side of the bargain, which was to deliver
claims that would hold up when payday came round.  “Given the expected purchase price of approximately $1
billion, any entity interested in buying the Kingate funds’
claims would reasonably insist on appropriate legal
protections,” including valid claims and “a mutually agreeable
purchase and sale agreement,” it said in a filing in U.S.
District Court in  Manhattan .  A June 1 letter to the judge from a Kingate lawyer that was
filed in court says the litigants have been exploring “a
possible solution” and are “hopeful” they can resolve the
dispute. That hasn’t happened yet, said a person familiar with
the talks who declined to be named.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard , who so far has paid the con
man’s investors just $333 million from a customer fund, said
July 26 he will ask a judge to approve a second payment of $1.5
billion to $2.4 billion. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison
sentence.  The Solus case is Solus v. Perry Corp., 652341/2012,
 Supreme Court  of New York (Manhattan.) The Kingate suit is
Kingate Global Fund Ltd. v. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 11-
cv-09364, U.S. District Court, Southern District (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  