-- Megaupload’s Dotcom Wasn’t Beaten, N.Z. Police Tell Court
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-08T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/megaupload-s-dotcom-wasn-t-beaten-n-z-police-tell-court.html
Kim Dotcom, founder of the
Megaupload.com website shut by U.S. authorities for alleged
copyright infringement, wasn’t beaten during a January raid on
his  New Zealand  mansion, two police officers testified.  “None of us punched him in the face,” a member of New
Zealand’s Armed Offenders Squad testified in Auckland  High Court 
yesterday, the second day of a hearing into Dotcom’s bid to
reclaim seized computers and hard drives. “I saw another
officer walk by and inadvertently step on his hand.”  Dotcom, 38, testified Aug. 7 that he was beaten by police
during the raid. He is attempting to prove the search and
seizure of his property were unreasonable under New Zealand law
in a bid to recover the computers and hard drives, which he said
are needed to prepare a defense for a March hearing in New
Zealand on a U.S. extradition request.  The first two officers to reach Dotcom in a safe room of
his rented home on Jan. 20 gave varying accounts of his
demeanor. A Special Tactics Group member described Dotcom as
cooperative during the arrest, while the Armed Offenders Squad
officer said he was belligerent and wore a look of disdain.  The officers’ names can’t be published by order of Justice
 Helen Winkelmann .  Dotcom was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files.  Face Punching  Dotcom faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the
racketeering and money-laundering charges in the indictment,
with the U.S. seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .
He testified that he was punched in the face, kicked and kneed
when officers swarmed him as he sat with his hands raised.  “I say that’s incorrect,” the Special Tactics Group
officer in charge of finding Dotcom during the raid said, adding
Dotcom’s hands were in his lap. “It’s wrong.”  Dotcom’s lawyer Paul Davison detailed the planning and the
raid through cross-examination of the two officers and showing
of video taken from one of two helicopters used in the assault
on the home, attempting to persuade the judge the scope of the
operation was unnecessary. Two SWAT-like teams in helicopters
four  AOS teams  in vans and four-wheel drive vehicles and one
reserve AOS team were involved in the raid, according to the
testimony.  Dotcom said he had cooperated with police in the past and
would have opened the door for them, had they knocked.  Barricade Concern  Working from information provided by the FBI and their own
reconnaissance, police were concerned that Dotcom had security
staff who might be motivated to resist in order to protect him,
the Special Tactics Group officer said. Police also had concerns
that he would barricade himself inside the mansion and destroy
evidence needed by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation for his
prosecution in the U.S., the officer testified.  “Conventional police couldn’t overcome” those potential
obstacles, the officer said.  Davison referred to pictures of a security guard greeting a
uniformed officer at the gate to the mansion and shaking his
hand, before two tactical squad officers grabbed the guard and
restrained him. The police vehicles arrived at the home within
seconds of the helicopters, Davison said.  The Dotcom mansion in an Auckland suburb is valued at NZ$30
million ($24 million), according to an article on the
stuff.co.nz website. The property is also known as the “Chrisco
mansion,” because it was built by the founders of a Christmas
hamper company of the same name.  German-born Dotcom, who legally changed his name from Kim
Schmitz, spent four weeks in jail before being released on bail
to await the extradition hearing. In addition to the computers
and hard drives, police seized 18  luxury vehicles  in the raid,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink
Cadillac.  Winkelmann had earlier ruled police relied on illegal
warrants that were overly broad to conduct the raid.  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  