-- Egypt’s Appointment of State Newspaper Heads Provokes Backlash
-- B y   S a l m a   E l - W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-08T16:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/egypt-bars-state-broadcasters-from-hosting-israeli-analysts.html
Egypt ’s upper house of parliament
named new editors-in-chief of state-run newspapers, provoking
criticism from journalists that the government of President
Mohamed Mursi was filling the industry with Islamists and
supporters of the current and former governments.  The appointments, which come the same day that the new
Islamist information minister banned state-run media from
interviewing Israeli commentators, can be considered “a threat
to the independence of the profession,” Adel Iskandar,
professor of media at  Georgetown University , said by e-mail from
 Canada  today.  “This is a continuation of the power-sharing agreement
that seems to permeate much of Egyptian politics today --
between the Muslim Brotherhood and a nebulous amalgam of
‘foloul’ and SCAF-loyalists,” Iskander said, referring to the
Egyptian term for “remants” of the old regime and the Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces, which handed power to Mursi in
June.  That month, seven board members of the Egyptian Journalists
Syndicate withdrew from a meeting with the speaker of the Shura
Council after objecting to the upper house’s interference in
state media and accusing it of adopting the same autocratic
tactics used by former president  Hosni Mubarak ’s now-defunct
 National Democratic Party .  Both houses of the assembly are dominated by Islamist
groups including the Muslim Brotherhood, which nominated Mursi
for the presidency. The lower house was disbanded under a court
order before Mursi took office.  Freedom of Expression  Abdel-Nasser Salama, named head of Al Ahram newspaper,
wrote several articles condemning the uprising that ousted
Mubarak, describing protestors as paid thugs. Gamal Abdel Rehim,
appointed head of  Al Gomhuria , sparked anger among human rights
groups in 2009 when he appeared on a television talk show with a
Bahai woman who, he said, should be killed for being an infidel.  “When it comes to the choices, virtually none of them,
from either camp, has a glowing record of promotion of freedom
of expression, opinion and the press, an imperative condition in
a post-authoritarian media system,” Iskandar said. “Sadly,
this is simply a fall-back to the media of yesteryear only with
the addition of more schizophrenia.”  Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud ordered an
investigation after Nile News broadcast the comments of an
Israeli commentator yesterday during its coverage of the
aftermath of an Aug. 5 attack by unidentified militants who
killed 16 Egyptian soldiers at a border post, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said.  Abdel-Maqsoud, a prominent journalist and member of the
journalist syndicate, is also a member of the Brotherhood. He
was appointed Aug. 2 as part of Prime Minister Hisham Qandil’s
new Cabinet, a government that includes several Brotherhood
members and Islamists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  