-- Egyptian Aircraft Strike Sinai Militants in Retalliation
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-08-08T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/egypt-aircraft-strike-militants-after-government-vows-revenge.html
Egypt ’s army began a campaign to
purge north Sinai of militants, with attack helicopters killing
a reported 20 fighters, as President Mohamed Mursi fired his
intelligence chief and a regional governor.  The fighting yesterday came after Mursi ordered police and
the military to take “complete control” of Sinai and vowed to
avenge an Aug. 5 attack in which 16 soldiers were killed during
an assault on a border post. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said
Egypt had increased its troop numbers in Sinai and was
bolstering intelligence efforts there.  The attack left Mursi under pressure to review Egypt’s
peace accord with Israel, which he has pledged to uphold, and
its relationship with the Islamic Hamas movement that rules the
 Gaza Strip . It also spotlighted the deteriorating security
situation in the Sinai since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster last year.  “Sinai is fertile ground for radical and violent movements
because there is no state control there or a heavy military
presence,” Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham
University,  England , said by phone. “The army’s reaction now is
showing off power and revenge rather than to protect the
sovereignty of the state.”  Mursi replaced the acting chief of the general intelligence
service and fired the governor of north Sinai, where the Aug. 5
attack took place, his spokesman, Yasser Ali, told reporters
yesterday. No group has claimed responsibility for the raid.  Checkpoints Attacked  Unidentified militants exchanged gunfire with Egyptian
forces in al-Arish, nearby Sheikh Zuweid and Rafah, attacking
several checkpoints late Aug.7 and yesterday, while helicopter
gunships pursued masked gunmen, state media reported. The state-
run Ahram Gate and Nile News said 20 militants were killed.  Security forces also engaged militants as they tried to
shoot down the aircraft using heavy machine guns and artillery,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported. Tanks supported
the aircraft, MENA said, adding that three members of the
security forces were injured during the sweep of the area.  The peninsula has seen a marked increase in kidnappings of
visitors, as well as assaults on security forces that have been
alternately blamed on disgruntled Bedouins and al-Qaeda-inspired
militants. Egyptian authorities have intercepted several
shipments of heavy weapons, including surface-to-air rockets,
believed smuggled in from  Libya .  Hamas Support  Qandil, speaking to reporters after a meeting of the newly
appointed Cabinet yesterday, said Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh had
called him and voiced his support for the crackdown in the
Sinai. Hamas condemned the attack on the border post, the worst
in the region in years.  The six attackers killed by Israelis on Aug. 5 after they
crossed the border were wearing Palestinian-issued military
boots and one was dressed in a military uniform, Ashraf Refai,
head of the forensic team dealing with the bodies, said in an
interview.  Amid concerns that the attacks would affect tourism, the
governor of south Sinai, home to the Red Sea resorts, declared a
state of emergency that included requiring tour buses to move in
groups and under armed escort. He also closed the route linking
north and south Sinai, according to an e-mailed statement from
his office.  Mursi is locked in a power struggle with the military that
handed him authority in June. He is trying to restore order in a
nation where 18 months of unrest battered the economy while
seeking to allay fears among secularist parties that his
presidency will reflect the Muslim Brotherhood’s agenda at the
expense of others in the country.  Shifting Position  Ali said Aug. 7 that Egypt sticks by its international
agreements “but at the same time serves the interests of the
state and the Egyptian people.” The Israeli-Egyptian peace
accord limits the number of Egyptian troops in Sinai.  Mursi’s recent meetings with top Hamas officials had
signaled a shift in Egypt’s position toward the Islamist
movement labeled a terrorist organization by the U.S.,  Israel 
and the European Union. Egypt appeared to be easing some
restrictions on Gazans in tandem with the meetings, a shift that
may be stymied after the Sinai attack. The military said the
assailants may have gotten support from people within Gaza.  “Such violence does Mursi more harm that it benefits him,
as it pushes” him to take action against the perpetrators, al-
Anani said. “Mursi doesn’t have full power that enables him to
take independent decisions.”  As part of the security crackdown, authorities also focused
on tunnels used to smuggle goods into Gaza. Nile News, citing an
unidentified security official, reported yesterday that
authorities had begun closing the tunnels. The move could
cripple the Hamas government by depriving Gaza residents of
their main pipeline for goods such as fuel, clothing and food.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  