-- Lehman Judge Won’t Redo JPMorgan $8.6 Billion Suit Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-08T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/lehman-judge-won-t-redo-jpmorgan-8-6-billion-suit-ruling.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. lost a
bid for a revised ruling on its $8.6 billion lawsuit against
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  when the judge said he was satisfied with
the way he had dealt with the issues.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in April dismissed some of
the defunct investment bank’s claims, leaving others in place.
Lehman, which is gathering money for a second payment to
creditors, said it might gain hundreds of millions of dollars if
he reinstated some claims he dismissed. Peck declined in an
order signed yesterday.  In a July 12 hearing, Peck told Lehman it had other ways of
recovering money from JPMorgan.  “I see absolutely no reason now to revisit the
questions,” Peck said, according to a transcript.  Lehman alleges that the New York-based lender helped cause
its 2008 collapse by demanding $8.6 billion in collateral.
JPMorgan said in February it would give Lehman almost
$700 million to settle part of the suit. It continues to fight
most of Lehman’s claims.  The two parties also are fighting over a demand by
JPMorgan, a key lender to Lehman in the 2008 credit crisis, for
$6.3 billion it says it is owed. Peck said at the hearing this
fight was one of the ways for Lehman to recover money from the
bank.  Judge’s Ruling  Peck’s April ruling was that Lehman cannot claim money from
JPMorgan for securities transactions governed by so-called safe
harbor law, devised to protect banks dealing with weak
companies. Lehman is entitled to pursue the remaining “fact
driven causes of action,” he said.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008, listing $613 billion in debt. Now out of
bankruptcy, it has said it expects to pay creditors 18 cents on
the dollar by 2016 or so.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
immediately on Peck’s decision.  The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, 10-03266,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 