-- Lehman Trader-Author Prowls Detroit’s Klingon Air Space: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/lehman-trader-author-prowls-detroit-s-klingon-air-space-books.html
For Scott Lasser, a novelist who once
traded  government bonds  at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., death
is more a beginning than an end.  In the prologue to “The Year That Follows,” a trader
perishes in the World Trade Center inferno. In his new book,
“Say Nice Things About Detroit,” seven cadavers pile up in the
first seven pages.  We learn, indirectly, that a black man and a white woman
were just gunned down in an E-Class Mercedes in Motor City. Then
we find out that five people died during a highway wreck in the
Rocky Mountain snow.  Yet this isn’t a story about death. It’s about the living,
about survivors who must pick up the shards after their loved
ones have passed. Though the story unfolds between 1994 and
2007, it’s rooted in an idea as old as the Talmud: By saving one
life, you save an entire world.  The main survivor is David Halpert, an estate lawyer who
returns to  Detroit  years after fleeing to Denver. His mother is
suffering from dementia, and his father asks him to come home --
to stay, not to visit.  “Only the demented moved to Detroit,” he thinks at first,
before realizing that nothing important holds him to  Colorado .  Four years before, David’s son went on a ski trip and died
in a road crash. A divorce followed. Now 45, David is a barren
man with thinning hair who rents a furnished apartment.  Economic Collapse  He has made an important discovery, though: It feels good
to be back in Detroit, however strange that might sound to
outsiders. It’s a sensation familiar to anyone who knows the
city and has witnessed its grinding economic collapse.  On his first morning back in 2006, David opens the  Free
Press  to find a photo of his fair-haired high-school girlfriend,
Natalie -- “the serious love of his youth, maybe his life” --
above the fold on page one. Alongside is a photo of her light-
skinned black half-brother, Dirk, a retired FBI agent. The two
had been murdered in his sleek German car, “a dozen shots fired
at close range.”  The funeral draws Natalie’s sister, Carolyn, to Detroit
from her home in  Los Angeles . One thing leads to another, and
soon David and Carolyn become “romantically involved,” as the
jacket copy puts it. This is a two-dimensional description of a
complexly rendered relationship, one simmering with dormant
jealousies, troubled marriages and irrepressible cravings.  Hiroshima Homecoming  When David talks of returning to Detroit for good, Carolyn
says “it’s like moving back to Hiroshima.”  David’s answer is pitch-perfect: “People live there now,
I’m pretty sure.”  The narrative then toggles to the mid-1990s and back,
crisscrossing racial borders, industrial wastelands and
neighborhoods so blighted with drugs and guns that Dirk called
them “Klingon air space.”  As David seeks to make sense out of Dirk and Natalie’s
unsolved murders, the past intrudes on the present, and Lasser
quietly tightens the vise. An introspective character study
gradually builds into something more menacing. The narrative
clicks along, making me willing to overlook a few too many
coincidences and one plot point that strained my credulity.  Lasser is an economical writer who reveals character and
class through details and dialogue. When David returns to his
parent’s house, he sees “the same framed prints from the
Galerie Maeght, the same black upright Steinway.” When he asks
his mother if she really is losing her mind, she looks at his
father and replies, “Not yet. But he’s pushing me.”  For Detroiters, Lasser offers a glint of hope. For those
who wonder why anyone still lives in the home of the Not-So-Big
Three, he provides a rich and satisfying answer.  “Say Nice Things About Detroit” is published by  Norton 
(267 pages, $25.95). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Mark
Beech  on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 