-- Telstra Earnings Miss Estimates Amid Mobiles Push
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-08-09T07:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/telstra-annual-profit-rises-5-4-amid-switch-to-mobile.html
Telstra Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s largest
phone company, posted second-half profit that missed analysts’
estimates as it spent more to add mobile phone customers while
winding down its former monopoly fixed-line business.  Net income fell 4.9 percent to A$1.9 billion ($2 billion)
in the six months ended June 30, trailing the A$2 billion
average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Second-half figures were calculated by subtracting  first-half 
earnings from the A$3.4 billion full-year profit the Melbourne-
based company reported today.  Telstra is having to compete to win lower-margin mobile
customers as its former monopoly of fixed-line copper wires is
switched off and handed over to NBN Co., a state-owned company
building a national broadband network. Since the NBN program was
announced in April 2009, Telstra has raised its mobile customer
base by more than 30 percent, a pace that may now slow, Chief
Financial Officer Andy Penn said in a phone interview.  “They’ve had some good wins in mobile over the last 24
months but that might have come to an end now,”  Jeremy Hook ,
who helps manage A$250 million as investment director of TMS
Capital Pty., said by phone from Sydney. “With the
outperformance of the stock in recent times they probably needed
to do more for the stock to go up.”  Shares of Telstra fell 2.3 percent to A$3.88 at the close
in Sydney, the lowest level since July 24. The S&P/ASX 200 index
declined 0.1 percent. Along with yesterday’s 2.5 percent drop,
the move capped the biggest two-day losing streak for the stock
in almost a year.  Telstra expects earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization this year to rise at a “low single digit”
pace with capital spending about 15 percent of sales.  Slowing Growth  Telstra added about 640,000  mobile customers  in Australia
during the six months ended June 30, Penn said, as it competed
with  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ’s Optus unit and the
Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty venture of  Vodafone Plc (VOD)  and
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)   “I can’t tell you how the market’s going to grow -- it’s
slowed down, there’s no doubt,” Penn said from  Melbourne  today.
“We’ve added three million customers in the last two years.
There’s only so much you can do in one country.”  While that’s the slowest growth rate in two years, Telstra
now has about 13.8 million mobile customers, equivalent to about
60 percent of Australia’s  population . Vodafone Hutchison has
lost 732,000 customers over the past two years, according to
regulatory statements, due to network problems and aggressive
marketing by the two larger companies.  Mobile Gains  Telstra will invest an extra A$500 million in its mobile
network over the next two years to improve its advantage, Penn
said. That will push up capital spending over the next two years
and see free  cash flow , or money not used in operations or
capital projects, drop next year by as much as 10 percent, to a
range of A$4.75 billion to A$5.25 billion.  “The network is becoming a key differentiator,” Chief
Executive Officer  David Thodey  told analysts on a conference
call today.  Mobile revenue over the half rose 6.1 percent to A$4.3
billion while fixed-line dropped 11 percent to 2.3 billion,
Telstra said.  “The technology industry is hard to forecast but they’re
in a good position to deal with that uncertainty,”  Mark Freeman , who helps manage about A$4.6 billion as chief
investment officer of Australian Foundation Investment Co., said
by phone before the results. The Melbourne-based  fund manager 
has about 50 million Telstra shares, making it a top-10
 shareholder  according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government Pact  Telstra, which had a monopoly on phone services in
Australia until 1991 and was majority-owned by the government
until 2006, signed agreements in March to hand over its copper-
wire network to NBN Co.  The company will receive A$11 billion in payments and
benefits in return, supporting earnings over the next decade and
beyond as it moves from being  Australia ’s largest supplier of
wholesale phone and data services to its largest buyer.  Total sales in the half rose 0.8 percent to A$12.8 billion.  An 2.6 percent rise in operating expenses in the half drove
down Ebitda by 1.6 percent to A$5.5 billion.  Telstra’s profit margins are the second-highest among phone
companies in developed countries with revenues greater than $10
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the shift away from Telstra’s legacy wire network
will increase Telstra’s dependence on its less profitable units.
The company’s Ebitda  margin  is 39 percent for its mobile phone
business compared to 60 percent for fixed-line phones, and 64
percent for its data and IP services, the company said.  Cash Flow  Total mobile minutes overtook fixed-line calls for the
first time in 2011, according to Telstra’s 2011 annual report.  Free cash flow  shrank 5.1 percent in the 12 months to A$5.2
billion as the company boosted its  capital spending  on the
mobiles division. The company said July 12 it expects to
generate A$2 billion to A$3 billion of ‘excess’ free cash over
the next three years, thanks in part to the NBN payments.  The results were hit by a A$130 million impairment charge
related to the sale of its New Zealand division, TelstraClear,
to Vodafone’s local unit. The NZ$840 million ($684 million) sale
was agreed July 12, after the end of the financial year.  Telstra’s 50 percent-owned pay television venture, Foxtel,
also completed a A$1.9 billion takeover of its rural-based
competitor Austar United Communications during the half-year,
though the effects of the deal aren’t included in the group’s
results.  A final dividend of 14 Australian cents per share was
declared, matching the 14 cents proposed at half-year results.
The company said in April that it would maintain the 28 cents
per share annual  dividend  payout through 2013. It’s not raised
that level since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  