-- Most Emerging Stocks Advance on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-08T21:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/emerging-stocks-rise-to-3-month-high-on-stimulus-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  to a three-month high, as bigger-than-
forecast drops in German exports and manufacturing fanned
speculation central banks will take steps to bolster growth.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.3 percent to
970.6, the highest since May 11. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
rose the most among the world’s major equity benchmarks, led by
homebuilder Gafisa SA and steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA .  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s biggest
shipper of consumer electronics, led exporters higher.  German industrial production declined in June from a month
earlier while exports also slumped, pointing to a slowdown in
the euro zone’s strongest economy. The  Bank of Korea  is set to
consider cutting repurchase rates for a second month tomorrow. A
government report the same day may also show inflation slowed in
China, widening the scope for more policy easing in the world’s
second-biggest economy.  “Central banks across emerging markets have a little bit
more room to stimulate the economy and the prospect of that is
lifting the stocks,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $34 billion at
Van Eck Associates Corp., said by phone from New York. “If no
measure is announced, it only means the economic condition is
not as severe as people have been thinking.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased 0.2
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 2.3 percent.  Bovespa Gains  The Bovespa climbed 2.1 percent, boosted by an 8.2 percent
gain for Gafisa. Preferred shares of Usiminas, as the  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based company is known, rose 5.8 percent as
the stock recovers from an eight-year low reached on July 23.  Goldman Sachs increased its estimates for Usiminas’
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the 2012-2014 period by 13 percent, analysts led by  Marcelo
Aguiar  in Sao Paulo said in a note to clients on Aug. 6.  Production in  Germany  fell 0.9 percent from May, when it
gained a revised 1.7 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin
said today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.8 percent, the
median of 34  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Exports fell 1.5
percent, exceeding the median estimate among economists for a
1.3 percent decline.  Philippine financial markets and offices reopened today
even as a fifth of the Manila region remained under water after
the worst flood in three years.  Technology Stocks  Energy companies led  gains  in the emerging-markets index,
while a measure of consumer staples companies posted the largest
decline. The broader measure has advanced 5.9 percent this year,
compared with a 7.9 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO) 
The emerging-markets gauge trades at 10.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with 12.9 for the developed-nations measure,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  NCsoft Corp. (036570) , an online-game maker, slid 4.7 percent in
Seoul after reporting a loss.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s
largest mobile-phone operator, fell 6.6 percent to a two-year
low after profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Air China Ltd. (753) 
dropped 4.3 percent in  Hong Kong  after scrapping flights to
 Shanghai  because of a typhoon. China Southern Airlines Co. lost
3.2 percent and China Eastern Airlines Corp. fell 1.5 percent.  Samsung Electronics added 2 percent in Seoul, reaching the
highest close since May 10.  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) , Taiwan’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, jumped 7 percent in Taipei, the biggest gain
in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The company said yesterday
its second-quarter net loss narrowed to NT$9.57 billion ($320
million).  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 312 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  