-- Merkel Ally Signals Weidmann Won’t Derail Backing for ECB
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-08T12:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/merkel-ally-signals-weidmann-won-t-derail-backing-for-ecb-plans.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann’s
objection to European Central Bank proposals to contain market
turmoil won’t sway German backing for the ECB crisis fighting, a
senior ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s “clear” announcement that he
will link central bank purchases of euro-area government debt to
action by the region’s rescue fund “isn’t problematic from my
point of view,” Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary leader of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “It’s very positive.”  “We don’t have a rift within  Germany , we have different
roles,” Meister said, when asked about Weidmann’s opposition.
“I think Mr. Weidmann tries to live up to his duty of
conducting a stability-oriented monetary policy and that is also
very positive.”  Meister’s comments are the first from a senior German
policy maker since the government gave its backing two days ago
for Draghi’s bond-buying proposals, saying any such action was
within the ECB’s mandate. Draghi, in his Aug. 2 announcement,
“clearly addressed the primacy of politics in the euro
crisis,” deputy government spokesman Georg Streiter said.  Respect Always  “It can’t be the job of the ECB to finance governments,”
Meister said. “We’ve always respected the role of the central
bank and I’ve said very often in the past that we shouldn’t give
any warnings or advice to the central bank, and German
politicians didn’t give any advice before the Governing Council
meeting.”  Sovereign-bond-purchases by central banks to help
governments are “very normal transactions,” made in the past
by lenders including the  Bank of England  and, in the 1970s, the
Bundesbank, said  Peter Bofinger , an economic adviser to Merkel.  Draghi should be “more courageous,” relaunching the ECB’s
Securities Markets Program and buy bonds automatically when
Spanish and Italian yield spreads widen too much, Bofinger told
Linzie Janis and  David Tweed  today on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move.” As there is no justification for the current
spreads of those countries, seeking “political permission” is
unnecessary, he said.  No one at the Bundesbank press office was available for
immediate comment when contacted by telephone today.  Draghi’s proposal to consider ECB purchases of government
debt in tandem with  Europe ’s rescue fund in return for strict
conditions has failed to calm bond markets. Spain and  Italy , the
countries at the heart of the debt crisis that emanated from
 Greece , have refused to say whether they plan to request aid.  Spanish Yields  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose 8 basis points to 6.94
percent as of 2 p.m. in Berlin, while similar maturity Italian
debt fell a basis point to 5.96 percent. Germany’s benchmark 10-
year bund yielded 1.42 percent.  Draghi’s statement that the ECB is prepared to step in to
help lower borrowing costs in Spain and Italy sends a warning to
investors not to speculate against the single currency, said
Meister, who is also a CDU finance spokesman. He cited the
example of  George Soros , who made $1 billion in 1992 betting the
U.K. would be forced to devalue the pound, saying similar such
bets against the euro would fail.  Don’t Try It  “If Mr. Soros tried it with the British pound, he
shouldn’t try it with the euro after this reference by Mr.
Draghi,” Meister said. Draghi sent a message to “all
speculators who think that they can speculate against the euro:
My dear friends, be careful, there’s somebody in the background
who may join the game and his pockets are deeper than your
pockets.”  Almost three years after Europe’s financial crisis came to
light in Greece, the so-called troika of international creditors
-- the ECB, the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Commission -- is assessing the country’s progress in meeting its
bailout targets.  The outlook on Greece’s CCC rating, already eight levels
below investment grade, was revised to negative from stable at
 Standard & Poor’s  yesterday on concern a worsening economy
raises the likelihood the nation will need more support from
European Union lenders.  While Germany has “a certain flexibility” as regards
program targets, “that flexibility ends should we be asked to
supply more money beyond the program,” Meister said. He
declined to say whether another debt restructuring might be
necessary.  IMF in Greece  The IMF will stop paying further rescue aid to Greece
because it is “already clear” to the troika that Greece won’t
be able to fulfil its promise to cut debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, German news magazine  Der Spiegel 
reported last month.  If the Washington-based fund did try to pull out of the
Greek program, President  Barack Obama  “must adjust to the idea
that the Europeans will also pull out,” Meister said. “We’ve
always made clear that when the IMF isn’t on board then the
Europeans will also pull out.”  If Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who met with
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on July 30 while
Schaeuble was on vacation on the German North Sea island of
Sylt, “comes to visit with deep worries about the euro, then
the U.S., which has a considerable stake in the IMF, should also
communicate that this would happen,” Meister said. “You can’t
expect that one side will pull out and the other side will fill
the gap.”  With its proposed foray into government bond-buying to
bolster the 17-nation euro region, the ECB “has done what it
could in terms of support,” Meister said. “The actual problems
have to be solved through national and European policies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  