-- Merkel’s Coalition Spars Over Equal Rights for Same-Sex Couples
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-08-08T13:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/merkel-s-coalition-spars-over-equal-rights-for-same-sex-couples.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is squabbling over benefits to same-sex couples as
her Free Democrat coalition partners push to lower their taxes
to the level imposed on married families.  In Free Democrat Economy Minister Philipp Roesler’s view,
“it’s consistent that equal obligations have to be followed by
equal rights,” his spokesman, Holger Schlienkamp, told
reporters today at a regular government press conference. All
FDP ministers have “voiced objections” to wait much longer
before giving same-sex couples equal rights, he said.  Bavaria’s Christian Social Union lawmakers including Gerda Hasselfeldt, said they’re skeptical about changing the law.
 Germany ’s constitution grants married couples special protection
because they perpetuate life, which is “not the case” with
homosexual couples, Hasselfeldt said, according to  Deutsche
Presse-Agentur .  Germany’s  Constitutional Court  in Karlsruhe has held as a
rule that civil partnerships, a legally recognized union between
same-sex partners, must get treatment equal to married couples
in tax and pension laws.  The court today ruled that civil partners must be granted
the same tax waiver spouses enjoy when acquiring real estate.
Last week, the judges said civil partners may not be treated
differently from husbands and wives under pension rules
applicable for families of public workers.  “The court has made it very clear in its ruling that
registered partnerships mustn’t be treated differently from
marriages,” openly gay opposition Green party lawmaker Volker
Beck said in an e-mailed statement. The court “contradicts the
opinions of the CSU almost word for word.”  Schaeuble’s View  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  from Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  wants to wait for yet another ruling by the top
court before granting same-sex couples the same income tax
privileges as married couples, ministry spokeswoman Marianne
Kothe said today at the government press conference.  The court has issued similar rulings in recent years
covering tax and social securities issues for couples after it
said in a 2002 landmark case that the constitution’s protection
of the family doesn’t bar the government from recognizing unions
between partners of the same sex.  The opposition-controlled upper house of parliament, where
states run by Beck’s Greens and the  Social Democrats  have a
majority, have asked to change income-tax rules together with
the budget law for 2013. Kothe said that would cost the
government around 30 million euros ($37 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  