-- Tropical Storm Moves Across Mexico’s Bay of Campeche
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-09T18:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ernest-weakens-on-path-over-mexico-s-yucatan-to-bay.html
Tropical Storm Ernesto hugged the
southern coast of the Bay of Campeche as it moved slowly through
 Mexico ’s oil-production hub toward landfall near Coatzacoalcos,
the National Hurricane Center said.  Ernesto, with torrential rain and winds of 60 miles (97
kilometers) per hour, was 5 miles north of Coatzacoalcos and
traveling west at 5 mph, the Miami-based center said in an
 advisory  at 2 p.m. East Coast time.  Tropical storm-strength winds of 39 mph or more extend 140
miles outward from the system’s core. Ernesto is expected to
weaken once it’s on land and dissipate within two days.  Mexico’s state-owned oil company,  Petroleos Mexicanos , or
Pemex, earlier closed two of its three largest oil-export
terminals ahead of the storm. Most of the company’s oil
production is in the Bay of Campeche.  Ernesto went ashore on the eastern side of the Yucatan
Peninsula yesterday as a  Category 1 hurricane  before weakening
to a tropical storm as it crossed the rugged interior and
emerged back over water in the Bay of Campeche.  Pemex closed the Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas terminals,
Mexico’s Merchant Marine, part of the transport ministry, said
yesterday in its daily weather bulletin. The port of
Coatzacoalcos remained open.  Pemex Terminals  Cayo Arcas is the Mexico City-based company’s largest
export terminal, followed by Coatzacoalcos and  Dos Bocas . Mexico
is the third-largest oil exporter to the U.S. and supplied 1.05
million barrels a day of crude in the week ended July 27, Energy
Department data show.  As much as 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain may fall over
the Mexican states of Tabasco, Veracruz, Puebla and northern
Oaxaca through tomorrow, creating life-threatening flash floods
and mudslides, the center said. The storm is forecast to weaken
as it moves over land and rougher terrain.  In the Atlantic, a cluster of storms about 1,000 miles west
of the southern Cape Verde Islands has an 80 percent chance of
strengthening into a tropical system in the next 48 hours.  In the Pacific off Mexico, Gilma developed into a hurricane
with 75 mph winds, the center also said. It was 715 miles from
the southern tip of  Baja California , moving west and posing no
danger to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  