-- Terteks Seeks Partnership Adviser as Bundchen Line Added
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-08-08T14:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/terteks-seeks-partnership-adviser-as-bundchen-line-added.html
Terteks Tekstil Ithalat Ihracat &
Pazarlama AS , the slipper retailer licensed to sell Brazilian
supermodel Gisele Bundchen’s lingerie line in  Turkey , is seeking
a financial adviser to find an industry partner to expand.  “There are six or seven companies that have recently shown
interest” in cooperation, Sinan Oncel, the founder and chairman
of family-owned Terteks, said today in an interview in Istanbul.
“We can have a partnership with a strategic company that will
give us know-how and help us grow,” and “we are now looking
for an adviser to that end.”  Terteks owns the Twigy slipper store chain in Turkey, and
according to its website offers the footwear of other brands
such as Bundchen’s Ipanema, made by Brazil’s  Grendene SA (GRND3) , and De
Fonseca of  Italy . Terteks will start selling underwear produced
by Brazilian manufacturer Hope under the  Gisele Bundchen 
Intimates brand in Turkey in September, Oncel said today at a
press conference.  The company aims to increase sales by as much as 25 percent
this year from the 28 million liras ($15.7 million) generated in
2011, Oncel said.  Turkey’s clothing market has lured investors from abroad as
the government expects the country’s economy to expand 4 percent
this year. That growth compares with a 0.1 percent contraction
predicted for  Europe , according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Turkey’s 8.5 percent increase in gross domestic
product in 2011 was the third-fastest among Group of 20 nations,
after  China  and  Argentina .  The  Carlyle Group , Mid Europa Partners LLP and a
partnership between a  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  unit
and Istanbul-based Turkven Private Equity are shortlisted to buy
a minority stake in Turkey’s hosiery and swimwear maker  Penti
Corap Sanayi & Ticaret AS , Kerim Kotan, managing director of
sell-side adviser  Pragma Corporate Finance , said Aug. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  