-- Estelle Sips; Wharton MBAs Crowd-Fund for School: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-08T15:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/estelle-sips-wharton-mbas-crowd-fund-for-school-scene.html
Hip-hop’s glamorous starlet Estelle
crooned last night at the Darby -- everything from snippets of
Madonna’s “Borderline” to her smooth-rap “Freak” to her
first hit, “American Boy,” which the audience sang for her.  Then she popped a magnum of  Rosa Regale  and gave a toast to
a wonderful life, launching into her song by that title. The
chorus goes, “Hey! I’m winning today.”  Kevin Liles, her manager, and Mike Kyser of her label,
 Atlantic Records , sat in a center booth watching with approval.  Estelle and Rosa Regale have become an item since her album
“All of Me” was released in February.  It started with the music video for “Thank You,” in which
a waiter pours the Italian sparkling red wine imported by Banfi
Vintners. Then came sampling at a pre-Grammy event featuring her
charity, the All of Me Foundation, and at some of her shows.
There were Twitter and Facebook mentions, too, all culminating
in a one-year endorsement deal giving the brand the right to
Estelle’s image for marketing purposes.  Stacy Jones, chief executive officer of  Hollywood Branded
Inc. , initiated the relationship.  “The reason why Rosa Regale wanted to work with Estelle is
that the brand tested really well in an urban demographic,”
Jones said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles . “And
Estelle has a clean image, a healthy persona.”  The crowd assembled last night, on a stop of the Rosa
Regale “Invite Only” tour, seemed to fit that profile.  Among them: Bryce Shaw, general manager of design firm
 Holly Hunt ; Ann Akiri, who works in marketing for  Ben Sherman ;
Dwayne Williams, an emergency-room physician, and DJ Kevin
Young.  One guest advised not to drink more than two glasses of
Rosa Regale or you’ll get a headache.  Wharton MBA  Paying for a Wharton MBA is about to get a little easier.
Try, on average, $30,000 easier, said  David Klein , chief
executive officer and co-founder of  CommonBond , an eight-month-
old startup applying crowd-funding to the MBA student-loan
market.  CommonBond is offering a fixed, annual rate of 6.24 percent
on MBA loans. Federal Stafford graduate-student loan rates are
6.8 percent for the first $20,500 and 7.9 percent thereafter.  No wonder the company had little trouble gathering a few
hundred MBA students together at a midtown loft for a party on
Aug. 2.  “I’m at the event because I want to support an
organization that is brave enough to challenge an industry that
has been overburdening students,” said Will Morel, who is
entering his second year of Wharton.  Testing Ground  In the CommonBond model, the lenders are graduates of the
same school of the students they fund. Lenders are required to
invest a minimum of $50,000 for the promise of a nearly 5
percent return.  Wharton, the alma mater of the founders, is the first
testing ground.  “We chose the name CommonBond because we’re incorporating
a community component into the financing to achieve the goal,”
Michael Taormina, co-founder and CFO said.  Klein said the company is on target to raise $2 million
from 5 to 15 Wharton alumni, to fund 40 Wharton student loans
this year. The borrowers will be 2012 graduates refinancing
loans (who conveniently start repayment in December), and
second-year students.  In the near future, the company will
expand to other Ivy League schools with MBA programs.  Of course the model relies on MBAs remaining credit-worthy
and finding high-earning jobs.  The founders of the company have also decided to fund an
African child’s schooling for every MBA student they fund. That
was the hook of this party, which took in $6,000 to send 19
children to the  African School for Excellence.  That number will
be in addition to the 40 the company hopes to send through its
first round of loans.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Ryan Sutton  on
dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 