-- Metro Wins Panel Approval of Media-Saturn Board Voting Rules
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-08-08T16:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/metro-wins-panel-approval-of-media-saturn-board-voting-rules.html
Metro AG (MEO)  won a ruling by an
arbitration panel saying an advisory board set up at its Media-
Saturn unit may take some decisions by a simple majority.  Metro won the “relevant points” in the arbitration, a
company spokesman, who declined to be identified under corporate
policy, said in a statement today, citing the ruling. The
dispute is about an advisory board established last year that
can make business decisions with a simple majority that were
previously reserved to shareholder meetings requiring 80 percent
of the votes.  “We are currently evaluating the arbitration panel
decision in its entirety and don’t want to comment further,
given that the written judgment isn’t yet available,” Metro
said.  The ruling is part of a dispute with Media-Saturn minority
shareholder Erich Kellerhals who has sued in German ordinary
courts against the unit’s governance redesign by Metro. Today’s
decision is only one step in the conflict. The Munich Higher
Regional Court is scheduled to rule tomorrow on whether the
advisory board was legally installed. The Munich court will also
take a decision over the majority requirements.  Kellerhals’ lawyer Martin Schockenhoff said the panel ruled
that “crucial questions” of corporate governance cannot be
decided by advisory board’s powers. It’s to comment in detail
before the full written judgment is available, he said.
Metro last year installed the advisory board using its 75
percent majority at the unit. That panel can take certain
business decision by a simple majority. Before that, an 80
percent majority of all shareholders was required, allowing
Kellerhals, who holds more than 21 percent, veto powers.  Metro Appeal  Kellerhals sued in a civil court against the advisory
panel. While he lost a bid in lower state court to declare the
board illegal altogether, he won support by the judges who held
the 80 percent threshold must also apply at the board. Metro has
appealed and also started arbitration proceedings in the case to
counter Kellerhals’ suits.  The Munich appeals court is expected to rule in that civil
case tomorrow. The appeals court judges said at a hearing in
June that while they are likely to back the step setting up the
advisory board, they are inclined to defer to the arbitration
panel’s ruling on which majority rules do apply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  