-- European Stocks Rise for Fourth Day; Rio Tinto Advances
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-08T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/european-stock-futures-little-changed-amid-stimulus-hopes.html
European stocks  advanced for a fourth
day, erasing earlier losses, as shares of commodity companies
and banks gained.  Rio Tinto  Group led basic-resources producers higher,
climbing 2.9 percent.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  surged 24 percent.  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
the largest Dutch financial-services company, lost 1.3 percent
and Securitas AB, the world’s second-biggest guarding-services
company, sank 8.8 percent, both after reporting worse-than-
estimated earnings.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.2 percent at 269.20 at
the close of trading, the highest since March 19. The benchmark
measure has rallied 15 percent since June 4, racking up nine
straight weeks of gains, as policy makers eased repayment terms
for Spanish lenders and optimism grew that central banks will
announce more stimulus measures.  “We’ve had a fairly anodyne and disappointing earnings
season, which will downgrade earnings expectations for 2013,”
said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley
Group Plc in  London . “The recent rise in the markets is most
surely down to expectations of more central bank stimulus;
however, this can’t be guaranteed.”  Of the 535 companies in western Europe to have reported
results this quarter, 52 percent had per-share profit that
missed  analyst projections , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings fell 5.7 percent in the period.  The volume of shares changing hands on the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  today was 20 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Cut  The  Bank of England  cut its growth forecast and said
inflation will be below its target in two years as the crisis in
the euro area and the U.K. fiscal squeeze weigh on demand. The
central bank sees annual expansion in gross domestic product of
about 2 percent in two years, compared with a projection in May
of 2.5 percent. It sees consumer-price growth at about 1.6
percent by then, below its 2 percent goal.  Greece ’s credit rating may be cut again by S&P on concern a
worsening economy raises the likelihood the nation will need
more support from European Union lenders.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.1
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.4 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index retreated less than 0.1 percent.  Greek Debt  The outlook on Greece’s CCC rating, already eight levels
below investment grade, was revised to negative from stable, S&P
said yesterday in a statement. The change reflects the risk of a
downgrade if Greece is unable to obtain the next disbursement
from the European Union and International Monetary Fund rescue
package, the rating company said.  “In Europe, markets are more concerned about political and
policy issues rather than earnings and growth,”said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH,
which oversees about $22 billion. A relaxed view about levels of
global economic growth has meant that there has not been
significant selling pressure among investors, according to
Saxinger.  A gauge of mining shares was the best performer in the
Stoxx 600, climbing 1.5 percent.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, rose
2.9 percent to 3,220 pence even after reporting a 22 percent
drop in first-half profit. Fresnillo Plc, the biggest primary
silver producer, advanced 2.3 percent to 1,565 pence.  Bankia Rallies  Bankia, the lender  Spain  nationalized in May, jumped 24
percent to 1.27 euros. The shares have more than doubled since
sliding to a record low on July 17.  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc added 8.6 percent to 1,315.5 pence
after yesterday plunging the most on record after being accused
of violating U.S. money laundering laws over its dealings with
Iranian banks.  A large fine and loss of U.S. banking licenses could result
in Standard Chartered becoming a takeover target for bigger
lenders, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., that want a larger
presence in  emerging markets , Jon Kirk, a partner of financials
research at Redburn Partners LLP, wrote in a report.  Tod’s SpA (TOD) , the Italian maker of pink alligator loafers,
gained 10 percent to 84.75 euros as its first-half revenue of
482.5 million euros beat estimates of 476.4 million euros.  ING slipped 1.3 percent to 5.68 euros after reporting
second-quarter net income of 1.17 billion euros ($1.45 billion),
missing analyst estimates of 1.26 billion euros.  Securitas Earnings  Securitas (SECUB)  tumbled 8.8 percent to 49.85 kronor after second-
quarter net income of 337 million kronor ($50 million) trailed
the average analyst estimate of 422 million kronor.  Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V) , the Nordic region’s largest tire maker,
retreated 5.1 percent to 31.01 euros after second-quarter sales
of 413.8 million euros missed estimates of 416.3 million euros.  Kloeckner & Co. SE, Europe’s biggest independent steel
trader, slumped 4.3 percent to 7.17 euros after reporting its
fourth consecutive quarterly loss and increasing job cuts as the
region’s debt crisis weakened demand.  The net loss was 38 million euros, compared with net income
of 5 million euros a year earlier, the Duisburg, Germany-based
company said today in a statement.  SAS Group, the Nordic region’s largest airline, slipped 1.7
percent to 5.85 kronor after reporting second-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates as fuel costs increased and
European economies weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  