-- Euro Weakens on Speculation Sovereign-Debt Crisis Is Spreading
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-08T21:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/euro-extends-decline-against-yen-after-german-production-slumps.html
The euro weakened against its most-
traded counterparts as a drop in German industrial production,
lower U.K. growth forecasts and ratings cuts for  Spain  and  Italy 
raised concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening.  The pound strengthened by the most in more than a month
against the euro after  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said
cutting U.K. interest rates may be counterproductive, damping
speculation the central bank will reduce borrowing costs to spur
growth. The currencies of Sweden and Norway strengthened to 12-
and nine-year highs against the euro on haven demand.  “When we look at the euro from a medium-term perspective,
I think we’ve been looking for some economic divergence between
Europe and the rest of the world,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Lunch Money” in an interview with Sara Eisen. “It’s still
keeping us negative on the euro over the next two or three
quarters.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2365 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time after rising to $1.2444 on Aug. 6, the strongest level
since July 5. The shared currency dropped 0.5 percent to 96.97
yen. Japan’s currency climbed 0.2 percent to 78.43 per dollar.  The 17-nation euro may drop to as low as $1.2280 in the
next week, said Kathleen Brooks, a research director in  London 
at Forex.com, a unit of online currency-trading company Gain
Capital Holdings Inc.  ‘To Parity’  “Structurally, I’m looking for the euro to go to parity,”
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., said in a television interview on
“Countdown” with Linzie Janis. “It will take about a year,
but we are heading in that direction.”  The Swedish krona appreciated 1 percent to 8.2546 against
the euro, its highest level since 2000, before trading at
8.2675. Norway’s krone rose to its highest level since 2003
against the shared currency, gaining as much as 1.1 percent to
7.2585.  “There’s a lot of focus on these currencies as safe havens
with strong fundamentals,”  Niels Christensen , chief currency
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a double effect of demand for these
currencies and a weak euro. A lot of investors are favoring
these currencies.  The krona will reach 8.0480 per euro as long as it stays
below the area from 8.4635 to 8.5052, Credit Suisse Group AG
research analysts wrote today in a client note. The Swedish
currency’s strongest level since the shared currency’s 1999
inception is 8.0469, reached in May 2000.  Ratings Cuts  India ’s rupee fell versus most major peers after global
lenders cut forecasts more than for any other Asian currency as
the weakest monsoon since 2009 led the  Reserve Bank  of India to
reduce growth estimates. The rupee declined 0.6 percent to
55.4150 per dollar.  Spain was cut two steps to A (low) from A (high) and Italy
was downgraded one level to A, Toronto-based DBRS said in a
statement. Ireland’s grade was confirmed at A (low), four steps
from junk.  Italy faces ‘‘persistent stress in market-funding
conditions and rising systemic risks,” and financing conditions
also pose a threat to Spain’s growth outlook, DBRS said. Doubts
about the euro area’s policy response to the crisis contributed
to both downgrades, it said.  The British pound gained 0.5 percent to 78.98 pence per
euro after strengthening as much as 0.7 percent, the most since
July 5. The U.K. currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.5656.  ‘Very Short’  Sterling rose against most of its 16 major counterparts
after the BOE’s King signaled continued support for Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s budget squeeze, damping speculation the
central bank will reduce borrowing costs to spur growth.  King spoke after publishing the central bank’s quarterly
Inflation Report, which included forecasts showing annual gross-
domestic-product growth of about 2 percent in two years. That
compares with a projection in May of 2.5 percent.  “King hinted that they aren’t going to go ahead with a
rate cut, and the market had priced that in already,” said
 Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “If
there’s less of a chance of a rate cut, that’s a catalyst for
pound support. The market was very short going in to the press
conference.” A short position is a bet an asset will fall.  The euro also weakened as reports showing declines in
German industrial production and  exports  added to evidence
Europe’s crisis is negatively affecting the region’s largest
economies.  German industrial production declined 0.9 percent in June
from May, when it gained a revised 1.7 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said. Exports, adjusted for work days and
seasonal changes, fell 1.5 percent from May, when they jumped
4.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden.  Euro ‘Negative’  “Although the data has been disappointing, I don’t think
it’s necessarily surprised market participants,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a television
interview on “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “So it’s still
keeping us negative on the euro over the next two or three
quarters.”  A senior ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann’s objection to European Central Bank
proposals to lower government borrowing costs won’t sway German
backing for the ECB’s crisis-fighting plans.  ‘Very Positive’  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s “clear” announcement that he
will link central bank purchases of euro-area government debt to
action by the region’s rescue fund “isn’t problematic from my
point of view,” Michael Meister, the deputy parliamentary
leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s very positive.”  Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered the outlook on  Greece ’s
CCC rating, already eight levels below investment grade, to
negative from stable. The change reflected the risk of a
downgrade if Greece is unable to obtain the next disbursement
from the European Union and International Monetary Fund rescue
package, the ratings company said yesterday.  Greece’s economy has been squeezed by the fiscal tightening
needed to qualify for rescue-loan disbursements, with gross
domestic product shrinking for five straight years and
unemployment rising to 22.5 percent from 7.9 percent. Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras said yesterday the government is
still working on identifying almost a third of the cuts required
by international creditors to resume the flow of bailout funds.  “We need the ECB to step up with a plan,”  Geoff Kendrick ,
head of European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown”
with  Mark Barton . “There are still a number of steps that are
very complex, which is why the euro is much more likely to
continue to drift lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  