-- Yen Declines as Asian Stocks Gain; Aussie Dollar Climbs
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-08-09T06:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/euro-remains-lower-before-french-output-data-kiwi-drops.html
The yen weakened against most of its
16 major counterparts as Asian stocks advanced and the extra
yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries over Japanese  government bonds 
widened to the most in more than two months.  The yen briefly pared declines after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
refrained from adding stimulus at a policy meeting today. The
euro remained lower against the pound following a two-day
decline before data forecast to show French industrial
production fell. The Australian dollar advanced after payrolls
increased more than estimated.  “The market is turning risk-on and the yield gap between
the U.S. and  Japan  is widening,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency
strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest bank by market value. “The yen is being sold
against the dollar.”  The yen fell 0.1 percent to 78.51 as of 7:08 a.m. in  London 
from the close in  New York  yesterday. It lost 0.1 percent to
97.10 per euro. Europe’s shared currency was little changed at
78.95 pence after declining 0.6 percent in the past two days.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.8 percent,
after having risen 2.6 percent in the past three days.  The  extra yield  investors receive for holding 10-year
Treasuries compared with similar maturity Japanese government
bonds was at 89 basis points, or 0.89 percentage point, the
widest since May 29. The  spread  for two-year notes rose to 18.5,
the most since July 5.  BOJ Policy  The BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund at 45 trillion yen
($573 billion) and lending facility at 25 trillion yen,
according to a statement released in Tokyo. All 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted no change.  “Impact on the yen for what the BOJ does is, I think,
always going to be just leading intraday kneejerk reactions,”
said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior currency strategist at Scotiabank
in  Hong Kong , a unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia . “They’re doing
their best to indirectly weaken the yen, but I think it’s
nothing that they can really do on a sustained basis,” said
Tihanyi, referring to the BOJ.  The Japanese currency has declined 1.8 percent in the past
week, the worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has lost 1.4 percent and the euro has gained 0.3 percent.  French  industrial production  probably fell 1.8 percent in
June from a year earlier, when it dropped 3.5 percent, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the statistics office Insee releases data tomorrow.  Credit Ratings  DBRS Inc. cut credit ratings on  Spain  and  Italy  yesterday,
reducing Spain two steps to A (low) from A (high) and Italy by
one level to A. Ireland’s grade was confirmed at A (low), four
steps from junk.  Italy faces “persistent stress in market-funding
conditions and rising systemic risks,” and financing conditions
also pose a threat to Spain’s growth outlook, Toronto-based DBRS
said. Doubts about the euro area’s policy response to the crisis
contributed to both downgrades, it said.  “It’s hard to see any upside for the euro at the moment,”
said Janu Chan, Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
“Economic data has been quite soft. There’s still a bit of
uncertainty about what the ECB can do and will do in addressing
the crisis,” she said, referring to the  European Central Bank .  The Australian dollar strengthened against 14 of its 16
major counterparts. The number of people employed in the South
Pacific nation rose by 14,000, the statistics bureau said today,
exceeding the 10,000 increase predicted by the median economist
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate fell to 5.2
percent from a revised 5.3 percent in June.  The Australian jobs data “was, on balance, better than
expected,” said Andrew Salter, a currency strategist in Sydney
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The so-called Aussie added 0.2 percent to $1.0595.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  