-- Ex-Deloitte Partner Pleads Guilty to Securities Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-08T18:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ex-deloitte-partner-pleads-guilty-to-securities-fraud.html
Ex-Deloitte & Touche LLP partner
Thomas P. Flanagan pleaded guilty to one count of  securities
fraud  and admitted he traded on inside information about clients
of the firm, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Flanagan, 64, entered his plea today before U.S. District
Judge Robert Dow in Chicago, acting U.S. Attorney  Gary Shapiro 
said in a press statement. The accountant engaged in the conduct
from December 2006 to May 2008, the government said.  He left the firm in the latter year, ending a 30-year
association with Deloitte and its corporate predecessors.
Flanagan made about $420,000 in illicit profits for himself and
$58,000 more for a relative, according to prosecutors.  “The profits resulted from illegally trading on the inside
information that Flanagan obtained regarding Deloitte clients
Best Buy Co. Inc.,  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , Motorola, Inc. and  Sears
Holding Corp. (SHLD) ,” Shapiro said.  Flanagan is free on his own recognizance. He is to be
sentenced on Oct. 25.  Securities fraud is punishable by as long as 20 years in
prison. A plea agreement with prosecutors calls for a term of
three to four years.  A defense lawyer, Joel Levin in the  Chicago  office of
Perkins Coie LLP, didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  Deloitte Response  Jonathan Gandal, a Deloitte spokesman, said the firm sued
Flanagan for his actions after learning of them.  “Deloitte unequivocally condemns the actions of this
individual,” Gandal said by e-mail. “As the DOJ complaint
specifically alleges, Mr. Flanagan concealed from Deloitte his
trades in the securities of our clients, lied about his
compliance with our independence policies and otherwise
circumvented our system for reporting and tracking
investments.”  Flanagan and his son Patrick agreed to pay more than
$1.1 million to settle related U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission insider-trading claims in 2010.  The case is U.S. v. Flanagan, 1:12-cr-00510, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 