-- Ex-Home Diagnostics CEO Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-08T20:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ex-home-diagnostics-ceo-pleads-guilty-to-insider-trading-1-.html
George Holley, former chief executive
officer and chairman of Home Diagnostics Inc., pleaded guilty
during his trial on insider-trading charges.  Holley, 72, pleaded guilty today to two counts of
 securities fraud  in federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey , where
prosecutors rested their case yesterday. Holley hadn’t begun his
defense case when he ended the trial in the eighth day.  Holley admitted he tipped his cousin and a friend that
 Osaka , Japan-based  Nipro Corp. (8086) , a maker of medical equipment,
would buy his company. He “told them to buy Home Diagnostics
stock just three weeks before the merger was publicly
announced,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Nipro bought the company for $215 million in February 2010.
Shares of Home Diagnostics, based in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida ,
rose 89 percent after the announcement. The subsidiary, which
makes blood glucose monitoring systems and disposable supplies
for diabetics, is now known as Nipro Diagnostics.  “We felt that the plea agreement that was arrived at
during trial was an appropriate, fair resolution of the case,”
 Kevin Marino , Holley’s defense attorney, said in a telephone
interview.  U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano set sentencing for Dec. 4.
Holley faces as many as 20 years in prison on each of the two
counts.  Assistant U.S. attorneys Judith Germano and Christopher
Kelly declined to comment on the plea.  Received Tips  One of the people that Holley admitted tipping was Phairot
Iamnaita, 30, of Hangdong,  Chiang Mai , Thailand. Holley, of
Norwalk, Connecticut, was arrested in January 2011 and charged
with Iamnaita. Prosecutors dismissed the charges against
Iamnaita when they indicted Holley for a second time in May.  Iamnaita was a “close personal acquaintance” of Holley
who “regularly socialized and vacationed” with him, according
to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s arrest complaint. The
two invested in business ventures in Thailand, the FBI said.  From 1985 to March 2010, Holley was chairman of Home
Diagnostics, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The SEC sued Holley, Iamnaita, and a third man. A
judge administratively closed that lawsuit so that it wouldn’t
interfere with the criminal case.  The case is U.S. v. Holley, 11-cr-66, U.S. District Court,
and the SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Holley, 11-cv-205, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 