-- Mortgage-Seizure Backer Says Taking Delinquent Debt in Program
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-07T19:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/fannie-regulator-may-seek-to-block-eminent-domain-seizures-1-.html
Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC,
the firm pushing municipalities to seize loans for borrowers
owing more than their homes’ values, said it would expand its
proposed program to include delinquent and defaulted debt.  The company made the pledge today in a  comment letter  to
the overseer of  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and the  Federal Home
Loan Banks , after previously saying only performing mortgages
should be targeted. The San Francisco-based firm is seeking to
profit by providing services to local governments that use their
so-called eminent domain powers to force sales of home loans
packaged into securities without federal backing.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which also heard today
from trade groups opposed to the plan, last month sought
comments on the idea, saying it may need to take action against
it. The initiative is being considered in areas across the U.S.
led by San Bernardino County,  California . The FHFA said it was
concerned that the plan would damage lending markets and the
finances of the companies that it oversees by reducing the worth
of their bond investments.  “Governments will pay fair value for all loans acquired by
eminent domain, as indeed they are required to do by the courts
that oversee all eminent domain proceedings,” Mortgage
Resolution Partners Chief Executive Officer Graham Williams said
in the letter. That means investors in the securities holding
the loans won’t be damaged, he said.  The company would use the same methodology for determining
valuations for loans being seized via eminent domain that Fannie
Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the Home Loan Banks use in their
accounting, he said. Under the firm’s program, the size of the
mortgages would then be reduced for homeowners, benefiting
communities by reducing foreclosures and vacant properties.  Pimco’s View  Mortgage-bond investors including Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s largest mutual fund, have
said they doubt the company’s assertion that the amounts paid
will be fair. They have criticized its proposal for targeting
borrowers who are less likely to end up in foreclosure because
the homeowners aren’t even delinquent.  A coalition of twenty six trade groups including the
 American Bankers Association ,  Investment Company Institute  and
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association opposing
the plan  said  today that they “share the concerns expressed by
the FHFA” in a comment letter.  The “organizations are united in opposition to the current
proposals to use eminent domain in this manner, and are actively
working together to advocate against this clear abuse of the
sovereign power of eminent domain,” they said.  ‘Nuclear Option’  The “nuclear option” for the FHFA to use in opposing the
plan would be to shut off new credit from  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie
Mac to areas using the strategy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Brian Ye wrote in a report last month. Mortgage bonds that the
companies guarantee finance about two-thirds of new loans.
Mortgage Resolution Partners said in its letter that such a step
would create “redlining,” when lenders discriminate against
borrowers in low-income or minority neighborhoods.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been supported by
injections of capital from taxpayers after being seized by the
U.S. in 2008. The 12 Federal Home Loan Banks are government-
chartered firms that raise money through joint bond sales at
below-market rates because of their perceived U.S. backing,
which they then lend to the banks and insurers that own them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 