-- Fannie Mae Avoids U.S. Aid for Second Straight Quarter
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-08T15:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/fannie-mae-avoids-u-s-aid-for-second-straight-quarter.html
Fannie Mae  said it won’t need aid
from the  U.S. Treasury  for a second straight quarter as rising
home prices bolster the housing market.  Net income was $5.1 billion in the second quarter, enough
to offset a dividend payment to the Treasury of $2.9 billion,
Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  said today in a  statement . The
profit compared with a $2.89 billion loss in the same period a
year earlier.  Earnings benefited from a decline in single-family loans
more than 90-days delinquent and improved sale prices on the
foreclosed homes the company owns, Fannie Mae said.  “We are probably in a place now where we are more likely
to make money than lose money,” Susan McFarland, Fannie Mae’s
chief financial officer, said in an interview.  McFarland said it was possible the company could need to
take draws from the Treasury in future quarters when home-price
increases might not be as strong.  “The magnitude of the home-price improvement that we saw
was greater than we would have expected from normal seasonal
upticks, so that’s encouraging,” she said. “But I don’t think
we’re going to see the level of earnings repeat itself quarter
in and quarter out.”  Fannie Mae’s sister company, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) , said yesterday it wouldn’t need a Treasury draw for the
first time since the first quarter of 2011.  Freddie Mac  reported
net income of $3 billion in the second quarter, even after a
dividend payment to the Treasury of $1.8 billion.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken a total of almost
$190 billion in U.S. aid since they went into conservatorship in
September 2008 after investments in risky loans pushed them to
the brink of insolvency. The companies own or guarantee more
than half of U.S. home loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  