-- FBI Informant Khan Cries on Stand While Admitting Lies
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/fbi-informant-khan-cries-on-stand-while-admitting-lies.html
Roomy Khan , who began meeting with
the FBI almost five years ago as agents probed Galleon Group LLC
co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , broke down in tears as she testified
about the many lies she told investigators.  “This has been very difficult for me, and I understand
that I lied a number of times,” she said yesterday, crying,
during the insider-trading trial of Whitman Capital LLC founder
Doug Whitman. “I realize many decisions I made were really
wrong.”  Khan is one of three key government witnesses in Whitman’s
trial and has told jurors she passed him illegal tips on  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  On cross-examination, Khan admitted she
lied to federal agents, destroyed evidence and tried to warn
some of her contacts that she had been questioned about illegal
trades. She said she even acquired a cell phone in her
gardener’s name to hide her actions.  “I think I had been lying to the government about a lot of
things and I was just scared to use my own phone,” Khan said.  Khan, who pleaded guilty to a second set of insider trading
charges in 2009, faces as long as 30 years in prison when she’s
sentenced. She is testifying for prosecutors in a bid for
leniency and was on the witness stand for a third day in the
trial of Whitman, her former Atherton,  California , neighbor.  Prosecutors accuse Whitman of trading on information from
sources including Khan, who passed him illegal tips on Google
Inc. and Polycom Inc. Those tips and others earned almost $1
million for Whitman’s fund, they said.  Cisco Source?  Defense attorney Dave Anderson spent much of his cross-
examination attacking Khan’s credibility and focusing on lies
she told officials. Khan was first approached by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  in November 2007 and, she said,
subsequently met with U.S. investigators at least 40 times.  Khan was asked about her guilty plea to obstruction of
justice for destroying e-mails and her failure until 2012 to
tell prosecutors about her destruction of some records. She was
asked if she had disclosed her conviction when she registered to
vote in  Florida  in 2009 -- she said she didn’t recall if she did
-- and she admitted pocketing $15,000 that an accomplice gave
her as payment meant for one of her sources.  The defense also focused on an e-mail Khan wrote to
Rajaratnam in which she claimed to have a source for leaks about
Cisco Systems Inc. Khan said she lied in the e-mail in order to
win a job at Galleon. Later, when FBI agents questioned Khan
about her claim to have a Cisco source, she said she falsely
identified Whitman as her source.  “I don’t know why I was saying that, sir,” Khan told
Anderson.  Protect Friends  Khan explained that she lied to protect her friends.  “In the beginning, I was lying about everyone,” she said.
“My first instinct was to try to keep out as many people as
possible” while focusing investigators solely on Rajaratnam,
she said.  On redirect examination by Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne, Khan started crying when the prosecutor
asked her about her emotional ordeal. Khan’s testimony will
continue tomorrow.  Khan previously testified that she got information about
Polycom, the Pleasanton, California-based maker of
videoconferencing equipment, from Sunil Bhalla, a friend and
senior vice president and general manager of the company’s voice
division. Khan said she passed inside information to contacts
including Whitman and Rajaratnam and traded on some of them
herself.  Evidence Khan provided helped prosecutors get authorization
from a judge to wiretap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone. She didn’t
testify at Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial last year. He is
serving an 11-year prison sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  