-- Fighting Irish Find Olympic Redemption With Gold in London
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-09T16:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/fighting-irish-seek-olympic-redemption-with-knockouts-in-london.html
Peter Taylor’s daughter used to try
to emulate his shadow-boxing moves in the kitchen. Now 26, she
today became the first Olympic women’s lightweight champion.  Katie Taylor from Bray, 13 miles (21 kilometers) south of
Dublin, won 10-8 in the final bout against  Russia ’s Sofya
Ochigava at  London ’s ExCeL arena today, watched by a largely
Irish crowd that’s followed her throughout the games.  “I feel like I’m boxing at home in Dublin,” she said
after beating Tajikistan’s Mavzuna Chorieva in the semifinal
yesterday, “It’s incredible having 10,000 Irish people
screaming for you.”  Ireland had one bronze medal until today, won by Cian
O’Connor in equestrian, making boxing its best chance for gold
at the games. Taylor was the first of four Irish boxers to win a
medal in London, with the other three guaranteed at least a
bronze.  The nation is in a two-way tie for 38th place in the medal
standings, which will change following the outcome of the male
boxers’ semifinals. Ireland sent five men and a woman to compete
in the Olympic boxing competition.  At least 2,000 people turned out on the main street of Bray
to watch Taylor’s semifinal yesterday on two large screens,
according to local police. The crowd included tricolor-waving
supporters and children draped in the Irish flag and with green,
white and gold painted on their faces.  Fighting Words  Taylor entered the ring in London to “Only Girl (In the
World)” by singer Rihanna. At home, the crowd cheered her into
the arena with chants of “You’ll Never Beat the Irish.”  “She’s an inspiration and our most likely person to get a
gold medal,” said Rebecca Creagh, a friend of Taylor who came
to London to watch her fight. “We’ve a lot of grit and
determination about us. We just like to produce, especially in a
fight.”  Ireland’s strength in boxing is partly a result of the
meager training facilities for pugilists, said  George Boyd ,
secretary of the St. John Bosco boxing club in west Belfast,
where Olympic flyweight Michael Conlan trains.  “If you see where Michael trains, you’d be shocked,”
Boyd, 71, said in an interview. “We have no running water where
he trains; he has to run up and down the stairs to go to the
toilet. We have no showers, no heating. He makes his own heat.”  Conlan, 20, faces Cuba’s Robeisy Ramirez Carrazana in a
semifinal tomorrow, where the loser will take bronze.  Cuban Opponents  Also tomorrow, Carrazana’s 21-year-old teammate Lazaro
Alvarez Estrada will fight Ireland’s John Joe Nevin for a spot
in the bantamweight final.  Cuba is seeking to add to its 32 Olympic boxing gold medals
after failing in 2008 to get one for the first time since 1968.
The country’s tally of boxing golds is second only to the U.S.,
and heavyweights Teofilo Stevenson and Felix Savon won three
each.  Rather than Cuba, Ireland’s boxing coaches have taken
inspiration from the techniques used by Soviet-era trainers,
according to Gerry Storey of the Holy Family boxing club in
north  Belfast , which has produced seven Olympians.  “Our lads are now getting the psychology training,
strengthening training, weight training,” said Storey, who
coaches Olympic light flyweight Paddy Barnes. “That was stuff
the old Soviet boxers got in the 80s, when we were over fighting
them. It’s been an evolutionary process for us. We’ve learned,
we’ve got tougher.”  Seeking Sponsors  Barnes, a 25-year-old from Belfast, was greeted by cheers
at the opening ceremony of the games after holding a sign that
read “Open for Sponsors” and encouraging people to follow him
on  Twitter . So far, the 2008 bronze medalist says has received
$500 from an American.  Barnes beat  India ’s Devendro Singh Laishram in the
quarterfinals to set up a meeting tomorrow with Zou Shiming of
 China , who beat Barnes four years ago on his way to winning the
gold medal.  “I’m fighting a guy in my next fight who beat me 15-0 in
Beijing,” Barnes told reporters. “My plan for the next fight
is go out and just score a point. Just that one point, that’ll
be my Olympic gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane at London’s ExCel Arena on 
at  cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 