-- FinFisher Spyware Reach Found on Five Continents: Report
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-08-08T11:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/finfisher-spyware-reach-found-on-five-continents-report.html
The FinFisher spyware made by U.K.-
based Gamma Group likely has previously undisclosed global
reach, with computers on at least five continents showing signs
of being command centers that run the intrusion tool, according
to cybersecurity experts.  FinFisher can secretly monitor computers -- intercepting
Skype calls, turning on Web cameras and recording every
keystroke. It is marketed by Gamma for  law enforcement  and
government use.  Research published last month based on e-mails obtained by
Bloomberg News showed activists from the Persian Gulf kingdom of
Bahrain were targeted by what looked like the software, sparking
a hunt for further clues to the product’s deployment.  In new findings, a team, led by Claudio Guarnieri of
Boston-based security risk-assessment company Rapid7, analyzed
how the presumed FinFisher samples from Bahrain communicated
with their command computer. They then compared those attributes
with a global scan of computers on the Internet.  The survey has so far come up with what it reports as
matches in  Australia , the  Czech Republic , Dubai,  Ethiopia ,
Estonia,  Indonesia , Latvia, Mongolia, Qatar and the U.S.  Guarnieri, a security researcher based in Amsterdam, said
that the locations aren’t proof that the governments of any of
these countries use Gamma’s  FinFisher . It’s possible that Gamma
clients use computers based in other nations to run their
FinFisher systems, he said in an interview.  ‘Active Fingerprinting’  “They are simply the results of an active fingerprinting of
a unique behavior associated with what is believed to be the
FinFisher infrastructure,” he wrote in his report, which Rapid7
is publishing today on its  blog  at
https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog.  The emerging picture of the commercially available
spyware’s reach shines a light on the growing, global
marketplace for cyber weapons with potential consequences.  “Once any malware is used in the wild, it’s typically only
a matter of time before it gets used for nefarious purposes,”
Guarnieri wrote in his report. “It’s impossible to keep this
kind of thing under control in the long term.”  In response to questions about Guarnieri’s findings, Gamma
International GmbH managing director Martin J. Muench said a
global scan by third parties would not reveal servers running
the FinFisher product in question, which is called FinSpy.  “The core FinSpy servers are protected with firewalls,” he
said in an Aug. 4 e-mail.  Gamma International  Muench, who is based in Munich, has said his company didn’t
sell FinFisher spyware to Bahrain. He said he’s investigating
whether the samples used against Bahraini activists were stolen
demonstration copies or were sold via a third party.  Gamma International GmbH in  Germany  is part of U.K.-based
Gamma Group. The group also markets FinFisher through Andover,
England-based Gamma International UK Ltd. Muench leads the
FinFisher product portfolio.  Muench says that Gamma complies with the export regulations
of the U.K., U.S. and Germany.  It was unclear which, if any, government agencies in the
countries Guarnieri identified are Gamma clients.  A U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation spokeswoman in
 Washington  declined to comment.  Officials in Ethiopia’s Communications Minister, Qatar’s
foreign ministry and Mongolia’s president’s office didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment or respond to
questions. Dubai’s deputy commander of police said he has no
knowledge of such programs when reached on his mobile phone.  Australia’s department of foreign affairs and trade said in
an e-mailed statement it does not use FinFisher software. A
spokesman at the Czech Republic’s interior ministry said he has
no information of Gamma being used there, nor any knowledge of
its use at other state institutions.  Violating Human Rights?  At Indonesia’s Ministry of Communications, head of public
relations Gatot S. Dewa Broto said that to his knowledge the
government doesn’t use that program, or ones that do similar
things, because it would violate privacy and  human rights  in
that country. The ministry got an offer to purchase a similar
program about six months ago but declined, he said, unable to
recall the name of the company pitching it.  The Estonian Information Systems Authority RIA has not
detected any exposure to FinSpy, a spokeswoman said. Neither has
Latvia’s information technologies security incident response
institution, according to a technical expert there.  Bloomberg News reported July 25 that researchers believe
they identified copies of FinFisher, following an examination of
malware e-mailed to Bahraini activists. Their work, led by
security researcher Morgan Marquis-Boire, was  published  the same
day by the University of Toronto Munk School of Global Affairs’
Citizen Lab.  ‘Hallo Steffi’  The new study builds on those findings, using the same
samples of malicious software.  Guarnieri’s study found, among other things, that the
 Bahrain  server answered anyone connecting to it with the
message, “Hallo Steffi.”  The investigators then found this pattern in other
computers by searching data from an Internet survey research
project,  Critical.IO , which has been cataloging publicly
accessible computers around the world.  The researchers then developed a  map  that shows the
location of the servers, along with their unique IP addresses on
the Internet.  Gamma’s Muench said none of its server components sends out
strings such as “Hallo Steffi.”  The earlier Citizen Lab research linked the malware sent to
the activists to FinSpy, part of the FinFisher spyware tool kit.  The  Citizen Lab  research showed the malware took screen
shots, intercepted voice-over-Internet calls and transmitted a
record of every keystroke to a computer in Manama, the capital
of Bahrain, which has been gripped by tension since a government
crackdown on protests last year.  Muench said the computer found in Manama isn’t a FinFisher
product. Instead, the server very likely runs custom-built
software used to forward traffic between two or more other
systems, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  