-- Flying With Milton Friedman Is a Trip Unto Itself
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-08-08T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/flying-with-milton-friedman-is-a-trip-unto-itself.html
As I was leaving the house last
Friday for a full day of travel, I wanted something to read
during airport holdovers and almost-certain delays. My only
prerequisite was that the book be small enough to fit in my
purse.  Whether I grabbed  Milton Friedman ’s “ Capitalism and
Freedom ” because of  recent tributes  to the Nobel laureate -- he
would have turned 100 on July 31 -- or because of the book’s
compact size, I can’t say. But I’m glad I did.  “Capitalism and Freedom” was published in 1962. Much has
changed since then. Top  marginal tax rates  have plummeted, the
government has gotten larger and more intrusive, and  federal
deficits  have grown exponentially.  What hasn’t changed is the appeal of Friedman’s ideas. His
thesis of capitalism as a system for economic freedom and a
necessary condition for political freedom is as valid as ever.
The role of government is to protect that freedom while the role
of the market is to organize economic activity, based on a
voluntary exchange between individuals.  Rereading “Capitalism and Freedom” after a hiatus of at
least 15 years reminded me just how relevant Friedman is. The
application to the present day should be obvious:  “‘Full employment’ and ’economic growth’ have in the past
few decades become primary excuses for widening the extent of
government intervention in economic affairs.” -- Chapter III  The subsequent six decades were no different. The 2008
financial crisis provided just such an excuse: “an opportunity
to do things that you could not do before,” said  Rahm Emanuel ,
President  Barack Obama ’s first chief of staff, outlining the
administration’s crisis-management strategy following the last
election.  Obama left the details of his $831 billion fiscal stimulus
to the Democratic-controlled  House of Representatives , which
proceeded to lard the bill with pet projects that had little to
do with stimulus and everything to do with priorities (tax
credits for renewable energy, for example).  As for full employment and economic growth, there’s little
to show for $5 trillion of newly minted  debt  since Obama took
office.  “The  federal budget  has if anything been itself a major
source of disturbance and instability.” -- Chapter V  The fiscal cliff is a case in point. An array of tax cuts,
transfer payments and temporary spending measures is set to
expire at the end of this year unless Congress acts. If
lawmakers abandoned short-run fiscal management and the
tomfoolery of crafting measures to fit a narrow budget window
and instead focused on long-run policies to foster economic
growth, we might not be staring into the abyss right now.  Friedman took issue with Keynesian orthodoxy, as well. The
idea that a dollar taken from the private sector and spent by
the government is expansionary defies logic and is inconsistent
with empirical evidence, he said.  One thing that has changed over the last 60 years: The
econometric models have gotten more sophisticated, which doesn’t
mean they are more accurate.  “A central element in the development of a collectivist
sentiment in this century, at least in Western countries, has
been a belief in equality of income as a social goal and a
willingness to use the arm of the state to promote it.” --
Chapter X  It’s a new century, but equality of income is still a
social goal. Obama touts his tax-the-rich strategy as both fair
and necessary to pay down the debt.  On the matter of  fairness , the top 20 percent of taxpayers
received about 50 percent of pretax income in 2009 and paid
almost 70 percent of federal taxes, according to a Congressional
Budget Office  study .  As for making a dent in the debt, Congress’s  Joint
Committee on Taxation  estimates that the Buffett rule, which
would have imposed a minimum effective tax rate of 30 percent on
those with annual income of $1 million or more, would generate
less than $5 billion a year, the equivalent of one day of
federal spending. (The JCT estimate assumes the Bush tax cuts
expire at the end of 2012.)  Income inequality  may well be a problem for society, but
taking more from the rich doesn’t elevate the poor and middle
class. Friedman had answers for equalizing opportunity, starting
with  school choice : putting education options in the hands of
parents and making schools compete for students.  “A rule seems to me the only feasible device currently
available for converting monetary policy into a pillar of a free
society rather than a threat to its foundations.” -- Chapter
III  Friedman said government mismanagement turned what would
have been a modest contraction into the Great Depression.
Specifically, the  Federal Reserve  allowed the money stock to
contract by a third from 1929 to 1933. He preferred a monetary-
policy rule -- money growth of 3 percent to 5 percent a year --
in order “to prevent monetary policy from being subject to the
day-by-day whim of political authorities.”  Instead, we have the spectacle of Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  discouraging the Fed from additional
action and Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York,
imploring Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  to “get to work.”  “We are generally much readier to accept inequality
arising from chance than those clearly attributable to merit.”
-- Chapter X  Obama demonstrated just that in what will go down in
history as his  “you-didn’t-build-that” speech . “I’m always
struck by people who think, well, it must be because I was just
so smart” or “worked harder than everybody else,” he said,
seemingly belittling those who take ownership of their  success .  I had pretty much finished “Capitalism and Freedom” by
the time I boarded the plane at 9:30 p.m. for the last leg of my
journey. I may have wanted something that was light in weight.
What I got was something heavy in ideas.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on questions raised by New
York’s  charges against Standard Chartered Bank  and on how the
free market can help  control the deer population ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  front lawns and other preposterous ideas ;  Ezra Klein 
on  Washington ’s captivation by a  flawed tax idea ; Laurence
Kotlikoff and  Scott Burns  on the new  $11 trillion rise in U.S.
debt ; Caleb Scharf on how black holes influenced  the evolution
of life .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  