-- Ford Says Software Fixes Too Late to Help J.D. Power Rank
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-08T22:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ford-says-software-fixes-too-late-to-help-j-d-power-rank.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , after two years of
consumer complaints about its touch-screen dashboard controls,
faces a big test with its remodeled Fusion midsize sedan,
Consumer Reports magazine’s auto-test chief said.  Technology glitches have lowered Ford’s quality scores. The
automaker’s namesake brand fell to 27th in  Westlake Village ,
California-based J.D. Power & Associates’ new-car quality survey
in June from fifth two years ago. The company’s Lincoln luxury
brand remained below average, ranking 18th.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has made technology a
key part of his turnaround plan at Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford. Fuel-efficient, turbocharged engines and features such as
voice-activated phones have attracted younger customers and
pushed up prices.  “Ford was going absolutely gangbusters. They had the most
reliable family sedan, bar none,” said  David Champion , who runs
Consumer Reports auto testing. Complaints about the MyFord Touch
screen and small-car transmissions have continued to hurt its
reputation. “Word of mouth is still really important in the
marketplace,” he said.  The 2013 Fusion looks “fabulous” and “is fun to drive,”
Champion said, based on his spin in a pre-production version of
the car.  Ford in March sent a software upgrade to 377,000 customers
with the MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch dashboard controls.
While the upgrade included faster touch responses, simpler
graphics, enhanced voice recognition and improved phone
controls, it didn’t arrive in time to improve this year’s scores
in the J.D. Power & Associates new-car survey.  “Yes, they’ve done some upgrades to it,” Champion said.
“But it is still a pain in the neck even when it’s supposed to
be working properly. It’s still slow. It’s still difficult to
use.”  Dodge Dart  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker majority-owned by  Fiat
SpA (F) , has introduced strong new models, including its Grand
Cherokee sport-utility vehicle, Dodge Durango pickup and
Chrysler 300 sedan, Champion said. While the new Dart compact
car is also impressive, he said, it competes in a crowded
segment against the likes of the Toyota Corolla, Honda Civic and
 Ford Focus .  “It’s going to be tough in that marketplace,” he said.
“The car is good and it’s fun to dive. I think it should do
really well. The ride, the handling, the steering -- all work
really well. The interior still has some issues of cheapness to
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Acme, Michigan, at 
 mclotiher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  