-- Ford Expands Into China Heavy Truck Market With Acquisition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T05:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ford-expands-into-china-heavy-truck-market-with-acquisition-1-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Chinese commercial
vehicle unit agreed to buy a heavy-truck maker for as much as
270 million  yuan  ($42 million), as the U.S. automaker expands
beyond passenger cars in the world’s largest auto market.  Jiangling Motors Corp. (200550) , in which Ford owns a 30 percent
stake, will pay cash to acquire Shanxi province-based Taiyuan
Changan Heavy Truck Co. from China Changan Automobile and China
South Industries Group Corp., Ford said today in an e-mailed
statement. The exact price is still subject to final deal terms,
Claire Li, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for Ford, said in a
separate e-mail.  “JMC’s acquisition represents a great opportunity to
continue to expand the breadth of our business in  China  across
vehicle segments,” David Schoch, chairman and chief executive
officer of Ford China, said in the statement. “A strong heavy
truck operation like Taiyuan will complement Ford’s existing
passenger car and light commercial vehicle operations here in
the world’s largest and fastest-growing vehicle market.”  Ford, seeking to accelerate its growth in China, plans to
introduce 15 new vehicle models in the country by 2015. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker and its partners are building
five new plants, including a $300 million factory that will
produce both Ford and JMC-branded vehicles.  Taiyuan Changan won’t make Ford-branded vehicles, Trevor Hale, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Ford, said by telephone.  The state-backed China Association for Automobile
Manufacturers said on July 26 commercial-vehicle sales may
decline 3 percent this year to 3.91 million units, cutting its
estimate from the previous prediction made in January for a 2
percent increase.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  