-- Fossil Discovery Supports Second Human Ancestor Species
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-08T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/fossil-discovery-supports-second-human-ancestor-species.html
The discovery of skull fossils in
 Kenya  support the existence of a human ancestor first suggested
in the 1970s, shedding light on the origins of modern people,
scientists said.  The unearthing of three remains with distinctive jaw-lines
and teeth in the Koobi Fora region of northern Kenya points to a
separate kind of early human, of the genus Homo, on Earth almost
2 million years ago, according to a paper published today by the
journal  Nature .  The fossils provide evidence that an earlier skull finding
from 1972 belongs to a new Homo species, the researchers said.
That skull has been used to suggest that Homo habilis,
sometimes known as the Handy Man, is also an ancestor for
today’s humans, known as Homo sapiens.  The further identification of the newly discovered
specimen, distinguished by its large flat face and small incisor
teeth, means “human evolution is not the straight line that it
once was, from our ancestors to us,” said  Fred Spoor , study
author and professor of evolutionary anatomy at  University
College London , on a conference call with journalists. “It
looks like we are much more diverse creatures who filled
different niches.”  The new kind of early Homo is likely to have co-existed
with Homo erectus, which is the first species that
archaeologists agree was a member of the human family. Diversity
among early human ancestors means that “ East Africa  was quite a
crowded place with multiple species,” Spoor said.  Different Face  The variation between the new fossils and existing Homo
remains means scientists now have a good idea of what the second
ancestral human species looked like, Spoor said.  “The face is very different, reflecting a different
mechanical function,” said Meave Leakey, one of the paper’s
authors and a paleontologist at the  Turkana Basin Institute  in
Nairobi, Kenya. “We now have two specimens with very
distinctive profiles, which are not down to regular variation.”  The fossils show the most complete lower jaw of early Homo
ever found according to the paleontologists, who used digital
technology to match the discovery with the earlier skull, which
was unearthed by Leakey’s husband, Richard Leakey, in Kenya 40
years ago.  Mary and Louis Leakey , Richard’s parents, discovered
a 1.75 million-year-old skull which first showed the antiquity
of hominids in  Africa . Their granddaughter Louise Leakey is also
a paleontologist based at Lake Turkana with the TBI.  Even after the new findings, the relationship between the
1972 fossil and human origins remains unclear, said  Chris
Stringer , researcher at the Natural History Museum in  London .  “Despite its large brain and its possible use of tools,
does it really represent an ancestor for later human species, or
do other fossils represent our real ancestor?” Stringer said in
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  