-- German Exports Fell in June as Crisis Curbed Euro-Area Demand
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/german-exports-fell-in-june-as-crisis-curbed-euro-area-demand.html
German exports dropped more than
economists forecast in June as the sovereign debt crisis curbed
demand from euro-area trading partners.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell
1.5 percent from May, when they jumped 4.2 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a
1.3 percent decline, according to the median of 15 estimates in
a Bloomberg News  survey . Imports fell 3 percent from May.  Europe ’s largest economy is cooling as the debt crisis
drives the euro area, its biggest export market, toward
recession. While the Bundesbank last month estimated moderate
growth in the second quarter, aided by domestic spending, latest
reports show manufacturing is contracting and business
confidence is on the decline. Factory orders dropped 1.7 percent
in June from the previous month, the  Economy Ministry  said
yesterday, twice as much as economists forecast.  “All of Germany’s export markets are in reverse,” said
Christian Schulz an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“It’s the domestic economy that will need to pick up the
slack.”  Germany’s trade surplus widened to 17.9 billion euros
($22.2 billion) in June from 15.6 billion euros in the previous
month, today’s report showed. The surplus in the current
account, a measure of all trade including services, was 16.5
billion euros, up from 8.1 billion euros a month earlier.  Growth Forecast  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
supporting domestic spending, helping to offset waning export
demand. The Bundesbank in June predicted German growth of 1
percent this year. By contrast, the European Commission
forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction for the 17-nation euro
economy as a whole.  Germany’s  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting-
goods maker, on Aug. 2 reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year forecast as
revenue increased in  China ,  North America  and European  emerging
markets .  Still, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest
maker of luxury cars, on Aug. 1 reported its first drop in
quarterly operating profit in almost three years and warned that
Europe’s debt crisis could cause “the global economic climate
to cloud over further.”  German business confidence fell for a third straight month
in July. Industrial production probably declined 0.8 percent in
June from May, according to a Bloomberg survey. The Economy
Ministry in Berlin will publish that report at noon today.  “Surveys indicate that German companies assess their
business situation much more pessimistically than in the spring,
making bearish data from manufacturing quite likely in the third
quarter too,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “The crisis in the  euro zone  is having an
increasing impact on core countries of the monetary union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  