-- German June Industrial Production Fell on Construction Output
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/german-june-industrial-production-fell-on-construction-output.html
German industrial production declined
in June, led by a drop in construction output.  Production fell 0.9 percent from May, when it gained a
revised 1.7 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a drop of 0.8 percent, the median of 34
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. Production fell 0.3
percent from a year earlier when adjusted for working days.  Today’s report is the third this week to signal  Europe ’s
largest economy is cooling as the sovereign debt crisis erodes
demand for its goods. German factory orders declined twice as
much as economists had forecast in June and exports dropped,
data showed yesterday and today. While the Bundesbank last month
estimated moderate growth in the second quarter, aided by
domestic spending, the  manufacturing industry  is contracting and
business confidence fell for a third straight month in July.  “The crisis has arrived in  Germany ,” said  Nick Kounis ,
head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “While the
economy will continue to outperform the euro area, the crisis
will continue to restrain business and household spending across
Europe and the global economy is stop-and-go as well.”  Manufacturing output fell 1 percent in June, today’s report
showed. Capital goods production fell 1.6 percent and
construction activity was down 2 percent, after jumping 2.6
percent last month.  ‘Quite Robust’  Even though industrial production was “quite robust” over
the last quarter, the outlook is “more restrained for now,”
the ministry said in the statement.  The Bundesbank in June raised its 2012 growth forecast to 1
percent from 0.6 percent on domestic consumption. The European
Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction for the 17-nation
euro economy as a whole.  With the global economy cooling and the debt crisis hurting
spending in the euro region, German companies are noticing the
slowdown.  Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , last month reported a 13 percent decline in second-
quarter operating profit.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest car
maker and owner of the Audi brand, on July 26 reported slowing
earnings growth as the impact of the debt crisis weighed on
demand in its home region.  Still, rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low
are supporting domestic spending, helping to offset waning
export demand.  “It’s the domestic economy that’s holding up the German
economy,” said  Andreas Rees , chief Germany economist at
Unicredit Bank AG in Munich. “Yes, the outlook is
deteriorating, particularly for exporters, but  consumer spending 
will remain stable and help avert a recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  