-- Global Food Reserves Falling as Drought Wilts Crops
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-09T19:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/global-food-reserves-falling-as-drought-wilts-crops-commodities.html
Stockpiles of the biggest crops will
decline for a third year as drought parches fields across three
continents, raising food-import costs already forecast by the
 United Nations  to reach a near-record $1.24 trillion.  Combined  inventories  of corn, wheat, soybeans and rice will
drop 1.8 percent to a four-year low before harvests in 2013, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Crops in the U.S., the
biggest exporter, are in the worst condition since 1988, heat
waves are battering European crops and India’s monsoon rainfall
already is 20 percent below normal. The International Grains
Council began July by forecasting record harvests. It ended with
a prediction for a 2 percent drop in output.  The speed of the destruction drove corn prices to a record
today and soybean prices to an all-time high last month, while
wheat went to a four-year high. For investors, crops are the
best-performing commodities this year, and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and Credit Suisse Group AG say the
trend will continue. An index of 55 food items tracked by the
United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization jumped 6.2
percent in July, the biggest increase since November 2009, the
Rome-based agency reported today, less than two years after
record prices pushed 44 million people into extreme poverty and
contributed to uprisings in North Africa and the  Middle East .  “People thought we were going to be swimming in corn by
the end of the year,” said Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage
$1.3 billion of assets for Harvest Capital Strategies, a San
Francisco-based hedge fund. “Then the month of June hit and
into July, and it’s just been a train wreck.”  Top Commodities  Wheat gained 42 percent to $9.27 a bushel this year on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, soybeans appreciated 35 percent to
$16.3125 a bushel, and corn rose 27 percent to $8.2375 a bushel,
after today touching a record $8.2975. They were the biggest
advances in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw
materials, which increased 2.6 percent in 2012.  The U.S. drought in June was the widest since December 1956
and the past 12 months were the hottest on record, weather data
show. While the USDA anticipated a record harvest as recently as
June, it cut the domestic corn forecast by 12 percent on July
11, the most since at least 1990. The estimate will be reduced
again when the department reports Aug. 10, according to the
average of 29 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The American drought is spreading beyond agriculture into
power and fuel production. U.S. nuclear plants’ output on July
27 was the lowest for the day since 2001 because water was too
hot to be an effective coolant, government data show. Parched
conditions will spread into North Dakota and central  Texas 
through October and last across the Midwest, the main growing
region, the Camp Springs, Maryland-based Climate Prediction
Center said Aug. 2.  Ethanol Mandate  More than 150 lawmakers urged President  Barack Obama  on
Aug. 2 to cut the government mandate for ethanol production,
saying high corn costs are hurting livestock producers, food
makers and consumers. Ethanol makers including Poet LLC and
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  back the mandate, as mounting
industry losses curbed daily  output  by 15 percent since the end
of December, Energy Department data show.  The lack of rain is also pressuring natural-gas drillers to
conserve the millions of gallons of water used in hydraulic
fracturing to free trapped gas and oil from underground rock.
Environmentalists in Texas are lobbying lawmakers to pass water-
conservation laws next year. In  Pennsylvania , the Susquehanna
River Basin Commission suspended water intake for companies
including Talisman Energy Inc. and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  on
July 16.  South America  The USDA still expects a domestic  corn harvest  of 329.45
million metric tons this year, the third-biggest ever, and
Canada, the world’s No. 3 wheat exporter, predicted a 4.1
percent gain in output on July 16. Higher prices also are
encouraging more planting in  South America . Argentina will reap
a record corn crop of as much as 31 million tons, growers group
Crea said July 23. Brazil will probably surpass the U.S. as the
biggest soybean producer, Sao Paulo-based researcher Agroconsult
estimates.  While global wheat inventories are forecast by the USDA to
contract 7.5 percent next year, more than any other major crop,
they would still be 42 percent larger than in 2008. Droughts,
freezes and floods that year damaged crops from  Australia  to
Argentina to the U.S., driving the grain to a record $13.495 in
Chicago. Global  food prices  measured by the UN are still 10
percent below the record reached in February 2011.  Declining Demand  Given this year’s gains and increased speculation,
investors should pare bets on higher prices, Barclays Plc said
in a report Aug. 3. Improving weather, declining demand or an
easing of U.S. requirements for ethanol in gasoline may send
prices lower, London-based analysts  Kevin Norrish  and  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan  wrote in the report. The bank remains “modestly
overweight” in grains and soybeans.  Goldman said Aug. 2 that corn will reach $9 in three
months. The New York-based bank also said soybeans may rise to
$20 in three months, topping the all-time high of $16.915 set
July 23, and wheat may jump to $9.80.  Costlier grain means global food prices will jump 25
percent this year, Danske Bank A/S said July 16. The UN
estimates imports of everything from fruit and vegetables to
dairy products and cereal will top $1 trillion for a third
consecutive year, with a 13 percent gain for meat as higher feed
costs spur farmers to reduce herds.  Kenya Food  The impact won’t be shared equally, with U.S. households
spending 6 percent of their total expenditures on food, compared
with 35 percent in India and 45 percent in  Kenya , data from the
Gates Foundation show. The U.S., with less than 5 percent of the
world population, consumes 31 percent of global corn production,
18 percent of soybeans, 32 percent of cheese and 20 percent of
beef and veal, according to USDA data.  Nations reliant on food imports, including Egypt, Pakistan,
Bangladesh and Sudan, are especially vulnerable to unrest,
according to a May 10 report by the National Intelligence
Council, an adviser to the U.S. government. More than 60 food
riots erupted worldwide from 2007 to 2009 as prices surged, the
U.S. State Department estimates. Production will need to expand
70 percent by 2050 as 2 billion people are added to the
population, according to the UN.  Retail-food costs will rise as much as 4 percent next year,
the USDA said July 25. That will add pressure to consumers and
Obama’s election bid in November, said Tim Hagle, a political
science professor at the  University of Iowa  in  Iowa  City.  “It keeps the economy in sort of a fragile position,” he
said. “That’s the big issue for this particular election.”  Insured Crops  Farmers in the U.S. are less likely to feel the pinch
because about 85 percent of crops are insured, said Steve Hatz,
a senior vice president and regional manager of the agribusiness
unit of San Francisco-based Bank of the West, the second-biggest
U.S. agricultural lender after Wells Fargo & Co.  President Obama announced $30 million in aid to farmers and
ranchers on Aug. 7, mostly to get more water to livestock and
rehabilitate scorched land.  U.S. net farm income, based on USDA estimates in February,
was set to slip this year to $91.7 billion, second only to last
year’s all-time high of $98.1 billion. The agency is scheduled
to update its forecast on Aug. 28.  Spreading Drought  The price of corn fell 1.8 percent in the first half of
2012 as farmers sowed the most acres since 1937. The USDA had
rated 77 percent of the crop in good or excellent condition on
May 18, and by June 15, futures on the CBOT were down 22 percent
for the year. As the drought spread during the past seven weeks,
the grain has surged 63 percent. The U.S. agency rated 23
percent of the  crop  as good or excellent on Aug. 3, the lowest
proportion since 1988.  The USDA probably will pare its corn-crop forecast by 16
percent to 10.929 billion bushels, the lowest in six years, from
last month’s estimate of 12.97 billion, according to the average
of 29 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The soybean
forecast probably will be cut to a five-year low of 2.796
billion bushels.  The London-based International Grains Council reduced its
global grain production forecast on July 26 to 1.81 billion
tons, from a prior estimate of 1.868 billion. While it expects 4
million tons more rice, any gains will be eclipsed by the 36
million-ton slump in supply of wheat and so-called coarse
grains.  Indian Monsoon  Wheat production in  Russia , the fourth-largest exporter,
will decline 20 percent this year, and in Australia, output will
fall 19 percent, the council said.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, was 17 percent below the 50-year average since
June 1, the nation’s weather bureau said Aug. 6. The government
extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice and wheat in 2009 after
the weakest monsoon in almost four decades. The UN’s Food &
Agriculture Organization cut its global  rice-production  estimate
by 1.1 percent on Aug. 6 because of the monsoon.  U.S. livestock producers are being hurt again less than a
year after drought caused a record $7.62 billion in farm losses
in Texas, the biggest cattle-producing state. The domestic herd
shrank to 97.8 million head by July 1, the smallest for that
time of year since at least 1973. Ranchers lost $260 a head in
June, from a $156 loss a year earlier, said  Ron Plain , a
livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  in Columbia.  U.S. beef supplies are already forecast by the USDA to
decline 4.4 percent this year to 11.469 million tons, the lowest
since 2005. U.S.  retail-beef prices  rose to a record $4.709 a
pound in June, USDA data show.  Rising Incomes  Global inventories are being eroded in part because rising
incomes in  emerging markets  mean consumers want to eat more
meat, said  Steve Shafer , the chief investment officer at
Oklahoma City-based hedge fund Covenant Global Investors, who
helps manage $315 million of assets.  “You’ve got two to three billion people on the other side
of the planet who are bootstrapping their way out of poverty,”
he said. “You’re going to see a rising supply-demand imbalance.
That’s a tightening of the pressure in the grain and protein
markets for an indefinite period of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  