-- Greece’s Power Generator Tests Euro Fitness Amid Blackout Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-08-08T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/greece-s-power-generator-tests-euro-fitness-amid-blackout-threat.html
In the mountains of northern  Greece 
lies an $800 million power plant whose future may help determine
whether the country can salvage its euro status.  The facility near Florina, a town known as “Where Greece
Begins,” is the most modern of four production units that
state-controlled  Public Power Corp. SA (PPC)  is scheduled to sell to
competitors to meet four-year-old European Union demands that
the country deregulate its energy market. The most powerful
Greek union is now threatening nationwide blackouts at the
height of the summer tourist season to derail the plan.  “We will make saving PPC a cause for all Greeks,” Nikos
Fotopoulos, head of the 18,000-strong GENOP union, said last
month in his Athens office adorned with photos of communist
revolutionaries including  Vladimir Lenin  and Leon Trotsky. “We
fight our battles with faith and passion, and we fight them
hard. A serious state must control businesses of strategic
importance.”  While on the surface PPC is another tale of Greek conflict
during the worst economic crisis of modern times, it
encapsulates how Greece has found itself at the sharp end of
 Europe ’s struggle to keep the euro intact and what the country
still faces to defend its place in the currency.  Founded in 1950 to distribute domestically generated
electricity to Greek citizens,  PPC  is a microcosm of political
protection, vested interests and reliance on foreign financing
that have defined the economy for decades.  Resisting Change  It is the country’s biggest employer and its eight plants
fired by the soft, brownish-black coal called lignite meet half
of Greece’s power demand. PPC is fighting to keep its monopoly
on the fuel, which is so vital to the company it’s in the
process of moving a whole village to mine more of it.  “PPC has a very strong union that so far has hindered
changes,” said Stefanos Manos, a former New Democracy industry
minister who stood in the last election for his own party. “The
government needs a clear strategy of what it wants to achieve in
the energy sector in general and with the company in particular.
I have yet to see evidence of that.”  Since forming a government after the June 17 election, the
second in six weeks, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his
ministers have been in talks with the EU,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  to keep aid flowing during the
fifth year of recession. They are working on identifying 11.5
billion euros ($14.2 billion) of further budget cuts and are 3.5
billion euros to 4 billion euros short of the target, Finance
Minister Yannis Stournaras said this week.  Selling Assets  Samaras, 61, has vowed to make the sale of state-owned
assets a priority and last month appointed former PPC Chief
Executive Officer Takis Athanasopoulos as chairman of the
organization managing the privatization program.  Athanasopoulos, 68, a U.S.-trained business manager and
university professor, battled Fotopoulos, 48, at PPC during his
tenure over issues ranging from job cuts to teaming the company
with partners such as  Germany ’s  RWE AG. (RWE)  PPC employs 20,000
people, compared with about 38,000 in the mid-1990s, and is now
restricted to one new hire for every 10 departures.  “We are determined, as a government of three parties, to
press on with structural changes, with state-asset sales,”
Samaras told reporters on July 26. His New Democracy party has
formed a coalition with Democratic Left and Pasok, the socialist
group traditionally backed by the unions.  Reform Credentials  PPC is a test of Samaras’s ability to prove to the euro
area and IMF that Greece is meeting their demands to open
markets to competition, scale back the state and cut red tape.  The asset-sale program also may involve lowering the
state’s stake in PPC to a minority from the current holding of
51 percent. The company’s  shares collapsed  by 61 percent in the
past year and its net debt at the end of the first quarter stood
at 4.85 billion euros.  Greece first has to resolve a dispute with the EU over PPC
that predates the debt crisis.  The fight centers on Greece’s failure to heed EU
competition rules and affects the Melitis electricity plant near
Florina in the northern Greek region of Macedonia, a focal point
of the 1946-1949 civil war in which communist forces were
defeated. Melitis, with a Russian-built generator and emissions-
control technology from German units of  France ’s  Alstom SA (ALO) , is
PPC’s state-of-the-art prized asset.  Lignite Mines  EU regulators ordered Greece in March 2008 to loosen PPC’s
stranglehold on lignite, saying competitors face unfair market
barriers. The EU said Greece violates European law by giving PPC
“quasi-exclusive” access to the coal.  PPC depends on lignite, among the most polluting fuels, to
help compensate for losses in its natural-gas business. The
Athens-based company said its cost of production is about half
as much in lignite as in cleaner gas. Greece is the third-
largest lignite producer in the EU after Germany and  Poland ,
according to the  European Association for Coal and Lignite .  “We don’t consider giving existing lignite units to
private groups an investment in, and contribution to, the
country,” Fotopoulos, the union leader, said in a July 26
interview. “The only winners from giving ready-made lignite
factories to private groups are the private groups.”  Political Change  The previous New Democracy government proposed to meet the
EU’s 2008 deregulation order by expanding mining capacity.  Seeking to give competitors to PPC access to 40 percent of
exploitable Greek lignite reserves, the government decided to
invite bids for exploitation rights at four deposits, including
one called Vevi from which the nearby Melitis plant is counting
on getting supplies.  Greek elections in October 2009 produced a Pasok government
that pulled the plug on that plan, which EU regulators had
approved two months earlier.  The Pasok government of former Prime Minister  George Papandreou , pledging to promote cleaner energy, ended up
preparing to sell four existing PPC power units, including
Melitis, and to limit new exploitation rights to the nearby Vevi
deposit, which had been mined until about 10 years ago.  The Pasok plan remains on the table as the new Samaras
administration evaluates options. The other three units on the
sale list include two at the Amindeo power station southeast of
Melitis and one in Megalopolis in southern Greece.  “The government is committed to proceeding with the
privatization of PPC in an organized fashion,” Assimakis
Papageorgiou, Greece’s deputy energy minister, said in an Aug. 1
e-mail. He declined to elaborate on the plans, saying they are
still being developed.  Ticking Clock  Time is pressing not just for the government, which is
scrambling to meet an Aug. 20 deadline to repay 3.1 billion
euros of debt held by the ECB, but also for Melitis. It has been
forced to take stopgap steps, including importing coal, after
losing supplies from two nearby lignite mines.  One mine, Achlada, which furnished more than half of
Melitis’s lignite in 2011, shut down temporarily earlier this
year as Greece’s economic slump deepened. The other, Klidi,
closed four years ago after a hillside collapsed.  The 330-megawatt unit at Melitis, whose technology limits
discharges of pollutants such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides
and dust particles, is getting some of its lignite from as far
away as Turkey and  Bulgaria , according to Constantinos
Tzeprailidis, operation department manager at the plant.  Natural Wealth  “It’s a little difficult,” Tzeprailidis said in a July 28
interview in his office that looks onto countryside where sheep
graze and wheat, corn and sunflowers grow. “It’s a shame to
have national wealth that’s not exploited.”  About 75 kilometers (47 miles) south of Melitis, amid the
lignite mines that make up Greece’s energy heartland in the
Kozani area, PPC’s hunger for the fuel is more conspicuous.  The landscape is marked by active open-pit mines that
supply larger, older, PPC power stations nearby.  These include Agios Dimitrios, the company’s largest
lignite-fired station that alone meets about 20 percent of
Greece’s electricity consumption, and Ptolemaida, the oldest
station where power generation began in 1959.  “We work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year,” Olga Kouridou,
director of mining for PPC in the region, said on July 27 as she
approached a 50-meter precipice in the area’s largest mine.  A German bucket-wheel excavator, the size of a multi-story
building, churned the earth and dozens of  dump trucks  roared
down the makeshift dirt roads. “We don’t stop at all. We have
enormous activity,” she said.  Moving Earth  Residents of the nearby village of Mavropigi can attest to
that. The village, whose name in Greek means “black source,”
is due to be moved within months to make way for an expansion of
mining by PPC. Mavropigi will be the sixth village in the Kozani
area to be relocated since the 1970s because of mining.  Dimitris Emmanouil, a retired construction worker who was
born in Mavropigi in 1941 and got married there, said he and
other residents hear the ground moving at night as a result of
the digging for lignite.  “It’s dangerous now because the soil is slipping,” he
said on July 27 while seated at a table in a closed-down café in
Mavropigi, where earthquake-like faults in the ground are
visible. “There’s no other choice. The village has to go.”  PPC needs the lignite under Mavropigi and surrounding
fields for a planned 1.4 billion-euro unit at the Ptolemaida
plant, according to Ioannis Kopanakis, an Athens-based general
manager for generation at PPC. The company is asking German
development bank KfW to arrange a 700 million-euro loan and
intends to fund the rest itself, he said.  “The matter has gone to the highest decision-making levels
in Germany,” Kopanakis said in a July 30 interview. “We expect
progress in these issues in the near future.”  This is the kind of project that PPC representatives say
highlights the company’s importance to Greece, boosting
investment, jobs and technological expertise.  “It’s the last producer on this scale that is left in
Greece,” said Kouridou, the mining director in the Kozani
region. “We need to keep that. If this stops, the whole area
will lose out, but so will Greece.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Kozani, Greece, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  