-- John Malone Plans to Spin off Cable Network Starz
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-08T21:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/liberty-media-plans-to-spin-off-cable-unit-starz.html
Liberty Media Corp., the holding
company controlled by billionaire  John Malone , plans to spin off
its Starz LLC premium cable channel, making it easier for
investors to bet directly on the HBO competitor.  The newly created public company will have about $1.5
billion in debt and an undetermined amount of cash, according to
a statement today. The spinoff, expected later this year, will
be tax-free to Liberty Media shareholders.  Liberty Media, based in Englewood, Colorado, has used
tracking stocks and financial transactions over the years to
pursue tax benefits and make its diversified assets more
attractive to shareholders. They included the separation of
 Liberty Interactive (LINTA) , owner of the shopping network QVC.  “This transaction will provide better transparency on the
Starz operating business,” Chief Executive Officer Greg Maffei
said in the statement. The deal also will “create significant
liquidity at Liberty Media,” he said.  Like  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and CBS Corp.’s Showtime, Starz
established itself as a movie channel and expanded into original
programming. Its flagship channel had 20.7 million subscribers
at the end of the second quarter, Liberty said today.  Starz’s
shows  include “Boss” and “Spartacus,” as well as the short-
lived “Party Down,” which gained a cult following. The
business also runs the Encore and Movieplex channels.  Netflix Deal  Starz also had supplied programming to Netflix Inc.’s
subscribers, though that partnership expired in February.  After the split, Liberty Media’s assets will still include
the Atlanta Braves baseball team, stakes in  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) 
and  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , as well as investments in
 Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , Time Warner and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)   Liberty Media shares  rose 2.5 percent to $101.89 at the
close in New York. The stock has gained 31 percent this year.  Malone said last month that his effort to take control of
Sirius will eventually lead to a spinoff of the largest U.S.
satellite-radio company.  “I don’t like conglomerates,” Malone told reporters at
the Allen & Co. media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, saying he
prefers to ultimately spin off companies in which he has a
stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  