-- Michael White’s Nicoletta Stumbles on Cheesiness: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-08-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/michael-white-s-nicoletta-stumbles-on-cheesiness-review.html
When one of the country’s best and
most successful Italian chefs decided to open a pizzeria, he did
so just few blocks from Motorino, one of  New York ’s best and
most successful pizzerias. Bold move.  Michael White , a six-foot-four-inch Wisconsin native who
played offensive tackle as a high school footballer, clearly
wants to rack up a few sacks with Nicoletta in  Manhattan ’s East
Village.  This is the cheapest member of White’s New York empire,
which includes Marea ($97 for four courses), Ai Fiori ($89 prix-
fixe) and Morini (most mains under $30).  At Nicoletta, Dr. Dre raps uncensored, the entrees run $16
to $22, every single one of them pizza.  And contrary to New York’s neoclassic zeitgeist, none is
Neapolitan. So no brick ovens, no paper-thin crusts, no
unadulterated San Marzano tomatoes, no milky mozzarella di
bufala unless you ask for it.  Nicoletta’s pies are “ Wiscopolitan ,” with zesty red sauces,
dense crusts and enough cheese, toppings and mashed potatoes to
make your biceps sore. And in case your stomach feels deprived
of anything (it won’t), extra sauce is free.  No Morini  White is expanding his Morini brand and Nicoletta, with its
simple preparations, seems scalable enough as well. Here’s the
catch: Morini is a decent enough restaurant. Nicoletta isn’t.  Okay, okay. Pizza-making isn’t easy for the even the most
highly-trained gastronauts. When Mathieu Palombino, once the
chef de cuisine at BLT Fish, opened his first Motorino, he told
me pizza was one of the most difficult dishes he’d ever worked
with.  Still, smart young pizzaioli don’t serve carbonara pies
like White does; his $19 gut-buster is laden with egg, cream,
pancetta, Pecorino Romano and what is surely enough salt to
cause a killer hangover without a drop of alcohol.  Perhaps  Nicoletta  needs time to grow. The best dish on the
menu is “pollo all’aceto.” White should change the name to
“buffalo wings.” Chicken thighs are confited, fried and doused
in Calabrian chili sauce -- a dead ringer for the spicy vinegar
tang of  Frank’s RedHot .  Low Tide  Romaine salad, with briny anchovies and bright dressing, is
lovely. Seafood salad is not. The clams, mussels and octopus
taste more like marinated Styrofoam than aromatic shellfish.
Stuffed squid had such a low-tide stink that I advised my
companions to stop eating it.  Rice balls ($5) have little texture and, improbably, less
flavor. Fried mozzarella ($11) is even worse: expect watery
curds, soggy dough and a yellow sauce that’s bagna cauda in name
only.  Service is quite good for such an ultra-casual venue,
though you may wait 90 minutes for a table. You might be offered
a taste of the sweet, bubbly lambrusco ($8) before committing to
a glass. When was the last time this happened at a pizzeria? Too
bad the stemless glasses have thick lips and small rims, even
for the $75-$300 reserve selections.  No matter; a glass of restrained Valpolicella ($8.50) or a
pint of white Wisconsin ale ($7) are the better options.  Nicoletta does toppings right. Fennel sausage is clean and
herbal. Rosemary infused porchetta is ultra-porky.  Scallion Snap  The scallions have snap and the pepperoni is perfect. Even
the mashed potatoes, with bacon and creme fraiche, work together
as a smoky, gloppy riff on a tarte alsacienne.  Too bad the pizzas have three fatal flaws. First:
Nicoletta’s mozzarella lacks milkiness and tastes like a pre-
shredded soy cheese-substitute fresh out of a plastic bag.  Second: The bread is chewy and insubstantial, with no depth
of flavor. Third: the combined weight of the cheese, sauce, and
toppings make the pies taste more like an exercise in  Sbarro -
style excess rather than Michelin-worthy balance.  A server places the inevitable leftovers in front of you,
leaving little space on the table for dessert, an affogato ($6)
with two plastic straws for three guests. White can do much,
much better.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: All dishes $22 or under.  Sound Level: Average, around 75 decibels.  Date Place: Nah.  Inside Tip: Walk-ins only, but no waits in the early and
late hours. Take-out available too.  Special Feature: Soft, cheesy, porky meatballs ($10).  Back on My Own Dime: No.  Nicoletta is at 160 Second Avenue. Information: +1-212-432-
1600 or  http://www.nicolettanyc.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  James
Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 