-- Life on Earth May Owe Its Existence to Black Holes
-- B y   C a l e b   S c h a r f
-- 2012-08-08T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/life-on-earth-may-owe-its-existence-to-black-holes.html
The behavior of black holes in the
universe could very well be connected to the origins of life. It
sounds outrageous, but not when you look carefully at the chain
of phenomena that we think go into making stars, planets and
living things.  A spider scuttles across the wall. A flower blossom unfurls
its petals. A dog idly barks at something real or imagined, and
deep in the ocean a school of fish darts and swoops around a
cloud of krill. Something slimy grows on the underside of a
muddy rock while, together with the 100 trillion bacteria in our
guts, we sit quietly, electrical pulses zipping around our
brains. This is life.  It is a collection of phenomena involving molecular
machines that organize and reorganize matter in self-sustaining
processes. Quadrillions of tiny life-forms can alter a planet’s
atmosphere and modify its surface chemistry. Eventually, they
may even produce a busy multicellular beast that leaves behind
its own trail of disorder in the search for food and energy.  We have only one example of life to study: that existing on
a small rocky planet orbiting a modest star in the 14 billionth
year of this universe. Nothing about the nature of life on
Earth, however, suggests it is anything but a fair sample of the
mechanisms that could work anywhere. Consider that terrestrial
life consists of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen, plus
some other elements. The chemical bonding among these compounds
is such that an extraordinary array of energy-efficient
molecular structures can form -- from amino acids to DNA. There
is no obvious example of an alternative chemical set that can do
this.  Life’s Origins  We don’t really know the when, how or why of life’s
origins, but it’s clear that some prerequisites are fundamental.
The first is the elemental mix needed to produce biologically
important molecules. The second is a location, or sequence of
locations, in which that chemistry can be incubated. A third
requirement emerges as the wheels of life are set in motion, and
that is a supply of energy, in our case energy from the sun and
geothermal energy from the Earth. In short, the recipe for life
calls for ingredients, pots and pans, and a continually hot
oven.  And this list points to the connections between life and
its broader cosmic environment. We have learned how stars build
the heavier elements of the universe. While hydrogen and helium
will always be the most abundant cosmically, the next in line
are oxygen and carbon. These elements are generally made deep in
the cores of stars more than eight times the mass of the sun,
and also, briefly, during their violently explosive deaths as
supernovae.  Over time, the heavier elements pollute the interstellar
and intergalactic gases, providing material for new stars.
Precisely how this matter condenses into stars and planets is a
question at the forefront of modern scientific inquiry, not
least because we are in the midst of searching for other worlds
that might harbor life. From at least ancient times, we’ve
questioned whether ours is one of many such worlds in the
cosmos. Now that we have the technological means to detect
planets around other stars, we’re finally discovering other
solar systems.  Stars form at the center of thick disks of gas and dust
that can be a thousand times wider in radius than the distance
from the Earth to the sun. Planets condense from these disks in
a variety of ways. Over a few million years, what was once a
pristine wheel of matter becomes pocked and lumpy with
coagulating worlds. And, gradually, the disk of material boils
off.  Heavy Elements  One thing that seems clear from observations is that the
more heavy elements we detect in a star, the more planets are
likely to exist around it, and the more massive they typically
are. This makes a lot of sense. Greater quantities of substances
like carbon and silicon mean more raw material for efficiently
forming planets.  Frozen water also provides much of solid matter. A large
fraction of the solid interiors of planets such as Uranus and
Neptune are composed of water ices.  Earth happens to be located in an orbit about its parent
star that allows for a temperate surface environment, so that
liquid water can flow freely. And a planet’s potential for
liquid water seems to be a reasonable signpost for life. Water
is both an essential biochemical solvent and a planetwide
contributor to geophysics and climate.  Our astronomical observations of young stellar systems also
reveal lots of chemical mayhem, but there are clear hints that
systems producing smaller stars may contain different chemistry
from those with massive stars. So the chemical makeup of planets
may well be related to the size of their stellar parent.  All this means that getting a world that has the right
chemical and energetic richness to produce and sustain living
organisms hinges on many things. Our next step is to find the
connection between these more local phenomena and those on a
truly cosmic scale.  The first place to look is up, straight up, to the
galaxies. Each one has evolved over billions and billions of
years, as dark matter, gas, dust and stars have coalesced,
orbited, bumped, exploded, wafted and circulated. But galaxies
are not all alike, and their global properties can affect the
smaller details significantly. Less-elemental richness, for
instance, can mean less-efficient cooling of nebular gas, which
means fewer stars will form. The ingredients list can also
influence the comparative numbers of big stars and small stars.
And a dearth of heavy elements directly impacts the raw
chemistry that takes place around forming planets.  Starter Mix  If that space chemistry makes a lot of carbon-based,
organic molecules, it may provide a “prebiotic” mixture for
life. Instead of life having to wait millions of years for a
young world to build complex molecules in some puddle, a rich
starter mix could come from space. This is admittedly
speculative, but not unreasonable.  No doubt, other factors are also at play. A planet
subjected to blasts of intense cosmic radiation may be poorly
suited for the growth of complex molecules, for example. I’d bet
that no Earth-like planet exists inside the jets feeding
supermassive black holes. That would surely be a horrible place
for delicate biochemistry.  Nevertheless, black holes are capable of molding the
universe around them. And so it makes sense to wonder how their
behavior might affect the formation of stars and planets that
have the potential to make and sustain life. To address that
question, we have to look at the origins of supermassive black
holes.  The very first black holes -- large and small -- left an
imprint on all subsequent generations of stars and galaxies, and
these early effects influence the production of new elements,
the opportunities for planetary systems and the long-term
behavior of galaxies and the black holes they contain. Places
that offer relatively infertile terrain for life may be poorer
in condensing elements, and are probably poorer in fresh stars
with pristine new worlds. To explore whether this is true, we
can ask what is special about Earth’s particular cosmic history.  The Milky Way, which contains our solar system, is a big
spiral galaxy. The 200 billion stars in this disk stretch across
a diameter of 100,000 light-years. Our parent star is positioned
toward the outer edge of it. Every 210 million years, our solar
system circumnavigates the galaxy. Since the sun formed more
than 4.5 billion years ago, it has made this round trip more
than 20 times.  Our biggest neighbor is the Andromeda galaxy, separated
from the Milky Way by a gaping void 2.5 million light-years
across. Our eyes see Andromeda as only a hazy patch. In reality,
its light spreads across the sky in a great band some six times
the size of the full moon. Andromeda is a giant spiral, too, but
appears older than the Milky Way. Its baby stars form at one-
third to one-fifth the rate of those in the Milky Way.  Merging Galaxies  In 4 billion to 5 billion years, the curved space-time
containing Andromeda and the Milky Way will cause them to merge.
In fact, they have already started falling toward each other.
Although this encounter will happen at a velocity of more than a
hundred miles a second, it will not exactly be a collision.
There is so much space between the tiny points of condensed
matter in stars that the galaxies will simply drift and flow
into each other over hundreds of millions of years. Eventually,
the combined content of these two great systems may settle into
something resembling an elliptical galaxy, and Andromeda and the
Milky Way will be no more.  Regardless of the outcome, by the time this slow collision
begins, our sun will have used up the hydrogen fuel in its core,
which will contract inward. The shrinking interior will get
hotter, flooding the solar atmosphere with radiation, and the
sun will grow to a bloated red-giant star, engulfing what
remains of Earth and the other inner planets. This tiny scrap of
rock and water that, in just a few billion years, nurtured life
from microscopic single-celled organisms to beings like us will
be erased. Until then, we have a chance to understand what makes
the Milky Way tick, how it compares with all other galaxies and
what exactly made one of its planets come to life.  (Caleb Scharf, an astrophysicist, is the director of
Columbia University’s Astrobiology Center and author of the blog
Life, Unbounded. This is the fourth of five excerpts from his
new book, “ Gravity’s Engines: How Bubble-Blowing Black Holes
Rule Galaxies, Stars and Life in the Cosmos ,” which will be
published on Aug. 14 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on questions raised by  New
York ’s  charges against Standard Chartered Bank  and on how the
free market can help  control the deer population ;  Caroline Baum 
on  Milton Friedman’s relevance  today;  Michael Kinsley  on  front
lawns and other preposterous ideas ;  Ezra Klein  on  Washington ’s
captivation by a  flawed tax idea ; Laurence Kotlikoff and  Scott
Burns  on the new  $11 trillion rise in U.S. debt .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caleb Scharf at  caleb@astro.columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  