-- Ignis Money Funds Extend Maturities to Stem Negative Bond Yields
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-08-08T09:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ignis-money-funds-extend-maturities-to-stem-negative-bond-yields.html
Ignis Asset Management, the Glasgow-
based investment firm, increased the average maturities for its
money-market funds to counter sub-zero yields on the debt of the
euro-area’s safest countries, saidBruce Campbell, head of
liquidity sales.  Campbell spoke in a telephone interview. Ignis’ liquidity
funds total about 16.5 billion pounds ($25.7 billion), he said.  On negative yields:  “At the back of the investor’s psyche is the fear around
negative yields. Investors are looking at what their real
liquidity requirements are and making their money work harder.
We’ve increased the weighted average maturity in our funds by
two to three days to pick up a bit more yield.”  “We are fortunate that we’re of a small enough size in
the euro space that we can continue to provide a relatively good
return. Finding a home for huge volumes of cash at the moment
can be problematic. You don’t want to go below zero returns.
When you’re running larger euro funds you may not be able to do
that and maintain the liquidity profile that you need.”  On ECB,  Bank of England  rate cuts:  “If the ECB or the Bank of England lower rates further,
then as a market we’ll have to re-evaluate what we do. We’re
looking at all the options, whether we move to a variable-priced
short-term liquidity fund, or reduce fees. We have to make sure
that the fund remains in positive yield territory.”  On top-rated assets:  “The universe of assets we can invest in has shrunk.
We’ve got to make sure we’re making the most of the assets we’re
comfortable with. We’ve added a couple of Scandinavian and
Japanese banks but other than that we’ve stuck to investments in
core  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  