-- Lilly Last Hope for Alzheimer’s as Pfizer, J&J Bow Out
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-08T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/lilly-last-hope-for-alzheimer-s-as-pfizer-j-j-bow-out.html
For millions of people suffering from
 Alzheimer’s disease , an experimental drug from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
may now be their last hope for treatment.  Pharmaceutical giants  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
pulled the plug Aug. 6 on their joint development of a similar
Alzheimer’s therapy, after that drug failed to show any benefit
in two late-stage studies. Lilly has said it will release its
findings by the end of September.  The stakes are high both for the 5.4 million people in the
U.S. who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and for Lilly.
There are no medicines on the market that slow the progression
of the disease, the most common form of dementia. If Lilly’s
drug proves a success, treatments could begin as early as next
year and the Indianapolis-based company could realize billions
of dollars in revenue. Still, company executives have warned
that a successful outcome for the drug, solanezumab, is a long
shot.  “We’ve said all along that solanezumab was a pretty risky
bet,” Derica Rice, Lilly’s chief financial officer, said at a
Goldman Sachs investor conference in June.  Lilly could use a big win. It’s facing the loss of $7
billion in sales over the next five years from generic
competition to its two best-selling  medicines . Lilly has spent
more than a decade and perhaps $1 billion or more studying the
drug. Yet after Pfizer and J&J pulled out, investors give the
Lilly drug a less than 20 percent chance of success. Meanwhile,
newer treatments in development by other companies are still
years away.  Lilly’s  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $42.85 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time. Pfizer gained less than 1 percent to $23.83. J&J
gained less than 1 percent to $68.35.  Strategic Options  A failure would come as a major setback for the company.
Lilly’s stock could drop by as much as 20 percent, wiping out
$10 billion in market value, said Jeffrey Holford, an analyst
with Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. It may also leave Lilly
putting the bulk of its profit toward trying to maintain its
dividend rather than investing in the company, he said in a
telephone interview.  “They really don’t have many strategic options if their
pipeline doesn’t work out,” Holford said. “They just have to
hope that it’s going to happen.”  A positive finding may boost the  shares  as much as 35
percent and could transform the company, said  Mark Schoenebaum ,
an analyst with ISI Group in New York. He says the odds of the
drug getting sale approval are just 15 percent.  Elusive Treatment  If the Lilly drug works “it would be euphoria, crazy
party-time,” Schoenebaum said in a telephone interview. “It
could be the biggest upside surprise in the history of the
pharmaceutical and biotech industry.”  Still, Schoenebaum also said a happy outcome is unlikely.  “At least 90 percent of people give this a less than 50
percent chance of working,” Schoenebaum added.  After years of research and billions invested by nearly
every major  drug company , a cure or even a treatment to slow the
progression of Alzheimer’s remains elusive. Little is known
about what causes the disease and efforts to alter its course
are littered with failures. In 2010, Lilly halted work on
another Alzheimer’s drug in late-stage testing, and earlier this
year Pfizer ended development of a drug called Dimebon after it
failed to show a benefit.  The Pfizer-J&J drug that failed earlier this week, called
bapineuzumab, and Lilly’s both target plaque that builds up in
the brains of Alzheimer’s patients that some believe may be the
cause of the disease. Lilly’s drug targets the floating plaque
while the Pfizer-J&J drug goes after the deposits of plaque.
There may be other factors as well, such as the over development
of a protein called tau.  Baxter’s Therapy  The only other therapy on the immediate horizon that has
shown success against the illness in mid-stage human trials is
 Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard. The product is an
expensive, relatively scarce treatment derived from donated
blood plasma that replaces antibodies in people whose immune
systems can’t protect them from infection. Results on whether it
could slow or stop the mind-robbing disease in a final-stage
study may be available next year.  Meanwhile, Lilly remains far more vulnerable to a failure
on Alzheimer’s than its larger competitors. New York-based
Pfizer, with a market value of $178 billion, and  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J, at $188 billion, have made big
acquisitions to help them overcome generic competition to their
top drugs. Yet much smaller Lilly, with a $50 billion market
capitalization, has yet to do a large deal to shore up its
pipeline of experimental drugs.  Patent Protection  Lilly lost patent protection last year on its top-seller
Zyprexa for schizophrenia and will lose the patent next year for
its second-best seller, the anti-depressant Cymbalta. The drugs
combined accounted for 36 percent of Lilly’s 2011  revenue . Lilly
Chief Executive Officer John Lechleiter has said the company’s
revenue will not be less than $20 billion and its profits will
remain more than $3 billion through 2014.  Starting in 2015, sales and revenue will begin to grow
again, he said on a conference call last month with analysts
without specifying by how much. In 2011, Lilly brought in
revenue of $24.3 billion with a profit of $4.35 billion.  Aside from its Alzheimer’s drug, Lilly has 11 other
medicines in late-stage  testing , six of which could eventually
have more than $1 billion each in peak annual sales, Holford
said. Sales from those drugs won’t come soon enough to offset
the losses Lilly faces through at least 2017, he said.  Placing Bets  Without the Alzheimer’s drug, the percentage of profit
going to the dividend would rise to 79 percent in 2014 from 44
percent in 2011, much higher than the payout ratio of other
drugmakers, he said. Lilly pays a quarterly  dividend  of 49 cents
a share and had 1.16 billion shares outstanding as of the end of
the second quarter.  Lilly’s drug could generate $7 billion in annual sales if
it works in a broad population of Alzheimer’s patients, said
 Jami Rubin , an analyst at Goldman Sachs in New York.  In anticipation of study results on solanezumab, traders
have been placing their bets in both directions. The number of
outstanding Lilly options that traders use to bet on the stock
have surged this year. The  stock price  has also gone up 18
percent in the past 12 months, outperforming the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 , in anticipation of the results, said Schoenebaum.  “Drugs move drug stocks, and Alzheimer’s disease is the
biggest therapeutic disease yet to be conquered,” said Rubin,
who expects Lilly’s stock could go up as much as 30 percent on a
positive finding or drop 14 percent on a negative result.  Lechleiter said investors should stick with Lilly because
its pipeline of experimental drugs will get profits growing
after 2014. He has also been cutting costs by firing 5,500
workers and trying to expand  sales  in  Japan  and  emerging markets 
such as  China  where Lilly has a new research center.  “We know that ultimately, this is about getting back to
growth and the only way to do that is build our pipeline, which
we’ve done,” Lechleiter said in an interview earlier this year.
“Those molecules, those future products, hopefully, will be the
things that drive us back to growth as we come out of this
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  