-- India’s $82 Million Mission to Mars Orbit Planned for 2013
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-08-08T10:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/india-s-82-million-mission-to-mars-orbit-planned-for-2013-1-.html
India  plans to launch a satellite to
orbit Mars in October or November next year in a bid to compete
with Asian rivals  China  and  Japan  in space exploration.  The proposed craft would be sent into space aboard India’s
Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle from the Sriharikota space
station in the southern state of  Andhra Pradesh , V.
Narayanasamy, a minister in the prime minister’s office, said in
a written parliamentary reply today. The mission is yet to
receive government approval, he said.  The U.S.  National Aeronautics and Space Administration ’s
Curiosity rover landed safely on Mars on Aug. 6 to help
determine whether the red planet has an environment that can
support life. After this, the only planned U.S. mission to Mars
is an atmospheric orbiter meant to launch next year.  India, where the  World Bank  estimates more than 800 million
people live on less than $2 a day, launched its first space
rocket in 1963 and its first satellite in 1975.  Its $82 million unmanned mission to the moon ended in
August 2009 after scientists failed to restore contact with the
Chandrayaan-1 craft. Data from the probe showed water formation
may be an ongoing process on the moon, in a major boost to the
South Asian country’s space program. It plans to spend $2.5
billion by 2015 on a manned lunar mission.  India’s proposed Mars satellite would “demonstrate the
country’s technological capability to reach Martian orbit” and
pave the way for future launches, said Narayanasamy. The 2013
mission may cost 4.5 billion rupees ($81.6 million), he said.  Rocket Failure  The former chief of the Indian Space Research Organization,
G. Madhavan Nair, has criticized the agency’s new focus on Mars,
the  Press Trust of India  reported Aug. 4. Nair said ISRO should
instead concentrate on its manned space flight program and
fixing problems with its next generation of satellite-launching
rockets.  India’s bid to join an elite club of five nations,
including Japan and China, using their own advanced cryogenic
rocket technology to launch large satellites failed in April
2010 as scientists lost control of the craft minutes after
blastoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  