-- India Plans to Sell a State-Company Stake Next Month, Khan Says
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-08-08T08:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/india-plans-to-sell-a-state-company-stake-next-month-khan-says.html
India said it may sell a stake in a
state company next month as the government tries to raise 300
billion rupees ($5.4 billion) to help narrow the widest fiscal
deficit among the biggest  emerging markets .  “I am hopeful that I should be able to do something in
September,” Disinvestment Secretary Mohammad Haleem Khan told
reporters in New Delhi today. “Meeting the disinvestment target
should not be a problem because we have enough in the pipeline
and my team is working on other cases.”  Share sales are part of the government’s plan to pare the
 budget gap  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ending March 2013. India’s struggle to limit the deficit as
slowing growth crimps tax revenues and subsidies spur spending
has led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to warn they may
strip the nation of its investment-grade  credit rating .  India plans to sell stakes in 15 companies, including about
10 percent in Steel Authority of India Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest producer, Thomas Mathew, joint secretary for
 capital markets  in the  finance ministry , said on June 18.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government projects record
borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees this fiscal year even as it
strives to narrow the budget gap from 5.8 percent in the 12
months ended March. Last year, India raised about one-third of
its 400 billion-rupee asset sale target, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  The budget shortfall is the widest among the so-called BRIC
nations, which also include Brazil, Russia and China.  India will find it difficult to stay with its plan of 9
percent annual GDP growth from 2012 to 2017, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said separately in parliament in New
Delhi today. First-quarter growth slowed to a nine-year low of
5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 