-- ING Profit Falls 22% on Spain Investment Sales, Loan Losses
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-08-08T09:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ing-profit-falls-22-on-sale-of-spain-investments-loan-losses.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, reported a 22 percent decline in
second-quarter profit after selling Spanish investments at a
loss and booking an increase in bad loans.  The company fell as much as 2.8 percent in Amsterdam
trading after posting net income of 1.17 billion euros ($1.45
billion), below the 1.26 billion-euro mean  estimate  of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Loan-loss provisions at the
banking unit jumped 78 percent from a year earlier to 541
million euros.  ING, the recipient of a 10 billion-euro taxpayer bailout in
2008, is cutting risk as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis roils
financial markets. ING reduced its Spanish assets by 6.2 billion
euros to 34.9 billion euros in the four months through July,
booking a loss of 156 million euros in the second quarter and 78
million euros in July.  Earnings at ING’s bank were “a slight miss” relative to
estimates, said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets. Interest margins were at the lowest
level since 2008, he said, while provisions were higher than he
estimated. The “only positive news is the lower Spanish
exposure,” he said.  ING  fell  1.7 percent to 5.66 euros as of 11:19 a.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 21.7 billion euros. The stock
is up 1.8 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent gain in
the  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index. (BEINSUR)   Funding Gap  Profit excluding one-time items fell 18 percent to 1.05
billion euros, compared with the 1.03 billion-euro estimate of
analysts, the Amsterdam-based company said.  By selling the Spanish investments, ING reduced its funding
mismatch, or the gap between assets and local funding in  Spain ,
to 12.3 billion euros by the end of July from 19.6 billion euros
at the end of the first quarter, ING said in a presentation. It
sold Spanish holdings including covered bonds and residential
mortgage-backed securities.  “The reduction of their exposure to Spain is impressive
and came at a lower-than-expected cost,” said Cor Kluis, a
Utrecht-based analyst at Rabobank International. “They
accelerated the pace, showing management is not closing its eyes
to the risks there.” Kluis, who recommends clients to buy the
stock, had expected ING would cut its Spanish investments by
about 2 billion euros in the quarter.  Loan Provisions  “Derisking in this quarter was quite active,” Jan Hommen,
ING’s chief executive officer, said on a call with reporters
today. “Whether we will continue to maintain that pace we’ll
have to see. If we see an opportunity -- and when it is
appropriate -- we may decide to go further.”  The lender won’t sell assets at any price, Chief Risk
Officer Wilfred Nagel told reporters. “This book is relatively
healthy and we’re actively managing it, but not at fire-sale
prices.”  The net result included a 305 million-euro gain as ING
agreed on a revised pension plan for 27,000 Dutch workers.  Underlying pretax profit at ING’s  banking operations  fell
13 percent to 995 million euros. The firm set aside 541 million
euros for doubtful loans, up from 304 million euros a year
earlier. ING mainly increased provisions for Dutch mortgages
after  house prices  in its home country dropped, and in
commercial real estate.  Repaying Aid  Loan-loss provisions may remain elevated “aligned with
economic conditions,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “If the economy
continues to be troubled, then I think our loan-loss charges
will be linked to that.”  The interest margin narrowed to 1.26 percent from 1.32
percent in the first quarter due to lower yields on investments
and lower interest results from the Financial Markets unit.  The lender had a core tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure
of financial strength, of 11.1 percent at the end of June. ING
targets a ratio of more than 10 percent before the end of 2013
taking into account new capital rules known as Basel III.  ING has so far repaid the Netherlands 7 billion euros, in
addition to 2 billion euros in interest and premiums. Hommen
said in June he plans to use the proceeds from the sale of its
U.S. online bank, completed this year, and a buyback and swap of
subordinated debt in December for the next repayment. Full
repayment by 2012, the original goal, became doubtful because of
Europe’s crisis and higher capital demands.  Online Banks  Hommen repeated today his intention to repay another
tranche of aid this year. ING said last week it may sell its
Canadian and U.K. online banks as the company reviews banking
assets that aren’t considered strategically important.  “It is too early to say where that will lead to but it
certainly will help us to be in a position to repay the Dutch
state,” said Hommen on the review of the Canadian unit.  The firm is under European Union orders to sell its global
insurance operations as a condition for its bailout. After
disposing of a unit in  Latin America  last year, the sale of
ING’s Asian life-insurance and investment management business is
“on track.” The sale will probably take place through multiple
divestments, ING said today.  ING expects to sell some parts of the Asian insurance unit
this year and hopes to complete the rest in 2013, Hommen said.  Insurance IPO  ING continues to prepare the U.S. insurance business for an
initial public offering, he said. Investor interest in a debt
sale by the unit is a “sign there is confidence this is a
business that can be IPO-ed,” Hommen added. The U.S. market can
quickly change and has been more open than Europe, he said.  The insurance division had an underlying pretax profit of
229 million euros, down from 472 million euros a year earlier.
The Asian insurance unit reported a pretax profit of 160 million
euros. The company took a 180 million-euro goodwill writedown at
its investment management unit in  South Korea  ahead of its
planned sale.  While pushing on with the unit sales, ING and the
Netherlands are in talks with European antitrust regulators on a
revision of the conditions imposed after the bailout. Some
divestment plans were derailed by Europe’s debt crisis while the
European Commission probes whether the Netherlands is making a
sufficient return on the funds it provided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  