-- Miniature Minis Lugging Javelins Bring Scrutiny of Olympic Ads
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/miniature-minis-lugging-javelins-bring-scrutiny-of-olympic-ads.html
The radio-controlled miniature
versions of an iconic British automobile shuttling javelins and
hammers back to athletes at the  London  Olympics are drawing
attention and raising questions about a ban on advertising
within sports venues at the games.  The quarter-scale Minis are made by  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , whose BMW brand is the London Games’ official
automotive partner. The small vehicles carry no company logos
but are 9,000 pound ($14,000) copies of the current edition of
the low-slung, squared off real thing produced by the Munich,
Germany-based automaker.  Advertising is banned in Olympic stadiums and related
venues. In London, sponsors, including those at the highest
level who plow almost $1 billion into deals with the
 International Olympic Committee , are pushing the boundaries.  “It’s got no branding on it, it’s got no Mini badge on
it,” BMW spokesman Graham Biggs said of the little cars. “But
people like to recognize things and we’ve had a fantastic
reaction from people who see them in the stadium. The whole idea
of Mini is it’s a fun brand, the cars are cute and they have a
smiley face.”  Similar radio-controlled vehicles ferried discuses, shot
puts, javelins and throwing hammers back to the start at the
2008 Games in Beijing. Those were bland blobs on tiny wheels,
not copies of a beloved car first manufactured by the British
Motor Corp. in the 1950s and ‘60s.  BMW has had to be creative because, unlike soccer’s  World
Cup  and most other sports events, sponsors aren’t allowed to
advertise inside Olympic venues. Rule 50 of the Olympic Charter,
the basic rules of the games, says “commercial installations
and advertising signs shall not be allowed in the stadia.”  Peels Label  Some athletes, including  Michael Phelps , the U.S. swimmer
who capped his career in London after winning a record 22 medals,
have been seen to remove  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  products placed in front
of them by officials at the start of press conferences.  “We recognize that people have commercial endorsements on
the outside, though in a perfect world they’d be a little more
enlightened and recognize Coke’s longstanding partnership and
sponsorship of the Olympics,” Joe Tripodi, chief marketing
officer of Atlanta-based Coca Cola, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Short term, I understand what they’re
doing. It disappoints us but it is what it is.”  When Phelps, who’s not a Coke endorser, met the media after
his final swim on Aug. 4, it was the first time he hadn’t
removed the bottles. He was even drinking from a bottle of Coke,
after removing the label.  Longtime Sponsor  Mark Adams , a spokesman for the Lausanne, Switzerland-based
IOC, said Coke had been a sponsor of the games since 1928 and
made its drinks available across Olympic sites, including press
conferences.  “This is consistent with previous Olympic games,” he said.
The IOC said its 11 top-tier sponsors paid $957 million since
2009 to attach the Olympic rings to their products worldwide.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , which pays $100 million over four years
to be affiliated as a top partner of the Olympics, has seen some
of the past restrictions relaxed. The world’s largest restaurant
chain was able to bring 200 children to the games and give them
behind-the-scenes access to play beach volleyball at Horse
Guards Parade and try archery at Lord’s cricket ground. Getting
the children there involved four years of talks about how
McDonald’s could get more for its money.  ‘More Value’  “We felt there was a lot more value we could add,” Timo Lumme, the IOC’s director of TV and marketing services, said
according to the Sports Business Journal. “We try to
dimensionalize the relationship beyond just being the basic
sponsorship.”  Lume didn’t immediately return an e-mail sent through the
IOC media office seeking comment on the sponsor relationship.  While BMW and Coke are getting added exposure, luxury Swiss
watchmaker Omega SA is taking advantage of its status as a
“Worldwide Olympic Partner” with branded timing screens
visible at every event. It even has its name on the bell that’s
rung to signal the final laps in races at the track, pool and
velodrome.  “People are querying why Omega are so prominent and nobody
else gets any branding,” Nigel Currie, managing director of
 BrandRapport Ltd ., a marketing consultant, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a good question and nobody seems to know the
answer.”  For other companies -- even some which have paid to be part
of the  “Olympic Family”  of athletes, Olympic officials,
broadcast rights-holders and sponsors -- the restrictions are
some of the most exacting around.  Hidden Candy  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s Cadbury unit is an official
“supporter” of this year’s games, yet its candy bars are kept
in closed boxes and aren’t allowed to be on show at food outlets
around the stadium.  Michael Payne, the IOC’s first marketing and broadcast-
rights director from 1983 to 2004, said London’s Olympic Park is
the “cleanest” he’s seen as far as ads go.  “From what I’ve seen overall it’s as well or better
controlled than previous games,” Payne said in an interview.  Product suppliers not on the roster of Olympic sponsors
have to go even further to hide their identities. The jars of
pickles and eggs steeped in vinegar at fish-and-chip stalls in
the Olympic Park had their labels removed, and bags of potato
chips are sold in plain silver packs.  ‘Money-Making Machine’  “Even though we see the best sports in the world, it’s
still a money making machine,” said  Ian Richards , a 42-year-old
Briton, while buying two bottles of Heineken beer from a vendor
manning an unmarked trough inside the Olympic Park, the main
group of venues. “Unfortunately it’s a capitalist society. You
pay your money, you get to display.”  BMW also provides cars to carry athletes to their medal
ceremonies and has a fleet of full-size Minis that take
athletes’ samples to the central doping control lab, Biggs said.  The sponsorship at the London Games is through agreement
with local organizers and is provided by BMW U.K., which has
decided not to bid to be automotive partner to the games in Rio
in 2016, Biggs said.  Organizers had no problem with the marketing potential of
using the car’s design for the field vehicles, according to
Biggs.  “They could see how visually interesting it would be,” he
said. 