-- Inside Trader Roomy Khan Testifies in Doug Whitman Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-08T05:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/inside-trader-roomy-khan-testifies-in-doug-whitman-trial.html
The jury in the  insider-trading  case
of Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman was told by a key
witness,  Roomy Khan , that Whitman “aggressively” pressed her
to pursue leaks from her sources, whom he referred to as Khan’s
“moles.”  Khan, who has pleaded guilty to insider trading, testified
for a second day in the trial of Whitman, her former Atherton,
California neighbor. Prosecutors say Whitman traded on tips from
sources including Khan, who passed him illegal tips on  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , and that he earned almost $1 million.  Khan said she got information about Polycom, the
Pleasanton, California-based maker of videoconferencing
equipment, from a friend, Sunil Bhalla, a senior vice president
and general manager of the company’s voice division.  “He used to be always hounding me,” Khan testified in
Manhattan federal court, referring to Whitman. “Call Sunil,
call Sunil, call Sunil.” At another point, Whitman told Khan,
“What value do you have if you’re not a slime-ball?” she
added.  Khan testified for a full day yesterday after spending 40
minutes on the stand the day before. She told jurors she
received inside tips from Bhalla and other sources, which she
used to make money for herself and passed to friends and
business associates, including Galleon Group LLC fund manager
 Raj Rajaratnam .  Khan, a former Intel Corp. executive, pleaded guilty to
passing confidential company information in 2001 and 2009. She
played a crucial role in the government’s probe of insider
trading at  hedge funds . Her evidence helped prosecutors get
authorization from a judge to tap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone.  Preet Bharara   In another case tied to Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara’s probe of insider trading, a judge ruled yesterday that
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant for Primary Global Research
LLC who is serving a four-year prison term, won’t be released
while her appeal is pending. Jiau was convicted at a trial last
year of passing along earnings and other information about
companies including  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  She had asked to be released on
bail while her appeal is pending.  Khan told jurors yesterday that she also passed Whitman
tips on Google earnings, which she received from  Sunil Bhalla,
a former employee of Market Street Partners, an investor-
relations consulting firm that worked for the search-engine
company.  In a telephone conversation with Whitman that Khan taped
while she was cooperating with prosecutors, Whitman referred to
Khan as “Miss Google.” The recording was played in court.  Khan said Whitman refused to use tips on impending
corporate acquisitions she said she got from Deep Shah, a former
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Go to Jail’  “Mr. Doug Whitman said ‘I don’t want to have anything to
do with him,’” Khan testified. “‘I don’t want to go to
jail.’”  In Rajaratnam’s trial, prosecutors claimed that in 2007 the
hedge fund manager traded on information from Shah, passed to
him by Khan, about Blackstone Group LP’s planned takeover of
Hilton Hotels Corp.  Rajaratnam was found guilty in May 2011 of all 14 criminal
counts against him. He’s serving an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts federal prison and is appealing his conviction.
Khan wasn’t called to the stand in Rajaratnam’s trial.  Khan Sentence  Khan pleaded guilty in 2009 to  securities fraud , conspiracy
and obstruction of justice. She faces as many as 30 years in
prison when she’s sentenced, she told jurors.  In addition to the tips from Khan, prosecutors claim
Whitman traded on nonpublic information about  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL) , which makes computer chips. Last week, Karl Motey,
an independent consultant hired by Whitman, testified that he
passed Whitman inside information from two Marvell employees.
Motey has also pleaded guilty and is testifying in hopes of
avoiding prison, he told jurors.  Jurors yesterday heard a taped conversation of Whitman and
Khan in which Whitman complained that Marvell management had
plugged company leaks.  “Marvell had leaks on information like a sieve,” Whitman
said on the tape. “They have worked to cut off information.”  Yet, Whitman added, he retained some sources. “I still get
some reasonable information,” he said.  At day’s end, defense attorney Dave Anderson spent about 45
minutes questioning Khan about lies she told in a civil lawsuit
brought by her housekeeper in 2009.  Forged Document  Khan admitted that she forged a document to defend against
claims in the case, lied about it in a deposition, and then
filed a false declaration to support the forgery.  “All lies?” Anderson asked her about the declaration.  “Yes,” she said.  Anderson asked about Khan’s leak of Intel documents to
Rajaratnam in 1997 and 1998, when she worked for the chipmaker.
“I was an overzealous person looking for a job,” she said. “I
don’t think I was looking at the morality.”  Anderson asked Khan how she got caught.  “When?” she asked.  Jurors laughed as Anderson clarified that he was talking
about the Intel leaks.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  