-- IRS Allowed Fraud in Rush to Issue ID Numbers, Audit Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/irs-allowed-fraud-in-rush-to-issue-id-numbers-audit-says.html
The  Internal Revenue Service ’s
approach to issuing tax identification numbers to non-U.S.
residents let fraud go undetected, according to a report by the
agency’s inspector general.  The IRS emphasized getting applications processed while
creating an environment that discouraged employees from stopping
potentially fraudulent applications, the report said today. It
said 15,795 numbers were assigned to a single address in
Phoenix, and $52.5 million in tax refunds associated with
nonresidents’ numbers were sent in 2011 to just four addresses
in Atlanta.  “It is to be hoped that significant, systematic change,
rather than interim improvements, will take place,” Russell George, the Treasury Department’s inspector general for tax
administration, said in a statement.  The audit emphasized the amount of money at stake. In 2011,
the IRS processed more than 2.9 million tax returns with the
numbers and sent $6.8 billion in tax refunds, according to the
report. It didn’t have an estimate of how much of that amount
involved potentially fraudulent claims.  The IRS gives individual taxpayer identification numbers to
tax filers who aren’t entitled to get Social Security numbers.
The IRS doesn’t consider applicants’ immigration status, and
even nonresidents who aren’t authorized to work in the U.S. can
have tax filing obligations and pay taxes.  Individuals who have the numbers are able to claim certain
refundable tax credits or file false tax returns to claim
refunds.  Comprehensive Review  The agency is starting a comprehensive review of the
program and has “significantly increased our scrutiny” of
applications for the numbers and obtained “new tools and
equipment” to detect fraudulent documents, Michelle Eldridge,
an IRS spokeswoman, said in a statement.  “Our leadership moved quickly and aggressively to address
issues that were identified,” she said.  The IRS announced in June that applicants for the numbers
will be required to submit original identification documents
instead of notarized copies.  “We are in the process of reinforcing to our employees and
managers the critical importance of the integrity of this
program to ensure that our recent improvements to the program
are sustained,” Peggy Bogadi, commissioner of the agency’s wage
and investment division, wrote in the IRS response to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  