-- Italy Sovereign Debt Held by Domestic Banks Rises to Record
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   G i o v a n n i   S a l z a n o
-- 2012-08-08T11:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/italy-sovereign-debt-held-by-domestic-banks-rises-to-record.html
Italian banks’ purchases of the
country’s sovereign debt rose to a record in June as concerns
that  Italy  may be forced to seek a bailout discouraged foreign
investors.  Banks boosted their holdings of Italian  government bonds  by
about 14 billion euros ($17 billion) in June to 316 billion
euros, according to a  Bank of Italy report  today.  Italian banks “have been holding the fort at government
debt auctions in the absence of foreign investors,” said
Nicholas Spiro managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London  by e-mail. “The run on the bond markets of Spain and
Italy continues unabated and domestic banks have been left to
pick up the slack. The question is how much longer they will be
able to plug the gap if foreign investors continue to steer
clear of Spanish and Italian debt.”  Italian banks have borrowed more than 283 billion euros
from the  European Central Bank  and are investing part of the
liquidity obtained at lower  interest rates  in short-term
government bonds that offer higher yields. Banks increased their
holdings of the nation’s bonds by about 78 billion euros in the
first half.  Today’s figures “highlight foreign investors’ risk
aversion and lack of appetite for Italian government paper,”
Alexander Pelteshki, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Financial
Markets, said in an e-mail. Foreign investors cut their holdings
of Italian  government securities  by 18 percent in March from a
year earlier, according to the  Bank of Italy . In the same month
Italian banks boosted them by 39 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  