-- Japan Machinery Orders Rebounded Less Than Forecast in June
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-08-09T01:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/japan-s-machinery-orders-rebounded-less-than-forecast-in-june.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rebounded
less than forecast in June, underscoring concerns the world’s
third-largest economy’s recovery will slow in the second half of
this year.  Bookings, an indicator of  capital spending ,  rose  5.6
percent, after slumping 14.8 percent in May, the biggest drop in
more than a decade, the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo . The
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 12 percent increase. Large-scale orders can cause the
results to be volatile.  With a 19 trillion yen package ($242 billion) to rebuild
areas hit by last year’s earthquake supporting the economy, the
government may report next week a fourth straight quarter of
 growth  in the April-June period. The effects of this stimulus
are expected to peter out soon, placing the onus for growth on
the private sector.  “Corporate sentiment is cooling because the global economy
is looking uncertain, and that’s causing companies to rein in
business investment,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at
RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former central bank
official. “The chances are increasing that Japan’s growth will
sag in the second half of the year.”  Bank of Japan   The  Bank of Japan ’s policy board will announce today
whether it will relax monetary policy to spur growth and shake
off more than a decade of deflation. All 22 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News forecast the central bank will refrain from
easing.  Machinery orders fell 4.1 percent in the April to June
period, and are forecast to decline a further 1.2 percent in
this quarter, today’s report said. These figures exclude the
volatile sectors of shipping and power generation.  Japan’s economy probably grew at an annualized pace of 2.3
percent in the second quarter after 4.7 percent growth in the
January-March period, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office will
release the report Aug. 13.  Slowing GDP  Growth is expected to slow in the second half of the year
as  Europe ’s debt crisis and economic slowdown cut export demand,
and as growth-boosting measures such as subsidies for fuel-
efficient cars and reconstruction spending come to an end.  After growing for three quarters, the public demand
component of machine orders is forecast to fall 14.6 percent in
the July to September period. The government also estimated that
overseas orders will drop 5.6 percent in the same period, after
declining 17.1 percent last quarter.  Exporters are being hit by a yen that has risen more than 6
percent against the dollar since mid-March and is hovering close
to last year’s postwar high of 75.35 against the U.S. currency.
 Nikon Corp. (7731) , Japan’s largest chip-making lithograph maker, cited
strength in the yen in cutting yesterday its operating profit
forecast for the current fiscal year.  The yen was 78.43 per dollar at 9:40 a.m in Tokyo. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average was down 0.1 percent at 8,874.56 after
rising for three days. Benchmark 10-year benchmark bond yields
fell 2.5 basis points to 0.770 percent.  The nation posted a bigger-than-estimated current-account
surplus in June as  oil prices  fell to a low for the year, the
Ministry of Finance said in Tokyo yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  