-- Japanese Stock Futures Ahead of BOJ Decision, China Price Report
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-08-08T23:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/japanese-stock-futures-ahead-of-boj-decision-china-price-report.html
Japanese  stock futures  were little
changed before a  Bank of Japan  decision and a consumer price
report from China today amid speculation equities had risen too
much after reaching a one-month high.  American depository receipts of Sony Corp, Japan’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics, rose 0.7 percent from
yesterday’s close. Those of Advantest Corp. fell 0.8 percent
after shares of the chip equipment maker yesterday climbed in
 Tokyo . Rio Tinto Group, the world’s No. 3 mining company, may be
active in Sydney after saying its plan to sell diamond assets is
“well advanced.”  Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures expiring in September
closed at 8,880 in Chicago yesterday, little changed from 8,870
in Osaka. They were bid in pre-market trading at 8,880 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index futures
rose 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.2
percent in Wellington.  “Investors may sell to lock in profit after shares have
risen on speculation the U.S. and Europe may add stimulus,”
said Masayuki Doshida, an analyst at Rakuten Economic Research
Institute in Tokyo. “China may ease monetary policy if the
 consumer price index  falls below market estimates. That would
bolster markets.”  The Bank of Japan will refrain from adding stimulus at the
conclusion of a meeting today amid signs the nation’s economy is
picking up, according to all 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  China Inflation  In China, a report today may show consumer prices climbed
at a slower pace for a fourth month to 1.7 percent in July from
2.2 percent a month earlier, according to economist estimates.
It would be the lowest inflation since January 2010. A
commentary yesterday in China’s Financial News said moderating
price gains leaves gives “bigger” room for stimulus.  Separate reports may show retail sales slipped and
industrial production in the world’s second-largest economy grew
less 10 percent for a fourth month, a level not seen since the
2009 financial crisis.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slid 0.1 percent
today. The gauge added 0.1 percent yesterday after falling as
much as 0.4 percent following comments by Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  signaling opposition to more
stimulus. Adequate measures are already in in place and global
central banks may not have the capacity to undertake add
stimulus, he said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 6.9 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and  China’s economy  is
slowing. The regional benchmark index traded at 12.3 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 13.6 for the  S&P 500 Index  and
11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  