-- Japan Sales Tax Bill at Risk as LDP Pushes Noda on Election
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-08T09:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/japan-sales-tax-bill-at-risk-as-opposition-pushes-for-election.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s attempt to rein in his country’s ballooning debt by
raising the five percent sales tax is in doubt as the main
opposition party attempts to force a general election.  Noda today rebuffed the  Liberal Democratic Party ’s demand
to set a time table for early elections in exchange for passage
of the  tax  bill in the Diet’s upper house. The LDP rejected a
proposal to call elections “in the near future,” and has
threatened to submit a no-confidence motion in parliament,
risking a deal to double the levy by 2015.  “Under no circumstance can I specify when I will dissolve
parliament,” Noda told a meeting of lawmakers from his
 Democratic Party  of  Japan  in Tokyo. “Nor would it be
appropriate for me to sign a document about this.”  The LDP, which helped push the bill through the lower house
in June, is seeking to capitalize on public discontent over Noda
and the DPJ. The prime minister has staked his political career
on the legislation, saying it must be enacted to control debt
that has swollen to more than twice the size of the economy.  Concern that the bill will fail sent yields on Japan’s 10-
year benchmark bond to a one-month high of 0.81 percent today.
Yields on 30-year bonds climbed to a four-week high of 1.85
percent.  “If this does get bogged down, it would have credit
negative implications,”  Thomas Byrne , a senior vice president
at Moody’s Investors Service said in an interview yesterday. The
law is “a necessary step to support the rating.”  Moody’s lowered Japan’s credit rating to Aa3, its fourth
highest grade, with a stable outlook in August 2011.  ‘Unsatisfactory’ Proposal  Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura today said the
ruling party offered to agree to call elections “in the near
future.” LDP parliamentary affairs chief Fumio Kishida called
the proposal “unsatisfactory.”  The LDP will submit a no-confidence motion to the lower
house and a censure motion to the upper house if Noda doesn’t
agree to its demands, the Nikkei newspaper said, without citing
anyone.  “If we don’t hear that he plans to listen to the will of
the people when necessary, then it will be difficult to support
him,” LDP Secretary-General Nobuteru Ishihara said last night.
“We hear he is thinking, so we are going to wait and see.”  The bill passed through the lower house in June after the
LDP and New Komeito parties agreed to support it, sparking a
ruling party rift.  A no-confidence motion can’t pass in the  lower house  unless
at least 15 DPJ members vote for it. An upper house censure
motion could pass, but doesn’t oblige the prime minister to step
down or call an election.  Opposition Motions  Smaller opposition parties against the sales tax increase
also submitted no-confidence and censure motions to the house
yesterday. Among them are former members of Noda’s party who
left after he pushed the bill through the lower house.  Noda is floundering in opinion polls due partly to the
unpopularity of the tax bill and opposition to the re-starting
of nuclear plants following last year’s Fukushima disaster. He
doesn’t have to call an election until August 2013.  In a survey published in the Asahi newspaper on Aug. 6,
Noda’s support rate fell to 22 percent from 25 percent the
previous month and the worst since he took power in September
last year. The DPJ and LDP were neck and neck with 13 percent
support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  