-- Japan Gets Reprieve as Drop in Oil Eases Trade Impact
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-08-08T06:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/japan-gets-reprieve-as-drop-in-oil-eases-trade-impact.html
Japan posted a bigger-than-estimated
current-account surplus in June as  oil prices  fell to a low for
the year, easing concern that the nation is at immediate risk of
needing overseas funding to service its debt burden.  The  excess  in the widest measure of the nation’s trade was
433.3 billion yen ($5.5 billion), compared with 215.1 billion
yen in May, the Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today. The
median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a surplus of 415.4 billion yen.  The decline in crude prices limited Japan’s fuel bills, as
trade figures showed the first drop in imports since 2009, after
last year’s earthquake and nuclear meltdown bolstered demand for
imported oil. The nation has become more reliant on overseas
investment to support its current account with the trade portion
in deficit for eight of the last 12 months.  “The rebound pushes back concern that the current account
will deteriorate,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at
 Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo. “There will be no change to the picture
that the income surplus will make up for the trade deficit.”  The current account’s trade portion showed a 112 billion
yen surplus in June, after an 848.2 billion yen deficit in May.
Japan posted a 3.44 trillion yen trade deficit in the fiscal
year ended March 31. Income from investment abroad, which
includes interest payments and dividends on equities and
securities, has served as a buffer against a slide into a
current-account deficit.  Rising Yen  The yen has risen more than 6 percent against the dollar
since mid-March and is hovering close to last year’s postwar
record of 75.35 against the U.S. currency, appreciating last
month to the highest against the euro in 11 years. The
currency’s strength is battering companies dependent on overseas
sales, with  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, cutting its full-year profit forecast on Aug. 2.  Crude oil touched $77.28 per barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange on June 28, the lowest price for the year
and down 29 percent from a high this year of $110.55 on March 1.  The yen was at 78.53 per dollar at 2:34 p.m. in Tokyo.
Japanese stocks rose for a third day, with the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average up 0.9 percent. Benchmark 10-year benchmark bond yields
climbed to 0.810 percent.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Australian home-loan
approvals rose in June by the most this year, gaining 1.3
percent, as buyers responded to the central bank’s 1.25
percentage points of interest-rate cuts since November.  Consumer prices in the  Philippines  rose 3.2 percent in July
from a year earlier, a six-month high, reducing scope for
further interest-rate reductions.  European Factories  In  Europe , Spanish industrial production probably fell for
a 10th month in June, while factory output and exports in
 Germany  may have declined from May, economist surveys show.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association  publishes its weekly index
of U.S. loan applications today.  The  Bank of Japan ’s policy board is meeting today and
tomorrow to decide whether to relax monetary policy to pull the
nation out of more than a decade of deflation and spur growth.
The Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday that the central bank
may refrain from easing this week and won’t change its view that
the nation’s economy is picking up moderately.  Takahide Kiuchi and Takehiro Sato, formerly Tokyo-based
economists at Nomura Securities Co. and Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. respectively, are participating in their first
board meeting this week. Both indicated last month
that the central bank should weigh pursuing more stimulus or
alternative monetary policy tools to help the nation overcome
more than a decade of deflation.  Improve Understanding  Their participation in the board will help improve
investors’ understanding of the central bank’s projections,
former board member Atsushi Mizuno said in an interview
yesterday.  “The two new members have a different view on the price
outlook” from that of the BOJ, said Mizuno, who was on the BOJ
board from 2004-2009 and is now a managing director at Credit
Suisse AG in Tokyo. “Their view is that the effects of current
monetary measures are too small to end deflation, and I
completely agree with this.”  Japan ’s economy probably  expanded  at an annualized pace of
2.3 percent in the second quarter after 4.7 percent growth in
the January-March period, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Cabinet Office will
release the figure on Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  