-- Johnson Says U.S. Being ‘High-Handed’ on Standard Chartered
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-08T15:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/johnson-says-u-s-being-high-handed-over-standard-chartered.html
London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  accused
U.S. regulators of acting in a “high-handed” way over  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and said criticism of British banks stems from
jealousy of London as a financial center.  The U.S. “is still the land of the free and the home of
the brave and, every now and then, just a tiny bit high-handed
in her treatment of other nations,” Johnson wrote in a column
for the London-based  Spectator magazine  due to be published
tomorrow.  “I mean, what is all this stuff about Standard Chartered?
This British bank has generally enjoyed a high reputation for
probity (as these places go) until yesterday, when some  New York 
regulator apparently denounced Standard as a ‘rogue
institution,’” he wrote.  Standard Chartered shares  have slumped about 15 percent in
London this week after New York regulator  Benjamin Lawsky 
threatened to strip the bank of its license to operate in the
state, alleging it processed $250 billion of deals with Iranian
banks subject to U.S. sanctions. The London-based lender denies
the allegations.  “Well, if people have broken the law of this country, then
by all means bang them away,” wrote Johnson, who has
consistently defended the interests of the banking industry amid
the public and political backlash triggered by the 2008
financial crisis.  “But you can’t help wondering whether all this beating up
of British banks and bankers is starting to shade into
protectionism,” he wrote. “And you can’t help thinking it
might actually be at least partly motivated by jealousy of
London’s financial sector -- a simple desire to knock a rival
center.”  ‘Catastrophic’  Lawsky’s order described how the head of  Standard
Chartered ’s U.S. unit warned his superiors in London in 2006
that the bank’s actions could expose it to “catastrophic
reputational damage.” The official received a reply referring
to U.S. employees with an obscenity.  “Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we’re
not going to deal with Iranians?” a bank superior in London
said, according to the order.  Referring to the comment, Johnson wrote: “I disapprove of
the language, of course. But I have to say -- and I speak as the
proud possessor of an American passport -- that there seems to
be something fine and sound about the underlying sentiment.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  earlier today
criticized Lawsky for failing to coordinate the announcement of
the probe into Standard Chartered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  