-- Jones, Streep Try Sex Therapy; Chris Rock’s Rubes: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/jones-streep-try-sex-therapy-chris-rock-s-rubes-movies.html
A Lifetime remake of “ Scenes From a
Marriage ” might resemble “ Hope Springs ,” a stale-marriage
dramedy powered by  Meryl Streep  and  Tommy Lee Jones .  Over-powered, in fact. Streep and especially Jones deliver
vital performances that almost make the familiar story of a sex-
starved marriage seem as fresh as it might have been in a pre-
Dr. Ruth world.  Celebrating their 31st anniversary by splurging on a new
cable TV package, Kay and Arnold (even their names seem dated)
long ago settled into a passion-free empty nest. She cooks eggs
every morning, he falls asleep watching golf every night.  After a humiliating failed seduction, the emotionally
wounded Kay insists on a week-long marriage retreat with a
renowned therapist ( Steve Carell ). Arnold begrudgingly traipses
along from Omaha to the quaint Maine getaway -- the town that
provides the punning title -- complaining the entire way.  Slickly directed by  David Frankel  (“ The Devil Wears
Prada ”) “Hope Springs” doesn’t soft-pedal Arnold’s cruel
emotional bullying.  “I’ll tell you how I feel about this,” he spits after the
shrink encourages honesty. “I hate it.” The screenplay, by
 Vanessa Taylor  (whose credits include  HBO (TWX) ’s brutally incisive
couples drama “ Tell Me You Love Me ”), has more sting than
Frankel can handle.  Even after the movie signals its mushy destination -- often
to the accompaniment of on-the-nose song choices like “Let’s
Stay Together” -- “Hope Springs” surprises with moments of
intimacy, sexual and otherwise.  But like the marriage it depicts, the film settles into
routine. Counseling sessions (Carell’s dialogue is little more
than a set-list of shrink questions, agreeably performed)
alternate with Kay and Arnold’s homework: “sexercises,”
advancing from cuddling to consummation.  Though the racy encounters are timed to comic beats --
Streep overdoes the blushing, even as Kay purchases bananas for
practice -- the sexercises typically end in hurt feelings and
tears.  With the slightest change in tone ( Mike Nichols  was
initially attached to direct), “Hope Springs” could have been
much darker, and something more memorable than two fine actors
showing their stuff.  “Hope Springs,” from  Columbia Pictures , opens today
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Two Days  How you feel about “ 2 Days in New York ” will depend on
your tolerance for the adorable. Mine is limited, though I like
watching  Julie Delpy  (who directed and co-wrote) and  Chris Rock .  They play Marion and Mingus, an artist and a radio talk-
show host living together happily enough with kids from previous
relationships until her family invades.  The occupying army numbers three: her father ( Albert Delpy ,
the director’s real father), her sister ( Alexia Landeau ) and her
sister’s obnoxious boyfriend (Alex Nahon), who’s also her ex.
(They all played the same roles in Delpy’s 2007 “ 2 Days in
Paris .”)  Whether their conduct is merely inappropriate or truly
sociopathic is up for debate. (The boyfriend invites over a drug
dealer, for example, who sells him grass in front of the kids.)
What it’s not is funny.  More stabs at cuteness include Marion using hand puppets to
fill in her child, and the audience, on the picture’s back
story. Mingus tells his troubles to a life-size cut-out of
President Obama.  When a neighbor complains about the family’s behavior,
Marion flusters her,  Lucille Ball  style, by claiming to have
cancer. The woman’s husband, a doctor, soon shows up at the
door, offering to help. Once he spies Marion’s half-dressed
sister, he doesn’t want to leave. I did, though.  “2 Days in  New York ,” from  Magnolia Pictures , opens
Friday across the country. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
 James Pressley  on books.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 