-- Knight Loss Is $270 Million After Taxes, Joyce Tells Clients
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-08-08T20:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/joyce-tells-clients-knight-in-good-standing-with-clearing-firms.html
Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce estimated last week’s trading
loss will be $270 million after taxes and told clients the firm
is “in good standing” with clearinghouses.  The  post-tax loss  compares with a previously disclosed
pretax loss of $440 million. The letter comes a week after
Knight, one of the biggest market-making firms in the U.S., was
driven to the brink of bankruptcy after a technology malfunction
spewed orders into the market by mistake. Joyce told clients
that the company is in talks with outside advisers as it works
to prevent another error.  Knight’s relationships with the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. and the Options Clearing Corp. remain intact, according to
the letter from Joyce. Knight Capital Americas LLC and Knight
Capital Europe Ltd., the firm’s  broker-dealer  units, have held
capital above the minimum requirements and consistent with
historic levels, he wrote.  “Our review of the August 1st technology issue is ongoing
and we take this matter very seriously,” Joyce wrote in a
letter obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by Knight
spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons. “We are in discussions with
external advisors in an effort to effectively assess the
situation, in addition to our internal review.”  Rescue Funding  Knight was saved from collapse on Aug. 6, when it received
a $400 million cash infusion through the sale of convertible
securities from a consortium of investors. Getco LLC, Blackstone
Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., as well as Stephens Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc.
invested in the rescue funding, according to the  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based company. The investment will give the firms a
73 percent stake in Knight once the shares are converted into
common stock.  Clearinghouses such as DTCC and OCC operate as central
counterparties for all buy and sell orders executed or handled
by their members, who post collateral to reduce the threat from
a trader’s default. Their members are called clearing firms.  “DTCC has been in near-constant communication with Knight
since last Wednesday and throughout much of the weekend to
address the myriad of issues arising from this situation,”
Michael C. Bodson, president and chief executive officer of the
clearinghouse, wrote in an Aug. 6 letter to clients, a copy of
which was attached to Joyce’s communication. “DTCC has been in
close touch with our regulators and our board during this time
to keep them fully apprised of our discussions with Knight and
the actions we have undertaken to provide stability to the
markets during this period of uncertainty.”  69 Percent  Knight’s stock rose 3.3 percent to $3.16 in  New York  today
and is down 69 percent from its $10.33 closing price before the
Aug. 1 software malfunction.  Knight rejected a $500 million rescue-loan offer from
Citadel LLC on Aug. 5, said two people with knowledge of the
matter. The loan terms would have given Citadel a minority stake
in Knight’s stock and an interest in its HotSpot foreign-
exchange subsidiary, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks were private. Citadel, the $12.5
billion hedge fund run by billionaire  Ken Griffin , competes with
Knight’s market-making and electronic-trading business.  ‘Still Fluid’  Knight may have suffered additional losses outside of what
it has reported so far as legal and consulting costs increase
while revenue is hurt by decreased use of its services among
clients, according to  Christopher Allen , an analyst at  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York.  “We still await details on what other losses were incurred
last week as Knight attempted to free up capital before the
raise was in place,” Allen wrote in a note yesterday, adding
that Evercore acted as an adviser to Blackstone in the
transaction. “The situation is still fluid in our view as there
are still questions to be answered around capital levels,
strategic direction, and risk management capabilities moving
forward.”  NYSE Euronext said in a statement yesterday that Knight
will resume its duties as a designated market maker on the New
York Stock Exchange on Aug. 13. The exchange said that all of
the firm’s securities, staff, operations and systems will return
to Knight after being temporarily reassigned to Getco earlier
this week.  Knight has 18 employees and a compliance officer as part of
its market-making operation at the exchange, according to
Richard C. Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE. Designated market
makers are floor traders who buy and sell specific stocks to
help increase liquidity in the market, performing many of the
tasks of what used to be known as specialists.  Knight reported $115.2 million in net income in 2011 on
revenue of $1.36 billion. The firm’s market-making unit executed
a daily average of $19.5 billion worth of equities in June,
according to its website. The unit traded 711 million exchange-
listed shares a day in June, according to data compiled by the
company and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  