-- Kenya’s Biggest Lender Sees 30% Earnings Boost From Oil, Gas
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-08-09T12:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/kenya-s-biggest-lender-sees-30-earnings-boost-from-oil-and-gas.html
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ,  East
Africa ’s biggest lender by assets, said regional oil and gas
discoveries may boost earnings as much as 30 percent as the
finds spur project-finance opportunities and economic growth.  The bank, with operations in six East African countries,
plans to target transport, housing and other infrastructure
projects where the discoveries have been made, Chief Financial
Officer Joshua Oigara said in an Aug. 7 interview in Nairobi,
 Kenya ’s capital. The stock gained as much as 2.1 percent today.  “We see a lot of potential not just in the big projects
but also in the value chain,” Oigara said. “When you put in
the element of oil and gas in this region, it has potentially
the ability to increase our own growth by 20 to 30 percent for a
period of another seven to eight years.”  Uganda expects to start pumping oil later this year after
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K.-based explorer, discovered an estimated
2.5 billion barrels in the Lake Albert Basin. In neighboring
Kenya, Tullow announced in March it found crude deposits at a
site in the Turkana region that may exceed the Ugandan find.
Tanzania, holder of East Africa’s second-largest natural gas
resources, expects to begin exporting the fuel in seven years.  KCB, as the bank is known, has outlets in all three of
those countries as well as  Rwanda ,  Burundi  and the newly
independent nation of  South Sudan . The units outside Kenya are
expected to contribute 25 percent of profit “in the mid-term,”
compared with 10 percent now, as trade within the East African
Community increases, Oigara said.  Offshore Funding  KCB has started the process of obtaining an international
 credit rating , which it expects to complete by end of the
current financial year, he said.  “This will give the bank an opportunity to access
international debt capital markets as the banks moves to expand
its sources of funds in the mid-term period,” Oigara said.  The  East African Community  has a combined gross domestic
product of $79.2 billion and a population of 133.1 million
people. The five-nation group includes Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda,
Burundi and Tanzania. South Sudan has applied for membership, as
has Somalia.  In the first half of this year, KCB’s earnings from outside
Kenya doubled, while Kenya’s grew by 46 percent. Total net
income climbed to 6.09 billion shillings ($72.4 million) in the
six months through June from 4.06 billion shillings a year
earlier, the lender said July 26.  ‘Critical’  “Our regional businesses are a key part of our business,
they are becoming much more critical in the group’s
performance,” Oigara said. All of the units, which account for
15 percent of KCB’s assets, are profitable with the exception of
Burundi, which is expected to break even in two years after
starting operations in June, he said.  The bank intends to open offices in three more African
countries over the next three to five years, he said. The 19-
nation  Common Market  for Eastern and Southern African states is
being targeted as an area of expansion, Oigara said, without
providing more details. The members of Comesa, as the trading
bloc is known, include the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
Ethiopia and  Zimbabwe .  “Because KCB has a bigger network in the region and we are
following our customers who are doing trade in those markets,
the opportunity for the group will only be great in the
future,” he said.  Profitability  KCB’s current return on equity, a measure of profitability,
is 27 percent, ranking it sixth out of Kenya’s nine listed
lenders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio may
climb to 30 percent by December, he said, which would lift the
bank to fourth, based on current data.  Kenya Commercial’s cost to income ratio target is 52
percent by the end of 2012 from 60 percent a year earlier. At
the end of June, the ratio was 56 percent, Oigara said.  The lender expects demand for loans to increase in the
second half of the year, after the  central bank  cut official
 interest rates  from a record 18 percent, he said. Commercial
bank lending rates, currently at about 20 percent, may fall to
as low as 16 percent by the end of this year, he said.  The Central Bank of Kenya on July 5 reduced its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in 18 months to 16.5 percent as
inflation slowed after peaking at 19.7 percent in November. The
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee may cut the benchmark rate
further at its next meeting on Sept. 5, Oigara said.  Shares in KCB rose to their highest level in more than two
months, trading 1 percent higher at 24.50 shillings by the 3
p.m. close in Nairobi. That’s the highest finish since May 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg  The stock has advanced 45 percent so far this year,
outperforming a 27 percent gain in the Nairobi Securities
Exchange’s  All Share index  over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  