-- King Lowers Expectations BOE May Reduce Benchmark Interest Rate
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-08T13:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/king-lowers-expectations-boe-may-reduce-benchmark-interest-rate.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said an interest-rate cut may do more harm than good at present
because of the damage it may cause to some banks’ margins,
confounding some economists’ expectations for a move soon.  “It would damage some financial institutions and it would
therefore in all probability have an element at least of being
counterproductive, which is precisely why we haven’t cut  bank
rate ,” King said at a press conference in London today. “If
that situation were to change, and it is possible that the
impact on the net interest margins of smaller banks and building
societies might diminish, then that could be something that
could be contemplated.”  King’s remarks sparked a rise in the pound, and suggest the
U.K. won’t soon shift its policy closer to that of its
international counterparts. The  European Central Bank  is in its
second month of keeping deposit rates at zero and the  Federal
Reserve ’s main interest rate has been close to zero for almost
four years.  Japan ’s  overnight target rate  has stayed between
zero and 0.1 percent since October 2010.  Some economists including  Simon Hayes  at Barclays Plc had
forecast a reduction in the U.K. benchmark after Monetary Policy
Committee members said in the minutes of last month’s meeting
they would review the merits of a cut after assessing the impact
of their new Funding for Lending program, designed to stoke
credit.  ‘More Forthright’  “The governor’s comments were more forthright than I would
have expected, and you certainly couldn’t be more confident in a
rate cut after what he said today,” Hayes said. “The fact that
it was mentioned in the minutes suggest that maybe the
governor’s view on this is one end of the MPC’s spectrum, and
he’s keener to maintain the focus on quantitative easing than
perhaps other members are.”  Hayes said he was maintaining his call for a quarter-point
cut in November and a 50 billion-pound increase in  quantitative
easing . Minutes of the Aug. 2 policy decision, where the bank
expanded QE to 375 billion pounds, will be published on Aug. 15.  The pound strengthened for a second day against the euro,
gaining 0.6 percent to 78.88 pence as of 2:29 p.m. in London.
Against the dollar, it rose 0.1 percent to $1.5643.  Investors have scaled back bets on an  interest-rate 
reduction, according to Sonia forward contracts. A cut isn’t
priced in through July next year, data from Tullett Prebon Plc
shows. Earlier this month, traders were betting on a reduction
as soon as this October.  King also said today that a rate cut is “neither here nor
there” in the context of an economy that’s been stagnant for
the past two years.  “Another quarter point on bank rate is not going to be the
difference between having a recovery and not having a
recovery,” he said. “We’re in different territory in looking
for instruments that would get us out of these difficulties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  