-- King Criticizes Standard Chartered Investigation Announcement
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-08T13:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/king-criticizes-standard-chartered-investigation-announcement.html
  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
criticized  New York  regulator  Benjamin Lawsky  for failing to
coordinate the announcement of the probe into  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  over alleged violations of money laundering laws.  “I think all that the U.K. authorities would ask is that
the various regulatory bodies that are investigating a
particular case try to work together and refrain from making too
many public statements until the investigation is completed,”
King said at a press conference in London today. “That seems to
be the appropriate time to make clear what the judgment is and
what the punishment is.”  Standard Chartered  shares have slumped 15 percent in London
this week after the New York banking superintendent threatened
to withdraw the bank’s license in the state, saying it processed
$250 billion of deals with Iranian banks subject to U.S.
sanctions. King suggested the 290-million pound ($454 million)
fine levied by U.S. and U.K. authorities on  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June
following the submission of false London interbank offered rates
had been better handled.  “In the Libor case, all the regulators involved, whether
it was in the U.S. or the U.K., produced coordinated publication
of reports which came out after the investigation was completed
and they had made their judgement,” he said. “That’s very
different from what’s happened in the Standard Chartered case,
where one regulator, but not the others, has gone public while
the investigation is still going on.”  Federal Probes  Standard Chartered might be asked to pay as much as $700
million to resolve the  claims  filed on Aug. 6 by the New York’s
Department of Financial Services after the regulator moved
forward alone on a probe that has been ongoing for more than two
years and involves various federal agencies.  Lawsky, who runs the DFS, tried unsuccessfully a few months
ago to get U.S. regulators to punish the U.K. bank and grew
impatient with inaction, a person familiar with the case said.
The person asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential.  Standard Chartered, which has said it will “vigorously”
contest the regulator’s findings, is also being investigated by
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , the  Justice Department  and
the New York District Attorney.  “I’m not going to prejudge what that will show, but
clearly if there has been wrongdoing, then action should
certainly be taken,” King said today. He also said he doesn’t
see the investigation as a U.S. measure to wage an anti-British
trade war.  “Overall, I don’t judge my colleagues in the U.S. as
having any such intention,” he said.  Future of Libor  Asked about the future of Libor, which is used to price
about $500 trillion of derivatives worldwide, King said the
financial crisis had meant there was no longer a common
interbank lending rate as funding costs were now being
determined by the credit risk associated with individual banks.  “The fundamental question that people need to face up to
is, ‘Does it make sense to place hundreds of billions in dollars
and pounds of transactions on linking to something that doesn’t
actually exist?” he said. “That may lead people to think about
the overnight policy rate, a rate which always does exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  