-- Kloeckner Sees Second-Half Loss as Crisis Hurts Steel Demand
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-08-08T10:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/kloeckner-sees-second-half-loss-as-crisis-hurts-steel-demand.html
Kloeckner & Co SE (KCO) ,  Europe ’s largest
independent steel trader, forecast a second-half loss and almost
doubled the number of planned job cuts after the sovereign debt
crisis hurt demand.  A net loss of 38 million euros ($47 million) in the second
quarter compared with profit of 5 million euros a year earlier,
the Duisburg, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had expected a loss of 10.1 million euros, according to
the average of six  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe’s steel companies have seen profit margins squeezed
as the region’s debt woes curb demand from the car, appliance
and construction industries, weighing on prices. Austria’s
 Voestalpine AG (VOE)  reported a 34 percent slump in net income
yesterday, and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  posted a 28 percent drop in
earnings last month.  Kloeckner forecast a net loss in the second half after the
company lost money in each of the past four quarters, Chief
Executive Officer Gisbert Ruehl told journalists on a conference
call. It may cut 12 percent of jobs, or about 1,300, instead of
the 700 previously announced.  The shares slid as much as 6.1 percent, the most since July
5, and traded at 7.258 euros as of 12:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to 33 million euros, missing the 48.9 million-
euro average analyst estimate.  Achieving Ebitda at the previous year’s level “is rather
unlikely from today’s perspective,” Kloeckner said in the
statement, after previously forecasting at least stable earnings
on this basis.  The company expects full-year Ebitda in the region of 170
million euros, minus restructuring costs, compared with 217
million euros a year earlier, Ruehl said on the call.  While Kloeckner reiterated its outlook for a gain in annual
revenue, sales volumes will also increase but “presumably” not
by the previously forecast 5 percent rate, Ruehl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  