-- N.Z. Jobless Rate Rises to Two-Year High of 6.8%; Kiwi Falls
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-09T01:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/n-z-jobless-rate-rises-to-two-year-high-of-6-8-kiwi-falls-1-.html
New Zealand ’s  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly rose to a two-year high last quarter, adding to
evidence of a weak economic recovery. The local currency
retreated and investors increased bets on an interest-rate cut.  The jobless rate gained to 6.8 percent from 6.7 percent in
the first quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in a report today
in Wellington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was 6.5
percent. Employment dropped by 0.1 percent, or 2,000 jobs, from
the first quarter, when it increased 0.4 percent. Economists
expected a 0.4 percent advance in second-quarter employment.  New Zealand’s dollar fell as the hiring stall bolsters the
case for the central bank to hold the official cash rate at a
 record-low  2.5 percent to help lift confidence hurt by
earthquakes in the past two years. Prime Minister John Key this
week said he expected companies and private investors to aid
economic growth while the government curbs its own spending to
help return to a  budget surplus .  “This was a genuinely weak labor market report and will
serve as further confirmation that the economy is operating well
below capacity,” Felix Delbruck, senior economist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland, said in a note. “The  Reserve Bank 
will feel even more comfortable with its plan to leave the cash
rate at its current level for a long while.”  The local dollar fell as low as 81.11 U.S. cents from 81.59
cents immediately before the release. The so-called kiwi bought
81.28 cents at 1 p.m. in Wellington and has increased 4.6
percent this year, the best performer among the Group of 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual Growth  From a year earlier, employment increased by 0.6 percent or
13,000 jobs, the smallest annual gain in two years, today’s
report showed. The jobless rate rose to its highest since the
second quarter of 2010.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard has kept borrowing costs
at a record low since March last year and signaled on July 26
that level remained appropriate amid benign inflation.  Bollard last month said he expected the economy to grow
modestly, led by housing demand and reconstruction in
Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury province. Still, the
outlook for the economies of New Zealand’s trading partners
remains poor, he said.  All 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month forecast
he won’t raise  borrowing costs  this year. The chance of a rate
cut before January rose to 46 percent from 29 percent yesterday,
according to interest rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tame Inflation  New Zealand’s economy grew 2.4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier.  Consumer prices  rose 1 percent in the year
ended June 30, the slowest annual pace since 1999 and at the
bottom of the 1 percent to 3 percent range Bollard is required
to target.  Consumer confidence  rose to a seven-month high in August,
according to an index from ANZ National Bank Ltd. today.  House
prices  advanced 4.6 percent in July from a year earlier,
according to a report from Quotable Value New Zealand.  Business confidence stayed near a 15-month low last month,
ANZ National said in a report on July 31, citing a survey of 389
firms. Companies including Telecom Corp., the nation’s largest
fixed-line telephone company, and national airline Air New
Zealand Ltd. have been firing workers to reduce costs and arrest
a slide in profits.  Carpet manufacturer  Cavalier Corp. (CAV)  last month closed a
yarn-spinning plant, firing 70 workers.  Participation Rate  Full-time employment rose by 13,000 jobs, or 0.8 percent,
from the first quarter, according to today’s report. Part-time
employment slumped by 18,000 jobs, or 3.4 percent.  Statistics
New Zealand  adjusts the full- and part-time employment figures
separately, which means they may not add to the total change in
employment.  The unemployment rate rose as the working age population
increased and those extra people didn’t make themselves
available for work. The labor force participation rate declined
to 68.4 percent from a revised 68.7 percent three months earlier.
The number of people unemployed rose to 162,000.  Total actual hours worked per week rose 0.5 percent from
the first quarter, today’s report showed.  The labor market is being distorted by Canterbury, the
statistics agency said. Employment in the region fell 5.5
percent from the year-earlier quarter. Excluding Canterbury,
annual employment growth was 1.6 percent, it said.  In the year-earlier period, Christchurch was in the
immediate aftermath of a deadly temblor that struck on Feb. 22,
2011, with many people on leave or receiving special payments
even as their workplaces were closed.  Hours worked in Canterbury fell 5.8 percent from the year-
earlier quarter. Excluding the region, hours worked across New
Zealand rose 0.6 percent from a year earlier, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  