-- Nanofibers May Quicken Healing After Heart Attacks
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-08T23:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/nanofibers-may-quicken-healing-after-heart-attacks.html
Nanofibers may help speed healing
after heart attacks, preventing heart failure and improving
quality of life, a study on rats and pigs suggests.  Scientists injected lattices made of the minuscule fibers
alongside varying doses of a growth molecule called VEGF into
animals’ heart tissue immediately after induced heart attacks.
The fibers protected the growth treatment, helping the tissues
to regenerate arteries and improving heart function almost a
month later without harmful side effects, according to the study
published today in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  “The results were quite promising,” said  Karen Christman ,
a bioengineer at the  University of  California ,  San Diego  and
author of an article that accompanied the study. With
development, the treatment could be used to enable people who
would otherwise be bedridden to recover. “You could
significantly improve quality of life,” she said.  About  785,000 Americans  will suffer a heart attack for the
first time and 470,000 will have a recurrent attack this year,
Christman wrote.  The researchers found a way to administer VEGF safely using
technology, said  Benoit Bruneau , who is associate director at
the San Francisco-based Gladstone Institute for Cardiovascular
Disease and wasn’t involved in the research.  “It’s using applications that have been thought of before
and putting them all together,” Bruneau said. The next step, he
said, is to find out whether the positive results would last.  Further research must also determine how long after a heart
attack the treatment should be administered, wrote the study
authors from  Academia Sinica  and  National Cheng Kung University 
in  Taiwan  and the  University of California ,  San Francisco .  It will be at least a few years before the process could be
tried in humans, Christman said, though it’s encouraging that
pig hearts responded well to the treatment. Pig hearts are more
similar to size to the human organ than those of rodents and are
a better predictor of clinical success, she said.  “The field has become quite hot these days, but there
haven’t been many studies with large animals,” she said. “It
was an exciting study.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  