-- Neptune Orient Shipping Unit Posts First Profit Since 2010
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-08-08T12:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/neptune-orient-container-ship-unit-posts-first-profit-since-2010.html
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL)  said its
container-shipping arm, Asia’s third-biggest, had the first
quarterly profit since 2010 because of higher freight rates and
cost-savings.  APL Ltd. posted core earnings before interest and taxes of
$7 million in the three months ended in June compared with a $53
million loss a year earlier, according to a statement today. The
group’s logistics division had a $9 million profit on the same
basis. Singapore-based NOL’s net loss was $118 million, weighed
down by $112 million of restructuring charges.  The shipping unit’s average freight rates rose 3 percent in
the second quarter as lines boosted cooperation and ended price
wars that caused industrywide losses last year. NOL has also
found $225 million of annual cost-savings as it works toward a
$500 million goal.  “We have seen a steady move up in rates in the second
quarter,” APL President Kenneth Glenn told reporters and
analysts in  Singapore . Rates are still steady and the company
may seek increase if the opportunity arises, he said.  NOL’s second-quarter sales rose 8 percent to $2.3 billion.
The company was expected to make a net loss of $41.1 million,
based on the average of five  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  company  rose 1.3 percent to close at S$1.22 in
Singapore trading before the earnings statement. It has advanced
8 percent this year, compared with a 15 increase for the
benchmark Straits Times Index.  Higher Rates  The container line used 7 percent less fuel than a year
earlier, even as volumes rose 4 percent. The unit also saved $19
million in the first half by improving how it returns empty
containers to  Asia , according to the statement. NOL has also
announced plans to sell its Singapore headquarters to raise
funds for investments.  The company’s Asia-Europe rates climbed 15 percent on
average in the second quarter, while volumes fell 4 percent. On
Transpacific routes, rates fell 7 percent and volumes rose 5
percent.  Shipping lines, including APL and A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,
raised Asia-Europe rates once in the first quarter and three
times in three months ended June. On Asia-U.S. routes, 15 lines
including APL set a $500 per box guideline for increases in
annual contracts starting after May, the Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement said in February.  Fleet Plans  NOL received six new 10,000-container ships in the first
half, with four more to come by the end of the year. It will get
20 new ships next year and four the year after. The tally
includes ten 14,000-container ships, half of which will be
chartered out to Tokyo-based  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104)   NOL’s fleet totaled 141 ships with a capacity of 630,000
boxes at the end of June. The company has funding in place for
all of its on-order ships, said Chief Financial Officer Cedric
Foo. Older vessels that will be replaced by the new ships have
already been identified, he said.  The shipping line also has “tremendous” flexibility
regarding capacity as many charter contracts are up for renewal
in the next two years, he said. It has no plans to sell more
vessels, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  