-- New York, Microsoft Unveil Joint Crime-Tracking System
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-08T23:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/new-york-microsoft-unveil-joint-crime-tracking-system.html
New York police will be able to
search for criminal suspects with cameras and license-plate
readers through a new system developed in partnership with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the city said.  The New York Police Department worked with Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker,
to develop the Domain Awareness System, which aggregates and
analyzes information from cameras, license-plate readers,
sensors and law enforcement databases, according to a statement
today from Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s office.  “The system is a transformative tool because it was
created by police officers for police officers,” NYPD
Commissioner Raymond Kelly said in the statement.  The system was unveiled by Bloomberg and Kelly at the
headquarters of the Lower  Manhattan  Security Initiative a few
blocks south of  Wall Street , where personnel from the NYPD and
its partners examine feeds from surveillance cameras, alerts
from license-plate readers and reports from 911 calls.  There are about 3,000 closed-circuit television cameras
connected to the Domain Awareness System, most of which are
located in lower and midtown Manhattan, along with 2,600
radiation detectors carried by officers on patrol and several
hundred license-plate readers mounted on police cars and
deployed at bridges, tunnels and streets, Bloomberg said.  Instant Information  The system allows investigators to instantly see
information including arrest records, 911 calls associated with
a suspect and related crimes occurring in a particular area,
according to the statement. It also allows investigators to map
crimes to reveal patterns and track where a car associated with
a suspect is located and has been in the past.  It also helps in counterterrorism efforts, such as allowing
the NYPD to examine video feeds to determine who left a
suspicious package at a location or help assess whether a
radiation detector was set off naturally, by a weapon or by a
harmless isotope used in medical treatments.  Under the agreement, the city will receive 30 percent of
gross revenue on future sales of the system, which cost about
$30 million to $40 million to develop, said Jessica Tisch,
director of policy and planning for the NYPD’s counterterrorism
bureau.  “We realized we had the opportunity to create a powerful
and coordinated domain awareness system to help us combat both
terrorism and conventional crime,” Kelly said at a press
conference. “Not just dealing with the matters in financial
system, but citywide by coordinating our alert systems with vast
amounts of data. The system allows us to connect the dots by
instantly tapping into the details of crime records, 911 calls,
license plate readers, videotape footage and more.”  ‘Our Expenses’  Bloomberg said that selling the system to other cities may
allow  New York  to “recoup all of our expenses over a period of
time and maybe even make a few bucks.”  Tisch showed how the system worked to alert officers to a
911 report of a suspicious package -- a box with Jack Daniel’s
whiskey markings found outside a Union Square theater a few days
ago -- and allow them to call up cameras within 500 feet to
determine when the package was left and by whom. The package
turned out to be trash that had blown away from another
location.  “The idea is to get the information out into the field as
quickly as possible,” Tisch said.  Privacy advocates such as the  American Civil Liberties
Union , which has  asked  police departments and agencies in 38
states to provide information on how they use license-plate
readers, said the system may give the police information on
innocent  New Yorkers .  New Yorkers  “We fully support the police using technology to combat
crime and terrorism, but law-abiding New Yorkers should not end
up in a police database every time they walk their dog, go to
the doctor or drive around Manhattan,” Christopher Dunn,
associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union,
said in a statement.  The mayor pointed out that the private sector has used
similar technology for a long time, and that many buildings
already have security cameras posted inside and at entrances and
exits. He also said facial recognition isn’t being used in New
York’s system.  “The bad guys have everything that we do too and if you
really want to worry about security and freedoms, that’s the
first thing,” Bloomberg said. “There’s a lot of evidence that
there are a lot of bad guys around the world that are devoting a
lot more resources than we are to taking away our freedoms.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  