-- Aussie Gains Versus Kiwi on Diverging Employment Reports
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-08-09T06:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/new-zealand-dollar-falls-after-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-climbs.html
Australia’s dollar gained against  New
Zealand ’s for a third day after data showed the bigger nation’s
payrolls rebounded in July while unemployment rose in the
smaller country.  The so-called Aussie reached its strongest in more than
four months versus the greenback as regional shares climbed
following Chinese inflation data that may offer room for further
easing in Asia’s biggest economy. Demand for New Zealand’s
dollar was tempered after Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard
said that so-called carry trades in currencies can be
“problematic” for the nation’s economy.  The Australian jobs data “was, on balance, better than
expected,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist in Sydney
at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “We expect the
Aussie-kiwi cross to outperform today.”  Australia’s currency climbed 0.4 percent to NZ$1.3021 at
4:13 p.m. in Sydney from the close in New York yesterday, after
earlier touching NZ$1.3028, the highest since July 26. The
Aussie reached $1.0613, the strongest since March 20, before
trading at $1.0590, 0.2 percent higher than yesterday’s close.
It gained 0.3 percent to 83.14 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, lost 0.3
percent to 81.33 U.S. cents after weakening 0.5 percent over the
previous two days. It declined 0.1 percent to 63.85 yen.  Ten-year government bond yields in Australia gained two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.34 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, dropped seven basis points to 2.76 percent. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional stocks advanced 0.8 percent,
rising for a fourth day.  Australian Employment  The number of  people employed  in Australia rose by 14,000,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney today, exceeding the 10,000
increase predicted by the median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The  jobless rate  fell to 5.2 percent from
a revised 5.3 percent in June.  China ’s consumer prices climbed 1.8 percent in July from a
year earlier while the producer-price index dropped 2.9 percent,
the National Bureau of Statistics said today. China,  Australia ’s
biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export
destination, also reported today that  retail sales  growth slowed
and industrial production decreased.  “That is pretty benign growth in prices, and that
obviously leaves the door open to monetary accommodation, which
is positive for the Aussie,” ANZ’s Salter said.  The kiwi fell for a third day versus the greenback after a
report that showed the jobless rate rose to a two-year high.  Jobless Rate  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington that employment
fell 0.1 percent in the second quarter from the first when it
rose 0.4 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expected
a 0.4 percent gain. The jobless rate increased to 6.8 percent
from 6.7 percent in the first quarter, exceeding the median
economist estimate for 6.5 percent.  “This is very negative for the New Zealand dollar,” said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
“The kiwi was already in the process of starting to correct
downward over the past two days, so this will accelerate this
downward correction.”  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key signaled this week the
onus is on the central bank and private investors to aid
economic growth as he seeks to eliminate a  budget deficit .  New Zealand’s currency is vulnerable to carry trade-related
capital flows from nations that have cut  interest rates  to zero,
making it more difficult to set policy, according to RBNZ’s Bollard.  Carry Trades  “As a small open economy, New Zealand has often seen the
effects of carry trades on the  exchange rate ,” Bollard said in
notes of a  speech . “This can be distortionary and problematic,
because an economy relies on its exchange rate as a signaling
price.”  New Zealand’s dollar has climbed 4.7 percent this year, the
best performance along among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Bollard has held the official cash rate at 2.5 percent
since March 2011 while rates in  Japan  and the U.S. are as low as
zero, attracting investors to the South Pacific nation’s higher-
yielding assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  