-- News Corp. Posts Loss After Writing Down Publishing Business
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-08T22:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/news-corp-reports-loss-after-writing-down-australian-businesses.html
News Corp., billionaire  Rupert Murdoch ’s media company, reported a $1.55 billion fourth-quarter
loss after writing down the value of publishing assets hurt by
scandal and shrinking advertising revenue.  The net loss was 64 cents a share, compared with net income
of $683 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding the writedowns and
other items, profit was 32 cents a share, in line with the 
average  analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  The majority of News Corp.’s value comes from its
entertainment operations, which include the Fox News cable
network and Twentieth Century Fox film studio. In June, Murdoch
announced a plan to split off the declining publishing division,
home to the Wall Street Journal in the U.S. and the Sun
newspaper in the U.K., into a separate public company.  “Publishing will continue to be mixed,” Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  said in an interview. “We certainly have
initiatives to improve on execution, and we have an ongoing
focus on being as efficient as we can be. There will be revenue
growth.”  News Corp. fell as much as 4.2 percent to $22.72 in
extended trading after the report. The shares had surged 33
percent this year, bolstered by the plan to break up the
company.  Ad Revenue  Annual publishing profit fell 31 percent to $597 million,
partly because of shrinking advertising revenue at the
Australian newspapers as well as the closure of the News of the
World newspaper, the company said.  The company’s plans to reignite publishing growth include
the new Sun on Sunday, a weekly U.K. tabloid that filled the
void left by News of the World. The company also raised the
cover price of the daily Sun newspaper.  News Corp.’s cable network business, meanwhile, performed
well, said Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,
 New York . Operating profit at the company’s cable business rose
26 percent to $792 million, driven by increases in advertising
and the fees the company receives from pay-TV operators.  “Cable is the most significant segment for the company,”
Harriss said.  Australian Business  The company reported writedowns of $2.8 billion in the
fourth quarter, “principally related to the company’s
publishing businesses, most significantly the Australian
operations.”  The spinoff of the publishing business should take about a
year to complete, the company said in June. While the remaining
entertainment company will continue to be led by Murdoch, the
board has yet to designate a chief executive officer for the
publishing side.  Sales fell 6.6 percent to $8.37 billion in the fourth
quarter, which ended June 30. Analysts had estimated $8.72
billion.  News Corp. has been trying to move past a hacking scandal
that erupted last year after reports that a News Corp. newspaper
in the U.K. accessed the voice mail of a murdered teenager,
Milly Dowler. Rebekah Brooks, the former head of the company’s
British division, was charged by London police this month for
her part in those alleged crimes.  Scrapped Bid  The scandal prompted News Corp. to abandon its bid to buy
the remaining stake in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  A
U.K. committee, after probing whether News Corp. misled
Parliament during the hacking scandal, concluded in May that
Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a
major international company.” The nation’s media regulatory
commission, called Ofcom, may force News Corp. to sell or cut
its 40 percent stake in BSkyB.  Coping with the scandal’s fallout has cost News Corp. about
$315 million since it broke in July 2011, with $57 million
coming this past quarter. That includes legal fees, settlements
and losses from closing the News of the World, where the hacking
originated.  The company adopted a $5 billion buyback plan in the wake
of the scandal and doubled the size of the program in May.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  