-- Nikon Cuts Profit Forecast as Global Economy May Slow, Yen Gains
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-08T07:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/nikon-cuts-profit-forecast-as-global-economy-may-slow-yen-gains.html
Nikon Corp. (7731) , a Japanese maker of
cameras and chipmaking equipment, lowered its forecast for
annual profit, saying global economic growth may slow and a
stronger yen may erode overseas profit.  Net income  will probably be 60 billion yen ($765 million)
in the year ending March 31, compared with a forecast made three
months ago for 65 billion yen, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today. That compares with the 68 billion yen average
of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikon and Japan-based camera makers including  Canon Inc. (7751) 
are promoting high-end models, including so-called mirrorless
digital SLRs, as smartphones with built-in cameras lure buyers
away from point-and-shoot models. Canon, Nikon’s larger rival in
cameras, last month cut its sales and profit forecasts citing
weaker growth in the U.S.,  Europe  and China.  “Uncertainties in the economy are increasing, while the
yen’s gain will likely add pressure,” on profit, the company
said in the statement.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will probably total 85 billion yen this
fiscal year, compared with the company’s previous projection of
90 billion yen, Nikon said.  Worldwide  shipments  of cameras fell 1.2 percent to 136
billion yen in June from a year earlier, according to the Camera
& Imaging Products Association in  Tokyo .  Sales of single-lens-reflex models with interchangeable
lenses gained about 24 percent, while compact-camera sales
dropped 30 percent during the month, according to the industry
group.  Nikon introduced its first mirrorless model in October,
joining Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to feature cameras that
have interchangeable lenses without the bulk necessary in types
that use mirrors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  