-- Japan to Pass Sales Tax Bill After Noda Avoids Election Push
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-09T10:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/noda-fends-off-japan-election-call-in-confirming-sales-tax-deal.html
Japan  is set to pass legislation
tomorrow to raise the sales tax after the main opposition party
failed in a bid to force Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to set an
election date in exchange for support on the bill.  Speaking after meeting yesterday with Liberal Democratic
Party head  Sadakazu Tanigaki  and New Komeito leader Natsuo
Yamaguchi, Noda said the three agreed to pass the bill, which
will double the  tax  to 10 percent by 2015, and to hold an
election “soon” afterward. The LDP had demanded a more
specific election commitment, which Noda rejected.  “For the sake of Japan, we had to resolve this problem, so
we held an earnest exchange of opinions,” Noda told reporters.
Tanigaki confirmed the agreement, and Yamaguchi said “it’s my
understanding” that the LDP, the biggest opposition group,
won’t follow through on a threat to submit a no-confidence
motion against the government.  Tanigaki’s party, which helped push the bill through the
lower house in June, has been seeking to capitalize on public
discontent over Noda and his  Democratic Party  of Japan by
pushing for a snap election. The prime minister has staked his
political future on the legislation, saying it must be enacted
to address public debt that has swollen to more than twice the
size of the economy.  The bill is set to be voted on tomorrow afternoon.  Bonds rose for the first day in four as the deal eased
concern failure to raise the tax would hurt Japan’s credit
rating. The yield on the 10-year benchmark Japanese government
bond fell 1 1/2 basis points to 0.78 percent at 2 p.m. in  Tokyo 
after rising to a one-month high of 0.81 percent yesterday.  Disruptions Retreating  “We think risk of a sharp yield upswing in the JGB market
due to political disruptions has retreated following yesterday’s
agreement,”  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. said in a report today.  Noda and his party are floundering in opinion polls due
partly to the unpopularity of the tax bill and opposition to the
re-starting of nuclear plants following last year’s Fukushima
disaster.  In a survey published in the Asahi newspaper on Aug. 6, the
prime minister’s support rate fell to 22 percent from 25 percent
the previous month, which is the lowest since he took power in
September last year. The DPJ and LDP were neck and neck with 13
percent support.  Noda faces a leadership election on Sept. 21 which he may
not win, independent political analyst Minoru Morita said. At
the same time, the political infighting over passage of the bill
will probably also damage support for Tanigaki and the LDP ahead
of a general election that Morita forecast will be in December.  ‘Biggest Crisis’  “The DPJ faces the biggest crisis in the election,” he
said. “The LDP, DPJ and the Komeito will all have to bear the
burden of responsibility for the tax increase, but there is the
added factor of having broken their election promises, which has
angered the electorate.”  The tax bill passed through the lower house in June after
the LDP and New Komeito parties agreed to support it, sparking a
ruling party rift. The lower house today rejected a no-
confidence motion submitted by smaller opposition parties trying
to block the  sales tax  increase, public broadcaster NHK
reported.  A no-confidence motion can’t pass in the DPJ-controlled
 lower house  unless at least 15 DPJ members vote for it. An upper
house censure motion, also submitted by small opposition
parties, could pass since the ruling party doesn’t hold a
majority, but it doesn’t oblige the prime minister to step down
or call an election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  