-- Noma’s Redzepi Looks Ahead to Life After Ants in London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/noma-s-redzepi-looks-ahead-to-life-after-ants-in-london.html
Chef Rene Redzepi served more than
3,500 diners, including celebrities such as Stephen Hawking,
Stephen Fry and  Jamie Oliver , at  Claridge’s  in London during a
10-day pop-up version of his Copenhagen restaurant Noma.  That’s how many customers Redzepi, 34, feeds in five months
back home in  Denmark , where his small, waterside venue has been
named the World’s Best Restaurant for three straight years.  Over breakfast on his final day at Claridge’s, on Aug. 6,
we discussed how things went in London, what comes next and why
his 195 pound menu ($305) featured live ants.  Vines: How was your time at Claridge’s?  Redzepi: It’s been many levels above what I expected. My
personal experience, meeting 100 staff members that you’ve never
worked with before, seeing the producers, tasting the fresh
produce from here, meeting the Londoners -- they’ve been so
gracious. I’m so positively surprised and I’m even feeling a bit
sad to leave.  Vines: When you were in the dining room, you were almost
mobbed for autographs. How do you handle that?  Redzepi: At home, it’s not like that at all. It’s a strange
thing and you don’t realize that in this city it seems that a
successful chef can have a status with the general public that’s
just mind-boggling. It’s crazy and then it’s a bit overwhelming
so I shy away a bit. I think that’s the way to do it: Just keep
it real and stay yourself and to try to enjoy it for the moment.  Vines: How do the numbers in Claridge’s compare with Noma?  Long Waitlist  Redzepi: There, it’s 35 for lunch and about 40 for dinner.
And here it’s 360 a day almost. We have between 30,000 and
100,000 requests a month. We have 550 or 570 tables a month. So
we could fill many more restaurants. The Saturday before we
came, we had 1,200 people on the waitlist for dinner. Five years
ago, we could have a Saturday lunch with zero guests.  Vines: How about the ants on the  London  menu?  Redzepi: Besides Noma, we have this  Nordic Food Lab , where
we study larger topics within food and one of them is called,
“ Why don’t we eat insects  in the Western World?” In  Europe , we
found new, surprising flavors and one of them is this ant that
tastes so strongly of lemon and lemongrass. To us it was like
entering into a room of flavors we didn’t know existed.  Vines: It’s still the dish that caused most surprise here.
Did you expect that?  Redzepi: Of course. It’s taboo food: You’re eating a bug.  Vines: So were you concerned?  Breaking Barriers  Redzepi: No, I wasn’t. It’s also about having fun. I knew
that would break the barriers. There would be lots of people
sitting, presumably not knowing each other, and suddenly they
had to see each other being a little bit afraid. It’s like when
you go to  Finland  and you go into an important meeting and 30
minutes after you landed you’re in the sauna naked with all the
people. But I was more interested in people having the surprise
of the flavor.  Vines: I wonder if coming here and using different
ingredients, the Noma formula but in a different place, whether
that would work somewhere else.  Redzepi: Of course. The philosophy and the enthusiasm we
know now can be adapted anywhere, especially in London or Great
Britain because we are two proud Protestant cultures that share
many things, that share many food values and we complain about
the weather in the same way. We’re like weather cousins. I would
say if there were one place it could work, it would be here.  Vines: So would you open another restaurant?  Redzepi: This was a perfect opportunity to see what it
takes of me personally to open a restaurant without opening a
restaurant, because that’s what we did here. I can tell you that
I really have loved it here. It’s been a life experience to me
but I’m not ready to allow myself the time away from Noma.  Vines: So that’s a no?  Redzepi: That’s a no.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 