-- Nordic Power Rises to Highest Since April on Dry Weather Outlook
-- B y   T o r s t e n     F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-08-08T15:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/nordic-power-rises-to-highest-since-april-on-dry-weather-outlook.html
Nordic power for delivery in the
fourth quarter rose to its highest level in more than three
months as forecasts for dry weather fueled speculation that
hydropower production will decline.  The Nordic benchmark rose 1.3 percent to 40.15 euros
($40.15) a megawatt-hour on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy
exchange in Oslo, after rising to 40.20 euros, the highest price
since April 30. The contract has gained 7.9 percent  this month ,
Nasdaq OMX data on Bloomberg show.  “A high-pressure-dominated weather outlook, with drier-
than-average forecast, is the key driver for the advances,”
Kjell Idar Saure, a trader at Tussa Kraft in Oersta,  Norway ,
said today by phone. “The question is: Will the weather outlook
buck, or will the trend continue?”  Less rain will reduce the oversupply of hydro power in the
Nordic market, where more than half of its electricity is
generated by running water through turbines. The oversupply may
drop by 26 percent to 5.61 terawatt-hours in the next two weeks,
according to Markedskraft AS data on Bloomberg. That compares
with Denmark’s annual power demand of about 34 terawatt-hours.  Electricity for delivery tomorrow rose 39 percent to 16.88
euros in an auction on Nord Pool Spot AS in Oslo.  Vattenfall AB, the region’s biggest utility, plans to
extend annual maintenance at its 940-megawatt Ringhals-2 nuclear
reactor in  Sweden  by four days from Oct. 18 to Oct. 22, “based
on further developed logistics planning for several parallel
time critical activities,” the company said today in a filing
via the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange.  The outage will begin on September 15. Output will be
limited to 807 megwatts until September 2013 when
“modifications of valves in the auxiliary feedwater system will
take place,” Vattenfall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Buckley  in Amsterdam at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  