-- North Korea Able to Test Nukes in Two Weeks, Study Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-09T00:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/north-korea-able-to-test-nukes-in-two-weeks-study-says.html
North Korea  is technically capable of
conducting a nuclear test in as little as two weeks, according
to a study published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.  Commercial satellite imagery shows an underground tunnel
has been prepared for containing a nuclear explosion near the
sites used for the regime’s two earlier tests in 2006 and 2009,
according to the  study  written by  Siegfried Hecker , a scholar on
North Korea’s nuclear program at  Stanford University  in
 California , and Frank Pabian, a geospatial information analyst
at the Los Alamos National Laboratory.  A third test would be the first authorized by new North
Korean leader Kim Jong Un, who took power after the death of his
father in December. A demonstration of the country’s nuclear
capability would raise tensions on the Korean Peninsula at the
same time the U.S. and  Israel  are threatening possible military
action to thwart Iran’s advances toward being able to produce
its first atomic weapon.  South Korea  said in April that the North may conduct a
nuclear test to bolster public support at home after the failure
of a long-range missile launch. While North Korea in May denied
immediate plans for a nuclear test, it said two months later
that it is reviewing its nuclear capabilities against South
Korean and U.S. threats.  “We cannot rule out the possibility that the technological
and military benefits may sway Pyongyang to test again,” the
scientists wrote. Hecker has visited North Korea to assess its
nuclear program, although the study is based on commercial
satellite imagery and other publicly available information.  Two Explosions?  The Unification Ministry in  Seoul  declined to comment on
the report’s findings and on whether it spotted any recent
nuclear weapons developments, spokeswoman Park Soo Jin told
reporters yesterday.  The underground tunnel that would be used in a new nuclear
test “apparently has been under construction since 2009 and
significant activity was reported at the tunnel site after the
failed April space launch,” the authors said.  The scientists also raise the possibility that North Korea
would conduct two detonations simultaneously, with one bomb made
from plutonium, as in previous tests, and the other made from
highly enriched uranium.  “Two detonations will yield much more technical
information than one, and they will be no more damaging
politically than if North Korea conducted a single test,” the
report found.  Circumstantial Evidence  Still, evidence of North Korea possessing highly enriched
uranium “is only circumstantial,” the scientists wrote.  The North Korean regime disclosed a uranium enrichment
plant in November 2010, theoretically providing it with a second
means to create nuclear weapons, in addition to plutonium.  The scientists said a new test “would greatly increase the
likelihood that Pyongyang could fashion warheads to fit at least
some of its missiles -- a circumstance that would vastly
increase the threat its nuclear program poses to the security of
Northeast Asia.”  While Kim weighs the political costs of a nuclear test,
“it is imperative for  Washington , Beijing and their partners in
the six-party talks to join forces to increase the costs on
North Korea of continued testing,” Hecker and Pabian wrote.  The talks involving  China ,  Japan ,  Russia , the U.S. and the
two Koreas began in 2003 and haven’t resumed since 2008.  The Group of Eight world leaders warned in a statement
following their May summit that North Korea will face additional
international sanctions from the  United Nations Security Council 
if it takes provocative actions such as proceeding with a
nuclear test.  The U.S. has publicly sought to deter North Korea from
testing. “We are concerned about any potential for provocative
action taken by North Korea,” Defense Department spokesman
 George Little  told reporters last month at the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  