-- Novartis’s Alcon Wins Bid to Block Apotex’s Generic Patanol
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-08T21:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/novartis-s-alcon-gets-partial-u-s-win-in-generic-patanol-fight.html
Novartis AG’s (NVS)  Alcon unit won an
appeals court ruling that will prevent Apotex Inc. from selling
a generic version of the eye drug Patanol until a patent expires
in 2015.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  today ruled that, while parts of an Alcon patent on
the drug are invalid, other aspects aren’t. The  ruling  was
posted on the court’s website.  Patanol, whose active ingredient is olopatadine
hydrochloride, is used to treat allergic conjunctivitis, the
most common type of allergic disease in the eye. Basel,
Switzerland-based  Novartis (NOVN)  acquired the drug with its  purchase 
of Alcon.  The ruling means the order preventing Apotex from selling
generic Patanol remains in effect,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for
Novartis, said in a statement. He said the company was pleased
with the decision, although it’s considering its options
regarding the aspects of the patent that were invalidated.  The patent, which also covers the related drug Pataday,
covers the first compound to stabilize human mast cells and
prevent them from triggering the allergic reactions, such as
redness, itching and runny eyes, according to the lower court
opinion. Mast cells exist in the body and are the primary cells
involved in allergic reactions. Althoff said Alcon has other
patents that protect Pataday from generic competition.  ‘Long-Term Relief’  “Alcon invested many years and millions of dollars in the
discovery and development of an ocular allergy product that
would stabilize mast cells in the eye and provide long-term
relief of the signs and symptoms of ocular allergies,” Althoff
said. “Patanol and Pataday are the result of this R&D effort.”  Closely held Apotex, based in Toronto, claimed that the
patent was an obvious variation of earlier inventions in the
field. Officials with the company didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Circuit Judge Kimberly Moore, writing for the three-judge
Federal Circuit panel, wrote that the aspects of the patent that
cover a method of using olopatadine to treat conjunctivitis were
obvious. The court upheld two aspects that relate to the
specific concentration of the compound.  The case is Alcon Research Ltd. v. Apotex Inc., 2011-1455,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Alcon Manufacturing Ltd. v. Apotex Inc.,
06cv1642, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  