-- NRG Sees Reversal of Coal-to-Gas Switch for Texas Power
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-08-08T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/nrg-sees-reversal-of-coal-to-gas-switch-for-texas-power.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the best performer
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index today, said rising
natural- gas prices  are reversing the trend of  power plants 
switching from using coal in  Texas .  “Particularly in Texas, with the combination of that and
some heat-rate recovery, we have seen the reversal of that coal-
to-gas switching that we experienced in January,” Chief
Operating Officer Mauricio Gutierrez said on a conference call
with analysts today.  Increasing gas prices have made use of Powder River Basin
coal more economic and it’s “starting to get closer” to costs
for eastern U.S. coal, Gutierrez said. The trend of switching
back to coal from gas is expected to continue for the balance of
the year, given the increase in gas prices and heat rates,
Gutierrez said in an e-mailed statement after the call.  The amount of fuel required to produce a fixed amount of
power, the so-called heat rate, increased 38 percent in Texas
during the second quarter as less-efficient gas plants came
online to meet surging demand from a heat wave,  Andy DeVries , a
New York-based analyst at CreditSights Inc., said in an phone
interview. That helped raise electricity prices in the market,
DeVries said.  NRG, the largest power producer in Texas after Energy
Future Holdings Corp., uses Powder River Basin to fuel its coal
generators in the state, David Knox, a spokesman for the
Princeton, New Jersey-based company, said in an e-mail.  Texas Results  The company, which agreed to buy  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  last
month for $1.8 billion to become the largest U.S. independent
power-plant owner, reported second-quarter profit today that
beat analysts’ estimates as costs fell and it added customers.  Its Texas generation unit reported a 5.1 percent second
quarter increase in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization on higher nuclear output and
additional contracts for power plants, according to a statement.  Gas futures reached a seven-month settlement high last week
of $3.214 per million British thermal units in New York on
forecasts for hotter-than-normal weather. The fuel, which
settled at $2.933 per mmBtu today, has rebounded from a 10-year
low of $1.902 on April 19.  NRG rose 3.6 percent to $20.24, its highest price since
Nov. 18 and the biggest gain among the 31 members of the  S&P
utilities (S5UTIL)  index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  