-- NYPD to Quiz Owner of Twitter Account With Theater Threat
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-08T21:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/nypd-to-quiz-owner-of-twitter-account-with-theater-threat.html
The  New York City Police Department 
will interview the owner of a Twitter account on which someone
posted a threat to kill patrons of a Broadway theater, Police
Commissioner Ray Kelly said.  The NYPD on Aug. 3 discovered the messages threatening
audience members at the Longacre Theater on West 48th Street in
 Manhattan , where “ Mike Tyson : Undisputed Truth,” a one-man
show featuring boxer Mike Tyson and directed by Spike Lee, is
currently running,  Paul Browne , an NYPD spokesman, said in an
interview.  The NYPD asked the social-networking service to identify
the holder of the account and Twitter refused, saying the case
didn’t fall under its disclosure policy, Browne said. The NYPD
then asked Manhattan District Cyrus Vance’s office to request a
subpoena compelling Twitter to release the information. A judge
signed the order and the company complied, Browne said.  Twitter last month appealed a New York state judge’s order
to give prosecutors information about an  Occupy Wall Street 
protester’s posts. The company has said the case will determine
when and whether it must respond to subpoenas for its users. The
 American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31 court filing
that the litigation has national implications as law enforcement
becomes more aggressive in seeking information about what people
do and say on the Internet.  Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
company, declined to comment on the case in an e-mail.  ‘Common Sense’  “We think in an instance like this common sense would
dictate that we get that sort of information,” Kelly told
reporters after a news conference. “Certainly this message
referred to Aurora, referred to a specific location. This is the
type of thing that a law enforcement agency needs to know.”  One of the messages threatened that people at the theater
were going to “die like Aurora” -- a reference to last month’s
mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater where 12 people died
and at least 58 were injured, Browne said.  The NYPD dispatched extra officers to patrol the theater
and plans to soon interview the person who holds the account,
Kelly said. The individual isn’t in  New York  City, he said.  The person who sent the messages could face charges such as
reckless endangerment, Kelly said. It’s possible someone other
than the owner was using the account, he said.  “When we get a message like that, we have to react to it,
find out where it came from and deploy additional resources,”
Kelly said.  Real-Time  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them.  There were no problems during last night’s performance of
Tyson’s show, which began July 31 and is scheduled to run
through Aug. 12, Lisa Spagnuolo, a spokeswoman for the Shubert
Organization, which operates the Longacre, said in a telephone
interview.  “We are aware of the Twitter threat and have communicated
with the appropriate  law enforcement  agencies,” the Shubert
Organization said in a statement. “We are taking all
appropriate actions under the circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  