-- O’Hare May Save $100 Million in Best Airport Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/o-hare-may-save-100-million-in-best-airport-rally-muni-credit.html
U.S. airport debt is on a pace to
beat the municipal market for a second straight year. That may
help Chicago save more than $100 million when it sells $1.2
billion of bonds for O’Hare International this week.  City-owned O’Hare, the second-busiest U.S. airport, is
refinancing higher-cost bonds. Such securities may have the same
appeal to investors as water or sewer debt, which is backed by a
dedicated revenue stream.  “We consider the big, major metropolitan-area ones
essential-service revenue bonds,” said Ebby Gerry, who helps
manage $14 billion of munis at UBS Global Asset Management Inc.
in  New York . While airports account for about 6 percent of
municipal bonds, UBS allocates 9 percent to the area, he said.  The extra yield over top-grade securities on some O’Hare
debt has shrunk to the smallest in at least three years. Buyers
are demanding 1.15 percentage points of added yield this year on
average for 22-year O’Hare revenue bonds subject to the
alternative minimum tax, similar to this week’s offer, Bloomberg
Valuation data show. The annual average is the smallest since at
least 2009.  Municipal airport bonds have earned 6 percent this year,
compared with 5.6 percent for the broader muni market, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The facilities’
borrowings gained 13.6 percent last year, to 11.2 percent for
the local-debt market.  Runway Gain  O’Hare, located about 18 miles (29 kilometers) from
downtown  Chicago , is undergoing a $6.5 billion program that will
add a new runway and extend two strips. This week’s sale, which
is secured by general airport revenue, may save the facility
more than $100 million, said Lois Scott, Chicago’s chief
financial officer, in an interview.  “The market is very strong right now,” she said. “There
are strong fundamentals in terms of the amount of investors on
the sidelines looking to put their money to work in high quality
investments.”  Investors have sought tax-free debt as a haven from concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will deepen. Municipal mutual funds
have added $18.5 billion this year through Aug. 1, the most for
the period since 2009, Lipper US Fund flows data show.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its grade on O’Hare
revenue bonds last month to A2, its sixth-highest mark, from A1,
affecting $6.5 billion of revenue debt. The company cited the
facility’s “high leverage.” Of the airport credits that
 Standard & Poor’s  rates, O’Hare’s debt for each passenger
boarding a plane was $219 last year, more than double the 2009
average for similarly rated facilities.  Preliminary Marketing  City officials marketing the debt included a six-year
segment with a preliminary yield 1.25 percentage points above
top-rated munis, said Paul Mansour, managing director at
Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning. That compares with a 1.97
percentage point spread on a similar maturity in April 2011, the
last O’Hare sale that was subject to the alternative minimum
tax.  Scott, the city CFO, declined to comment on pricing of the
deal.  The preliminary price indications don’t give investors
enough extra yield, given the downgrade and renovation costs,
Mansour said.  More Compensation  “You need to be compensated a little bit more for the
likelihood that you’re not going to see any sort of ratings
improvement for a while and they’re in the middle of this
extensive modernization program,” said Mansour, whose company
oversees about $10 billion of munis. “There’s a little more
downside risk than upside risk.”  O’Hare is building as the federal government is reducing
financial support to some airports to help balance the national
budget.  President  Barack Obama  in February signed the Federal
Aviation Administration Modernization and Reform Act, which
includes $3.35 billion annually in airport improvement grants
through 2015, down from $3.5 billion, Fitch Ratings said this
month.  The diminished federal funds will probably prompt airport
issuers to sell more debt backed by so-called passenger facility
charges, which are fees for every traveler boarding a plane,
Fitch said.  Investors have other airport deals to choose from this week
that are subject to the alternative minimum tax, including a
$291 million Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport sale. The
securities are rated A+, Standard & Poor’s fifth-highest grade.  Following are pending sales:  CALIFORNIA plans to borrow $10 billion of revenue-
anticipate notes as soon as soon as the week of Aug. 13. The
notes are rated MIG 1, Moody’s highest short-term grade. (Added
Aug. 8)  SAN FRANCISCO is set to sell $290 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fitch Ratings  grades the bonds AA-,
fourth-highest. (Added Aug. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  