-- Loan Terms, Bond Yields Buttress U.S. Economy: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/loan-terms-bond-yields-buttress-u-s-economy-chart-of-the-day.html
Standards for bank loans and yields
on corporate bonds are signaling the  U.S. economy  will avoid a
recession, according to Michael T. Darda, chief economist and
chief market strategist at MKM Partners LLC.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the percentage of banks
tightening credit for larger companies with the difference in
yield between AAA rated and high-yield corporate debt, as Darda
did yesterday in a report. The lending data come from a survey
of senior loan officers by the  Federal Reserve , and the latest
results were released two days ago. The yield comparison is
based on indexes from Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit.  “The disposition of the credit markets and the behavior of
lending standards have been very valuable guides” to the U.S.
outlook, Darda wrote. These gauges suggest the economy “will
continue to move forward” rather than shrinking, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based economist’s report said.  Banks are more willing to lend to companies with annual
sales of $50 million or more for the second straight quarter,
according to the central bank. The gap between loan officers
that said they are easing credit terms and those tightening
widened to 9.5 percentage points from 6.9 points last quarter.  The yield gap between non-investment-grade U.S. corporate
bonds and the highest-rated debt narrowed to 477 basis points
two days ago from 532 basis points on June 30, according to the
Barclays indexes. The smaller gap cut borrowing costs for lower-
rated companies. Each basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “U.S. credit markets remain liquid and essentially stress-
free,” Darda wrote. “This tends to be associated with easing
or steady standards for business lending, which is exactly what
we saw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  