-- Obama Trades Comforter Hat for Campaigner on Colorado Return
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-08-08T21:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/obama-trades-comforter-hat-for-campaigner-on-colorado-return-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  targeted
female voters in the swing state of  Colorado , telling a Denver
audience that his rival  Mitt Romney  and Republicans support
policies “more suited to the 1950s than the 21st century.”  “The choice between going backward and moving forward has
never been so clear,” Obama told an audience of mostly women at
the city’s Auraria Event Center. “You can take me at my
record.”  Romney kept up his attacks on that record at a campaign
stop in  Iowa , another battleground, saying Obama’s economic
policies have been devastating for middle-income Americans and
accusing the president of gutting a 1996 welfare law designed to
encourage recipients to find work.  After two somber visits to Colorado to console residents
affected by the Aurora movie theater shootings last month and
wildfires in June, Obama is spending two days campaigning in the
state. He arrived as a poll shows him trailing Romney there 50
percent to 45 percent among likely voters. Obama led in two
other battleground states,  Wisconsin  and  Virginia , in the
Quinnipiac University/CBS News/ New York  Times poll.  The poll also illustrated the reason Obama is putting an
emphasis on his pitch to women. Colorado women support Obama 51
percent to 43 percent, while men favor Romney 56 percent to 39
percent, the poll showed. Obama also holds an advantage with
women in Virginia, 54 percent to 40 percent, and Wisconsin, 59
percent to 36 percent.  Obama won all three states in 2008 and they have 32 of the
270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency.  Fluke Introduction  The president was introduced by Sandra Fluke, the recent
graduate of Georgetown Law in  Washington  whom talk-radio host
 Rush Limbaugh  in February called a “prostitute” and a “slut”
for her advocacy of an Obama administration policy requiring
insurers to cover  birth control .  Obama “has consistently proven that he will defend our
rights,” including to access to “quality, affordable health
care,” Fluke said.  She also criticized Romney, saying that, when Limbaugh
called her names, Obama defended her and Romney didn’t. “If Mr.
Romney can’t stand up to extreme voices in his own party, then
we know he’ll never stand up for us,” she said.  Pitch to Women  The appearance was part of a coordinated campaign appeal.
Over the past two weeks the Obama campaign’s most-played
advertisement was one titled “Women Speak.”  It features “Jenni,” who says to the camera that “it’s a
scary time to be a woman” and that Romney is “just so out of
touch” on issues including abortion and insurance coverage for
contraception.  The spot ran 7,155 times in the 14-day period ended Aug. 6,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising on local broadcast, national cable and national
network stations. The ad ran 526 times in the past two weeks on
stations in Colorado.  Women accounted for 53 percent of the electorate in 2008
and backed Obama by 56 percent to 43 percent, according to exit
polls.  Romney was in Des Moines, Iowa, where for the second
straight day, he accused the Obama administration of stripping
the work requirements in the 1996 overhaul of the welfare system
that was signed into law by then-President  Bill Clinton , a
Democrat.  ‘Government Dependency’  “It is wrong to make any change that will make America
more of a nation of government dependency,” he told a crowd of
supporters. “I will restore work to welfare.”  The Republican’s campaign also has released a 30-second
advertisement making the same charge.  White House press secretary Jay Carney today called
Romney’s attack “blatantly dishonest.” Obama’s aides say
Romney is distorting the intent of their July 12 decision to let
states seek waivers from some federal rules to develop pilot
projects. Romney advocated for similar flexibility in the
federal law while he was governor of  Massachusetts .  The issue is part of Romney’s effort to cast the president
as supporting expanded government programs that would increase
benefits for the poor at the expense of middle-income families.  Republicans also see an opportunity to drive a wedge
between Obama and the legacy of Clinton, a popular former
president who has assumed an increasingly prominent role in
Obama’s re-election bid.  ‘Anti-Clinton’  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  called Obama the “anti-
Clinton” in a call with reporters today, saying the White
House’s decision to consider granting state waivers was a
strategy to undermine the law. Clinton called the allegations
“not true” in a statement yesterday.  The campaign debate is dominated by the economy, with 48
percent of Colorado voters saying it’s the most important issue,
followed by health care at 19 percent and the federal  budget
deficit  at 11 percent, the poll showed.  Throughout the state, the president plans to highlight his
call for Congress to extend through 2013 the tax cuts for
individuals earning as much as $200,000 a year and married
couples making as much as $250,000. Above those thresholds,
Obama advocates letting rates rise. Republicans in Congress want
to extend all the current low rates.  While Colorado’s jobless rate was 8.2 percent in June, the
state was eighth on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States
index for improving economic health from the first quarter of
2011 to the first quarter of this year. The index combines data
on tax collections, personal income, employment,  home prices ,
mortgage foreclosures and stock performance of companies located
in a state.  Battleground States  Colorado, with nine electoral voters, is one of nine states
that switched to supporting Obama in 2008 after backing
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004. Obama won Colorado
with 54 percent of the vote four years ago.  Kenneth Bickers, a professor of political science at the
 University of Colorado  in Boulder, said the November election in
the state may turn on a combination of the economy, Hispanic
turnout and large numbers of younger voters who are unaffiliated
with either major party.  “These are people who are very much up for grabs,” he
said.  Registered Democrats and independents outnumber Republicans
in Denver and Pueblo counties, while registered Republicans hold
a clear edge over Democrats in Mesa and El Paso counties, home
to  Grand Junction  and  Colorado Springs . In all four counties,
independent voters account for more registered voters than the
smaller of the two major parties. Hispanics comprise 21 percent
of the state’s population.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Denver at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines, Iowa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  