-- Obama Considering Executive-Branch Action on Cybersecurity
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-08-08T21:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/obama-considering-executive-branch-action-on-cybersecurity-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  is considering
executive-branch action on U.S. cybersecurity after Congress
failed to pass legislation to protect national security assets,
a White House aide said.  “If the Congress is not going to act on something like
this, then the president wants to make sure that we’re doing
everything possible,”  John Brennan , Obama’s counterterrorism
adviser, said today at an event at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in Washington.  Senate Republicans last week blocked a bill backed by Obama
that would have set up voluntary cybersecurity standards for
operators of infrastructure such as power grids and water-
treatment plants that are considered essential to national
security.  Republicans, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other
business groups said the voluntary standards would be a back
door to government regulation of companies. The bill was
sponsored by Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent,
and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican.  Brennan said opponents misrepresented the bill, which he
said called for minimum performance standards. He didn’t specify
what the White House is planning, or if it would take the form
of an executive order.  ‘Under Threat’  “Believe me, the critical infrastructure of this country
is under threat,” Brennan said, adding that foreign states and
hackers “are developing advanced technologies, and we have to
improve our defenses on this issue.”  Obama could accomplish many objectives of the Lieberman-
Collins bill with an executive order or other directive, Stewart Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy at the Department
of Homeland Security, said in an interview.  The president could encourage operators of key facilities
to adopt voluntary standards, have the  Homeland Security 
Department coordinate that process and require existing
regulators that oversee infrastructure to make cybersecurity a
focus, said Baker, now a partner at the Steptoe & Johnson law
firm in Washington.  “An executive order would be counterproductive and would
cut short the proper legislative process, which needs to
continue,” Matthew Eggers, senior director of national security
at the Chamber of Commerce, said in an e-mailed statement.  “An executive order makes clear the administration’s
intent to put a mandatory program into place to regulate
businesses,” Eggers said.  ‘Deeply Flawed’  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  passed a
bill in April that encourages businesses and government to share
cyberthreat information, without setting standards for
companies.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  last week called the House
bill “deeply flawed,” saying it threatens the privacy of
consumer data and does nothing to protect the nation’s
infrastructure.  Lieberman said today he still hoped that lawmakers would
pass cybersecurity legislation. “But if Congress cannot get its
act together to protect our nation from the real, urgent, and
growing threat of cyber attack, then the President must do
everything he can by executive order,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The problem is there are some things we should do to
defend ourselves from cyber attack that can only be done by
statute,” Lieberman said.  Lieberman’s bill is S. 3414. The House bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  