-- Oil Declines From Two-Month High Amid Signs of Economic Weakness
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-08T11:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/oil-declines-from-two-month-high-amid-signs-of-economic-weakness.html
Oil dropped from the highest close in
more than two months in  New York  amid signs of weakening demand
in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer, and slowing
growth in  Germany .  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent, dropping for the first
time in four days. Crude consumption declined  4 percent  to 15.9
million barrels a day last week, the biggest percentage decrease
in a month, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed.
Gasoline  usage  was the lowest since February, according to the
API figures. German industrial production declined in June, led
by a drop in construction output, data from the Economy Ministry
in Berlin showed today.  “There are no signs of growth coming out of  Europe ’s
largest economies,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who correctly predicted at the
end of last month that oil would rebound. “Oil looks poised for
a short-term downward retracement today.”  Oil for September delivery decreased as much as 85 cents to
$92.82 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.18 at 12:30 p.m. London time. It climbed
1.6 percent yesterday to $93.67, the highest settlement since
May 15. That close put crude at more than 20 percent above this
year’s low of $77.69, a definition of a  bull market .  Brent crude  for September settlement fell 57 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $111.43 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was $18.21, little changed from $18.33 yesterday.  Bollinger Band  Oil in New York faces technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, about $94.96 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
halted their advance near this indicator. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  German industrial production fell 0.9 percent from May,
when it gained by a revised 1.7 percent, the  Economy Ministry 
said today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.8 percent, the
median of 34 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed.
Production declined by 0.3 percent from a year earlier when
adjusted for working days.  U.S. gasoline demand last week was 3 percent less than a
year ago, the 49th straight drop in that measure, according to
MasterCard Inc.’s SpendingPulse report yesterday.  “We’ll probably need to see further good news, further
improvements in demand and the economic growth outlook for oil
to move significantly higher,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “We have seen a strong rally
off the bottom of a few weeks ago.”  Crude Stockpiles  Crude inventories in the U.S. declined  5.4 million barrels 
last week, API data showed. An Energy Department report today
may show supplies fell 1.6 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.
Gasoline stockpiles rose  417,000 barrels  last week, the API
said. The Energy Department report may show they fell 1.75
million barrels, according to the Bloomberg survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Ernesto, the second hurricane of the Atlantic season,
weakened to tropical storm strength as it moved over  Mexico ’s
Yucatan peninsula, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. It’s
forecast to cross into the Bay of Campeche, the location of
Mexico’s biggest oil fields, later today and may regain
hurricane status over warmer waters.  Ernesto Slows  Ernesto was 55 miles (85 kilometers) west-northwest of
Chetumal, Mexico, moving west at 15 miles per hour, the Miami-
based center said in an advisory at 4 a.m. Central time. The
rain-laden storm had top winds of 70 miles per hour, down from
85 mph at landfall, the NHC said.  The U.S. Energy Department raised its 2012 crude-price
projection for the first time since April as global fuel
consumption was forecast to increase. New York oil will average
$93.90 a barrel this year, up 1.2 percent from the July forecast
of $92.83, the department’s Energy Information Administration
said in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook yesterday. The
U.S. benchmark grade will average $90.25 in 2013, up 2 percent
from last month’s estimate of $88.50.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP started crude Line 14, which
was shut previously following a leak in  Wisconsin , a company
statement distributed by Marketwire showed yesterday. The system
carries Canadian crude to refineries in the U.S. Midwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  