-- Oil Fluctuates as China Stimulus Outlook Counters U.S. Demand
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-09T06:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-as-u-s-petroleum-demand-weakens.html
Oil fluctuated after falling for the
first time in four days yesterday in  New York  as speculation
that China will take more steps to boost its economy countered
signs of weakening demand in the U.S., the biggest crude user.  Futures were down as much as 0.1 percent today and then up
0.4 percent. China’s industrial production rose while inflation
cooled for a fourth straight month in July, providing more room
for policies to stimulate growth in the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer. U.S. petroleum  consumption  fell 1.1 percent last
week, the first drop in four weeks, according to a report from
the Energy Department yesterday.  “A rate cut or further liberalization of lending in
deposit markets, or a cut in  reserve requirements  for banks
could be a positive contributor to the energy complex,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The case is very strong” for stimulus, he said.  Oil for September delivery was at $93.65 a barrel, up 30
cents, or 0.3 percent, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:49 p.m. Sydney time. It fell 32 cents
yesterday to $93.35, the lowest settlement since Aug. 6. The
contract is up 21 percent from its lowest close this year of
$77.69 on June 28. Prices are 5.3 percent lower since the start
of the year.  Brent crude  for September settlement gained 31 cents to
$112.45 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $18.80, down from $18.79 yesterday.  China Inflation  China ’s consumer prices rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing. That compares with the 1.7 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 33 economists and a 2.2 percent gain in
June. Producer prices fell 2.9 percent from a year earlier, the
fifth straight drop, the report showed.  The deceleration in price gains may encourage policy makers
to introduce more measures to support growth, aiding efforts to
reverse an economic slowdown that’s lasted six quarters.  China’s industrial output rose 9.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. The
growth compares with the 9.7 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 32 analysts.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles fell  3.7 million barrels  last week,
the Energy Department said. They were forecast to decline 1.6
million barrels, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Demand has softened in the U.S.,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, who predicts New York oil faces
technical resistance at $94.50 a barrel. “Prices have had a
very good run. All eyes are on the Chinese data.”  Total products supplied, a measure of fuel consumption,
dropped 204,000 barrels a day to 18.9 million last week, the
first decline since the week ended July 6, according to the
Energy Department report.  Tropical Storm Ernesto was forecast to become a hurricane
as it picked up speed on its westward path over the southern
part of the Bay of Campeche, Mexico’s biggest oil-producing
region.  Ernesto’s top winds were 70 miles per hour as of 1 a.m.
central time today, up from 65 mph earlier. A Category 1
hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale starts at 74
mph. Its center was 30 miles north northeast of Paraiso,  Mexico ,
and it was traveling west at 16 mph, the Miami-based center said
in an advisory. Tropical storm-strength winds of 39 mph or more
extend 140 miles from its core.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  