-- George Michael Closes Games, Royal Bling: London Weekend
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-10T14:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/olympic-mania-art-car-chariots-of-fire-london-weekend.html
London  is entering the final lap of
Olympic hysteria. For those left without tickets, BT London Live
has screens in Hyde Park,  Victoria Park  and  Trafalgar Square .  Spectators can grab a drink, have a picnic and watch the
last medals get handed out. The free shows include live
performances from Ocean Colour Scene, Feeder and the View.  Information:  http://www.btlondonlive.com   There’s also a large screen at the House of Nations pop-up
venues at King’s Cross Station and the Tower of London.
Information:  http://www.houseofnations.co.uk/   Those avoiding sport can head for the South Bank, where the
Meltdown Festival continues for a second weekend, with the
grizzled veteran  Lou Reed  the star tonight. He’s accompanied by
his touring band in a show called “From VU to Lulu,” meaning
from the  Velvet Underground  to his Metallica CD.  Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk .  Also on the South Bank, the acclaimed “London Road” is at
the National Theatre. It’s about the creepy serial killer who
murdered five prostitutes in Suffolk six years ago.  The production is based on real-life interviews with the
locals, and their verbatim responses -- including the throat
clearing and the hemming and hawing -- are set to minimalist
music.  Moving moments, such as the prostitutes’ struggle to give
up their drug habits, are interspersed with comical ones.  This original blend of musical, documentary and speech is
brought to you by Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/  or +44-20-7452-3000.  Saturday  The most titled Bond girl in history is putting her
diamonds on show.  Queen Elizabeth II  is entertaining throngs of visitors at
her palace while she’s away on summer holiday. The 2012
exhibition is “Diamonds: A Jubilee Celebration” (through Oct.
7) which also marks her 60 years on the throne.  On show are seven of the nine stones made from the largest
diamond ever found, the Cullinan Diamond, and Queen Victoria’s
tiny crown, only 10 centimeters in diameter yet crammed with
1,187 diamonds.  As you tour the palace on your way to the royal bling, pay
attention to the paintings. There’s a magnificent Rubens self-
portrait, which he sent to London hoping to impress the future
King Charles I. The Rembrandt on the wall is not bad either:
It’s “The Shipbuilder and His Wife” (1633), where the man
holds a compass while his wife hands him a note.  Information:  http://www.royalcollection.org.uk  or +44-20-
7766-7300.  Saturday Night  John Lydon, who turned down a chance to play Sex Pistols
songs at the London Olympics, has been concentrating on his
post-punk outfit Public Image Ltd.  The man once known as Johnny Rotten and now recognized for
a butter commercial will be reprising the album “Metal Box.”  Expect a lot of sneering, anti-monarchist and anti-just-
about-everything rants, along with some ramshackle rock such as
“Rise” and “This Is Not a Love Song.”  HMV Forum, 9-17 Highgate Road, NW5 1JY. Telephone: +844-
847-2405.  http://hmvforum.com/   The Bull & Last is a historic pub on the edges of Hampstead
Heath serving seasonal British food. Dogs are welcome, as are
humans attending the nearby Forum. Hampers are available, though
maybe not entirely appropriate for a Public Image Ltd. concert.  Information:  http://www.thebullandlast.co.uk/about_us/  or
NW5 1QS.  Sunday  It’s hard to get away from Olympic Rings on every lamp post
around London right now. A more original take on the five
circles was produced by  Andy Warhol  and  Jean-Michel Basquiat .  The pair made a striking silkscreen of the hoops with a
black face superimposed by Basquiat. The work is part of an
exhibition at the Gagosian Gallery, 17-19 Davies St., W1 (until
Aug. 11). Information:  http://bit.ly/KBIMQr .  At the other Gagosian Gallery in London (on Britannia
Street),  Henry Moore  enjoys a posthumous revival.  His colossal bronzes recall the Richard Serra sculptures
that the gallery was built to accommodate. Moore’s towering
“Large Two Forms” from 1966 is, like Serra’s work, large
enough to walk through. And it’s proof that Moore’s late works
were stronger.  At the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia Street, until Aug.
18. Information:  http://www.gagosian.com .  Sunday Night  Franco Manca serves some of the finest pizza in London, and
if you’re going to the Olympic Park, you might eat here first.
There’s a branch (the third) in Westfield Stratford City mall
offering the same quality ingredients and low prices as the
mother ship in less glitzy Brixton, south London. Information:
 http://francomanca.co.uk/  or +44-20-8522-6669.  George Michael  heads the musical lineup at the Olympics
closing ceremony. Queen,  Annie Lennox , Madness, the Pet Shop Boys and Ed Sheeran are also due to perform, according to music-
industry sources. Blur and New Order will belt it out in Hyde
Park.  Pink Floyd  and Noel Gallagher have issued statements
denying their participation.  The flame will be extinguished as London hands over to  Rio
de Janeiro  for the 2016 games.  Information:  http://l2012.cm/INKkYc   (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 