-- OMV Petrom Second-Quarter Profit Drops 29% on Output, Oil
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-08T06:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/omv-petrom-second-quarter-profit-drops-29-on-output-oil-1-.html
Romania ’s biggest oil company  OMV
Petrom SA (SNP)  said its second-quarter net income declined 29 percent
because of lower production and oil prices.  Net income fell to 643 million lei ($175 million) in the
second quarter from 903 million lei a year earlier, the
Bucharest-based company said today in a statement on its
website. Earnings before interest and taxes dropped 26 percent
to 909 million lei because of a shutdown of its Petrobrazi
refinery and special charges with personnel restructuring.  Petrom’s oil and natural-gas production shrank 2 percent in
the second quarter to 182,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
from a year earlier because of a six-week refinery shutdown and
lower output from two key fields, it said. The average Urals
crude price declined 7 percent to $106.71 per barrel from the
same period of last year, lowering the company’s earnings,
according to the statement.  “The second-quarter operational result was burdened by
lower hydrocarbon production due to the decline at some key
fields in Romania and the Petrobrazi refinery six-week planned
shutdown to upgrade the crude vacuum distillation unit,” Petrom
Chief Executive Officer Mariana Gheorghe said in the statement.  The company’s first-half net income rose 16 percent to 2
billion lei from 1.7 billion lei because of higher  oil prices ,
it said.  Petrom, which plans to invest a total 5.2 billion lei this
year, said it completed the construction of an oil products
storage facility at Isalnita, in the south of the country, with
a capacity of about 11,000 cubic meters, which it expects to be
operational by the end of this year, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  