-- Hong Kong Exchanges Earnings Miss Estimates on Turnover
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-08T10:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/hong-kong-exchanges-second-quarter-profit-misses-estimates.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-biggest bourse by market value, said second-
quarter profit fell 21 percent, missing analysts’ estimates as
market turnover and listing fees declined.  The bourse operator rose 0.9 percent to HK$109.1 at the 4
p.m. close, erasing a decline of as much as 1.8 percent. Net
income in the quarter ended June 30 slid to HK$1.07 billion
($138 million) from HK$1.35 billion a year earlier, the company
said in a statement. That compares with an average HK$1.09
billion estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue
and other income dropped 8 percent to HK$1.9 billion, it said.  The company, which lost its place as the world’s biggest
 exchange operator  by market value to CME Group Inc., is seeking
to broaden its business as the pipeline of large initial public
offerings from  China  slows and equity volumes fall. It is
bidding to buy the London Metal Exchange to expand into
 commodities markets  and is developing cross-border products with
its Shenzhen and Shanghai counterparts.  “The profit decline was expected because of lower
turnover,” said Jonas Kan, the head of Hong Kong research at
Daiwa Capital Markets. “Going forward, it will depend on how it
integrates the LME and whether the average turnover will
improve.”  Turnover Slides  In the six months through June, the daily  average value  of
shares traded in the city fell 23 percent to HK$56.7 billion
from HK$73.6 billion in the same period last year, the bourse
said. Average turnover fell 29 percent in the three months
through June 30, it said.  Listing fees fell to HK$218 million in the second quarter,
compared with HK$221 million a year earlier and HK$244 million
last quarter, according to Bloomberg calculations. First-half
profit slid 14 percent to HK$2.22 billion.  “Lower risk appetite of investors drove market activity
levels down in the first half of 2012,” the bourse said in the
statement. “The global economic unrest -- and the European
sovereign debt crisis in particular -- continues to be a key
focus of the financial markets.”  The bourse said on June 15 it plans to pay 1.39 billion
pounds ($2.15 billion) for the London Metal Exchange, which
handles more than 80 percent of global trade in industrial-metal
futures. LME shareholders last month approved the takeover
offer, which is being reviewed by the U.K. regulator and doesn’t
need approval from  Hong Kong  Exchanges’ shareholders.  ‘Beginning Integration’  “We are not seeing any issues that potentially could stand
in the way,” Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said at a press
briefing after earnings were released. “Even though closing is
yet to happen we are already beginning the implementation and
integration process.We expect the transaction to close near the
middle or end of November.”  Operating expenses rose 13 percent from a year earlier to
HK$1.03 billion during the first-half amid higher staff costs
and legal and professional fees, according to the exchange. It
incurred HK$110 million of expenses, mainly on professional
fees, in relation to the acquisition of the LME, it said.  IPOs in Hong Kong, which boosted profit from listing fees
for the exchange in the first-half of 2011, have slumped to
$3.77 billion in the six months through June this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
$10.5 billion in the preceding six months.  Listings Plunge  A total of thirty-two companies debuted on the city’s main
market and Growth Enterprise Market in the first half, the Hong
Kong Exchanges said. Forty-seven companies were listed on the
exchange during the first-half of 2011, including transfers from
the Growth Enterprise Market.  During the first six months, the bourse named Chow Chung-
Kong, the former chief executive officer of subway operator MTR
Corp., as the new chairman. It also introduced a yuan-
denominated gold  exchange-traded fund  and  Asia ’s first futures
tracking volatility. A yuan-denominated A-share ETF began
trading on July 18.  The bourse cut its interim dividend to HK$1.85 a share from
HK$2.16, according to the statement. It maintained a payout
ratio of 90 percent.  The bourse’s gain today, brings the shares’ loss for the
year to 12 percent. That compares the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ,
which is up 8.9 percent this year.  “Over the years they relied almost totally on cash market
turnover,” said Daiwa’s Kan. “Globally there is a lot of money
flowing to the  bond market  and the equity market has been
suffering in a way. In some ways, with the LME acquisition,
their reliance in the cash market will further decline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  