-- Online Dating for Homes Stumps Insurers
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-08T14:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/online-dating-for-homes-stumps-insurers-as-web-enables-sharing.html
Debbie Wosskow created a way to help
travelers avoid hotel costs on their next vacation by swapping
their Manhattan apartment for a villa in Zanzibar. What she
hasn’t figured out is how to insure their stuff.  Wosskow, chief executive officer of London-based  Love Home
Swap , which she describes as “online dating for homes,” said
it was easier to find people in 95 countries to post properties
on the website and make a trade than to line up coverage in case
something goes wrong. After contacting about two dozen insurers,
she’s been able to strike a deal for coverage of residences only
in  Europe . That means about two-thirds of homeowners will have
to arrange their own or go without.  “It’s a nightmare,” she said. “The insurance industry as
a whole has been painfully, and I emphasize painfully, slow to
react and offer relevant services.”  Startups that help people rent their houses and  cars  to
strangers have proliferated on the Internet, with Wosskow’s firm
now listing about 5,500 properties, three times as many as in
December. The entrepreneurs behind the companies are finding
they have to convince insurers from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. to Hiscox Ltd. they’re worth the risk.  The process was a surprise for Tony Adam, who co-founded
Eventup, a service for finding and booking properties for
parties and other gatherings. It took only two months for the
startup to build and launch its website and three to secure a
policy through  Lloyd’s of London , he said.  ‘Didn’t Understand’  “I thought it would be as simple as going to a site and
finding $1 million of coverage and taking care of it,” said
Adam who, like other entrepreneurs, declined to disclose his
company’s insurance cost. “Some brokers didn’t understand what
we were doing.”  Part of the challenge for the startups is that they’re
asking insurers to blend elements of policies that protect
personal property with ones tailored toward companies, said Paul
Mang, a partner at Razor’s Edge Consulting and the managing
director of Avarie Capital LLC, which invests in companies
involved in the insurance industry.  There are also generational differences. The startups are
advocating for an idea of property that tends to appeal more to
younger people than older insurance executives, he said.  “It’s hard for  baby boomers  to get their head around
this,” said Mang, a former leader within McKinsey & Co.’s
property-casualty insurance practice. “Why would anybody rent
out their car for $5 an hour?”  Cold Calls  The search for Getaround, which helps car owners rent out
vehicles and counts  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  CEO  Marissa Mayer  among its
investors, took more than a year and a shift in business plan.
Sam Zaid, the company’s CEO, said he contacted between 60 and 80
carriers and, at one point, resorted to cold calling insurance
executives he found on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s website.  Getaround initially planned to offer its service on
university campuses. Insuring a pool of students was a snag for
some carriers, said Zaid, so the startup shifted its focus to
urban areas. The service is available in cities including San
Francisco, Austin,  Texas , and  Portland ,  Oregon .  An insurance wholesaler eventually put Getaround in contact
with Berkshire, which agreed in November 2010 to underwrite
coverage for three months, said Zaid. He later secured an annual
policy from Buffett’s firm for liability, collision and theft
during a rental.  “We definitely pay a premium still, given the early nature
of the industry, but I think that’s OK,” said Zaid in a phone
interview. “Paying a premium to get a company like  Berkshire (BRK/A) 
felt like the right trade-off.”  $1 Million Limit  Accidents in recent months have shown what can go wrong as
sharing gains popularity. In February, a car that was rented
through a service called RelayRides crashed in  Boston , killing
the driver and injuring four people in another vehicle. The
startup has a liability policy with a $1 million limit. That
amount could be exhausted, Jonathan Karon, a partner at Boston-
based Karon & Dalimonte LLP, who represents one of the injured
people, said in a phone interview.  “Almost any other car on the road would have been covered
by a fraction of the million dollar coverage available for this
claim,” Alex Benn, RelayRide’s vice president of business
development and trust and safety, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This tragic incident is an outlier from our many thousands of
reservations.”  RelayRides, which received  funding  from the venture-capital
arms of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , operates in 46
states and its website highlights cities including  Chicago  and
 Los Angeles .  Lloyd’s of London  A  San Francisco  resident came back from a trip last year to
find her apartment vandalized after renting it out on Airbnb
Inc. After the incident, the startup partnered with Lloyd’s to
cover all bookings on the site for as much as $1 million in
property damage at residences in countries including the U.S.,
 Germany  and  Australia . The guarantee doesn’t provide liability
protection for the host.  “What occurred last summer was a tragic event,” Emily
Joffrion, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. In
addition to the $1 million guarantee, the company has responded
by hiring staff to promote trust and safety.  The startup has booked more than 10 million guest nights
since its founding in 2008, and incidents like the one last year
are “incredibly rare,” she said. “Over the course of the four
years we’ve been in business, we have not been contacted by our
community about significant liability claims, attempts at
claims, or judgments.”  Claims Data  Mang, the former McKinsey consultant, said he expects that
the  insurance industry  will craft policies to help manage some
of the risks. Beth Leri, an outside spokeswoman for Lloyd’s,
declined to comment as did Hiscox’s Alyssa Daskalakis. Berkshire
didn’t respond to a request for comment left with Buffett’s
assistant.  “It’ll be costly” for the startups, Mang said in a phone
interview. “But I don’t think this will be the issue that stops
their development.”  Prices for coverage should come down as sharing becomes
more common and insurers accumulate data, said Getaround’s Zaid.
The startup sends Berkshire a monthly report and sometimes has
conversations to clarify policy terms, such as when a car owner
in the Bay Area asked whether he could list his DeLorean.  The stainless-steel sports car featured as a time-travel
device in the “Back to the Future” movie trilogy was produced
for the U.S. market in the early 1980s. Getaround’s policy
requires that cars be model-year  1995 or newer .  Berkshire’s response, according to Zaid: no problem.  The startups need to partner with insurers to grow, said
Love Home Swap’s Wosskow, whose company’s Europe-only coverage,
to be underwritten by  Hiscox (HSX) , will protect against property
damage and last-minute trip cancellations. The new firms are
different from Web companies that don’t require users to
interact in the real world, she said.  “The business of my business is physical,” said Wosskow.
“It’s about sharing, and sharing is about people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  