-- Mortgages as Investing ‘Sweet Spot,’ Zais’s Zugel Says
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-08-09T14:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/mortgage-assets-a-sweet-spot-for-investing-zais-s-zugel-says.html
(Corrects title in first paragraph of story originally
published Aug. 8.)  Mortgage securities offer structured-
credit investors the best opportunity to get returns in a low-
 yield  environment, while keeping volatility risk under control,
according to Christian Zugel, founder and chief investment
officer of Zais Group LLC.  Alt-A and prime mortgage assets are “the one sweet spot we
like the most,” Zugel, who oversees $6.4 billion at  Red Bank ,
New Jersey-based Zais, said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We think housing has found support, the economy is
chugging along and you can predict very accurately, in our
opinion, what your final cash flows will be.”  Zugel, whose Zais Opportunity Fund manages a $418 million
structured-credit portfolio that has returned 78.5 percent a
year over the last three years and was ranked No. 1 on Barron’s
Top 100 Hedge Funds list, said he takes a more conservative
approach to investing, shunning collateralized loan obligations
in favor of mortgage securities, which he believes have a better
chance of withstanding even in a “doom-type scenario.”  These worst-case economic conditions, which Zugel defines
as the U.S. unemployment rate jumping to 15 percent and the
housing market plunging as much as 20 percent, wouldn’t hurt the
value of Alt-A and prime mortgage securities because “you’re
buying legacy bonds that were issued at par many, many years
ago, some go back to 2003, 2004.”  “You can buy them at 70, 80 cents” on the dollar today
“and you are highly likely to receive principal payments and
coupons as these bonds pay off,” Zugel said.  While the days of getting 80 percent returns on securities
backed by Alt-A and prime loans “are over,” investors that can
earn 5 percent without risking losing their money if the U.S.
experienced another recession are in “a good position,” Zugel
said. Most of his institutional clients seek returns of 8
percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ; Stephanie Ruhle in New York at +1-
   sruhle2@bloomberg.net ; Erik Schatzker in New
York at   eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  