-- Pakistan Prime Minister Ordered Before Court on Graft Probe
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-08-08T07:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/pakistan-prime-minister-ordered-before-court-on-graft-probe-1-.html
Pakistan ’s  Supreme Court  ordered the
Prime Minister to appear before judges for failing to seek the
reopening of corruption cases against the president, a step
toward repeating contempt hearings that ousted his predecessor.  Raja Pervez Ashraf’s decision not to abide by an earlier
top court order to request the resumption of graft probes in
 Switzerland  is “very unfortunate,” state-run Pakistan
Television cited the nation’s senior-most judges as saying.
Ashraf must appear in court on Aug. 27 to explain his actions.  The extended clash between the judiciary and the government
is deepening Pakistan’s political crisis with months to go
before the next election, scheduled to be held in early 2013.
Ashraf’s administration is struggling to revive an economy
weighed down by a record power crisis and inflation close to the
fastest in  Asia .  Today’s court move comes seven weeks after Yousuf Raza Gilani became the country’s first prime minister to be evicted
by the courts after his lawyers argued President Asif Ali Zardari had immunity from prosecution in foreign courts while in
office, making an approach to Swiss authorities impossible.  “Perhaps we are going to see a replay of what happened to
Gilani,” said Hasan-Askari Rizvi, an independent political and
military analyst in the eastern city of Lahore. “This impasse
is costing the country a lot. You have a government which
doesn’t know what will happen to its prime minister.”  In a bid to ward off a prosecution of Ashraf, the governing
coalition July 11 pushed legislation through parliament that
gave elected officials immunity from prosecution for contempt of
court, a law the Supreme Court this month struck down as
unconstitutional.  Election Calls  The standoff between judges and the government has brought
calls for early polls from major opposition groups, including
the Pakistan Muslim League of former premier  Nawaz Sharif  and
ex-cricket star  Imran Khan ’s Pakistan Movement for Justice.  As the government and judges have fought a four-year battle
over appointments to the top court and Zardari’s alleged graft,
tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs as the nation’s
worst energy crisis closed factories and sparked violent
protests in big cities.  Pakistan’s credit rating was lowered deeper into junk
status on July 14 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
dwindling currency reserves and political instability.  Democracy Risk  Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry’s actions, along
with the reticence of Swiss courts to resume probing Zardari,
have led the government to accuse the top judge of being
overzealous and risking the country’s democracy in his pursuit
of the president, according to analysts including Mutaher Ahmed,
a professor of international relations at the University of
Karachi.  The ruling coalition, led by the  Pakistan Peoples Party , is
aiming to become the first elected administration in Pakistan’s
history to serve a full five-year term.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  in 2007 decreed an
amnesty to halt corruption probes against 8,000 politicians and
officials, including Zardari and his wife, assassinated former
premier  Benazir Bhutto . Zardari and Bhutto denied the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  