-- Paulson Said to Buy 875 Acres of Land in Las Vegas Area
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-08-08T21:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/paulson-said-to-buy-875-acres-of-land-in-las-vegas-area.html
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by
billionaire  John Paulson , purchased more than 875 acres of land
in a resort community in the Las Vegas area, a bet on a housing
recovery in the region as the supply of homes shrinks.  The $17 million purchase at  Lake Las Vegas  in Henderson,
 Nevada , was made through the Paulson Real Estate Recovery Fund,
which seeks to build houses on raw land and resell the
properties to homebuilders, said a person with knowledge of the
deal. The fund bought the majority of what remains undeveloped
at the 3,600-acre (1,456-hectare) site, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the details were private.  The deal was among the largest land purchases in the area
in at least three years, according to Greg Gross, director of
the Nevada region for Metrostudy, a Houston-based firm that
tracks new construction. The Las Vegas area has fewer than
13,000 vacant lots for homebuilding, a small portion of which
are for sale, he said. Inventories of available properties also
have declined in the past year as foreclosures in Nevada slid.  “Paulson & Co. was prompted to invest heavily in the Las
Vegas market because the supply of new housing is rapidly
receding and few new projects are being planned in the Henderson
area,” Gross said.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment.  Home Inventory  At the end of July, there were 16,944 single-family homes
listed for sale in the Las Vegas area, a 25 percent decline from
a year earlier, the Greater Las Vegas Association of Realtors
said today. The median price of a single-family property was
$133,000, up 9 percent from July 2011.  Foreclosures in Nevada plunged in the past year after the
state passed a law making it a crime to wrongfully seize a
property from a delinquent borrower. In the Las Vegas area, the
number of homes with foreclosure filings fell 61 percent in the
first half of 2012 from a year earlier, according to  Irvine ,
California-based data provider RealtyTrac Inc.  The master developer of Lake Las Vegas filed for bankruptcy
in 2008, saying it had debt of as much as $1 billion and $500
million in assets. It won approval of an exit plan in 2010 that
raised money for creditors, in part with plans to sue the
company’s former investors, including billionaire brothers Sid
and Lee Bass.  Hotels, Casino  The master-planned community, about 17 miles (27
kilometers) from the  Las Vegas Strip , is centered around a 320-
acre man-made lake. It has two hotels, a casino, a golf course,
stores and restaurants, and 1,800 townhomes and condominiums,
said Robyn Yates, broker and owner of Windermere Prestige
Properties at Lake Las Vegas. Paulson purchased land on the
north shore of the lake that was known as Rainbow Canyon, she
said.  “What it means is that somebody with a lot of money
believes in the community,” Yates said.  John Paulson, who became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, has in the past few
years been buying real estate directly or through his funds. His
holdings include properties in Nevada,  Colorado ,  Arizona ,
 California , Florida and  Hawaii .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  