-- Pfizer-SEC, Derivatives Accord, Consumer Bureau Rule: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/pfizer-sec-derivatives-accord-consumer-bureau-rule-compliance.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed to pay $60.2 million to settle foreign bribery
cases it brought to U.S. authorities involving alleged payments
paid by employees and agents of subsidiaries.  Pfizer entered into two agreements with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the New York-based drugmaker reached a
deferred prosecution accord with the  Department of Justice ,
according to filings yesterday in federal court in Washington.  U.S. law enforcement authorities have been probing
drugmakers for possibly breaking an overseas anti-bribery law
that bars employees or their agents from paying bribes to
foreign government officials to obtain or retain business.
Yesterday’s settlements stem from payments and gifts Pfizer said
its foreign units made to government-employed doctors and
workers in eastern Europe, China and the Middle East, according
to the filings.  The SEC said the payoffs were made “without the knowledge
or approval of officers or employees of Pfizer, but the
inaccurate books and records of Pfizer subsidiaries were
consolidated in the financial reports of Pfizer.”  Pfizer alerted U.S. authorities in 2004 after probing the
claims. More payments were found when the drugmaker bought its
Wyeth unit in 2009.  “The actions which led to this resolution were
disappointing, but the openness and speed with which Pfizer
voluntarily disclosed and addressed them reflects our true
culture and the real value we place on integrity and meeting
commitments,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We expect every colleague across Pfizer
to adhere to the highest standards of conduct.”  Prosecutors agreed to defer prosecution and drop the
charges after two years if Pfizer continues to cooperate and
take remedial steps. The settlements must be approved by a
federal judge.  The Pfizer cases are U.S. Securities of Exchange Commission
v. Pfizer Inc., 12-cv-01303; U.S. Securities of Exchange
Commission v. Wyeth LLC, 12-cv-1304; and U.S. v. Pfizer HCP
Corp., 12-cr-00169, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Halkbank CEO Aslan Says Turkey May Need to Act on Bad Loans  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  Chief Executive Officer Suleyman
Aslan said Turkey’s central bank and regulators may need to act
should bad loans in the nation’s financial system worsen.  Halkbank, as the lender is known, is Turkey’s biggest
listed state-run bank. Aslan, speaking in a televised interview
with the CNBC-e news channel yesterday, didn’t specify what
measures he wanted policymakers to take, though he said the
central bank’s average lending rate to banks was “rather
high.” He also said lenders’ “asset structures are not
breaking down” as a result of bad loans.  Turkey’s economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.3 percent
this year from 8.5 percent in 2011, the International Money Fund
said in April, while central bank data shows non-performing
consumer loans rose 4.4 percent in the first six months of 2012
compared with a year earlier, led by unpaid credit-card bills.  Aslan yesterday forecast that the Turkish central bank will
ease monetary policy. Turkish banks’ provisions may increase
this year because of non-performing loans caused by a slowdown
in the economy, Duygun Kutucu, an analyst at EFG Istanbul
Securities, said in a telephone interview on July 31  Ecuador Tightens Controls on Transfers to Maintain Liquidity  Ecuador will boost controls on cash transfers by banks in
an attempt to maintain liquidity in the South American nation’s
financial system, central bank President Pedro Delgado said
yesterday.  Banks are keeping some foreign clients’ funds in
international accounts to avoid paying a 5 percent capital-
export tax for money they need to move outside the country,
Delgado said to reporters in Quito. The controls will force
banks to increase the amount they bring into the country and
raise the amount of tax they pay to export cash, he said.  Faced with falling revenue as oil prices decline and
economic growth slows, the government said last month all cash
transfers into Ecuador must go through the central bank before
reaching their final destination.  Compliance Action  Standard Chartered Falls Most in 24 Years on N.Y. Iran Probe  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  fell the most in almost 24 years as
an analyst estimated it may face costs of $5.5 billion after
being accused of violating U.S. money laundering laws over its
dealings with Iranian banks.  Standard Chartered  may lose its license to operate in New
York after the state’s Department of Financial Services found
the bank conducted $250 billion of deals with Iranian banks over
seven years and earned hundreds of millions of dollars in fees
for handling transactions for institutions subject to U.S.
economic sanctions. The London-based lender yesterday denied the
allegations, saying it “strongly rejects the position and
portrayal of facts” made by the regulator.  The bank may be fined $1.5 billion by U.S. regulators, lose
about $1 billion of revenue from its Iranian operation and a
further $3 billion in market value if senior managers quit,
Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital Ltd.
who rates the stock a buy, wrote in a note to investors
yesterday.  For more, click here, and see Interviews, below.  CFPB Eases Rules on Some International Money Transfers  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has updated its
international money transfer rule to make the process easier for
community banks,  credit unions , and financial institutions
handling 100 or fewer remittances a year, according to a
 statement  on the consumer bureau’s website.  The rule implements protections provided under the Dodd-
Frank law requiring remittance transfer providers to disclose
upfront the fees,  exchange rate , and the amount to be received.
The revised rule also provides consumers with rights when errors
or cancellations occur.  The final remittance rule will take effect Feb 7, the
consumer bureau said in the statement.  Courts/Tribunals  Morgan Stanley Derivative Accord Wins Approval in First Case  Morgan Stanley (MS)  won approval of a $4.8 million accord with
the U.S. over claims it helped manipulate electricity prices, in
what the  Justice Department  called its first effort to get
disgorgement from a financial firm that used derivatives to aid
anticompetitive behavior.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan turned
aside complaints from not-for-profits AARP and New York Public
Service Commission that under the agreement Morgan Stanley
didn’t have to admit wrongdoing and didn’t pay enough. Pauley,
citing the Justice Department, said the case marks the first
time the government filed an antitrust suit against a financial
firm involving derivative agreements.  Pauley wrote that deference to the government’s decision to
settle was appropriate, despite the “relatively mild
sanction,” because of the “novelty of the government’s
theory.”  “An admission of liability is not a prerequisite for
judicial approval of an agency settlement,” Pauley said, citing
a recent ruling by a federal appeals court in a case involving
Citigroup Inc.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the judge’s approval of the settlement.  The case is U.S. v. Morgan Stanley, 11-6875, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Telkom South Africa Is Fined $55 Million in Antitrust Action  Telkom SA Ltd. (TKG)  was fined 449 million rand ($55 million) for
abusing its dominance in South African telecommunications
between 1999 and 2004, less than the 3.25 billion rand the
 Competition Commission  had sought.  The Competition Tribunal “concluded that Telkom leveraged
its upstream monopoly in the facilities market to advantage its
own subsidiary in the competitive value added network market,”
the Pretoria-based tribunal said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Telkom is studying the judgment and its implications, it
said in a statement yesterday.  The  Competition Commission  investigated Africa’s largest
fixed-line phone operator and asked the tribunal to impose a
fine of 3.25 billion rand at hearings that lasted until early
this year. The commission’s probe followed five separate
complaints of anti-competitive behavior lodged by  Internet
service providers  between 2005 and 2007.  Telkom, based in Pretoria, must pay half the penalty within
six months and the balance within the following 12 months, the
tribunal said.  Interviews  Wheeler Says StanChart Probe May Carry Political Motive  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,
talked about the accusation Standard Chartered Plc violated U.S.
money laundering laws over its dealings with Iranian banks.  He spoke with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word.”  For the video, click here.  Knight Has to Give Investors ‘Post-Mortem,’ Kaplan Says  Jay Kaplan, a portfolio manager at Royce & Associates LLC,
talked about the  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s weekend rescue and
the impact on shareholders.  Kaplan spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
should examine whether an emphasis on trading speed is
threatening the stock market, said  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  Chief
Executive Officer Ronald Kruszewski.  He made the remarks in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  “These systems need to work 100 percent of the time. Speed
is not everything here.”  Stifel Financial, a St. Louis-based brokerage, was one of
six investors that agreed to buy $400 million of convertible
preferred securities in  Knight Capital  Aug. 7. Knight Capital,
led by Chairman and CEO Thomas Joyce, lost $440 million after a
computer malfunction last week caused the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based company to take on trading positions it didn’t
want.  For more, click here.  For a video report, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 