-- PGA Championship’s 30,000 Face Two-Lane Access at Kiawah Island
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/pga-championship-s-30-000-face-two-lane-access-at-kiawah-island.html
Starting tomorrow, about 30,000
people a day will jam themselves onto 13-square-mile Kiawah
Island and squeeze down a two-lane road to watch the world’s
best golfers compete in the final major tournament of the year.  The PGA Championship will be the first Grand Slam golf
tournament at the Pete Dye-built Ocean Course on the  South
Carolina  barrier island and the biggest competition there since
the 1991 Ryder Cup between teams from the U.S. and  Europe .  “I don’t know how the spectators are going to get around
this place,”  Tiger Woods , a four-time PGA Championship winner
who played a practice round at the course a week ago, said in a
press conference. “First of all, I don’t know how they’re going
to get to it.”  The island is about 20 miles east of Charleston, South
Carolina, and has about 1,700 full-time residents, according to
the Charleston Convention and Visitors Bureau. A two-lane road
provides the only access to the course, at the island’s
easternmost point. This week, only those staying on the island
will be able to use cars on the local roads. All other
spectators, officials and media will be transported by bus, at
all times.  Once spectators arrive, they will be forced to navigate the
sandy terrain of oceanside dunes. At its widest point, the
course, which snakes along the coastline in a traditional links
design, is about 500 yards from edge to edge. Rather than
following specific players from hole-to-hole, most ticket
holders will try to find a comfortable spot and spend the day
there, said Brett Sterba, the  PGA Championship  tournament
director.  Stay on Island  Woods and last year’s champion, American Keegan Bradley,
won’t have to worry. The PGA of America, which stages the event,
has arranged for all players to stay at homes on the island to
help them avoid missing a tee time due to traffic.  To accommodate about 10,000 cars coming to the event each
day, workers have spent three years preparing and mowing a 130-
acre tomato field about a half-mile off of the island. About
2,000 cars per hour will enter the lot, Sterba said. From there,
spectators will ride buses for about 10 miles along a two-lane
road to reach the course.  “We have known from the beginning that it was a
challenge,” Roger Warren, president of Kiawah Island Resort and
a former PGA of America president, said in a press conference
last month. “We have gone through a lot of planning, and I
think we have a great plan and we’ll execute it. We want the
story of this event to be the great play of the players and
nothing else.”  Ocean Course  The  Ocean Course , ranked by Golf Digest magazine as
“America’s Toughest Course,” also hosted the 2007 Senior PGA
Championship, during which many of this year’s tournament
logistics were first tested. There were only about 10,000 fans
at that tournament, one third what is predicted for this week’s
event. The resort’s remoteness has kept it from being a regular
stop for major U.S. PGA Tour events.  Because of restricted access to the course, all scenarios
were taken into consideration, Sterba said.  “What if there were to be a tree that fell down?” Sterba,
33, said during an interview three weeks ago at the Ocean Course.
“What if there was an accident? How do you respond? We’ve taken
into account everything that could potentially go wrong.”  All police patrolling the area will have jumper cables and
spare fuel in their cars to help get stalled vehicles moving,
Sterba said. Three tow-truck companies are on call. Trash and
recycling pick-up schedules have been changed and bus drivers
for local schools, who would normally be practicing their routes
for the upcoming start of class, will rehearse at another time.  Good Example?  If all goes according to plan, the event will be reviewed
for its successful logistics. Or it could be used as an example
of what can go wrong, Sterba said.  “This could be a good case study for any golf event coming
to a smaller market,” he said. “A lot of people doubt that
this site can perform as well as at a major city. There are a
lot of challenges.”  When  David White  traveled from  England  to attend the 1991
Ryder Cup matches at the Ocean Course, he used his English
accent and an embroidered blazer from his home club to convince
organizers he was an official with the European team.  “We just drove up to the club and said ‘European,”’ said
White, 65, whose plan was aided by the use of a “resident”
parking pass he obtained while staying at a friend’s house on
the island. “It was really, really easy. It worked every day.”  White, who lives in Kent, parked his rented black sport-
utility-vehicle packed with friends a short walk from the first
tee.  “That’s a great story,” Sterba said. “But a lot has
changed since 1991.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  