-- Philippine Floods May Cause Spike in Food Prices, Tetangco Says
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-08T11:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/philippine-floods-may-cause-spike-in-food-prices-tetangco-says.html
The  Philippines  may experience
temporary increases in food prices as a fifth of the Manila
region remained under water today and rains battered some rice-
producing provinces.  “We can expect some temporary spike in food inflation as
there may also be some temporary disruption to the supply
chain,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-
phone message. “The impact of the rains over the past few days
bears watching. The area affected by the rains is rather
widespread.”  The worst flooding in three years engulfed about half of
the metropolis yesterday, crippling transport links, prompting
closure of schools and some offices and triggering panic buying.
The deluge also hit the main island of  Luzon , which produces
almost half the nation’s rice. Costlier food, which accounts for
39 percent of the  consumer price index , may stoke inflation that
quickened to a six-month high in July, a report today showed.  The government imposed a price freeze on basic goods in
areas under a state of calamity, Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo
said in a phone interview today. The agency is monitoring costs
and will issue a bulletin to guide the public, he said.  “We will impose fines on violators and there’s the
possibility of closure for abusive retailers,” Domingo said.
The price controls take effect immediately and could go on for
as long as two months, he said.  Prices and supply remained stable except for fish and
vegetables, after the highway linking  Manila  to vegetable
producers in the northern provinces was flooded, Domingo said.  Killed, Evacuated  At least 19 people were killed on the island of Luzon and
almost 400,000 fled their homes, according to police and
disaster officials. The downpour was enhanced by the effect of
Tropical Storm Haikui lashing  China , the weather bureau said.  The  agency  raised its rainfall alert in the capital at 4:30
p.m. to the highest level after placing it on a yellow alert
earlier today, the lowest in its three-step color-coded system.  The latest flood comes after Storm Saola earlier this month
killed 53 people in the Philippines and damaged more than 400
million pesos ($9.6 million) worth of farm output and
infrastructure, the nation’s disaster risk reduction agency
reported on its  website .  The damage caused by typhoons and other disasters in 2011
reached 59.2 billion pesos, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan told lawmakers this week.  After a delay of a day due to the flooding, the  National
Statistics Office  said today inflation quickened to 3.2 percent
in July from a year earlier, compared with a 2.8 percent in June.  Policy Stance  Portions of the damaged crops are recoverable, Tetangco
said today, adding that the central bank will continue to
monitor price gains, as well as domestic and global developments
to see if there’s a need to adjust its policy stance.  “Given information that we have now, our view remains the
same -- that inflation over the policy horizon remains
manageable,” Tetangco said. The monetary authority targets
inflation to average 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012-2014.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.79 per dollar at the close
in Manila, according to  Tullett Prebon Plc. (TLPR)  The yield on the
4.625 percent July 2017 bond fell five basis points to 4.55
percent, data from Tradition Financial Services showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  