-- Philippine Offices Reopen as Fifth of Manila Still Submerged
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-08-08T05:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/philippine-offices-reopen-as-fifth-of-manila-remains-submerged.html
Philippine financial markets and
offices reopened today even as a fifth of the  Manila  region
remained under water after the worst flood in three years.  The  weather bureau  dropped its rainfall warning to yellow,
the lowest in its three-step color-coded system that moves up to
green and red. The capital may see rainfall of up to 15
millimeters (0.6 inches) in an hour, it said on its website.
That compares with as much as 40 millimeters yesterday.  Yesterday’s deluge killed at least 15 people on the main
Philippine island of Luzon and forced 130,000 to flee their
homes, according to police and disaster officials. Flooding
crippled transport links in the capital, forcing the closure of
schools and offices. The downpour was enhanced by the effect of
Tropical Storm Haikui lashing  China , the weather bureau said.  About 20 percent of Metro Manila, an area half the size of
 Los Angeles , remains submerged, down from about 50 percent
yesterday, Civil Defense chief Benito Ramos told reporters.
“Every time there are floods, we evacuate people then we bring
them back,” Ramos said.“They should be relocated to higher
ground to solve this problem once and for all.”  The latest flood comes after Storm Saola earlier this month
killed 53 people in the Philippines and damaged more than 400
million pesos ($9.6 million) worth of farm output and
infrastructure, the nation’s disaster risk reduction agency
reported on its  website . While the Philippines is regularly
battered by cyclones that form over the  Pacific Ocean , rain in
the past few days was due to the annual monsoon and not a storm,
Ramos said.  Shanghai Storm  As the Philippine capital mopped up, Haikui made landfall
south of China’s Shanghai, lashing the region with heavy
rainstorms and canceling flights of the nation’s three largest
airlines.  The China Meteorological Administration said today that
Haikui, the third typhoon to hit China in a week, had poured 350
millimeters to 434 millimeters of rain in Xiangshan, Ninghai and
Taizhou of Zhejiang province since this morning. Average
rainfall in the eastern portion of Zhejiang has been more than
100 millimeters, it said.  Yesterday’s flooding brought renewed criticism of the
Philippines’ efforts to prepare for natural disasters.  “They shouldn’t just respond to crises, they should
prepare for them,”  Ramon Casiple , executive director of the
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila said by
phone. While President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration bought
Doppler radar and enhanced forecasting, little improvement has
been made to infrastructure, Casiple said.  Stores Open  “People shouldn’t wait for floods to rise up to their
necks before they evacuate,” Ramos told reporters. “They
should heed warnings from local government officials. They
should understand that rescuers are also at risk especially at
night.”  Typhoon Ketsana flooded Manila and parts of Luzon in
September 2009, killing more than 400 people, and causing crop
and other losses of 11 billion pesos. The damage caused by
typhoons and other disasters in 2011 reached 59.2 billion pesos,
Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan told lawmakers
this week.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , the Philippines’ biggest shopping
mall operator, said all its 44 outlets will open today and none
were flooded, Cora Guidote, senior vice president at  SM
Investments Corp. (SM) , the parent company, said by phone.  After a delay of a day due to the flooding, the  National
Statistics Office  said inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent in
July from a year earlier, up from 2.8 percent in June and a
faster pace than economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.792 per dollar at the noon
break, according to  Tullett Prebon Plc. (TLPR)  The  Philippine Stock
Exchange (PSE)  Index gained 0.6 percent to 5,315.38. The yield on the
4.625 percent July 2017 bond fell five basis points to 4.55
percent, data from Tradition Financial Services showed.  Aboitiz Equity Ventures (AEV)  and unit  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP) 
scrapped their analyst briefing on second-quarter results today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  