-- Price Gouging Undermines South Korean Trade Pacts, Minister Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-08T04:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/price-gouging-undermines-south-korean-trade-pacts-minister-says.html
South Korean consumers aren’t getting
the full benefit of deals lowering trade barriers because
distributors and wholesalers aren’t passing along the savings in
import costs, the nation’s trade minister said.  The margins being charged by “the different layers of
distribution” exceed savings from tariff cuts stipulated in
free trade agreements, Bark Tae Ho said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg News. President  Lee Myung Bak  has
pushed to expand trade markets, calling it necessary to widen
the resource-scare country’s “economic territory.”  “If you add up these margins, the 15 percent tariff, 8
percent tariff cuts don’t really matter,” Bark said. “Maybe we
are healthy for exports but we’re not really healthy for
imports.”  High import prices are adding pressure on consumers to curb
spending as South Korea struggles to revive domestic demand.
Faltering overseas shipments and a decline in  consumer spending 
is hurting the momentum of the economy that could fail to reach
its 2012 growth target of 3 percent, the  Bank of Korea  said last
month.  Lee’s popularity has plunged amid resentment over the
rising cost of living and a widening income gap, ahead of
presidential elections in December. Opposition lawmakers
criticized the U.S.-South Korea free trade deal that took effect
in March, and public discontent could hinder future agreements
that fail to sufficiently lower import prices.  “While the tariff cuts give suppliers wiggle room to bring
down prices, importers don’t really feel the need to do so
because most of them have monopoly on products included in the
accords with U.S. and  Europe ,” said Kim Hyung Joo, an economist
at the LG Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “Consumers will
need to wait up to five or 10 years to see enough competition
build up to pressure importers.”  Luxury Goods  Some products like clothing and  luxury goods  where select
importers have monopoly rights are yet to reflect the tariff
cuts to consumer prices, Bark said. He called on consumers to
take the matter into their own hands by filing complaints to
relevant ministries.  There is “good momentum to correct this so that the
benefit can reach consumers,” he said.  Prices of electric tooth brushes, whiskey and beer have
risen since the FTA with the European Union went into effect in
July 2011. Rising raw material and oil costs increased import
prices, according to a June 21 statement from the Fair Trade
Commission. For example, the price of electric tooth brushes
rose to 159,000 won ($140) in November 2011 from 148,000 won
($131) in June 2011, according to FTC data.  U.S. walnuts rose 21.1 percent since the first quarter of
last year, due to this year’s bad weather and poor crop showing,
the FTC said.  Overseas Shipments  South Korea  has signed ten free trade agreements since its
first with  Chile  in 2004 as part of a strategy to boost exports,
which account for half of gross domestic product. While some
sectors have fared relatively well, overseas shipments made the
worst showing in nearly three years and the manufacturing
activity shrank in the sharpest pace this year amid the euro
region crisis and slowing demand in  China .  The U.S. and EU trade accords brought down prices for most
imported fruits and wines by  ‘liberalizing’’ the distribution
structure and giving consumers direct access to importers or
wholesalers and skip retailers’ premiums, Bark said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  