-- Productivity in U.S. Rebounds as Employers Try to Curb Costs
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-08T13:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/productivity-in-u-s-rebounds-as-employers-try-to-curb-costs.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
rebounded in the second quarter as employers sought to protect
earnings by squeezing more out of existing staff.  The measure of worker output per hour increased at a 1.6
percent annual rate following a revised 0.5 percent drop in the
prior three months, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in Washington. Expenses per employee climbed at a 1.7
percent rate after surging a revised 5.6 percent.  The drop in productivity at the start of 2012, pared with a
slowdown in profits, may be prompting companies to focus on
enhancing efficiency to curb costs, making a pickup in
employment more difficult to spur. A jobless rate that has held
above 8 percent for more than three years is among reasons
 Federal Reserve  policy makers said they are ready to take
additional action if needed.  “Firms are going to be a lot more cautious in terms of how
they increase spending,” said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S.
economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , who correctly
forecast the gain in productivity. “Productivity is going to
hang in there. There is no doubt that the hiring environment is
much more challenging.”  Stocks dropped, snapping a three-day advance by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid disappointing revenue reports.
The  S&P 500  fell 0.3 percent to 1,396.67 at 9:38 a.m. in New
York. Almost 59 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported
second-quarter sales have missed analysts’ estimates, Bloomberg
data showed.  Survey Results  Second-quarter productivity was projected to rise 1.4
percent, according to the median forecast of 59 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.9
percent to 2.9 percent.  Unit labor costs, which reflect changes in efficiency, were
forecast to increase 0.5 percent, the survey median showed. The
revised first-quarter jump was more than four times larger than
the 1.3 percent advance previously reported, reflecting income
revisions issued by the Commerce Department last month.  Productivity was up 1.1 percent compared with the second
quarter of 2011. Labor costs rose 0.8 percent from a year-
earlier.  Among manufacturers, productivity increased at a 0.2
percent rate last quarter, and was up 2.9 percent over the past
12 months.  Growth Slows  The  U.S. economy  cooled in the second quarter as limited
job growth prompted Americans to curb spending. The nation’s
gross domestic product expanded at a 1.5 percent annual pace
from April to June, down from a 2 percent gain in the first
quarter, Commerce Department figures showed July 27.  Amid the slowdown, earnings also cooled. Corporate profits
dropped 2.7 percent in the first quarter from the prior three
months, the first decrease in a year, Commerce Department data
show.  “We believe there is more emphasis on productivity and
cost reduction in a slowing economy than there obviously is in
capacity expansion,” Keith Nosbusch, chairman and chief
executive officer of  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK) , which makes
factory automation software, said during a July 25 earnings
call. “We’ve been very successful in both the U.S. and Western
Europe, two mature markets that require ongoing cost reductions,
ongoing productivity improvements.”  Focusing on efficiency may, in turn, make businesses more
reluctant to take on new employees after hiring jumped at the
beginning of 2012. Payrolls increased by 677,000 workers from
January through March. They grew by less than half as much in
the second quarter, expanding by 219,000 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  