-- Railroads Couple More Cars as Housing Boost Shipments
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/railroads-couple-more-cars-as-housing-boost-shipments.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  is pulling rail
cars from storage for the first time in four years to haul
lumber for homebuilders, a welcome source of strength for an
industry that’s bucking the effects of a slowing economy.  North American rail carloads of lumber and wood products
this year through July 28 were 10 percent higher than the same
period in 2011, according to the  Association of American
Railroads . That compares with a 1.4 percent drop in total
carloads.  Union Pacific,  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  and  CSX Corp. (CSX) 
are among companies benefiting from new-home construction, which
climbed in June to the  highest  in almost four years. Sustained
gains in sales of cars and trucks, which are transported --along
with parts -- by rail, and the ability to raise prices also
provide a boost for railroads, rewarding shareholders.  “The expectation is for continued growth in construction-
related activity, whether it’s lumber or aggregates, to help
support rail volumes in 2013 and beyond,” said Ben Hartford, an
analyst in  Milwaukee  at Robert W. Baird & Co., who has an
“outperform” rating on Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific and
CSX, in Jacksonville, Florida. The outlook “is favorable for
the foreseeable future.”  Shares have outperformed the market since the end of March,
with the  Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Railroads Index (S15RAIL) 
gaining 12 percent, compared with a 0.5 percent drop in the
broader  S&P 500 . Among analysts, 19 of 26 have “ buy ”
recommendations on Union Pacific, the biggest North American
railroad.  Four-Year High  The number of rail cars that moved lumber over U.S. tracks
in the week ended April 27 reached an almost four-year high,
according to figures from the Washington-based railroad
association. Lumber shipments this year have been outpaced only
by a 40 percent surge in petroleum products, which may reflect
the pickup in domestic energy production, and a 22 percent gain
in deliveries of motor vehicles and equipment.  Cars and light-duty trucks sold at a 14.1 million  annual
rate  in July after a 14.3 million pace a month earlier,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. The industry is
on track for a third consecutive year of at least 10 percent
gains, the first such streak since 1973.  Railroads also have succeeded in raising prices at a faster
pace than rail inflation, a gauge of U.S. industry costs such as
wages and employees’ health care, according to Jeffrey Wichmann,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York .  “The beauty of the rails is that despite this low growth
for volumes, pricing growth is likely to remain healthy,” said
Wichmann. “That’s going to support revenue growth.”  Core Pricing  Union Pacific increased its so-called core pricing, which
excludes the effect of fuel surcharges, 4.5 percent in the
second quarter, contributing to a 6 percent rise in average
revenue per car,  Eric Butler , executive vice president of
marketing and sales, said on a July 19 conference call. U.S.
consumer prices excluding energy and food climbed 2.2 percent in
June from a year earlier.  Some of Union Pacific’s bright spots may be at risk because
government spending cuts and tax increases that are due to
expire at year-end may discourage U.S. consumers, Jack Koraleski, the company’s president and chief executive officer,
said in a July 19 interview with  Adam Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.”  Slowing global growth, coupled with the  European debt
crisis , also make the company “pretty cautious,” given that 40
percent of its business starts or ends in a country abroad, he
added.  Big Impact  “You watch everything that’s happening in the  euro zone ,”
he said. “You see the talk about the Chinese economy slowing
down a bit. And those things have a big impact.”  Even so, he’s encouraged by the rebound in lumber
shipments.  “When you look at the fact that we are pulling center-beam
flatcars out of storage to haul lumber for the first time since
2008, that’s a fundamental for the economy and that bodes
well,” Koraleski said.  Union Pacific posted second-quarter profit July 19 that
topped analysts’ estimates, causing its stock to rise the most
in four months. Net income advanced 28 percent to $1 billion for
the first time, or $2.10 a share, from $785 million, or $1.59, a
year earlier, the company said in a statement. The average of 26
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $1.97 a share.  Biggest Takeover  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  hauled 10.7
percent more lumber and wood products in the first half of this
year than a year earlier. Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
spent $26.5 billion in 2010 to acquire the remaining 77.5
percent of  Fort Worth , Texas-based BNSF in the billionaire
investor’s biggest takeover.  The housing-market trend that’s boosted  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC) ’s lumber business by 6 percent is “encouraging,” Donald Seale, chief marketing officer of the Norfolk, Virginia, company,
said July 24 on a conference call with analysts. Clarence Gooden, CSX executive vice president for sales and marketing,
projected a “continued recovery” in building materials on a
July 18 earnings call.  Record-low  mortgage rates  are generating buyer interest
again, and that’s encouraging builders to break ground on an
increasing number of homes.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent to a
760,000 annual pace in June, marking the highest level in almost
four years, the Commerce Department reported July 18.  Faster Pace  Because shipments of lumber by rail have been growing at a
faster pace than new construction in the past few months,
builders may be stockpiling material in preparation for even
more construction, said  Paul Diggle , a property economist at
London-based Capital Economics Ltd. Builder confidence last
month was the  highest  since 2007, according to a National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index.  New-home construction still is well below the 2.1 million
pace seen in 2005 at the height of the housing bubble, when
twice as much lumber was hauled than is being shipped today.  The “numbers would tell you we’d have some 700,000-plus
homes built this year,” Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  told reporters on June 28. “It’s a
slow process, but I do think the housing market has bottomed
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  