-- Rand Drops for Second Day as Commodities Fall on Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-08T14:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rand-drops-for-second-day-as-commodities-fall-on-growth.html
The rand weakened as German
industrial production declined, adding to evidence  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis is hurting South  Africa ’s biggest trading
partners.  The currency retreated as much as 0.7 percent and traded
0.3 percent weaker at 8.1852 by 4:07 p.m. in Johannesburg after
reaching its highest since July 5 yesterday. Yields on the
nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed one basis point to
6.71 percent.  Factory output in  Germany  dropped 0.9 percent on the month
in June, figures showed today, exceeding the estimate for a
decline of 0.8 percent from economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Copper retreated as the dollar strengthened. The euro region
buys 25 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data. Metals and other commodities account for 45
percent of total exports.  “Commodities and the euro are under pressure,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank
Ltd.,  South Africa ’s biggest chain of money-changers, said by
phone. “We will probably trade weaker” as importers take
advantage of the currency’s recent strength to buy dollars, he
added.  The euro declined as much as 0.6 percent to 1.2327 per
dollar. The rand often tracks the 17-nation, the currency of
South Africa’s biggest regional trading partner, with a
statistical correlation of 0.7 over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A value of 1 would mean they moved
in lock step.  The rand stayed weaker after manufacturing growth in
Africa’s biggest economy slowed more than forecast in June.
Factory production, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier after advancing a revised
4.4 percent in May. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
eight economists was for growth of 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  