-- Treasuries Rise as German Exports Drop, S&P Cuts Greece
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-08T11:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/treasuries-snap-loss-after-bernanke-notes-struggle-.html
Treasuries rose for the first time in
four days after reports showed German exports and industrial
production dropped, boosting demand for U.S. government
securities as a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Benchmark  10-year yields  fell from near the highest level
in five weeks amid concern  Greece  will need more support from
European Union leaders after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s
credit-rating outlook. Investors who took advantage of a rally
in riskier markets should cut holdings in favor of safer assets,
said Mohamed El-Erian at Pacific Investment Management Co., home
to the world’s biggest bond fund. The Treasury is due to sell
$24 billion of 10-year notes today.  “The big picture remains troubling and there’s still a lot
of uncertainty ahead as to how the euro debt crisis is going to
be resolved,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “Safe assets such as
Treasuries are going to remain in demand. Any selloff is likely
to be brief.”  The 10-year  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.61 percent at 7:02 a.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May
2022 gained 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 7/32.
The yield increased to 1.64 percent yesterday, the highest level
since July 2.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, dropped 1.5 percent in June from May, when they jumped
4.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden.
Industrial production fell 0.9 percent from May, when it gained
1.7 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said in Berlin.  Greek Rating  S&P lowered its outlook on Greece’s debt to negative from
stable, which means it is more inclined to reduce its ranking
for the nation. The government may fail to make the budget cuts
required to receive its next aid payment from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , the rating company said
yesterday in a statement. Greece is ranked CCC by S&P, or eight
levels below investment grade.  “This is an unusually uncertain time,” said El-Erian,
chief executive officer at Pimco, which is based in  Newport
Beach ,  California . “It’s not just Europe. Let’s not forget
there is a fiscal cliff in the U.S. Let’s not forget geopolitics
is heating up in Iran again,” he said yesterday on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays .  Record Fund  The record-size $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had 52
percent of its assets in mortgage-related debt, 35 percent in
Treasuries and 13 percent in investment-grade corporate bonds as
of June 30, according to Pimco’s  website .  The year-end “fiscal cliff” of higher taxes and spending
cuts clouds the economic outlook, El-Erian said. The nation
added more jobs in July than economists expected, though the
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent, a Labor
Department report showed Aug. 3.  Treasuries extended gains after the  Bank of England  reduced
its growth forecast and said inflation will be below its target
in two years as the euro-area crisis and the U.K. fiscal squeeze
weigh on demand.  The U.K. central bank sees annual gross-domestic-product
growth of about 2 percent in two years, compared with a
projection in May of 2.5 percent. It sees consumer-price growth
at about 1.6 percent by then, below its 2 percent goal.  Fed Buying  The U.S. central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $2
billion of Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 today
as part of its efforts to support the world’s biggest economy,
according to the Fed Bank of New York  website .  The Fed is swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings
with longer-dated debt to put downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs.  Treasuries have returned 2 percent this year as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a
9.7 percent gain in the period including reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1.66
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with the record low of
1.459 percent set at the previous auction on July 11.  Investors  bid  for 3.61 times the amount of debt offered
last month, the second-highest level according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that go back to 1993.  Direct bidders  buying for their own accounts purchased a
record 45.4 percent of the notes, based on data back to 2003.
Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 40.6 percent of the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  