-- Recession Generation Opts to Rent Not Buy Houses to Cars
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/recession-generation-opts-to-rent-not-buy-houses-to-cars.html
The day Michael Anselmo signed a
lease on his first apartment in  New York City , he lost his job
at Buck Consultants LLC. He spent about 10 months struggling to
pay rent with  unemployment  benefits. Two years later he’s still
hesitant to buy a home or even a road bike.  “Every  decision  that I have made since I lost my job has
been colored by that insecurity I feel about the future,” said
Anselmo, 28, who now rents an apartment in Austin, Texas, and
works as a consultant for UnitedHealth Group Inc. “Buying a
house is just further out on the timeline for me than it used to
be.”  Anselmo and many of his peers are wary about making large
purchases after entering adulthood in the deepest recession and
weakest recovery since World War II. Confronting a  jobless rate 
above 8 percent since 2009 and student-loan debt hitting about
$1 trillion, 20-to-34-year-olds are renting apartments, cars and
even clothing to save money and stay flexible.  As the Great Depression shaped the attitudes of a
generation from 1929 until the early years of World War II, so
have the financial crisis and its aftermath affected the outlook
of young consumers like Anselmo, said Cliff Zukin, a professor
of public policy and political science at the Edward J.
Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, the
state university of  New Jersey .  Recession Effects  “This is a generation that is scared of commitment, wants
to be light on their feet and needs to adjust to whatever
happens,” said Zukin, who’s researched the effects of the
recession on recent college graduates. “What once was seen as a
solid investment, like a house or a car, is now seen as a ball
and chain with a lot of risk to it.”  One key difference is that technology now allows companies
to provide younger consumers access to what they want, when they
want it and at a reduced cost, said Paco Underhill, founder of
New York-based consumer-behavior research and consulting firm
 Envirosell .  “Renting is something that is in play that wasn’t in play
during the Great Depression,” he said. “To a modern
generation, ownership isn’t about having it forever, it is about
having it when you need to have it,” said Underhill, who has
studied shopper behavior.  Hourly Rental  Enterprise Holdings Inc. and  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  are
expanding in what the  Santa Monica , California-based research
firm IBISWorld estimates to be the $1.8 billion hourly car-
rental business, a segment dominated by younger drivers and made
popular by  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  Startups such as Rent the Runway Inc. are
supplying high-fashion apparel to satisfy those who want to
wear, not own. CORT, a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is increasing its furniture-rental marketing
efforts to college students and fledgling households, said Mark
Koepsell, CORT’s senior vice president.  “Renting makes a lot of sense,” said  David Blanchflower ,
professor of economics at Dartmouth College in  New Hampshire  and
a Bloomberg Television contributing editor. “They have no money
and they are not buying fridges and they are not buying the
things they normally buy when they set up homes. Their incomes
are a lot lower.”  College Graduates  College graduates earned less coming out of the recession,
according to a May study by the  John J. Heldrich Center for
Workforce Development  at Rutgers. Those graduating during 2009
to 2011 earned a median salary in their starting job $3,000 less
than the $30,000 seen in 2007. The majority of students owed
$20,000 to pay off their education, and 40 percent of the 444
college graduates surveyed said their loan debt is causing them
to delay major purchases such as a house or a car. The U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in March it appeared
 student loans  had reached $1 trillion “several months”
earlier.  The  U.S. economy  shrank 4.7 percent from December 2007 to
June 2009, making it the deepest and longest slump in the post-
war era. In the three years since the recession ended, the
economy has expanded 6.7 percent, the weakest recovery since
World War II.  Even as the housing market shows some signs of revival, the
slow pace of recovery is keeping the younger generation fearful
of investments rather than confident about building wealth for
the future, said Jeffrey Lubell,  executive director  for the
 Center for Housing Policy , based in  Washington . First-time home
buyers in 2011 accounted for the smallest percentage of the
total since 2006, according to the National Association of
Realtors. The  vacancy rate  of U.S. rental properties is at its
lowest level since 2002.  Shifting Attitudes  The shifting attitudes also pose a threat to retail sales,
said Candace Corlett, president of New York-based retail-
strategy firm WSL Strategic Retail. Younger consumers are
already comfortable buying used items and borrowing from
friends. Renting will only reinforce their tendency not
to buy new.  “In a post-recession economy where retailers are trying to
make every shopper count, it’s the wrong direction,” she said.
Retail sales fell in June for a third consecutive month, the
longest period of declines since 2008.  The by-the-hour segment accounts for about 6 percent of the
$30.5 billion U.S. car-rental market, a share that is forecast
to rise to about 10 percent in five years, according to
IBISWorld.  Enterprise’s Customers       St. Louis-based Enterprise, the largest U.S. car-rental
company, expanded in the segment in May by acquiring Mint Cars
On-Demand, an hourly car-rental firm with locations in  New York 
and  Boston . Half of Enterprise’s customers in this segment are
under 35, according to company spokeswoman Laura Bryant.  Hertz, which began renting cars by the hour in 2008, plans
to equip its entire 375,000-vehicle U.S. fleet with the
technology for hourly rental within about a year, said Richard Broome, senior vice president of corporate affairs and
communications for the Park Ridge, New Jersey-based company.  “It made sense to reach the younger demographic to get
involved in car sharing,” Broome said. Those 34 and younger
make up 84 percent of Hertz’s by-the-hour customer base, he
said. “The higher costs of insurance, the higher costs of fuel,
the economics would lead someone to conclude that it’s a better
decision to rent the car or do car sharing than it is to own a
car.”  Zipcar, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company that
joined the market segment in 2000, says it now has about 731,000
members and more than 11,000 vehicles worldwide. More than half
of Zipcar’s customers are under 35, said Mark Norman, the
company’s president and chief operating officer.  Formal Wear  “Whether it’s movies by the month, music by the song or
formal wear by the occasion, all of those are a smarter way to
think about consumption, and Zipcar fits into that really
well,” he said. Zipcar’s shares have dropped 43 percent this
year under the threat of the new competition.  While sales of new cars are rebounding, 18-to-34-year-olds
accounted for 11.8 percent of vehicle registrations for new
cars in the five months through May, compared with 16.5 percent
in May 2007, according to data from R.L. Polk & Co., an auto-
industry research company based in Southfield,  Michigan .  Jared Fruchtman, 25, said using Zipcar gives him about $600
more a month to spend on dinners out, cab rides and trips on the
weekends.  “It wasn’t financially worthwhile to buy or lease a car
right now,” said Fruchtman, who is studying to be a certified
public accountant and lives with his girlfriend in a rented
apartment in  San Francisco .  “I never considered buying,” he said. “It didn’t make
sense to tie ourselves down right now.”  High Fashion  That attitude extends to clothes. Rent the Runway, a
website that offers high-fashion gowns and other couture for
around 10 percent of the purchase price, is also targeting
younger consumers. President Jennifer Fleiss, 28, said its
business model is “almost recession proof.” Since its start in
2009, the company has grown to about 3 million online members
and is adding approximately 100,000 per month. In May 2011, the
New York-based company raised $15 million in  venture capital 
from outside investors, said Fleiss. Rent the Runway members
typically range from 15 to 35 years old, she said.  Lindsay Abrams, 22, started working in 2009 as an on-campus
representative at  Vanderbilt University  in Nashville,  Tennessee ,
one of 175 colleges with company-sponsored teams to drive
brand awareness.  Important Part  “The recession has been an important part of Rent the
Runway’s popularity,” said Abrams, who has rented about 15
dresses and is now a customer communications associate for the
company. “For people my age, the new thing is renting versus
buying. It is a great way to save money.”  Furniture companies are also getting in on the act.
Chantilly, Virginia-based CORT, the world’s largest provider of
rental furniture, boosted its efforts in 2009 to reach college
students and younger customers.  Koepsell, the senior vice president, said the company was
“foolish” not to aim for the market earlier. Last year, CORT
provided furniture to about 15,000 students and predicts that
number will grow to 25,000 this year.  Among CORT’s customers is Michael Ferraiolo, a 20-year-old
senior at  Virginia Tech , who pays $198 monthly for everything
from beds to a coffee table to furnish the rented townhouse he
shares with two roommates in Blacksburg, Virginia.  “With the job market such an uncertainty, none of us know
where they are going to end up,” Ferraiolo said. “Now, more
than ever, you see people moving around in different job markets
all throughout their career. We just don’t know what to
expect.”  Shifting attitudes about larger purchases aren’t the only
reason preventing young consumers from buying. Stricter lending
practices and higher requirements for down payments on houses
and cars are crowding out buyers, Blanchflower, the Dartmouth
economist, said.  Build Wealth  For those who choose to rent not buy, there’s a price to
pay, said Lubell of the Center for Housing Policy. By foregoing
purchases of assets like homes, young people are giving up on a
chance to build wealth, he said.  “What you are seeing is a delay in all the kinds of
decisions that require a long-term financially stable future,”
Lubell said. “That’s home purchases, that’s marriage and that’s
having kids.”  Anselmo, the health consultant who rents an apartment in
Austin,  Texas , says he understands such arguments. Even so, he
can’t bring himself to buy a house.  “The logical person in me gets pissed off when I write a
check every month and it just goes down the drain,” he said.
“But we are very hesitant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  