-- Refiners Awash in Shale Oil Offer 10 Times Exxon Returns
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-08-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/refiners-awash-in-shale-oil-offer-10-times-exxon-returns.html
Gasoline refiners, shunned by
investors because of falling demand and rising regulation, now
count  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and billionaire
 Carl Icahn  among shareholders as lower  oil prices  promise wider
returns for fuel makers.  U.S. refiners such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  have delivered 10
times the returns of Exxon Mobil Corp., gaining an average 43
percent to Exxon’s 4.2 percent and outperforming every other
energy sector in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Gushing shale
wells from North Dakota to the U.S.-Mexico border have lowered
costs and more than doubled profit margins on gasoline and
diesel production.  Buffett’s firm and Icahn are among bullish investors buying
into refining stocks as analysts forecast a new era of profits
akin to the industry’s so-called “golden age” in the mid
2000’s, when rising global  demand  and tight capacity lifted
earnings.  “The prospects for U.S. refiners have turned around
dramatically,” said  John Auers , senior vice president of Turner
Mason & Co., a Dallas-based energy consulting company. “Cheap
crude has given an advantage to the U.S. refining system,
already the most advanced, most complex and most efficient in
the world.”  Valero and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  are among refiners
whose discount to stocks in an S&P 500 index of 45 energy
companies have narrowed this year, showing that investors have
growing confidence that their earnings will rise. Since January,
the gap has shrunk by more than 30 percent for both companies on
a price to earnings basis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Surpassing Estimates  Phillips 66,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and other independent refiners
surpassed Wall Street  expectations  for second-quarter earnings,
while big integrated  oil companies  such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Chevron Corp. relied on their refineries to help counter the
sting of declining crude and natural-gas profits.  It was a different picture just last year. Exxon, Chevron
and  Hess Corp. (HES)  shed refining  capacity  by selling or closing
plants in response to reduced fuel demand in the U.S. and
western Europe.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  spun off its refining unit to
focus on production.  Refiners in Europe and the U.S. East Coast threatened to
close or shut down more than 2 million barrels a day of capacity
as rising oil prices overwhelmed profit margins and debt costs
soared amid the financial crisis. Petroplus Holdings AG, a
European refiner, filed for insolvency in January and shut or
sold off its plants. Hovensa LLC, a partnership of Hess Corp.
and  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , shut its St. Croix refinery in
the  U.S. Virgin Islands  in February. Valero idled its Aruba
plant, which powers its operations with crude, in March.  Improving Value  The current rebound is driven by lower costs from abundant
oil and gas supplies, increased exports and more willingness by
refining companies to improve value through share buybacks and
dividends, according to energy analysts including Deutsche Bank
AG’s  Paul Sankey  and Barclays Plc’s  Paul Cheng .  Icahn, an activist investor, in January bought a stake in
 CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , a refiner formerly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , and agitated for executives to put the company up for
sale.  He offered investors $30 a share and obtained an 82
percent stake in the company. After no buyer materialized, on
Aug. 6 he offered to buy the remaining CVR shares for $29
apiece.  Buffett’s Bet  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said last month in an interview on Bloomberg Television that one
of his deputies had invested in Phillips 66, which became the
largest independent refiner in the U.S. after the Houston-based
company was spun off from ConocoPhillips.  Icahn didn’t respond to a request for comment. Buffett
didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to his assistant,
Carrie Sova.  New drilling and production techniques used to crack shale
rock brought a  flood  of new gas, deflating prices to a 10-year
intraday low of $1.902 per million British thermal unit in
April. The same methods now are being used to harvest oil,
spurring three straight years of surging  output  in the U.S., the
first time that’s happened since 1985, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The renaissance has caused U.S. crude prices to fall below
other varieties of oil traded globally, giving refiners with
operations near new U.S. oil production the advantage of paying
less for each barrel they purchase. Refiners with access to
growing supplies from North Dakota’s Bakken shale formation and
other northwest oilfields, were the first to benefit.  Soaring Profit  Profit at  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) , which owns refineries close
to many new U.S. oil wells, jumped to $1.02 billion in 2011,
seven times more than a year earlier. Marathon, which also has
several plants in the Midwest, earned $2.39 billion in 2011,
nearly four times higher than in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The competitive advantage has begun to extend to the U.S.
Gulf Coast, where oil from Texas’s Permian basin and Eagle Ford
formation is helping reduce imports and boost refining margins
in a region that holds about  half  the country’s refining
capacity. The margin between the cost of oil and the price at
which Gulf Coast refiners sell fuel  reached  $25.10 a barrel in
July, more than double the difference in December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  As domestic demand declined, the U.S. exported more
gasoline, diesel and other fuels than it imported in 2011 for
the first time since 1949, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Exports may rise by 450,000 barrels a day by 2015,
according to energy research firm Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Growing Exports  “Our most efficient refineries are located on the Gulf
Coast, and that’s our access to world markets,” said Ed Hirs, a
professor of energy economics at the  University of Houston .
“They can buy oil cheaply domestically, and they do, and they
can sell it at the world price. That’s why refiners have such
high profits right now.”  Investors are finding refining stocks more attractive as
companies turn to share buybacks to reduce volatility and eschew
the plant-buying sprees of years past in favor of higher
dividends, said  Timothy Parker , a Baltimore-based portfolio
manager who oversees about $6.5 billion in natural-resource
stocks for T. Rowe Price Group Inc. T. Rowe owns nearly 11
million Valero shares, or about 1.9 percent of the San Antonio-
based company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’ve been more shareholder friendly,” said Parker. T.
Rowe owns nearly 11 million Valero shares, or about 1.9 percent
of the San Antonio-based company. The firm increased its
holdings in Valero by 8.4 million shares in the first quarter of
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  