-- Renault Plans for Africa Auto Boom to Escape Europe Slump
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-08-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/renault-plans-for-africa-auto-boom-to-escape-europe-slump.html
Even as rival automakers tiptoe into
 Africa ,  Renault SA (RNO)  is building the continent’s biggest assembly
plant in a bet that buyers there are poised to shift away from
buses and used cars.  The French manufacturer and its partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
are ramping up production at a 1 billion-euro ($1.2 billion)
plant in the Moroccan port city of Tangier. Renault has also
laid the groundwork for a factory in  Algeria , though there’s no
timetable for its construction.  “Africa is stabilizing,” Jean-Christophe Kugler,
Renault’s senior vice president for the region, said in his
office near Paris. “It’s better to take positions right now to
have new growth drivers when other markets start to mature.”  Europe’s third-largest carmaker is pushing rugged, no-
frills models from the budget Dacia brand in Africa as the
company gets squeezed in the slumping European market. Low-cost
Asian rivals are making a big push in Europe while upscale
manufacturers like  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz have increased their small-car offerings. The
French company posted the biggest drop in vehicle sales by a
European carmaker this year, as the region heads for a fifth
straight annual decline to the lowest level since 1995,
according to the ACEA, an industry group.  Renault’s European market share fell to 8.5 percent in the
first half of 2012 from 9.5 percent a year earlier, while
Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and its  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  affiliate
increased their combined share to 5.9 percent from 4.7 percent.
BMW, which introduced a new version of the 1-Series compact last
year and has expanded the Mini brand, controlled 6.1 percent, up
from 5.7 percent, according to ACEA.  Heavy Discounts  Still, Renault has weathered the downturn better than  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , its larger French competitor, because Renault
moved beyond its home region earlier. That effort, which
includes the 1999 alliance with Nissan, helped Renault increase
the proportion of cars sold outside Europe to 47 percent of
revenue in the first half, compared with 39 percent at Peugeot.  With heavy discounts reducing margins in Europe, the
expansion has been critical to keeping Renault profitable. The
company’s net income was 786 million euros in the first half, as
deliveries rose 20 percent in Latin America and 29 percent in
 Russia . Nissan, which is 43 percent owned by Renault,
contributed 230 million euros to earnings.  Dacia, the Romanian company that Renault bought in 1998, is
at the center of the carmaker’s push into  emerging markets .
Rivals can’t match Dacia’s combination of European technology
and low prices; the Sandero hatchback starts at 6,790 euros in
Germany versus 9,850 for the smaller VW Up.  Africa’s Potential  “They clearly have an edge in this segment,” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst with IHS Automotive in London.  Renault’s Kugler sees potential for Africa to mirror Latin
America starting next decade. Car sales in  South America  are
forecast to rise to 5.75 million vehicles this year, double the
level of 2005, according to IHS Automotive. Sales in Africa are
estimated at about 1 million vehicles this year, with more than
half in  South Africa . That means about one car is sold for every
1,000 people in Africa, versus 15 in South America.  “Renault’s strategy of getting there first is a very sound
one,” said Neil King, an automotive analyst at Euromonitor
International Ltd. “It is performing significantly better than
Peugeot, largely because of this.”  Peugeot’s net income plunged to a loss of 819 million euros
in the first half from a profit of 806 million euros a year
earlier. Europe’s second-largest carmaker was downgraded to two
levels below investment grade by all three main credit rating
services in July.  Largest Capacity  The Tangier factory, Renault’s second in  Morocco , after a
50-year-old facility in Casablanca, will have capacity to
produce as many as 400,000 vehicles a year, dwarfing other
plants on the continent. Daimler and BMW each have factories in
South Africa that make about 50,000 cars a year, and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  assembles about 100,000 cars annually in a plant there.  “We’re always looking for new frontiers,” said  Andy Palmer , Nissan executive vice president for global planning.
“Most definitely, Africa is one of those. Kenya and Nigeria are
on the verge” of becoming big markets.  Renault-Nissan’s Tangier factory, which started production
in February, will have two assembly lines and produce the Dacia
Lodgy and Dokker wagons, mostly for export to start. The first
line, with annual capacity of 170,000 vehicles, is ramping up,
and construction on a second is slated to start next year.
Renault also signed a memorandum of understanding with the
Algerian government in May to build a factory there.  Local Partners  Renault has recruited local partners like the conglomerate
Duarte in Angola, where incomes are rising after oil and gas
discoveries in recent years. The French carmaker has lined up 14
sales and import partners to give it a presence in 25 countries
in sub-Saharan Africa.  The Dacia brand should help Renault make inroads in the
region, where it will chiefly compete with second-hand vehicles
as well as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Hyundai-Kia, the biggest
sellers of new cars in Africa, according to IHS. The biggest
challenge, though, may be an infrastructure base that’s often
more suited to camels and donkeys than even the sturdiest of
vehicles.  “What’s interesting is to lay out the conditions to create
an automotive industry that would allow the population to equip
itself easily,” Kugler said. “Most of the time, they don’t
have any roads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  