-- Renren Leads ADR Slump as Slowdown Swells Loss: Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-08T18:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/renren-leads-adr-slump-as-slowdown-swells-loss-overnight.html
Renren Inc. (RENN)  tumbled the most in nine
weeks, leading declines in Chinese Internet companies traded in
New York, after posting a second-quarter loss that was larger
than forecast as slowing growth curbed advertisement spending.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped for the first time in four
days, losing 0.6 percent to 91 by 2:02 p.m. in New York. Renren,
a Chinese social-network operator, slumped 5.6 percent while
 Youku Inc. (YOKU) , which manages the country’s most popular video
website, sank from a three-week high.  China Southern Airlines
Co. (ZNH)  and  China Eastern  Airlines Corp. fell after canceling
flights as a storm lashed the region with rain and wind.  Renren reported yesterday a second-quarter  loss  of 6 cents
per share, exceeding the mean 4-cent loss estimated by eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, as the slowest economic growth
in three years prompted retailers to cut back on advertising.
Fourteen companies on the Bloomberg China-US index that have
reported earnings since the middle of July have trailed
analysts’ sales estimates by 9.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The slowing economy is hurting Internet sites that offer
newer services such as social networking and video,” Echo He,
an analyst at Maxim Group LLC, said by phone from New York
yesterday. “Chinese advertisers are cutting back in general.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a fourth day, adding
0.3 percent to $35.29. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was
little changed at 1,401.01.  Renren tumbled the most since June 1, falling to $3.88. The
shares have gained 9.3 percent in 2012.  Outlook Misses Estimates  The Beijing-based company said it expects third-quarter
revenue of $49 million to $51 million, below the $51.1 million
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Renren competes with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s biggest
Internet company by sales, to attract social-network users in a
market where  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s site is restricted.  Shanghai-based Spreadtrum, a chipmaker for mobile devices
which counts  HTC Corp. (2498)  as a customer, fell the most since June
21, losing 5.8 percent to $19.17.  Youku, operator of China’s most-popular video website,
dropped from its highest since July 13, retreating 3 percent  to
$18.33.  RDA Miceoelectronics Inc. (RDA) , a competitor of Spreadtrum,
reported second-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.
Pudong, China-based RDA also forecast third-quarter sales below
expectations. Spreadtrum is scheduled to report second-quarter
earnings today after the close of the markets.  ‘Feeling the Heat’  “A lot of the chip guys are feeling the heat in terms of
making their numbers,” said  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director
of equity research at Chardan Capital Markets LLC. “RDA made it
clear that the 3G business in China remains in transition. That
indicates to investors that Spreadtrum’s second-quarter and
third-quarter numbers could be light.”  Guangzhou-based China Southern Airlines, the nation’s
biggest carrier by passengers, dropped 3.5 percent to $23.62, a
one-month low after Typhoon Haikui struck eastern China
grounding flights at  Shanghai ’s two airports. Shanghai-based
China Eastern, the country’s second-largest carrier, fell 1.5
percent to $16.98.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.2 percent yesterday
to 2,160.99 while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  added 0.2 percent to
9,867.76, highest since May 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  