-- Rental-Home Securitizations Unlikely to Get Best Fitch Ratings
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-08T15:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rental-home-securitizations-unlikely-to-get-best-fitch-ratings.html
Fitch Ratings  said it’s unlikely to
grant the best credit grades to securities backed by single-
family U.S. rental properties, a move that may curb potential
sales of the debt if other ratings companies follow suit.  The firm has “identified several performance/data issues
that are likely to result in the imposition of a rating cap,”
its analysts wrote in a report yesterday. Those include
“limited performance data for the sector and individual
property management firms” as well as “market rents, rent roll
histories, vacancy rates, and supply and demand.”  Investors including  Colony Capital LLC , KKR & Co.,  Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group LLC (OZM)  and Two Harbors Investment Corp.
have been buying foreclosed homes and other properties to rent
out, or raising funds to do so, at an accelerating pace, helping
to stabilize housing after the worst  real-estate slump  since the
1930s. Their use of securitizations for financing may be stalled
or carry higher costs without the best ratings.  “Although some firms have a few years’ operating history,
most do not have a proven track record managing in a down cycle,
outside their footprint, or on a large-scale basis,” Fitch
analysts including Suzanne Mistretta and Rui Pereira said.
“This concern is further heightened by ambitious growth
strategies by regional operators looking to expand their
portfolios rapidly over the near term, which will make it
unlikely that Fitch will consider high investment-grade
ratings.”  Single-Family Rentals  The New York-based ratings company “generally” considers
its AAA and AA categories as high investment grades, Sandro Scenga, a spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  The U.S. government has been encouraging the development of
the single-family rental market, with taxpayer-supported  Fannie
Mae  this year conducting regional bulk home sales whose winners
were  informed  in July.  Tom Barrack ’s Colony Capital, which plans
to acquire $1.5 billion of rental homes within a year, was among
those awarded about 2,500 foreclosed properties auctioned off,
according to four people with knowledge of the sale.  Edward DeMarco, the Federal Housing Finance Agency head who
oversees Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , told lawmakers in a July 31
 letter  that “based on the success of this initial transaction,
we are planning for additional sales in the near future.”  Turning homes into rentals amid the limited ability of
potential owner-occupant buyers to absorb a wave of  foreclosures 
can help “narrow the gap” between supply and demand, Fitch
said. More than 2 million mortgages are delinquent by at least
60 days or have already been turned into seized properties, it
said.  Alternative Investment  Rental-home securities also may provide an alternative to
investors faced with the almost non-existent issuance of U.S.
residential-mortgage bonds without government backing, it said.  Two Harbors (TWO) , the real estate investment trust run by Pine
River Capital Management LP that mainly buys home-loan
securities, is purchasing properties at an accelerating pace
both to profit and to gain insight into housing markets, Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Siering said in a telephone interview.  The REIT, which bought $48 million of homes in July to
bring its total since starting this year to about $120 million,
is “seeing research out there that suggests a total return of
10 to 20 percent on an unlevered basis” is possible, he said.  -- With assistance from John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles . Editors:
 John Parry , Shannon D. Harrington  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  