-- RG Steel Wins Approval to Sell Some Assets for $22 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-08T23:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rg-steel-wins-approval-to-sell-some-assets-for-22-million-1-.html
RG Steel LLC, the fourth-biggest U.S.
maker of flat-rolled steel, won court approval to sell some of
its assets to two different buyers for a combined $22 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today granted the steelmaker approval to sell assets at its
Mingo Junction and Martins Ferry facilities in  Ohio .  RG Steel held auctions July 31 for assets of multiple
facilities and reached five deals last week that would generate
about $35.7 million, according to court documents.  “After a fairly robust auction with multiple rounds of
bidding,” Frontier Industrial Corp. emerged as the winner for
the Mingo Junction assets, Shaunna D. Jones, a lawyer for RG
Steel, told Carey at today’s hearing.  Frontier will buy the Mingo Junction assets for $20 million
and the Martins Ferry assets will be sold to W. Quay Mull II and
Joseph N. Gompers for $2 million, according to court filings.  Some of the Mingo Junction buildings could be demolished,
Raymond L. Fink, a lawyer representing Frontier, told Carey in
response to being asked whether the operations will be
restarted. “Perhaps some of the operations” will resume “but
not all of them,” Fink said.  The buyer hasn’t yet decided how it will move forward and
it is “premature” to tell, Fink said in an interview after the
hearing. “The most viable option will be pursued,” he said.  RG Steel notified the court on July 31 that it would delay
the auctions for its Sparrows Point,  Maryland , and Warren, Ohio,
assets. Auctions of the Sparrows Point and Warren assets were
set to be held yesterday and a hearing to request court approval
to sell the assets to the winning bidders is set for Aug. 15,
according to court documents.  Sparrows Point  Jones declined to comment on the status of the Sparrows
Point auction, one of the largest single-site steel-making
facilities in the U.S. with an annual capacity of 3.9 million
tons.  The steelmaker negotiated sales last week of assets at its
Wheeling Corrugating division in Wheeling,  West Virginia , to
 Nucor Corp. (NUE)  for $7 million, according to court documents. Esmark
Steel Group LLC won the bidding for assets at its Yorkville,
Ohio, plant with an offer of about $5.2 million. The company
will seek court approval of those sales at the Aug. 15 hearing.
Esmark will also buy the equity in Ohio Coatings Co. for $1.5
million.  RG Steel, based in Sparrows Point, Maryland, listed assets
and debt of more than $1 billion each in Chapter 11 documents
filed May 31. The company suffered “substantial liquidity
problems” beginning in mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in
steel prices, while raw material prices remained at peak
levels,” according to a filing by Chief Financial Officer
Richard Caruso.  RG’s Creation  Renco Group Inc. bought the steelmaker from  Russia ’s  OAO
Severstal (CHMF)  last year for about $1.2 billion, less than three
years after Severstal acquired it for $2.2 billion. Renco
created RG Steel to buy the mills, which can produce 8.2 million
tons of steel a year.  The company and its affiliates are 75 percent-owned by
Renco, with the remaining equity owned by Cerberus RG Investor
LLC, according to court papers.  The lead case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  