-- Rhode Island to Take Possession of Schilling’s 38 Studios
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-09T02:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rhode-island-to-take-possession-of-schilling-s-38-studios.html
The  Rhode Island  Economic Development
Corp. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Trust Co. won court approval
to take possession of assets of 38 Studios LLC, the bankrupt
video-game maker founded by former Boston Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath granted the Rhode Island
organization and the bank’s request at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware.  The state economic development agency and BNY Mellon Trust,
a unit of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee for a $75
million loan made to the bankrupt game-maker, asked for
permission to take control of the assets, such as games’
intellectual property, and try to sell them, possibly through a
receivership proceeding in Rhode Island, and apply the proceeds
to what’s owed on the loan.  38 Studios based in Providence filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy liquidation on June 7 after firing employees.  The agency and bank said in court papers they needed to
take action because if the trustee appointed to dismantle the
game-maker received permission to abandon computer equipment
“all or substantially all of the intellectual property could be
irretrievably lost.” The intellectual property, which makes up
the “vast majority” of the company’s value, will take weeks to
preserve and transfer to new servers, the agency and bank said.  Last year, 38 Studios moved from  Massachusetts  to Rhode
Island after securing cash from $75 million in state government
bonds issued through the economic-development agency. To help
repay the bonds, 38 Studios pledged its video-game assets,
patents, software and other property as collateral.  The  company  had hired best-selling fantasy writer R.A.
Salvatore and graphic novelist Todd McFarlane to help design
games. It released one role-playing game,  Kingdoms of Amalur:
Reckoning , through  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  and was working on
another product called Copernicus.  The case is In re 38 Studios LLC, 12-11743, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 