-- Rio Advances Sale of Diamond Mines as Aluminum Plan Stalls
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-09T12:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rio-tinto-advances-sale-of-diamond-mines-as-aluminum-plan-stalls.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said its plan to sell diamond assets is
“well advanced,” while the divestment of aluminum operations
has stalled after prices for the lightweight metal fell.  Rio is “looking at multiple options” for its diamonds
division, Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott told reporters
yesterday on a conference call from  London . “The diamonds
sector looks interesting and healthy certainly as you look into
the medium- and longer-term, in view of the low levels of supply
and continuing strong demand.”  Mining companies, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest, are shedding less-profitable assets as declining prices
and increasing costs trim earnings. Rio, which reported a 34
percent drop in underlying profit to $5.2 billion yesterday on
lower prices, may study more sales, Elliott said.  Rio in October said it intended to sell 13 aluminum assets,
including smelters and alumina plants in  Australia , the U.S. and
U.K., to improve its finances. Rio has also said it may consider
an initial public offering for its Pacific Aluminum unit.  “We’re determined to resolve this through sale, and we’re
confident that we can do that,” said Elliott, who is due to
retire by the end of next year. “It may not be tomorrow. We’re
not going to be pushed into accepting a lower value. We want to
get a good value for these businesses.”  Chinese Buyers  A sale of assets, which may draw bids from Chinese buyers,
according to Deutsche Bank AG, is taking place within “tough
conditions,” Elliott said in February.  Deutsche Bank estimates the assets may be sold in the first
half of next year “although there is a risk this is too
optimistic,” analysts Rob Clifford,  Paul Young , Grant Sporre
and Gaetan De Buyer wrote in a report today.  “It’s not an easy time right now in the aluminum business,
but you can be sure that we’re actively pursuing that,” Elliott
said yesterday.  Aluminum has declined 20 percent in the past year, hurting
producers such as United Co. Rusal and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  In February
Rio took an $8.9 billion one-time charge on the value of its
aluminum business relating to the $38 billion acquisition in
2007 of Alcan Inc., the biggest completed mining takeover.  Rio is weighing a sale of  diamond mines , including Diavik
in  Canada ’s Northwest Territory, where it owns 60 percent. Rio
operates the Argyle mine in Western Australia state and owns 78
percent of Murowa in  Zimbabwe .  Harry Winston  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW) , the only gem producer and
jewelry retailer in Canada, said in June it’s interested in
Rio’s Diavik stake. Harry Winston, which owns 40 percent of
Diavik, has the right of first refusal on Rio’s 60 percent share
and would “be interested in putting that to work,” Chief
Executive Officer Robert Gannicott said June 13.  Diamond prices are expected to rebound as mining companies
struggle to keep pace with a revival in demand when the global
economy recovers, according to Singapore Diamond Exchange Pte
Ltd. The average price of so-called top-quality 1-carat diamonds
has dropped 12 percent this year, according to the Rapaport
Diamond Trade Index, which rallied 22 percent in 2011 and 14
percent in 2010.  BHP has sought bids for its Ekati mine, which is also in
the  Northwest Territories .  Harry Winston  and groups led by
private-equity firms KKR & Co. and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
were in talks to buy Ekati, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in March.  Joint Asset  A combination of the two assets followed by an IPO would be
an attractive investment, Nomura International Plc said in
April. Such a business would return about $700 million of
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for
2012 and have a market value of $2.1 billion to $3.5 billion
based on trading multiples of smaller rivals, it said.  “Diavik is close to the Ekati mine, however that’s roughly
as far as it has gone,” Elliott said yesterday. “While over
the years there have been occasional discussions about uniting
those two businesses there are certainly no such current
discussions.”  BHP and Rio together accounted for about 16 percent of
global production by value in 2010.  De Beers , 45 percent-owned
by London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , is the largest diamond
producer by value, with output of 31.3 million carats in 2011.
Anglo expects to increase that stake to 85 percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  