-- Rio’s First-Half Profit Drops 22% on Weaker Iron-Ore Prices
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-08T16:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rio-s-first-half-profit-drops-22-on-weaker-iron-ore-prices-1-.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said first-half profit dropped 22
percent after prices for iron ore, copper and aluminum fell and
costs at its operations gained.  Net income declined to $5.9 billion from $7.6 billion a
year earlier, London-based Rio said today in a statement. That
compares with the $5.04 billion average of 11 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was boosted by a $1 billion
so-called deferred tax benefit after  Australia  introduced its
Mineral Resource Rent Tax on July 1.  Rio, like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , is confronting
the dual headwinds of rising costs and lower prices as waning
global growth saps raw material demand. Xstrata reported a 33
percent drop in first-half profit yesterday. Iron ore is
expected to generate about 86 percent of underlying earnings
this year, Credit Suisse Group AG said Aug. 2.  The “result was slightly better than expected; however, it
has not bucked the trend of diversified miners showing lower
year-on-year earnings,”  Tony Robson , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets, said in a report today. Rio “continues to generate
large profits on its high-margin iron ore business and through
further growth in both iron ore and copper, profits from  Rio
Tinto  are forecast to grow significantly in 2013.”  Rio Tinto, the biggest ore-exporter behind Rio de Janeiro-
based  Vale SA (VALE) , advanced 2.9 percent to 3,220 pence by the close
of trading in  London , the highest since May 3.  Volatile Markets  The company increased its interim dividend 34 percent to
72.5 cents a share, even as underlying profit slumped by 34
percent to $5.2 billion.  Rio posted a “strong set of first-half results,” Barclays
Plc analysts  David Butler  and Ian Rossouw wrote in a note today,
adding that underlying profit beat its estimates by 8 percent.
Earnings from iron ore were an “impressive effort driven by
better-than-expected realized prices,” Barclays said.  A reliance on iron ore is Rio’s “Achilles’ heel,” Credit
Suisse said in a July 12 report. The  price  of the raw material
for immediate delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a
benchmark for  Asia , averaged about $141 a ton in the half, 21
percent lower than a year earlier. It has dropped a further 14
percent since June 29.  “We have been signaling for some time that markets would
remain volatile and we have seen challenging conditions in the
first half,” Rio Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese, 54, said
in today’s statement. “We continue to generate strong margins
despite falling prices.”  Western Australia  Rio is expanding  iron ore  operations, including a $4.2
billion spending plan approved in June, even as prices drop. An
expansion at its Pilbara business in  Western Australia  to
increase capacity to 283 million tons a year is on schedule to
be completed by the end of 2013, Rio said today.  The market for the steel ingredient is starting to find a
“floor” near current levels, Credit Suisse said Aug. 2, a view
shared by Albanese today on call with analysts. The price
declined 1.1 percent to $114.9 a dry metric ton today, the
lowest since Dec. 29, 2009.  “Whilst we are mindful of short-term uncertainties we
remain convinced of the strength of the long-term demand
outlook,” Chairman Jan du Plessis said in the statement. “We
have taken a considered approach to investment, committing
capital only to projects that will deliver value for
shareholders under any probable macroeconomic conditions.  Bonuses Waived  Albanese and Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott waived
their annual bonuses in February after the company reported a
loss for the second-half of 2011 following an $8.9 billion one-
time charge on the value of its aluminum business that
contributed to a 59 percent drop in full-year profit.  Last week, BHP said it would take $3.3 billion in charges
on gas and nickel assets this year. The Melbourne-based company,
scheduled to report fiscal 2012 profit on Aug. 22, cut the value
of its Fayetteville shale gas assets in  Arkansas  by $2.84
billion and its nickel business in Western Australia by $450
million.  Rio today maintained its estimate for 2012 spending of $16
billion to expand mines and build new operations. That includes
a project to boost annual iron-ore output in Australia’s Pilbara
region to 353 million tons by mid-2015 from current capacity of
230 million tons.  Spending in 2013 may be lower and the company will ‘‘pause
for breath’’ on any further expansion in the Pilbara beyond 353
million tons, Albanese said on a conference all today.  China’s Growth  BHP and Xstrata are among other mining companies reining in
spending plans for expansions and new projects as rising costs
for construction materials and labor coupled with lower
commodity prices curb the outlook for future returns.  BHP, the biggest mining company, said in May it won’t meet
its five-year $80 billion spending target on new mines and
expansions. Xstrata said yesterday it had trimmed its spending
plan for this year by $1 billion to $7.2 billion.  Rio Chief Economist Vivek Tulpule said June 29 he sees
economic growth in  China  accelerating this half even as the
European economic crisis escalates. The world’s fastest-growing
major economy accounted for 31 percent of Rio’s $61 billion in
sales last year, and imports more iron ore than all other
nations combined.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009. The nation’s non-manufacturing
industries expanded at a slower pace in July as new orders and
the outlook for business slipped, an official survey indicated
Aug. 3, showing the slowdown in exports and industrial output
may be spreading to services.  Fragile Recovery  ‘‘Although sentiment remains negative in  Europe  and the US
recovery is still fragile, our order books are full and we
expect Chinese GDP growth to be around 8 percent in 2012,”
Albanese said. “We expect to see signs of improvements in
Chinese economic activity by the end of the year.”  The price of aluminum has declined 20 percent in the past
year, hurting producers such as United Co. Rusal and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,
which last month posted $2 million net loss for the second
quarter. Rio’s February writedown related to the $38 billion
acquisition in 2007 of Alcan Inc., the biggest completed mining
takeover.  Rio could report additional impairment charges on the
assets, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Lyndon Fagan  wrote in a
July 31 report, adding that Rio values its aluminum assets at
$26 billion, nearly double the bank’s $13 billion estimate.  “There could still be several billion dollars worth of
impairments still to be reported,” Fagan wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  