-- Robertson’s Tiger Progeny Bet on Priceline Prior to Drop
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-08-08T21:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/robertson-s-tiger-progeny-bet-on-priceline-prior-to-drop.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) ’s 17 percent stock
market  swoon  today may fall particularly hard on money managers
who got their start with the help of billionaire  Julian Robertson , the founder of Tiger Management LLC.  These managers, known as Tiger “cubs” and “seeds,” held
a combined 4.1 million Priceline shares as of March 31,
according to the most recent data they’ve filed with the U.S.
 Securities and Exchange Commission . That equated to an 8.3
percent stake in Priceline.com, a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
company that ranks as the largest U.S. online travel agency.  Several former Robertson protégés, such as Stephen Mandel
of  Lone Pine  Capital LLC and John Griffin at  Blue Ridge  Capital
LLC, may have bought Priceline shares as part of a bet on
consumer-discretionary stocks, according to SEC data compiled by
Bloomberg. Buffeted by  Europe ’s declining economies, the sector
has been the second-worst performer in the benchmark Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  since June 1, besting only utilities, said
 Howard Silverblatt , a senior index analyst at S&P in  New York .  “You are not sure where the consumer is going to be
spending,” Silverblatt said in a telephone interview today.
“Those things change very quickly because the consumer has the
ability to change very quickly.”  Robertson, 80, was both a pioneer and mentor in the hedge-
fund industry, having employed at least 40 portfolio managers
and analysts who subsequently formed their own firms and became
known as Tiger cubs. After returning capital to outside
investors in 2000, Robertson began seeding a newer generation of
mangers with his own capital, helping 38 firms get started. Many
of these Tiger seeds, also known as “grandcubs,” work out of
Robertson’s office at 101 Park Ave. in  Manhattan .  Lone Pine  At least 12 managers with ties to Robertson reported owning
Priceline shares at the end of March, according to SEC data
compiled by Bloomberg. Lone Pine ranked as the largest investor
in this group, holding 1.08 million of the shares with a market
value of about $776 million as of March 31. That equaled 4.8
percent of the firm’s $16.1 billion in U.S. stocks. The firm had
scaled back its position by selling almost 386,000 shares during
the first quarter.  Blue Ridge owned 554,000 Priceline shares, and  Lee Ainslie ’s Maverick Capital Ltd. and Andreas Halvorsen’s Viking
Global Investors LP held 176,900 and 663,466 shares,
respectively. Tiger Global Management LLC, run by Chase Coleman,
had 785,000 shares, after selling 433,200 in the first quarter.  T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., the Baltimore-based mutual-
fund company, was the largest Priceline  holder  at the end of the
first quarter, with 4.78 million shares.  Growth Trajectory  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million must
disclose their holdings in stocks that trade on U.S. exchanges
by filing Form 13Fs within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
The next set of filings, which will report holdings as of June
30, are due next week.  Priceline shares fell $117.50 to $562.32 in New York after
the company revised its sales forecasts to account for a
slowdown in European travel. The decline knocked $5.8 billion
off the stock market value of Priceline, whose shares averaged
annual increases of 60 percent in the five years through
yesterday.  “Priceline has had a very strong growth trajectory, and
that is the reason it is so far off today,” said Daniel Kurnos,
an e-commerce analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .
“There are fears that Priceline is returning to a more modest
growth trajectory as opposed to the hyper-growth the company has
experienced over the past couple years.”  Spokesmen for Mandel, a former retail analyst at Tiger;
Maverick; Blue Ridge; Tiger Global; and T. Rowe Price either
declined to comment or didn’t immediately return telephone
calls.  Robertson’s Fund  Among the Tiger cubs and seeds that held Priceline stock as
of March 31, eight had plowed at least 30 percent of their U.S.
stock portfolios into consumer-discretionary stocks. The stocks
comprised about 11.2 percent of the S&P 500 Index at the end of
March and 10.9 percent as of yesterday, Silverblatt said.  Robertson’s Tiger Management reported that  consumer-
discretionary companies  equaled about 14 percent of its $353
million in U.S. stock holdings at the end of March. He didn’t
own any Priceline shares.  Robertson built Tiger Management into one of the world’s
largest  hedge funds  by generating average annual returns of 32
percent, lifting his assets under management to $22 billion by
mid-1998. After customer defections and losses cut Tiger’s
assets under management to $6 billion two years later, Robertson
decided to return money to clients and employ Tiger Management
to invest his own fortune in hedge-fund managers, taking a share
of profits in exchange.  Seed Capital  During the next decade, Tiger invested more than $230
million in 38 managers who had about $21 billion in assets under
management as of Jan. 30, 2011, according to a presentation
prepared by the firm. Last year, Robertson decided to market
this expertise to outside investors by raising money through
Tiger Accelerator Partners LP, which in turn would invest the
capital with six hedge funds it seeded, including Tiger Veda LP
and Long Oar Global Investors LLC.  Fraser Seitel, a spokesman for Robertson, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  