-- Rogue Bank or Regulator in Standard Chartered Case?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-08T23:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/rogue-bank-or-regulator-in-standard-chartered-case-view.html
New York’s top financial regulator,
 Benjamin Lawsky , wiped more than $9 billion, or about 16
percent, off the market value of the U.K.’s  Standard Chartered 
Plc this week. We have some questions.  First, what makes the money-laundering case so  different 
from those of Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, ABN Amro
Group NV and ING Bank NV, each of which paid hundreds of
millions of dollars to settle the same  accusations  that Standard
Chartered now faces? In his Aug. 6 complaint, Lawsky says
Standard Chartered sought to hide Iranian government
transactions by stripping information from U.S. wire transfers
that would have identified  Iran  as the source of the money. Such
“books and records” deceptions, illegal under New York and U.S.
law, provoked Lawsky to call Standard Chartered a “rogue
institution” that could lose its license to operate in the
state.  The U.S. has settled many other cases against European banks
without threatening their ability to operate in the country,
despite finding similar evidence that bank employees conspired
to deceive regulators. The U.S. also didn’t accuse the other
banks of being rogue institutions, or of making the financial
system “vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins
and corrupt regimes,” accusations Lawsky lodged against Standard
Chartered.  Second, why did Lawsky go after Standard Chartered alone,
blindsiding the U.S. Treasury Department, which was handling the
case as it had the others?  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
is asking the same question.  Overreaching  U.K. Treasury officials separately asked their U.S.
counterparts to clarify just what rules were allegedly broken,
clearly implying that New York was overreaching. Standard
Chartered was apparently cooperating in the federal
investigation by providing e-mails and other documents,
presumably with a view to settling.  Finally, why is a New York state regulator taking the lead
in a case that involves a breach of federal regulations that
were imposed as a matter of foreign policy and are normally
policed by the Treasury? Lawsky has a duty to ensure that
banking licenses are properly granted in New York. That gives
him significant power. But this case surely seems a federal one.  We don’t know the answers to these questions. If there
aren’t good ones to be had, Lawsky’s judgment should come under
scrutiny as much as  Standard Chartered (STAN) ’s.  If the bank broke the law, it should be punished. Still,
let’s be clear about the fundamentals. The reason a case arose
at all is that, from 2001 to 2007, Standard Chartered was
clearing Iran’s U.S. dollar transactions in New York. At the
time, the U.S. had imposed tough sanctions on Iran, while
 Europe ’s were weaker. European businesses  continued trading  with
Iran, often encouraged by their governments, with European banks
clearing the transactions.  The Standard Chartered transactions implicated  U.S.
regulations  because oil is traded in dollars, the world’s
reserve currency. As Lawsky points out in his order, Standard
Chartered was clearing $500 million a day for the Iranian
central bank, the conduit for the country’s oil revenue. As
Lawsky also said, that wouldn’t have been feasible if Standard
Chartered informed U.S. regulators that the money was Iranian,
triggering background checks and delays at the very least.
Lawsky says $250 billion of illegal transactions were involved.
The  bank says  the figure is more like $14 million, or 0.1
percent of its Iran-related transfers.  At the time, to some Europeans, the U.S. was abusing its
reserve currency status to impose its sanctions laws on other
countries. Hence the inflammatory e-mail from a senior Standard
Chartered executive, referring to U.S. policy with an obscenity.
Lawsky quotes it as saying: “Who are you to tell us, the rest of
the world, that we’re not going to deal with the Iranians.”  Extraterritorial Law  The European Union,  Canada  and  Mexico  said much the same,
if in more measured terms, in 1996, shortly after the U.S. first
sought to extend its sanctions by punishing foreign companies
that do business with Iran. Each passed regulations to counter
what they considered an illegal extraterritorial application of
U.S. law. The EU, for example, forbade its citizens from
complying with the U.S.’s Iran and Libya Sanctions Act.  Those regulations don’t cover transactions cleared in  New
York . But the controversy over U.S. extraterritoriality won’t go
away. It’s one reason that the U.S. Department of State granted
waivers to  China ,  India ,  South Korea  and 17 others from a new
law that bars oil-related transactions with Iran’s central bank.
Enforcing the U.S. sanctions on these countries, which depend
heavily on Iranian oil, would be diplomatic dynamite.  Come December, however, the U.S. will have to review those
waivers, which can be granted only if the country in question
has reduced its oil imports from Iran. China, in particular, has
painful memories of humiliating extraterritorial laws imposed by
Europeans in the 1800s, and might retaliate if penalized.  Making the Iran sanctions stick has only become more urgent
for  Barack Obama ’s administration. It has pledged, rightly in
our view, to do what it takes to prevent Iran from acquiring a
nuclear bomb. If sanctions don’t bite, that will sharply
increase pressure to go to war.  It’s partly in recognition of that choice that the E.U.
has, as of July, joined the U.S. in tightening the sanctions
noose on Iran by embargoing its oil shipments. Standard
Chartered says it stopped all new business in Iran five years
ago. That doesn’t give it a free pass on previous wrongdoing.
But if Lawsky’s accusations don’t hold up, his sturm und drang
over transactions that a U.K. bank cleared back when the E.U.
opposed the sanctions seems unlikely to help what has now become
a common U.S.-European cause.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the free market can help
 control the deer population ;  Caroline Baum  on  Milton Friedman’s
relevance  today;  Michael Kinsley  on  front lawns and other
preposterous ideas ;  Ezra Klein  on  Washington ’s captivation by a
 flawed tax idea ; Laurence Kotlikoff and  Scott Burns  on the new
 $11 trillion rise in U.S. debt ; Caleb Scharf on how black holes
influenced  the evolution of life .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 