-- Romania Plans to Sell Transgaz Stake in Middle of September
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-08T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/romania-plans-to-sell-transgaz-stake-in-middle-of-september-1-.html
Romania’s government plans to sell a
minority stake in utility Transgaz SA in mid-September after
delaying it from the end of June because of  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis and the Balkan nation’s political turmoil.  The Bucharest-based government, which pledged to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union to sell
minority or majority stakes in energy companies this year, will
try to offer a 15 percent stake in its natural-gas grid operator
next month, Finance Minister Florin Georgescu told reporters in
Bucharest today, after a meeting with the international lenders.  “We will go ahead with planned stake sales and the
appointment of private managers in state-owned companies,”
Georgescu said. “The new deadline for the Transgaz sale is mid-
September.”  Officials from the IMF and the EU, which granted Romania a
5 billion-euro ($6.2 billion) precautionary loan, are in
Bucharest reviewing government progress on fiscal targets and
planned state-asset sales, while a power struggle between Prime
Minister Victor Ponta and suspended President Traian Basescu has
pushed the leu to record lows and boosted borrowing costs.  Transgaz shares declined 0.5 percent to close at 196 lei
per share in Bucharest, valuing the company at 2.3 billion lei
($624 million).  Other Utilities  The government also pledged to sell 15 percent of natural-
gas company Romgaz SA and 10 percent stakes in nuclear-power
operator Nuclearelectrica SA and in an insolvent hydro-power
generator Hidroelectrica SA.  Hidroelectrica will exit an insolvency procedure opened in
June by October “much stronger,” Ponta said today after the
meeting with the IMF and the EU.  Romania ’s economic growth will probably slow to 1.5 percent
this year, compared with 2.5 percent in 2011, according to the
IMF forecasts. The forecast may be lowered to below 1.5 percent
this year as “sufficient data,” including lower agricultural
output, point to a further slowdown, central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu said on Aug. 2.  Georgescu declined to say whether the forecast will be
changed. He said the leu “seems to be rebounding toward a level
which is justified by the country’s economic fundamentals.”  The Romanian government will detail plans for the country’s
2013 budget deficit during the next review mission of the IMF
and the EU at the end of November or the begining of December,
Georgescu said.  The leu, the world’s third-worst performing currency after
the Sudanese pound and the Serbian dinar according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, weakened to a record low of 4.6520 per
euro on Aug. 3. It gained 0.6 percent yesterday and traded
unchanged at 4.5455 at 5:34 p.m. in Bucharest today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  