-- Russian Court Orders Release of Khodorkovsky Partner in 2013
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-08T13:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/russia-reduces-prison-term-for-lebedev-interfax-says-correct-.html
A Russian court shortened the prison
term of  Platon Lebedev , a move that opens the way for his
business partner in defunct Yukos Oil Co.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky 
to apply for early release.  A district court judge in the Arkhangelsk region city of
Velsk, where Lebedev is imprisoned, reduced his 13-year jail
term by three years and four months because of a change in the
criminal code, Maxim Dbar, a defense team spokesman, said by
phone today. Lebedev is set to be released in March next year.  “Khodorkovsky has the same right as Lebedev to a reduction
of his sentence; this is a requirement of the law,” a lawyer
for the former Yukos owner,  Yuri Schmidt , said by phone. “But
exactly how much his prison term will be reduced by, that is a
subjective question. It could be as little as six months or
several years.”  Lebedev, 55, and his associate  Khodorkovsky , once  Russia ’s
richest man and chief executive officer of Yukos, were sentenced
to eight-year terms for fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and
convicted again on related charges in December 2010. Their
sentences were extended to 13 years from their arrest in 2003.
Khodorkovsky, 49, says he was targeted by President  Vladimir Putin  for financing opposition parties, an accusation the
Kremlin denies.  Putin, 59, who won a new six-year presidential term in
March, is facing international criticism as he reins in the
opposition following mass protests over his 12-year rule. The
U.S., the European Union and senior German lawmakers have
criticized the trial of three anti-Putin punk band members.
Opposition leaders and activists are also being prosecuted.  ‘Under Duress’  “The decision to free Lebedev early has been made under
duress,” said  Dmitry Oreshkin , a Moscow-based independent
political analyst. “Russia’s image abroad is suffering and
Western investors are having doubts about protection of their
rights.”  Investors have cited the Khodorkovsky case as an example of
the failure to respect the rule of law in Russia. Yukos was
dismantled and sold at auction, mostly to state-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) ,
to cover billions of dollars in back taxes after Khodorkovsky’s
arrest. Putin has said that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands
and “thieves should sit in jail.”  Today’s ruling followed Lebedev’s motion seeking his
immediate release. Khodorkovsky, who isn’t yet aware of the
decision, hasn’t ruled out a similar request, Dbar said.  Government Approved  The former tycoon, who is in a prison in the northwestern
region of Karelia, is still awaiting the outcome of a legal
challenge against his latest conviction. The decision for
Lebedev’s early release was “approved in Moscow” by the
government, Khodorkovsky’s lawyer, Schmidt, said.  Prosecutors have 10 days to appeal and will consider their
next move after formally receiving the court’s decision,
according to the Interfax news service.  Khodorkovsky was arrested at gunpoint on the tarmac of a
Siberian airport in 2003 and is due for release in September
2016. Putin will serve as president until May 2016.  “The market may well extrapolate the eventual release of
Khodorkovsky from this development,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global in  London , said by phone. “It’s
purely superficial but it will hoist sentiment.”  Russian stocks pared losses, with the benchmark  Micex Index (MOSBIRZ) 
trading 0.4 percent lower at 1,445.54 as of 4:19 p.m. in Moscow.
The ruble-denominated gauge had earlier retreated from a three-
month high, losing as much as 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  