-- Russia Seen by Union as Having Enough Grain Stocks for Exports
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-08-08T14:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/russia-seen-by-union-as-having-enough-grain-stocks-for-exports.html
Russia , the world’s third-biggest
wheat exporter, is expected to have enough grain stocks for
exports, even if the country consumes 70 million metric tons
from this year’s harvest, Grain Union President Arkady Zlochevsky said.  The union expects the country to have up to 19 million tons
of carryover grain stocks, he said. That compares with an
estimate of 15 million tons from SovEcon, a Moscow-based
agricultural consultancy.  “We have no concerns that we are able to harvest enough
for domestic supplies and for export,” Zlochevsky said today in
a video conference from Moscow, adding there would be a
sufficient amount even if the weather is “most unfavorable.”  Separately, Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said
there’s no need for grain export duties this year. He was
speaking after a government meeting today, where the official
grains forecast was seen at 75 million to 80 million tons.  The forecast for the cereals harvest this year is for 72
million to 75 million tons, with a wheat crop of about 42
million tons, Andrei Sizov Jr., SovEcon managing director, said
today at the conference. That’s a similar amount as in 2010 when
the country had the worst drought in at least a half century and
banned exports, he said.  The Grain Union expects the country to have at least 12
million to 13 million tons of export resources, including
carryover stocks, Zlochevsky said.  “To talk about any export restrictions now is
unreasonable,” he said. “We have enough time to set
restrictions if we need them, but probably we won’t.”  In July, Russia exported more than 2 million tons compared
with 2.65 million tons in the year earlier, according to the
union.  Russia planted about 2 million hectares (4.9 million acres)
less wheat this year than in 2010, and average yields are lower,
SovEcon said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  