-- S&P 500 Snaps Three-Day Rally After Fed Fisher’s Remarks
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-08T18:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/s-p-500-snaps-three-day-rally-after-fed-fisher-s-remarks.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
snapped a three-day advance amid disappointing corporate results
and after Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard
Fisher  said adequate economic stimulus is in place.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the largest restaurant chain, slid 1.8
percent as global sales were unchanged in July.  Priceline.com
Inc. (PCLN) , the biggest U.S. online travel agency by market value,
tumbled 16 percent after forecasting earnings that missed
projections.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  rallied 2.6 percent after
raising its earnings forecast and appointing a new head for its
enterprise services unit as it restructures the business.  About six stocks  fell  for every five that gained on U.S.
exchanges at 2:28 p.m. in New York. The S&P 500 slid 0.1 percent
to 1,400.64, after rising 2.7 percent in three days. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  dropped 4.24 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 13,164.36. Trading in  S&P 500  companies was down 9.1
percent from the 30-day average at this time of day.  “The market has gotten a bit ahead of itself on
speculation of central bank action,” said Kevin Caron, a market
strategist in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., which has more than $127 billion in client assets. “Even
as the  U.S. economy  is moving at a relatively slow pace, there’s
very little evidence that encourages the Fed to come in with
another significant round of quantitative easing.”  Equities dropped as the Fed’s Fisher said global central
banks may not have the capacity to undertake additional
measures. Stocks rose yesterday as Fed Bank of Boston President
 Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should pursue an “open-
ended” easing program of “substantial magnitude.”  Earnings Season  Investors also watched corporate results. Almost 59 percent
of S&P 500 companies which reported second-quarter  sales  have
missed analysts’ estimates, Bloomberg data showed.  The S&P 500 is in a “make-or-break situation” that will
probably lead to either large gains or losses for the benchmark
U.S. stocks gauge, according to technical analysts at UBS AG.  After climbing through the 1,390 level, the S&P 500 may go
on to test the highs reached in March and May, Michael Riesner
and Marc Mueller in Zurich wrote in a report dated yesterday. A
drop below 1,325 would indicate a retreat to the early-June low
of 1,266. That would be a 9.7 percent slide from yesterday’s
close of 1,401.35.  Investors should watch the flow of money into so-called
defensive stocks, whose earnings are less dependent on economic
growth, and cyclicals, which are more tied to the performance of
the economy, for signs of future moves in the S&P 500, the
analysts said.  “The U.S. market remains in a classic make-or-break
situation, where a breakout and a subsequent trend move
shouldn’t be too far away,” they wrote. “Either the market is
able to start a new momentum impulse -- and for this we would
need to see a  rotation  on the sector basis, from defensives into
financials or cyclicals -- or the S&P 500 will very soon get a
breadth problem, when defensives are starting to pull back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  