-- Saudi Arabia’s Jabal Omar Plans to Build 10 Hotels in 2013
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-08-08T11:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/saudi-arabia-s-jabal-omar-plans-to-build-10-tower-hotels-in-2013.html
Jabal Omar Development Co. (JOMAR)  plans to
open 10 hotel towers in Mecca next year to accommodate Islamic
pilgrims, the Saudi Arabian company’s executive general director
said.  Jabal Omar is developing 2.2 million square meters (24
million square feet) of land near the Grand Mosque, Sameer Al- Quraishi said in a phone interview last week. The site was
designed to include 38 hotel towers and the country’s largest
shopping mall, he said.  “Saudi Arabia is aiming to increase the number of people
who are allowed to perform the annual pilgrimage,” Al-Quraishi
said. “It’s also mostly trying to accommodate more religious
visitors and that will surely increase demand for hotels.”  The government’s goal to allow more pilgrims to Mecca
coupled with rising wealth in Islamic countries is fueling
demand for higher-end accommodation in the holy city. More than
10 million people descend on Mecca throughout the year and about
3 million pilgrims attend the annual Hajj, the Islamic journey
every able-bodied Muslim is obligated to make.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) ,  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , Blackstone
Group Inc.’s Hilton Hotels and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT) ’s Sheraton unit will manage properties there, Al-
Quraishi said. The 38 hotels under construction will be managed
by 28 companies and will add 13,500 rooms to Mecca’s hospitality
industry when they’re completed in five years, he said.  The  project  is being developed in five phases at a cost of
20 billion riyals ($5.3 billion). Jabal Omar, based in Mecca, is
looking at ways to finance the final two stages of development
after it funded previous phases through bank and government
loans in addition to a capital increase, Al-Quraishi said.  Bonds Preferred  “We will either issue bonds or borrow from banks, but we
definitely prefer bonds,” he said. “When we complete the
designs for the final two stages in about six months, we will
have a clearer idea of our best financing option and the amount
needed.”  Jabal Omar shares have risen 57 percent this year. The
country’s Tadawul All Share Index has gained 8.5 percent during
the same period.  Saudi Arabia ’s largest home developer,  Dar Al
Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN) , have increased 28 percent
this year. Jabal Omar, which reports earnings according to the
Islamic calendar, has suffered losses in the past two years,
Bloomberg data shows.  Repay Debts  “Returns won’t be immediate because we have debt to banks
and the government so we have huge financial commitments right
now,” Al-Quraishi said. “Once we repay debt, the returns would
be enormous.”  Jabal Omar said last month it signed an agreement for a 5
billion-riyal Islamic financing with a group of local banks. The
developer in December got a 3 billion-riyal loan from the
 finance ministry . The company raised 2.5 billion riyals from its
shareholders for the project, and it has 4.6 billion riyals of
 debt  due in 2049, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The contract for construction of the Mecca project’s third
phase, which includes two towers, known as Mecca Gate and a
mall, will be awarded soon, he said. About 17 companies, mostly
from the  United Arab Emirates , are bidding for the work, he
said.  The first phase of the project, which includes 10 towers,
is being built by  Nesma & Partners , a closely held Saudi Arabian
firm. Baytur Construction Co. and Azmeel Contracting &
Construction Corp. won the contract for the second phase, which
includes four towers. Designs for the fourth and five phases are
being drawn and are expected to be complete in six months, Al-
Quraishi said.  Prayer Area  The development, about 300 meters from the Grand Mosque,
will include a prayer area to host 65,000 worshipers, complete
with parking spaces, Al-Quraishi said. Jabal Omar is also
building a power plant and water-treatment system, he said.  The project’s location in Mecca meant the developer had to
ensure that construction didn’t harm a well that Muslims believe
started miraculously when Ismail, the infant son of Abraham,
started crying from thirst.  “Zamzam well’s waterways under the project were fortified
to ensure we don’t disturb the flow of water and that it isn’t
contaminated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  