-- Seized Iranians in Syria Are Army Retirees, Salehi Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-08-08T12:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/seized-iranians-in-syria-are-army-retirees-salehi-says.html
Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said several of the Iranians abducted by Syrian rebels
are retired members of the military and the Revolutionary Guard
Corps who were on a pilgrimage.  Salehi, who flew to Ankara yesterday to discuss the release
of the captives, said he had “straightforward and frank”
discussions with Turkish officials about the status of the 40
people captured on Aug. 4. He made the comments after meeting
his Turkish counterpart,  Ahmet Davutoglu , according to a report
published today by the state-run  Iranian Students News Agency .  “We rejected reports saying these individuals are part of
the Revolutionary Guards and explained that a number of retired
individuals from several ministries and the guards had signed up
to make the pilgrimage,” Salehi said. “Pilgrimage trips to
 Syria  had been interrupted but resumed recently as we can’t stop
people from visiting the holy shrine.”  The kidnapping took place as Syrian forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad massed on the outskirts of Aleppo, the
country’s most populated city, where they’ve used artillery,
helicopter gunships and fixed-wing combat aircraft to attack
rebels who moved into the city last month. The opposition Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  says more than 21,000 people have
died during the 17 month-long uprising.  Iranian Ties  Shiite-led Iran has been the closest regional ally of
Assad’s government, which is dominated by officials from the
Alawite sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam. The rebels are
mostly drawn from the Sunni majority.  A video broadcast by Al Arabiya television that showed the
Iranians sitting under the rebel Free Syria Army’s flag and
surrounded by armed men demonstrates that “they don’t carry any
equipment apart from ordinary clothes and their personal
belongings,” Salehi said.  The Iranians were on three different buses driving between
the airport and the pilgrimage site near Damascus when one of
the vehicles took a parallel road and was seized, Salehi said.  An Iranian foreign ministry official rejected reports that
three of the captured Iranians may have been killed during heavy
shelling in the suburbs of Damascus, saying they were all
“healthy.”  “They are all healthy and there is no sign that a number
of them have been martyred,” Mojtaba Ferdowsipour, director of
the Foreign Ministry’s Middle East office, told  Iran ’s state-run
 Al-Alam  news channel in an interview.  Iran is working toward “the rapid release and return of
these citizens to their homeland,” he said in comments
published on the satellite channel’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  