-- Serb Central Bank to Hold Rate as Policy Direction Uncertain
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-08T09:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/serb-central-bank-to-hold-rate-as-policy-direction-uncertain.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate on hold after raising it twice
in the past two months amid uncertainty over policy direction
following changes to central bank law and its management.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will leave the one-
week repurchase rate at 10.25 percent tomorrow, following a
quarter-point rise on July 12, according to 12 of 23 economists
in a Bloomberg  survey . Ten expect a quarter-point increase and
one sees a half-point boost, according to the survey.  Governments across  Europe  have considered easing rates to
help their struggling economies as the euro region slips toward
a recession amid budget-cutting austerity measures and a flare-
up of the debt crisis.  Serbian rate-setters meet tomorrow “at a very unfortunate
moment,” said Ljiljana Grubic, chief analyst at the Belgrade-
based Raiffeisen Banka AD. “It won’t be a surprise if they held
the rate. On the other hand, there’s no time to waste because
too many things are pointing to a need to raise.”  The meeting is held two days after  Standard & Poor’s  cut
Serbia’s credit rating one step to BB-, the third level below
investment grade. S&P cited Serbia’s deteriorating economic
outlook and changes to the central bank law that undermine its
independence. The downgrade sent the dinar to a record low,
prompting the central bank to sell euros and curb its declines,
as months of the dinar weakening begin to weigh on prices.  The dinar has been Europe’s worst-performing currency, with
a 9.5 percent drop against the euro, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It traded at 119.0890 at 10:25 a.m. in Belgrade
today.  Budget Deficit  Serbia is struggling to avoid a second  recession  in three
years after the economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, following a 1.3 percent decline in the three months
through March. The budget deficit will probably top 6 percent of
GDP this year and public debt may widen to 55 percent of GDP by
the end of the year from 42 percent in 2011, S&P said.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  by a
total of 75 basis points to 10.25 percent in June and July, as
price pressures re-emerged and inflation doubled to 5.5 percent
in June from a 30-year low of 2.7 percent in April as the weaker
dinar fuels import prices.  The bank also tightened reserve-requirement rules to drain
liquidity from the market because of depreciation pressures on
the dinar and the government’s expansive fiscal policies. These
changes have sent the budget gap to almost three-quarters of the
full-year target in the first six months through June.  IMF Talks  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s cabinet, sworn in on July 27,
is drawing up a plan to stave off bankruptcy as the fiscal and
current account deficits jeopardize Serbia’s external liquidity.
The main test for the ruling coalition of former  Slobodan Milosevic ’s colleagues is how soon they restore talks with the
 International Monetary Fund , which suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary-loan program in February amid signs the previous
administration was slipping on budget and debt targets.  New central bank governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic said Aug. 6
that Serbia may after all need a loan from the IMF due to its
deteriorated fiscal position. Milica Bisic, an adviser on tax to
the Finance Minister, told NIN magazine that the entirely new
loan agreement is likely to be agreed toward the end of 2012,
when the government adopts next year’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  