-- Simon Property Group Directors Sued Over CEO Pay Increase
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/simon-property-group-directors-sued-over-ceo-pay-increase.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  directors
were accused in a lawsuit by an investor of improperly
increasing Chief Executive Officer  David Simon ’s compensation
last year without seeking shareholder approval.  The board of the largest U.S. shopping-mall owner
wrongfully authorized a compensation package for Simon that
provided $1.25 million annual salary, a cash bonus of double his
salary, and $120 million in special stock awards as an incentive
to stay with the company through 2019, a Louisiana pension fund
claimed in the suit, filed yesterday in  Delaware Chancery Court .  The $120 million retention award “is not tied to the
company’s performance and instead guarantees enormous payments
to Simon simply if he stays employed by the company” for seven
more years, the fund alleged.  Simon, based in Indianapolis, raised its dividend and
increased its full-year forecast for funds from operations last
month, citing increased demand for space from retailers at
regional malls and outlet centers. Earlier this year, Simon
bought a 29 percent stake in European shopping-center operator
Klepierre SA and formed a venture with Rio de Janeiro-based  BR
Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3)  to develop outlet centers in  Brazil .  Les Morris, a spokesman for Simon Property Group, said by
e-mail that the suit is “meritless” and the company will
defend itself against its claims.  The suit comes more than two months after Simon officials
disclosed that 73 percent of the Simon shares voted at the
company’s annual meeting  opposed  the granting of the retention
award to the company’s chief executive.  Say-On-Pay Vote  Simon officials sought to defend the CEO’s compensation
plan prior to the so-called “say-on-pay” vote, noting that
total stockholder returns for the past 10 years were 597 percent
compared with 58 percent for the  S&P 500 .  Simon had been one of the company’s top executives during
that period. Simon, son of the company’s co-founder, has been
CEO since 1995 and chairman since 2007.  The  Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System ,
a Simon shareholder, accused the company’s directors of
exceeding their authority by amending the company’s stock-
incentive plan, created in 1998, without seeking shareholders’
approval.  The plan allowed the board to change its terms unilaterally
unless shareholder approval was “required by law, regulation of
listing requirement,” the pension fund said.  Tax Implications  Since changes to executives’ performance goals under the
plan implicate tax laws, the board was required to have
investors vote of them, the pension fund said.  The investors filed a so-called derivative suit against
Simon’s board, which would return any recovery from insurance
covering the company’s officers and directors to the company’s
coffers.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. Bergstein, CA No. 7764, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  