-- Singapore Trims Growth Forecast on Global Slowdown Risks
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-08-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/singapore-trims-growth-forecast-on-global-slowdown-risks.html
Singapore  cut the upper end of its
economic growth forecast for 2012 as a global slowdown from
 Europe  to  China  weighs on the island’s expansion.  The Southeast Asian country’s  gross domestic product  will
probably rise 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent this year, Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in a televised message yesterday
on the eve of the city state’s National Day. The government
previously predicted growth of 1 percent to 3 percent. The
economy grew 1.7 percent in the first half, he said.  “Europe and the U.S. face serious economic problems,” Lee
said. “ Asia  is doing better than other regions, but China and
 India  are slowing down.”  Policy makers across the world are girding for a deeper
impact from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, with Asian central
banks from China to  South Korea  and the  Philippines  cutting
 interest rates  last month. Singapore remains vulnerable to
fluctuations in overseas orders for manufactured goods even as
the government boosts financial services and tourism, and the
central bank in July warned growth may be below 1 percent should
the global economy worsen significantly.  The island’s GDP probably expanded 0.5 percent in the
second quarter from the first, according to the median estimate
of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Initial government
figures released last month showed a 1.1 percent decline.
Revised data will be released Aug. 10.  Tourism Resilient  “Weak external demand on account of the economic turmoil
in the  euro zone  and the fading growth momentum in the U.S.
continues to weigh on the growth pace of the economy,”  Irvin Seah , a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
said in an e-mail this week. “Though sectors such as the retail
and tourism related services have remained fairly resilient,
growth momentum in sectors such as wholesale trade,
transportation services and financial services are moderating.”  Temasek Holdings Pte, the state-owned  investment company ,
said last month profit declined 16 percent in the fiscal year
through March as contributions from units fell amid the global
slowdown. The benchmark  Straits Times  stock index slipped 4.4
percent in the second quarter.  Singapore will celebrate its 47th year of independence
today with an annual parade of tanks, artillery, fighter jet and
firework displays. Lee’s speech focused mainly on domestic
issues as the country wrestles with rising costs and the
integration of immigrants.  Population Boost  The city has added about 1 million people since the
beginning of 2005 as the government allowed more immigration to
make up for a declining birth rate, angering Singaporeans who
blame the foreigners for crowded transportation, rising home
prices and competition for jobs.  With about 3.3 million citizens and 2 million foreign
residents, the government is under pressure to placate voters
without disrupting the influx of talent and labor that helped
forge the only advanced economy in  Southeast Asia .  “We are managing the inflow to minimize the strains on our
infrastructure and society,” Lee, 60, said in his speech
yesterday. “But Singaporeans must remain confident and open,
and welcome those who will strengthen our team and help us and
our children do better.”  The prime minister pledged the ruling party will change the
way it governs after returning to power in May last year with
the smallest victory since independence.  Ministerial Pay  In the past year, Lee’s government has implemented stricter
policies on foreign workers and cut ministerial pay. The
administration has raised property taxes for non-Singaporeans
and accelerated construction of housing.  In this year’s budget unveiled in February, Lee also made
permanent a program to provide cash, utility rebates and medical
funds for the elderly and low-income households.  “These are not one-off gestures, but a carefully designed
package which lays the basis for stronger safety nets for the
future,” Lee said, referring to the budget measures. “We will
build on these initiatives in a sustainable way. The government
will do more but it cannot do everything.”  Income inequality  in Singapore has risen since 2000. The
average monthly wage for the poorest 10 percent of households
increased by S$250 ($201) to S$1,581 in the decade to 2011,
compared with a S$10,400 jump to S$27,867 for the top 10 percent.  Safety Nets  Last month, Lee announced the restructuring of three
ministries to focus on boosting social safety nets and
communication of government policies.  The prime minister said yesterday he has asked a team of
younger ministers to take a “fresh look” at what the country
needs to do to prepare for the future. The country must review
its policies “more broadly,” particularly on social and
education issues, Lee said.  “Core values such as meritocracy, multi-racialism and
financial prudence cannot change,” he said. “But within these
broad principles, we should review what needs to change and
where we should act more boldly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  