-- Slovenia Debt Rating Cut by Fitch, Joining Moody’s, S&P
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-08-08T16:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/slovenia-debt-rating-cut-by-fitch-joining-moody-s-s-p.html
Slovenia’s debt rating was cut to the
fourth-lowest investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , which said the
country’s banks need more capital as it followed other credit
evaluators that downgraded the country in the past week.  The rating was lowered to A- from A with a negative
outlook, the rating company said today in a statement. That’s
the seventh-highest investment grade and on a par with Poland,
Italy and  Malaysia .  The downgrade follows cuts by Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  last week as Slovenia risks becoming the sixth
euro-region member after Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and
Cyprus to require a rescue. The nation’s biggest banks -- Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d. and
Abanka Vipa d.d. -- rely on the  European Central Bank  for
liquidity.  “The lack of a timely and credible bank recapitalisation
plan continues to put pressure on the rating,” Fitch said.
“The sovereign’s funding conditions have also deteriorated, and
could make it difficult for the government to finance fiscal and
bank recapitalisation requirements.”  Slovenia’s government will probably need to inject 2.8
billion euros ($3.5 billion) of capital into the country’s banks
this year and next, raising state debt to 63 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014 from 47.6 percent in 2011, Fitch
estimates. The government risks further rating downgrades if
it’s unable to provide the financing, Fitch said.  Slovenia’s export-driven economy is on the brink of a
second recession in three years as demand for its goods in
 Europe  fades amid a sovereign-debt and banking crisis. The
economy will probably contract 1.1 percent in 2012, Fitch said.  Moody’s lowered the rating three levels to Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade, and maintained its negative
outlook. S&P cut the rating to A, five steps below the top
investment grade, from A+, on Aug. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  