-- Spain, Italy Ratings Cut at DBRS as Debt Crisis Intensifies
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-08-08T17:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/spain-italy-ratings-cut-at-dbrs-as-debt-crisis-intensifies-1-.html
Spain ’s and Italy’s credit ratings
were downgraded by DBRS Inc., which cited a weakening growth
outlook in the countries and deteriorating funding conditions.  Spain was cut two steps to A (low) from A (high) and Italy
was downgraded one level to A, the Toronto-based company said
today in a statement. Ireland’s grade was confirmed at A (low),
four steps from junk.  Italy faces “persistent stress in market-funding
conditions and rising systemic risks,” and financing conditions
also pose a threat to Spain’s growth outlook, DBRS said. Doubts
about the euro area’s policy response to the crisis contributed
to both downgrades, it said.  DBRS is one of the four companies accepted by the  European
Central Bank  to rate the securities it takes as collateral. The
downgrades add to pressure on Italy and Spain, which are
fighting to avoid needing international rescues as their
borrowing costs have surged to record levels.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose to 6.867 percent today,
compared with 6.86 percent yesterday and a euro-era intraday
record of 7.75 percent on July 25. Italian yields of a similar
maturity declined to 5.897 percent from 5.971 percent yesterday.  Debt Burden  Spain’s debt may rise to 97 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015 if the nation uses the full 100 billion euros
($124 billion) available in Europe’s bailout of Spanish banks,
DBRS said. The ratio was 69 percent last year.  Italy ’s debt-to-
GDP ratio may peak at 123 percent in 2012, compared with 120
percent last year.  “The evolution of debt-to-GDP is most important for the
stability of these ratings,” Fergus McCormick, the New York-
based head of sovereign ratings at DBRS, said in a telephone
interview.  The central bank has suspended the minimum credit-rating
threshold for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  after they applied
for international bailouts, saying policy makers have confidence
in those countries implementing the fiscal reforms they agreed
on.  While Cypriot bonds have become ineligible as collateral in
refinancing operations, the ECB accepts bonds of all other euro
members as long as one company rates them as investment grade.
The other three companies are  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings ,
and Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  