-- Spellbinding Tax Reform That Doesn’t Even Work on Paper
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-08-08T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/spellbinding-tax-reform-that-doesn-t-even-work-on-paper.html
Last week , I wrote about the
nonpartisan Tax Policy Center’s effort to run the numbers on
 Mitt Romney ’s base-broadening, rate-lowering tax reform plan.
The numbers, as you may have guessed, didn’t add up. And that’s
not just a problem for  Romney . It’s a problem for anyone
committed to the idea of tax reform.  As polarized as  Washington  is over tax and budget issues, a
base-broadening, rate-lowering tax-code overhaul has become the
one policy every wonk in town can agree on.  It formed the core of the Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction
plan, as well as the Domenici-Rivlin proposal. It was the
cornerstone of the supercommittee’s failed negotiations. It has
been talked up by Senator  Max Baucus , the top Senate Democrat on
tax issues, and by Representative  Dave Camp , the Republican who
heads the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. Romney,
President  Barack Obama  and House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  have all endorsed the idea. But in being all things to all
kinds of politicians, it might, as the  Tax Policy Center 
convincingly argues, amount to nothing at all.  A bit of explanation is in order. “Base-broadening and
rate-lowering tax reform” involves cutting deductions,
loopholes, and sundry other “tax expenditures” in order to
lower marginal tax rates and/or raise more  revenue . The possible
benefits are many: It reduces complexity in the tax code; offers
policy makers an opportunity to wipe out tax breaks and
giveaways that have outlived their purpose; and permits
politicians to raise taxes even as they look to be cutting them.  Cutting Spending  Perhaps most importantly, it provides cover for Republicans
to end policies that look a lot more like spending than like tax
cuts -- former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  has
argued that tax expenditures should be classified as spending --
and allows Democrats to sell the result as a tax increase. That
makes it a possible way out of the impasse over taxes in
Washington: Perhaps Democrats and Republicans who can’t agree on
what to do with the Bush-era tax cuts can find common ground in
root-and-branch reform of the code.  That’s the hope, anyway. But hope, as they say, isn’t a
plan. And in a study released July 10, four of the  Tax Policy
Center ’s scholars -- Hang Nguyen, James Nunns, Eric Toder and
 Roberton Williams  -- showed just how hard it will be to come up
with a road map for tax reform, even one that doesn’t include
Romney’s implausible targets.  The trouble is that just as tax reform offers a slew of
benefits and political possibilities that simply raising  taxes 
doesn’t, it also presents a slew of technical and political
difficulties that simply raising taxes doesn’t. The  Tax Policy
Center ’s paper points to five of these.  The first is that as you lower rates, the various
deductions and loopholes you are looking to cut become worth
less money. If you cut rates by 20 percent, you wipe out about
20 percent of the value of deductions. That makes it harder to
pay for your tax plan, much less to raise new revenue with it.  The second problem is that it can be politically difficult
to cut tax breaks. If you listen to Democrats, you would think
these benefits mainly accrued to corporate jet owners and  oil
companies . But if you are going to seriously lower rates -- not
to mention raise any revenue -- you’re talking about cutting or
eliminating the deduction for  home-mortgage interest , charitable
contributions, state and local taxes and employer-provided
health insurance. These are, by and large, regressive, but they
are also widely used by the middle class, and exceedingly
popular. And even when you are going after oil companies, those
guys have really good lobbyists, and they are much more
committed to retaining their tax breaks than the rest of the
public is to eliminating them.  Code’s Progressivity  The third problem is that it’s very hard to retain
progressivity in the code while attempting this kind of reform.
That’s what tripped up Romney: His promised cuts for the rich
are simply larger than the tax preferences they currently
receive. But a more reasonable plan that cut rates more modestly
and also raised new  revenue  would probably find itself in
similar trouble quite quickly. And when “ tax reform ” starts
being accurately portrayed as a “middle-class tax hike,” it
stops sounding so sweet to politicians.  The fourth problem is that the bigger the tax reform, the
slower you have to move. Wiping out the mortgage-interest
deduction tomorrow would throw the housing market into chaos.
Ending the tax exclusion for employer-provided health care would
lead to employers dropping coverage for millions of workers.
These kinds of changes will need to be phased in slowly so the
affected sectors have time to plan and adjust. But the more
gradually they take effect, the longer it is until we see the
benefits of tax reform, be they more revenue or a simpler code.  The fifth is that vast swaths of tax expenditures are
essentially off-limits. In 2015, and assuming no changes in
policy, the Tax Policy Center estimates that the  tax code  will
contain $1.5 trillion in deductions, exclusions, loopholes, and
so on. But a third of these will be tax preferences for  saving 
and investing, which Republicans have said they oppose changing.
An additional 10 percent is made up of extremely progressive
policies that help children, the poor and the elderly, and
Democrats will fight like hell to retain these measures. And a
further 17 percent comes from a category of miscellanea, much of
which would be very difficult to change, like the exclusion of
imputed rent on owner-occupied housing.  The closer you look at base-broadening, rate-lowering tax
reform, the less it looks like an exception to the normal rules
of Washington policy making and the more it looks like it will
inevitably fall victim to them. It is clean and elegant when
imagined by technocrats who don’t worry about the politics,
clear and simple when endorsed by politicians who omit the
crucial details, and likely to become polarizing and
disappointing if it is actually taken up by Congress.  Olympians’ Break  Indeed, over the last week we’ve seen how superficial the
commitment to a fairer, flatter tax code really is: Senator
Marco Rubio has proposed, and Obama has endorsed, a new tax
break so  Olympians  won’t pay any taxes on their prize money.  In their conclusion, the study’s authors note that there
isn’t even the barest hint of an agreement between the two
parties as to an acceptable target for revenue, a necessary
first step for tax reform. So we are nowhere near the point
where we can start working out the details of how to broaden the
base and how far to lower the rates. But if we ever get there,
the authors write that those details “might be the most
difficult hurdle of all.”  They are almost certainly correct about that. Which is why
it’s so worrisome that so many in Washington seem to think it
will be easy.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on questions raised by  New
York ’s  charges against Standard Chartered Bank  and on how the
free market can help  control the deer population ;  Caroline Baum 
on  Milton Friedman’s relevance  today;  Michael Kinsley  on  front
lawns and other preposterous ideas ; Laurence Kotlikoff and  Scott
Burns  on the new  $11 trillion rise in U.S. debt ; Caleb Scharf on
how black holes influenced  the evolution of life .  To contact the writer on this article
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 