-- Sprott Power to Acquire Shear Wind for $33.2 Million in Cash
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-08T23:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/sprott-power-to-acquire-shear-wind-for-33-2-million-in-cash.html
Sprott Power Corp. (SPZ) , a Canadian
renewable energy developer, agreed to buy  Shear Wind Inc. (SWX)  for
C$33 million ($33.2 million) in cash to gain its portfolio of
wind power projects.  Sprott will pay 22 Canadian cents a share to acquire all of
Shear Wind’s shares, a price that values it at C$79 million,
Sprott said today in a statement. Holders representing 74
percent of Shear Wind shares intend to vote in favor of the
acquisition, Sprott said.  Shear Wind owns stakes in two operating wind farms in  Nova
Scotia  with total generating capacity of 63.7 megawatts,
including 51 percent of the Glen Dhu project and all of the
Fitzpatrick Mountain wind farm, Sprott said. Shear Wind also has
other projects in various stages of development that may total
860 megawatts of capacity at completion.  The deal is expected to be completed in mid-October, and
Sprott will transfer the operating facilities into a joint
venture with Genera Avante SL, which will increase its stake in
Glen Dhu to 51 percent from 49 percent currently and buy half of
Fitzpatrick Mountain. The development-stage facilities will be
transferred to a separate venture with Wind Canada Investments
Ltd. that will be equally owned by both companies, Sprott said.  Sprott also said it will sell C$30 million of 6.75 percent
convertible unsecured subordinated debentures to a group of
underwriters led by Canaccord Genuity Corp. to partially fund
the acquisition. Each C$1,000 principle amount of debentures
will be convertible into about 796 Sprott shares following the
acquisition at a conversion price of C$1.30 a share.  In addition to the purchase price, Sprott will assume about
C$51 million of Shear Wind’s debt that will be offset by about
C$5 million in cash-on-hand.  Shear Wind fell 11 percent to close at 17 Canadian cents in
Toronto. Sprott was unchanged at the close in Toronto at 98
Canadian cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  