-- Standard Chartered Probe Said to Require Up to $700 Mln
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-08T16:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/standard-chartered-probe-deal-said-to-require-up-to-700-million.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  might be asked
to pay as much as $700 million to resolve money-laundering
allegations filed by New York’s banking superintendent after his
department grew impatient with inaction by federal regulators, a
person familiar with the case said.  Benjamin Lawsky , who heads up New York’s Department of
Financial Services, tried unsuccessfully a few months ago to get
U.S. regulators to punish the London-based bank for conduct
involving disguised Iranian money transfers, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential. The transfers have been under investigation by
federal agencies for more than two years, according to Lawsky’s
Aug. 6 order.  A settlement of $700 million would match the amount that
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside last month after a Senate committee
found the bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals
access to the U.S. financial system. A payment of that sum by
HSBC would be the largest paid by any bank so far.  Other foreign banks that have resolved allegations of
executing wire transfers on behalf of sanctioned nations or
groups include  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and ABN AMRO Group NV. In each of these cases,
the settlements involved joint investigations by regulators.  Bigger Lenders  A large fine and loss of a banking license could result in
 Standard Chartered (2888)  becoming a takeover target for bigger
lenders, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., that want a larger
presence in  emerging markets , Jon Kirk, a partner of financials
research at Redburn Partners LLP, said in a note to clients.  Standard Chartered rose 7.1 percent to 1,315.50 pence at
4:35 p.m. in London trading today.  Lawsky’s decision to move forward alone is unusual, said
Jimmy Gurule, a former Treasury Department undersecretary for
enforcement who now teaches at the University of  Notre Dame  in
South Bend, Indiana.  “In the past six to seven cases involving institutions
violating U.S. sanctions, this is the only one where a regulator
acted unilaterally,” he said.  Lawsky’s agency notified federal and local regulators and
prosecutors about his order, the person familiar with the matter
said.  David Neustadt , a spokesman for the Department of
Financial Services, or DFS, declined to comment on the reasons
for Lawsky’s actions.  ‘Work Together’  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  criticized Lawsky’s
order, saying U.K. authorities would “ask that various
regulatory bodies that are investigating a particular case try
to work together.” London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said a “desire
to root out wrongdoing” shouldn’t “become an excuse for
protectionism.”  On a conference call today, Standard Chartered Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  denied that the bank broke U.S.
anti-money laundering laws, saying it “has always tried to
comply with U.S. sanctions.”  A hearing over whether the bank’s license to operate in New
York should be revoked is slated for Aug. 15. The bank is
represented by attorney H. Rodgin Cohen of New York-based
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, the person familiar with the case said.  Lawsky was willing to break ranks with national regulators
on the  Standard Chartered  probe, including the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, because of
e-mails that surfaced in the investigation, said the person
familiar with the case.  Stripping Out  According to the  order  filed by Lawsky on Aug. 6,
executives at Standard Chartered’s London headquarters adopted a
policy to strip out the names of Iranian entities that needed to
clear U.S. dollar payments from 2001 to 2007, so that U.S. bank
overseers wouldn’t be aware of the Iranian connection.  Lawsky alleged in the order that Standard Chartered
executed 60,000 wire transfers, amounting to $250 billion, on
behalf of Iranian financial institutions during that period.  In its response to Lawsky’s order, the bank said its own
review of those transactions, conducted by Promontory Financial
Group, showed that 99.9 percent of those transfers complied with
existing rules regarding so-called “U-turn” transactions
involving sanctioned nations. Sands said today that none of the
transactions reviewed by the bank were linked to terrorist
organizations.  OFAC  required U.S. banks to identify and filter all dollar-
clearing transactions involving financial institutions operating
in nations facing U.S. sanctions, including Iran -- even if the
transactions were handled by third-party banks.  Terror Organizations  The goal, according to the Treasury, was to prevent U.S.
dollars from being used to finance terrorist organizations and
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  When the head of Standard Chartered’s U.S. unit warned his
superiors in London in 2006 that the bank’s actions could expose
it to “catastrophic reputational damage,” he received a reply
referring to U.S. employees with an obscenity, according to
Lawsky’s order.  “Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we’re
not going to deal with Iranians?” a bank superior in London
said, according to the order.  Standard Chartered’s position appears to be consistent with
the view of the U.S. Treasury Department’s OFAC department.  In order to meet regulatory requirements, the New York
branch executing the transaction wasn’t required to be notified
by the parent that it was doing so on behalf of an Iranian
entity, said  John Sullivan , the Treasury Department spokesman
responsible for terrorism and financial intelligence.  Federal Reserve  Sullivan declined to discuss any further details about the
probe of Standard Chartered.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman
for the  Federal Reserve , declined to comment on Lawsky’s order,
saying only that the central bank has been working with OFAC and
other law enforcement agencies on matters related to Iran and
“other sanctioned entities.”  Standard Chartered is also being investigated by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the  Justice Department  and the
Manhattan District Attorney, the bank said in a statement.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is also reviewing the
wire transfers, said a person familiar with the investigation
who asked not to be identified because the probe is active.  The Treasury Department’s defense of Standard Chartered’s
conduct seemed to puzzle Gurule.  “You’d think the federal government would be defending
national security interests first,” he said. “It appears to be
the state that’s taking the lead to protect the nation’s broader
interests.”  Bank’s Defense  Gurule also questioned the bank’s defense of its conduct as
being in  technical compliance  with the law, given that e-mails
show an apparent effort to disguise the parties involved in the
wire transfers.  “There’s clearly intent to conceal here, which is
inconsistent with the bank’s defense that these transactions
were lawful,” he said.  The allegations against Standard Chartered are the latest
in a series of regulatory transgressions by the New York offices
of British banks.  In 2009, a unit of London-based Lloyds accused of allowing
Iran illegal access to the U.S. financial system agreed to pay
$350 million to settle an investigation by then-Manhattan
District Attorney Robert Morgenthau.  In August 2010, Barclays agreed to pay $298 million to
settle claims it violated trade laws by facilitating
transactions involving banks from countries under U.S. sanctions
including Cuba, Iran, Libya and Sudan.  HSBC, also based on London, last month made its $700
million provision for U.S. fines after a Senate committee
hearing. That sum may increase, CEO  Stuart Gulliver  has said.  Qaddafi Ouster  Standard Chartered’s financial risk might also increase.  Lawsky’s agency, according to the Aug. 6 order, is
investigating wire transfers executed by Standard Chartered’s
New York branch on behalf of other U.S.-sanctioned countries,
including Myanmar and Sudan and Libya, before the ouster of
 Muammar Qaddafi . Resolution of money laundering allegations
regarding those nations may add to the cost of any Iran-related
settlement, the person familiar with the matter said.  The DFS was created in 2011 when New York’s Banking
Department and Insurance Department were abolished, with their
functions and authority transferred to the new regulator, under
Lawsky. The agency has the power to issue regulations,
investigate and fine financial services companies. It may also
probe alleged criminal activity and refer its findings to the
state’s attorney general for prosecution.  Analyst Prediction  Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital
Ltd. who rates the stock a buy, predicted in a note to investors
yesterday that the bank may be fined $1.5 billion by U.S.
regulators, lose about $1 billion of revenue from its Iranian
operation and a further $3 billion in market value if senior
managers quit.  Standard Chartered opened its Iran office in 1993. Ten
years later, the lender said “cross-border trade flows with
markets like Turkey, Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran appear to be
growing and offer potential to us.” The bank stopped all new
business in Iran in May 2007 and pulled out totally in May 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at   mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  