-- Standard Chartered CEO Says ‘No Grounds’ to Revoke License
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-09T14:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/standard-chartered-ceo-sands-rejects-n-y-regulator-s-claims-1-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  hit back at a  New York  regulator’s
claims the bank broke U.S. sanctions, and said he saw “no
grounds” for revoking the lender’s license.  Standard Chartered has tumbled about 16 percent in  London 
trading this week after New York regulator  Benjamin Lawsky 
threatened to strip the London-based bank of its license to
operate in the state, alleging it processed $250 billion of
deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions.  “We reject the position and portrayal of facts by the
Department of Financial Services,” Sands said on a conference
call with reporters yesterday, his first public comments since
the regulator’s  report  on Aug. 6. “It would be disproportionate
and wholly inconsistent with the actions of other U.S.
authorities in other sanctions matters” to revoke the bank’s
New York license, he said.  The dispute is becoming increasingly political. Mayor of
London Boris Johnson yesterday accused New York of seeking to
damage its biggest competitor as a financial center, while  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  criticized the regulator for
failing to co-ordinate with its counterparts.  The stock  rallied  3.7 percent to 1,364.5 pence by 3:07 p.m.
in London, after gaining 7.1 percent yesterday. The shares fell
16.4 percent on Aug. 7.  ‘Very Damaging’  The loss of its New York license would significantly damage
Standard Chartered’s corporate banking model and could result in
a 40 percent drop in earnings, said Chirantan Barua, an analyst
at Sanford Bernstein Research in London. Barua has had an
underperform rating on the stock since at least March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sands, 50, said the probe has been “very damaging” to the
British lender’s brand, and denied that there was anything wrong
with the bank’s culture. He added that none of the transactions
reviewed by the bank were linked to terrorist organizations.  “There are lots of matters in that order that frankly
either we don’t recognize or we don’t understand or are
factually inaccurate,” Sands said, referring to the report.  The  lender  has consulted lawyers and been advised that it
may have a case for claiming reputational damage, the Financial
Times reported today, citing two people it didn’t identify.
Standard Chartered is aware of the sensitivity involved in
taking a militant stance toward its regulator, the paper said.  The bank might be asked to pay as much as $700 million to
resolve  money-laundering  allegations filed by Lawsky, New York’s
banking superintendent, after the Department of Financial
Services grew impatient with inaction by federal regulators, a
person familiar with the case said.  ‘Complete Surprise’  Lawsky tried unsuccessfully a few months ago to get U.S.
regulators to punish the bank for conduct involving disguised
Iranian money transfers, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. The transfers
have been under investigation by federal agencies for more than
two years, according to Lawsky’s statement.  “The order we received from the DFS came as a complete
surprise,” Sands said on the call. “The surprise was in the
manner of the announcement and that the DFS made an announcement
on its own and without giving us prior notice. The resolution of
such matters normally proceeds through a coordinated approach by
the different agencies.”  King yesterday criticized Lawsky’s order, saying at a press
conference that U.K. authorities would “ask that various
regulatory bodies that are investigating a particular case try
to work together.” Johnson used a column for the London-based
Spectator magazine to attack the regulator.  Motivated by Jealousy  “You can’t help wondering whether all this beating up of
British banks and bankers is starting to shade into
protectionism,” he wrote. “And you can’t help thinking it
might actually be at least partly motivated by jealousy of
London’s financial sector -- a simple desire to knock a rival
center.”  There was also friction with the  Federal Reserve  and U.S.
Treasury Department, the Financial Times reported, citing
another person it didn’t identify. The two, and the Justice
Department and Manhattan district attorney’s office, are probing
the bank’s links to  Iran , it said.  “The federal authorities have been quieter because they
understand they have to work this out at international level,
where Lawsky has gone ahead,” Syed Kamall, a U.K. Conservative
member of the European Parliament and member of its Economic and
Finance Committee, said. “And it’s a nice story, Iran-bashing,
at the moment, given the current concerns internationally.”  U-Turn  “This is a case about Iran, money laundering, and national
security,” Lawsky said. “We will continue to work closely with
our law enforcement partners, both federal and state, in this
effort. No bank, big or small, foreign or domestic, is above the
law.”  The investigation is focusing on so-called U-turn
transactions, which could allow an Iranian bank to access the
U.S. banking system indirectly through a third-party bank.  Standard Chartered  hired an external consultant to probe
about 150 million payment transactions conducted between 2001
and 2007, Sands said.  Transactions had to be initiated offshore by banks that
were neither U.S. nor Iranian and only passed through the U.S.
financial system on the way to other non-Iranian, non U.S.
banks. Standard Chartered broke the rules by stripping wire
transfer orders involving its New York branch of any reference
to the involvement of Iranian banks, the regulator said.  Fewer than 300 of the transactions, amounting to about $14
million, weren’t valid U-turns, Sands said yesterday.  ‘Clearly Wrong’  “That is clearly wrong and we’re sorry that those mistakes
occurred,” Sands said. “There was no systematic attempt to
circumvent sanctions.”  The regulator in its report quoted Standard Chartered’s
then executive director of risk as asking “who are you to tell
us, the rest of the world, that we’re not going to deal with
Iranians?”  Sands said the quote was based on an individual’s
recollection of a meeting rather than an e-mail or document.
Finance Director Richard Meddings was executive director of risk
at the time, he said.  “No-one at that meeting claims to have made that
statement, so we don’t believe the quote is accurate,” he said.  A settlement of $700 million would match the amount that
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside last month after a Senate committee
found the bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals
access to the U.S. financial system.  “Despite widespread distaste for the New York State
Department’s conduct, a settlement may yet be seen as
expedient,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
London with a buy rating on the stock. “Any settlement on
broadly the above terms would, relative to alternatives, be
taken with considerable relief by the markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  