-- Starbucks Invests $25 Million in Mobile Payment Provider
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/starbucks-invests-25-million-in-mobile-payment-provider.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the largest coffee-
shop chain, will use Square Inc.’s payment system in 7,000
stores and invest $25 million in the startup, making it easier
for customers to make purchases with mobile phones.  Starbucks Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  will join
the board of Square, which was started in 2009 by Twitter Inc.
co-founder Jack Dorsey. Square’s software lets merchants accept
electronic payments on their own hardware or through a device
that plugs into a phone or tablet.  Starbucks is marrying its own mobile-phone payment program
with Square’s transaction-processing tools, angling to make it
as easy as possible to buy a latte at its U.S. stores. The
investment is part of $200 million in funding that gives San
Francisco-based Square a valuation of $3.25 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  “Every tech company is trying to crack the code and chase
down how to monetize their business in regard to mobile and
mobile payments,” Schultz said in an interview. “It’s the
fastest-growing opportunity we’ve ever seen in terms of customer
acceptance.”  Starbucks already processes more than 1 million mobile
purchases a week in the U.S. through its smartphone app, and has
logged more than 60 million since its introduction, Schultz
said.  Starbucks App  The Seattle-based coffee brewer last year expanded its
mobile-payment programs in the U.S. by offering the Starbucks
application on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The app, which is
also available for  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone, lets users buy coffee
and other items with a Starbucks card by scanning a barcode on
the screen of the phone.  Square’s software will similarly let Starbucks customers
pay by scanning an enabled phone -- only Square will now process
the payments, Dorsey said. Square typically charges merchants a
flat rate of 2.75 percent to process credit-card transactions.  “We’ve always built the company and the technology around
the idea of it being used by an individual all the way up to the
largest organization in the world,” Dorsey said in an
interview. “It should scale effortlessly between that range.”  The market for mobile payments may top $170 billion in
transactions by 2015, compared with about $60 billion last year,
according to Juniper Research Ltd.  Card Reader  Square’s technology lets U.S. businesses handle payments
through Apple’s iPhone or iPad, or through devices running on
Android. The company’s card reader, used by about 2 million
merchants, is available for purchase at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and Apple outlets.  Schultz joins  Mary Meeker , the former Morgan Stanley
technology analyst turned venture capitalist, on Square’s board,
as well as former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  and
venture capitalist Vinod Khosla.  Square is processing about $6 billion in transactions on an
annualized basis, while  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal expects mobile-
payment volume to reach $10 billion this year. PayPal rolled out
a credit-card processor earlier this year that, like Square’s,
plugs into the headphone jack of phone or tablet and charges
merchants 2.7 percent on transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  