-- SunPower Loss Narrows on Residential Solar Leasing Deals
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-08-08T23:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/sunpower-loss-narrows-on-residential-solar-leasing-deals.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the solar-panel
company majority-owned by  Total SA (FP) , narrowed its second-quarter
loss and beat estimates on increasing demand for its residential
power systems. The shares fell after it cut its 2012 sales
forecast.  The net loss narrowed to $84.2 million, or 71 cents a
share, from $147.9 million, or $1.51, a year earlier, the  San
Jose , California-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Earnings excluding costs for some utility and power-plant
projects were 8 cents a share. Analysts had expected an 11-cent
loss, the average of 17  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  With demand for panels for utility-scale solar projects
slowing, SunPower is focusing on consumers. It began offering
solar leases for residential rooftop systems nine months ago,
and the business may generate as much as 25 percent of sales in
a year, Chief Financial Officer Charles Boynton said during a
conference call with analysts yesterday.  “Residential leasing is going to be a significant driver
for SunPower,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Werner  said in an
interview. The company had more than 10,000 lease deals at the
end of the quarter.  With solar leases, SunPower covers the costs of installing
rooftop panels and owns the systems. Homeowners have little or
no upfront costs and make monthly payments to SunPower under
long-term contracts.  The same model has become widely used by solar financing
companies such as SolarCity Corp. and Sunrun Inc., and accounts
for 75 percent of residential projects this year in  California ,
the biggest U.S. solar market by cumulative installations,
according to Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in Houston.  ‘Viable’ Model  “It’s a very viable and real business model, and it’s been
working well,” he said in an interview. “I think it makes
sense” for SunPower.  Sales rose to $595.9 million from $592.3 million. Revenue
for the year will be in a range of $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion,
compared with a May 3 forecast of $2.6 billion to $3 billion.  Slowing demand in  Europe  and the delay until next year of
some large solar projects led the company to rein in its
forecast, Werner said. Prices for solar panels declined 37
percent in the last 12 months to 84 cents a watt and global
installations may fall this year after governments in Europe and
the U.S. trimmed subsidies.  The shares fell 13 percent to $4.10 at 6:51 p.m., after the
close of regular trading in  New York .  By creating a sales channel for its own panels, SunPower is
following a similar path as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest U.S.
solar company. Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar on Aug. 1
reported second-quarter net income that increased 81 percent
from a year earlier after increasing its focus on utility-scale
projects that use its panels.  Residential Investment  The downside of the solar lease model is that it’s capital
intensive, Molchanov said. That may be addressed by an agreement
yesterday with Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, which
will provide financing for $325 million of residential solar
leases.  SunPower’s U.S. residential sales will increase in the
second half of the year, easing the impact of falling prices and
shifting the company to a profit, Ben Kallo, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco , said in an interview.  “We do see strength in the U.S. rooftop market,” Kallo
said. “Sunpower’s relationship with Total, liquidity and” the
Citigroup and Credit Suisse financing “deal should help them
garner market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  