-- SunPower Beats Estimates on Residential Solar Leasing
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-08-08T22:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/sunpower-loss-narrows-as-residential-solar-sales-grow.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the solar-panel maker
majority-owned by  Total SA (FP) , reported a second-quarter loss that
beat estimates on growing sales of residential power systems.
The shares fell after it cut its 2012 sales forecast.  The net loss narrowed to $84.2 million, or 71 cents a
share, from $147.9 million, or $1.51, a year earlier,  San Jose ,
California-based SunPower said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding costs for some utility and power-plant projects were 8
cents a share. Analysts had expected an 11-cent loss, the
average of 17  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  As demand for panels for utility-scale solar projects
slows, SunPower is focusing on homeowners. It began offering
solar leases for consumer rooftop systems nine months ago, and
the business may generate as much as 25 percent of sales in a
year, Chief Financial Officer Charles Boynton said during a
conference call with analysts today.  “Residential leasing is going to be a significant driver
for SunPower,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Werner  said in an
interview today. The company had more than 10,000 lease deals at
the end of the quarter.  With solar leases, SunPower covers the costs of installing
rooftop panels and owns the systems. Homeowners have little or
no upfront costs and make monthly payments to SunPower under
long-term contracts.  The same model has become widely used by solar financing
companies such as Solarcity Corp. and Sunrun Inc., and accounts
for 75 percent of residential projects this year in  California ,
the biggest U.S. solar market by cumulative installations,
according to Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in Houston.  ‘Viable’ Model  “It’s a very viable and real business model, and it’s been
working well,” he said in an interview. “I think it makes
sense” for SunPower.  Sales rose to $595.9 million from $592.3 million. Revenue
for the year will be in a range of $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion,
compared with a May 3 forecast of $2.6 billion to $3 billion.  Slowing demand in  Europe  and the delay until next year of
some large solar projects led the company to rein in its
forecast, Werner said. Prices for solar panels declined 37
percent in the last 12 months to 84 cents a watt and global
installations may fall this year after governments in Europe and
the U.S. trimmed subsidies.  The shares fell 10 percent to $4.20 at 6:19 p.m., after the
close of regular trading in  New York .  By creating a sales channel for its own panels, SunPower is
following a similar path as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest U.S.
solar company. Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar on Aug. 1
reported second-quarter net income that increased 81 percent
from a year earlier after increasing its focus on utility-scale
projects that use its panels.  Residential Investment  The downside of the solar lease model is that it’s capital
intensive, Molchanov said. That may be addressed by an agreement
today with Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, which will
provide financing for $325 million of residential solar leases.  SunPower’s U.S. residential sales will increase in the
second half of the year, easing the impact of falling prices and
shifting the company to a profit, Ben Kallo, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco , said in an interview.  “We do see strength in the U.S. rooftop market,” Kallo
said. “Sunpower’s relationship with Total, liquidity and
today’s deal should help them garner market share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  