-- Swisscom Lowers Full-Year Sales Forecast on Stronger Franc
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-08T10:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/swisscom-second-quarter-profit-drops-less-than-analyst-estimate.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
phone company, lowered its full-year sales forecast after a
stronger franc weighs on revenue from  Italy , while new offerings
and subscribers offset domestic price competition.  Swisscom now sees revenue declining to 11.3 billion francs
($11.6 billion) this year compared with a February prediction of
11.4 billion francs because of the strength of the Swiss
currency, Ueli Dietiker, Swisscom’s chief financial officer,
said on a conference call. The stock declined 1.4 percent to
388.7 francs at 12:10 p.m. in Zurich.  “There is continuing price erosion in the Swiss mobile
market, but we were almost capable to fully compensate this by
the acquisition of new customers,” Swisscom Chief Executive
officer Carsten Schloter said.  Swisscom bought Italian fixed-line operator Fastweb SpA in
2007 to compensate for slowing domestic growth. The Bern-based
operator has suffered from competition in Italy and is the
latest example of a Swiss company hampered by a declining euro
that crimps sales converted into francs. Companies exporting to
the 17-nation currency area, such as  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ,  Roche Holding
AG (ROG)  and  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  have seen revenue hit during Europe’s debt
crisis, which has prompted the  Swiss National Bank  to defend an
exchange rate ceiling.  Franc Ceiling  Switzerland’s central bank has pledged to enforce the franc
ceiling of 1.20 per euro since September to fight deflation and
help exporters. The franc has traded in a range of 1.20 to 1.24
since the cap was imposed, breaching it just once on April 5.  Second-quarter net income declined to 468 million francs
from 485 million francs a year earlier, Swisscom said in a
 statement . Revenue fell 1.4 percent to 2.82 billion francs.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated net income of 464
million francs and sales of 2.83 billion francs.  Swisscom in June started flat-rate mobile and Internet
plans and has launched offerings to counter competition and
declining revenue from traditional calls. “Demand remains
strong for bundled offerings such as Vivo Casa, which combines
fixed-line access with telephony, Internet and TV, or Vivo
Tutto, which also includes a mobile line,” the company said.  Dividend Forecast  Swisscom repeated a  prediction  of 2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 4.4 billion
francs. The operator said that if all 2012 targets are met, it
plans to propose a dividend of 22 francs per share to be paid
next year. Second-quarter Ebitda fell 1 percent to 1.13 billion
francs, or 40.2 percent of sales, compared with 40 percent a
year earlier.  “In principle I am very positive. Swisscom managed to
increase the margin even though sales decreased,” said Michael Inauen, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich.
“Considering that Swisscom rather disappointed in the past, the
good results in the first half 2012 may have led shareholders,”
to sell shares to realize profits.  The shares have gained 9.2 percent this year compared with
a 0.9 percent drop of the 23-member Bloomberg  Europe 
Telecommunications Services Index.  Swisscom’s domestic operations reported a 0.7 percent
decline in revenue. Customer growth and new bundled offerings
have been compensating for falling sales resulting from
competition, pressure on prices and changes in the customer
behavior. Users are increasingly switching from services such as
phone calls and  text messages  to new IP-based applications and
social media platforms, Swisscom has said.  “We expect 80,000 new customers in the bundled products
segment with TV in the second semester,” Schloter said. “On
the whole, we think that customer growth in Switzerland will
considerably surpass the 80,000 in the next six months.”  The customer base at Fastweb grew by 78,000 users to 1.67
million in the first half of the year. Second-quarter net
revenue at the business fell 2.3 percent to 430 million euros
($533 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  