-- U.K. Woos Atomic Cash With Best Rate for Early Investors
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-08-08T09:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-k-woos-atomic-cash-with-best-rate-for-early-investors.html
The U.K. will offer the best
incentives for building nuclear power stations to companies that
pledge their capital first, adding to pressure on utilities such
as  Electricite de France SA  to agree on terms.  Charles Hendry , a government minister overseeing the effort
to overhaul Britain’s aging electricity infrastructure, said
support for nuclear power will be scaled back as the officials
and executives gain experience in developing projects.  “We would expect the first of a kind nuclear reactor to
have higher costs,” Hendry said in an interview at the
Department of Energy and Climate Change in  London  yesterday. As
more reactors are built, “one would expect to get economies
coming through, cheaper reactors coming forward as a result of
going through the learning curve.”  Britain estimates it must attract 200 billion pounds ($312
billion) by 2020 to replace atomic facilities as they retire,
upgrade distribution grids and meet pledges to reduce fossil
fuel emissions. Hendry’s department is locked in talks with EDF
over the price it will pay for nuclear power.  Investment Decision  EDF has said it will make a final investment decision by
the end of the year. The German utilities  RWE AG (RWE)  and  EON AG (EOAN) 
already have withdrawn from the bidding. Hendry said he’s
confident EDF will get what it needs to move ahead and that
other investors are weighing entry into the nuclear program. He
didn’t name them.  The U.K. is trying to encourage private investment without
the help of public subsidies. It has ruled out subsidies for
nuclear power, though the government said in 2010 it may take on
some financial risks or liabilities for new plans. It will cut
back subsidies for renewable energy over time, Henry said.  “Subsidy is not only there to provide long-term support to
investors,” Hendry said. “A downward trajectory is an
important part of that process, making sure the industry focuses
on what needs to be done to bring down costs.”  Government Confident  The comments indicated confidence within Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government that the investment will come through
after a dispute last month between Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  on incentives for
natural gas and renewables. The nuclear industry is pressing
officials for more detail on the structure of support for atomic
power in the U.K.  “It’s the role of the government is to get incentives
right,” said Andrew MacFarlane, technical director for nuclear
at Atkins Global, the U.K.’s biggest engineering consultant.
“These are ultimately commercial decisions.”  Britain gets about 7.9 percent of its energy from nuclear
plants and must replace most of those within the next two
decades. Hendry’s department is changing the way the  electricity
market  works to attract investment in low-carbon power
generators including nuclear stations. Those changes will be
embedded in an Energy Bill due to be introduced into Parliament
by the end of this year and passed sometime in 2013.  EDF Position  Hendry said he isn’t concerned about EDF’s comment last
week that it’s looking for further partners in the British
project, saying that suggests enthusiasm for the industry from a
broader number of companies.  “People have been surprised by the extent of interest,”
Hendry said. “It makes sense for them to see if they can put
forward a new and stronger consortium.”  Hendry said he also expects more companies to come forward
to back the Horizon Nuclear Power program, which would follow
EDF’s decision on building the U.K.’s first nuclear plant since
the 1990s. RWE and EON pulled out of that group.  Wales Reactor  Horizon’s first reactor in north  Wales  could still be built
on schedule in the early 2020s. French reactor builder  Areva SA (AREVA) 
has said it may bid for Horizon together with China’s Guangdong
Nuclear Power Group Co.  “We don’t want to see delays on the Horizon timescale,”
Hendry said as crowds gathered across the street for Olympic
beach volleyball matches. “I feel very confident we will find a
company to take it forward. A consortium coming in now to take
on Horizon will be significantly committed to making that
happen. It is possible that we would end up with a timescale
that’s faster than originally planned.”  EDF and government officials will negotiate the so-called
strike price for new nuclear  power plants  by the end of the
year. To ensure the Paris-based utility makes a final decision
on a new reactor at the Hinkley Point plant, the U.K. must set a
price between 95 pounds ($148) and 105 pounds a megawatt-hour in
2020, double the level power trades at today, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Low-Cost Focus  Nuclear needs to become the lowest cost low-carbon
technology, Hendry said, noting that the government aims to get
support for the offshore wind projects down to 100 pounds a
megawatt-hour. U.K. power for next year traded yesterday day at
47.70 pounds.  Britain is one of just three western European countries
still pursuing plans for new nuclear stations following the
Fukushima disaster last year.  Germany  plans to shut all its
atomic facilities by 2022. Safety enhancements have contributed
to rising nuclear costs, leading to concern U.K. consumers may
pay too much for new reactors.  A survey of eight analysts by Bloomberg News suggested a
new reactor could cost 4.9 billion pounds to 7.5 billion pounds.  “We need to get twice as much investment in the next
decade than we got in the last decade,” Hendry said. “We’re
driven by an absolute obligation to get the investment to keep
the lights on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  