-- Most U.K. Stocks Advance as Standard Chartered, Rio Gain
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-08T16:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-k-stocks-fall-from-four-month-high-before-king-speaks.html
Most U.K. shares rose, with the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  climbing in the final minutes of trading as gains in
stocks including  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc and  Rio Tinto  Group
helped offset the Bank of England’s reduced economic outlook.  Standard Chartered Plc jumped 8.6 percent, rebounding from
yesterday’s selloff, amid speculation the lender may become a
takeover target. Rio Tinto Group rose 2.9 percent after earnings
topped analyst estimates.  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN)  and Serco Group Plc
retreated as analysts downgraded the shares.  The benchmark FTSE 100 rose 4.68 points, or 0.1 percent, to
5,845.92 at the close in  London  for a fourth-day of gains. Of
the gauge’s 101 members, 59 rose, while 39 fell. The index had
fallen as much as 0.7 percent today. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also advanced 0.1 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
added 0.4 percent.  The  Bank of England  reduced its forecast for annual gross-
domestic-product growth to about 2 percent in two years. That
compares with an earlier projection in May of 2.5 percent. It
also sees consumer-price growth at about 1.6 percent by then,
below its 2 percent goal.  “The outlook for U.K. growth remains unusually uncertain,
the BOE said in a statement. “The greatest threat to the
recovery stems from the risk that an effective policy response
is not implemented sufficiently promptly in the euro area.”  The U.K. economy shrank 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
the most in more than three years as the euro-area debt crisis
undermined confidence and curbed demand.  The FTSE 100 has still rebounded  11 percent  from its June 1
low amid optimism that central banks, including the BOE, will
introduce more measures to stimulate growth. The volume of
shares changing hands on the gauge today was 16 percent lower
than the average of the last 30 days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered  rallied 8.6 percent to 1,315.5 pence
after yesterday’s 16 percent selloff. Analysts said the lender,
which is accused of breaching U.S. money-laundering laws, may
receive bids from banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “A large fine and loss of U.S. banking licenses could mark
out the company as a takeover target for others hoping for a
fast track to an otherwise excellent franchise in the  emerging
markets ,” Jon Kirk, a partner of financials research at Redburn
Partners LLP, said in a note to clients on Aug. 7. “JPMorgan is
often highlighted as a potential buyer.”  The shares sank yesterday after the lender was accused of
violating U.S. money laundering laws over its dealings with
Iranian banks. Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands today denied
a  New York  regulator’s claims the lender broke the laws and
challenged the accuracy of the watchdog’s report.  Rio Tinto  Rio Tinto (RIO)  rose 2.9 percent to 3,220 pence after the world’s
third-largest mining company reported a 22 percent drop in
first-half profit to $5.9 billion. That topped the average
analyst estimate of $5.04 billion in a Bloomberg News survey.
Profit was boosted by a deferred tax asset of $1 billion after
the introduction of  Australia ’s Mineral Resource Rent Tax on
July 1.  Smiths Group dropped 3.4 percent to 1,075 pence after Bank
of America Corp. lowered its recommendation for the shares to
underperform from neutral, meaning investors should own less
shares than are represented in indexes.  The company’s “recent outperformance, end-market issues
and an increasing pension deficit are all likely to be near-term
headwinds for the stock,” analysts wrote in a note today.  Serco Group (SRP)  lost 2.2 percent to 579 pence after UBS AG
reduced its rating for the shares to neutral from buy, citing a
“strong run” in the share price this year. The stock had
climbed 25 percent through yesterday.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the parent of
British Airways, was among the biggest decliners as European
carriers dropped, falling 2.1 percent to 153.3 pence.  Airlines fell as Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. tumbled the
most in about three months in  Hong Kong  after posting an
unexpected loss on higher fuel costs, waning premium travel and
a slump in freight.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  fell 2.4 percent to 1,683
pence. The world’s largest provider of hotel rooms surged 6.5
percent to a record high of 1,725 pence yesterday after
announcing a $1 billion share-buyback plan.  Cobham Plc (COB)  tumbled 5.4 percent to 225.7 pence after saying
earnings won’t grow in 2012 and that the outlook for the U.S.
defense market, the world’s biggest, is “particularly
uncertain” this year and next.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Murphy said earnings per share,
adjusted for an asset sale, will be similar to last year in
2012, and that full-year profit growth will be lower than in the
first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  