-- U.S. Structured Note Sales Near Record Lows After Downgrades
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-08-08T17:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-s-structured-note-sales-near-record-lows-after-downgrades.html
Banks sold the second-fewest U.S.
structured notes last month after the largest issuers had their
credit ratings cut in June.  Banks issued $2.28 billion of the securities in July,
compared with $2.16 billion in December, which was the lowest
month since at least the beginning of January 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales last month fell 37 percent
from a year ago.  Moody’s cut the ratings on the 11 largest issuers of U.S.
structured notes on June 21, with Credit Suisse Group AG
dropping the most at three levels to A2, or the sixth-highest
investment grade.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest issuer of
the U.S. securities, fell one level to the second-lowest
investment rank.  “Since the heavy downgrades on the U.S. banks, sales have
slowed down,” Alexandre Ecot, a New York-based director at
Societe Generale SA’s derivatives and structured notes group,
said in a telephone interview.  Moody’s downgraded 15 of the world’s biggest banks and
securities firms on June 21, citing their “significant exposure
to the volatility and risk of outsized losses inherent to
capital markets activities.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which had its rating cut two
levels to A3, issued $101.6 million in five-year notes, the
biggest overall sale in July, Bloomberg data show. Bank of
America, the largest issuer of U.S. structured notes this year,
sold $368 million of the securities last month, its lowest level
since December.  Banks issued $834.1 million of notes tied to the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index, or 36 percent of all sales, the highest level
since at least the beginning of 2010, Bloomberg data show. The
index climbed 1.3 percent for the month, following a 4 percent
rise in June.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 