-- Dow Caps Longest Rise Since June as Hewlett-Packard Gains
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-08T20:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-amid-economic-concern.html
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  rose
a fourth day, the longest gain since June, as a jump in Hewlett-
Packard Co. helped the measure recover from earlier losses.  Hewlett-Packard increased 2.4 percent after raising its
profit forecast and appointing a new head for its enterprise
services unit as it restructures the business.  Dean (DF)  Foods Co.
surged 41 percent as its WhiteWave unit filed to raise $300
million in a U.S. initial public offering.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  slid
1.7 percent amid unchanged July global sales. Priceline.com
Inc., the biggest U.S. online travel agency by market value,
tumbled 17 percent on a disappointing earnings projection.  Seven stocks  fell  for every six rising on U.S. exchanges at
4 p.m.  New York  time. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent to 1,402.22. The Dow average added 7.04 points, or 0.1
percent, to 13,175.64, rallying 2.3 percent in four days. Volume
for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5.8 billion shares,
or about 13 percent below the three-month average.  “People have been particularly surprised with earnings,”
said  David Goerz , the San Francisco-based chief investment
officer at Highmark Capital Management Inc., which oversees
about $17.5 billion of assets. “Profit margins are still very
high and will not fall off a cliff. There’s a tendency for
people to be more inclined to be a buyer than a seller.”  A four-day rally has taken the S&P 500 up almost 10 percent
from a five-month low on June 1. The index is trading above the
average year-end forecast among Wall Street strategists of
1,389. About 73 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported
second-quarter results so far have  beaten  analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve  Earlier today, benchmark gauges fell after Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said adequate economic
stimulus already is in place and that global central banks may
not have the capacity to undertake additional measures to boost
growth. Stocks rose yesterday as Fed Bank of Boston President
 Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should pursue an “open-
ended” easing program of “substantial magnitude.”  “Stimulus can’t hurt, but the problem is that it has less
and less effect,” said Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee
about $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.
“Any argument by policymakers is going to pull the market in
various directions, depending on what they are saying.”  Seven out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose as consumer
staples, health-care and commodity shares had the biggest gains.  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  rallied 2.4 percent, the most in the Dow,
to $19.41. Profit excluding some items in the current period
will be $1, up from a prior projection of 94 cents to 97 cents,
the Palo Alto, California-based company said today.  Dean Foods  Dean Foods surged 41 percent, the biggest gain since it
began trading 16 years ago, to $17.46. The proceeds will be used
to pay down debt at Dallas-based Dean, according to the filing.
Dean said yesterday that it will own at least 80 percent of
WhiteWave’s common stock following the IPO and distribute those
shares to its investors at least 180 days after the offering.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  rose 2.7 percent to $38.01. The owner of its
namesake and Bloomingdale’s department stores reported second-
quarter profit that beat estimates, helped by its credit cards.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  gained 1.4 percent to $50.49. The world’s
largest entertainment company, posted better than expected
third-quarter profit buoyed by the film hit “Marvel’s The
Avengers.” Revenue fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  gained 16 percent to $29.53. The
technology contractor for government and corporate customers
reported profit and revenue that  topped  estimates as its new
chief executive officer works on turning the company around.  Higher Forecast  Express Scripts Holding Co. added 8.4 percent to $60.73.
The largest U.S. processor of drug prescriptions  raised  its
annual profit forecast as gross margins improved following its
April acquisition of Medco Health Solutions Inc.  XL Group Plc (XL)  climbed 6.6 percent to $22.78 after the
insurer’s second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates as
premium revenue increased.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  soared 11 percent to $2.28.
The second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker jumped after second-
quarter sales of solar projects boosted its  cash flow .  New York Times Co. (NYT)  added 6.1 percent to $8.57 after the
newspaper publisher entered talks to sell About.com, aiming to
salvage a portion of its ill-fated bet on the website.  Bloomin’ Brands Inc. (BLMN)  soared 13 percent to $12.41. The owner
of the Outback Steakhouse restaurant chain rallied after raising
$176 million in its U.S. IPO, pricing a reduced number of shares
below the proposed range.  Knight Capital  Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc. climbed 3.3 percent to $3.16,
after tumbling 24 percent over the previous two days. Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce estimated last week’s trading
loss will be $270 million after taxes and told clients the firm
is “in good standing” with clearinghouses.  The  post-tax loss  compares with a previously disclosed
pretax loss of $440 million. The letter comes a week after
Knight, one of the biggest market-making firms in the U.S., was
driven to the brink of bankruptcy after a technology malfunction
spewed orders into the market by mistake.  Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBB)  jumped 5.4 percent to $3.94 after
proposing an IPO for its CyrusOne unit, a data-center operator
it acquired in 2010.  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  advanced 6.4 percent to 50 cents. The
maker of  lithium batteries  signed a $450 million non-binding
financing agreement with China’s Wanxiang Group Corp.  McDonald’s Sales  McDonald’s slumped 1.7 percent to $87.53. Analysts
projected an increase of 2.3 percent, the average of estimates
compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales at domestic locations fell
0.1 percent. Analysts estimated a gain of 2.2 percent.  Priceline tumbled 17 percent to $562.32. Consumers in
 Europe (PCLN)  -- one of the main engines of growth for Priceline -- put
off travel amid an economic crisis there. The company had been
boosting sales in the region after the 2005 acquisition of
Amsterdam-based Booking.com. Results were also dragged down as
the strength of the U.S. dollar eroded the value of overseas
receipts, said Chief Executive Officer Jeffery Boyd.  Rival  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  declined 4.6 percent to $56.14, while
 Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  decreased 26 percent to $3.47.  TripAdvisor
Inc. (TRIP)  retreated 4.9 percent to $36.77.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  declined 8.7 percent to $6.30.
The second-largest U.S. coal producer  lowered  its metallurgical
coal sales forecast for 2012 as steel output declined in Europe
and slowed in China.  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  lost 1.1 percent to $151.35. The
retailer of its namesake brand clothing projected second-quarter
sales that trailed analysts’  estimates .  Rival’s Technology  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  plunged 12 percent to $34.18 after
Starbucks Corp., the largest coffee-shop chain, said it will use
Square Inc.’s rival payment-system technology in 7,000 stores.  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  fell 6.9 percent to $16.54. The
drugmaker specializing in women’s health and dermatology said it
has ended efforts to find a buyer for the  company .  The  S&P 500  is in a “make-or-break situation” that will
probably lead to either large gains or losses for the benchmark
U.S. stocks gauge, according to technical analysts at UBS AG.  After climbing through the 1,390 level, the S&P 500 may
test the highs reached in March and May, Michael Riesner and
Marc Mueller wrote in a note dated yesterday. A drop below 1,325
would indicate a retreat to the early-June low of 1,266.  Investors should watch the flow of money into defensive
stocks, whose earnings are less dependent on economic growth,
and cyclicals, which are more tied to the economy, for signs of
future moves in the S&P 500, the analysts said.  “The U.S. market remains in a classic make-or-break
situation, where a breakout and a subsequent trend move
shouldn’t be too far away,” they wrote. “Either the market is
able to start a new momentum impulse -- and for this we would
need to see a  rotation  on the sector basis, from defensives into
financials or cyclicals -- or the  S&P 500 (SPX)  will very soon get a
breadth problem, when defensives are starting to pull back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  