-- U.S. Treasury Confirms Probe of Standard Chartered
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-08-08T22:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-s-treasury-confirms-probe-of-standard-chartered.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department  said its
Office of Foreign Assets Control is investigating  Standard
Chartered  Plc for “potential Iran-related violations as well as
a broader set of potential sanctions violations.”  OFAC, as the office is commonly referred to, “will
continue to implement and enforce our sanctions vigorously,”
Adam Szubin, the office’s director, said today in a letter to
Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar at the U.K. Treasury.
Szubin said OFAC will coordinate with “other federal and state
agencies,” including the New York State Department of Financial
Services. OFAC enforces economic and trade punishments.  Standard Chartered might be asked to pay as much as $700
million to resolve money-laundering allegations filed by the
head of the New York agency after his department grew impatient
with inaction by federal regulators, a person familiar with the
case said.  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the state’s financial
services department, tried unsuccessfully a few months ago to
get U.S. regulators to punish the London-based bank for conduct
involving disguised Iranian money transfers, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential. The transfers have been under investigation by
federal agencies for more than two years, according to Lawsky’s
Aug. 6 order.  CEO Sands  Standard Chartered Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands 
criticized Lawsky’s claims.  “We reject the position and portrayal of facts by the
Department of Financial Services,” Sands said on a conference
call with reporters today, his first public comments since the
findings were published. “It would be disproportionate and
wholly inconsistent with the actions of other U.S. authorities
in other sanctions matters” to revoke the bank’s  New York 
license, he said.  Lawsky has threatened to strip the bank of its license to
operate in the state, alleging it processed $250 billion of
deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions.  The OFAC director’s letter to the U.K. Treasury was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at  