-- U.S. Indicts 16 in Alleged Pannsylvania Gambling Ring
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-08T17:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-s-indicts-16-in-alleged-pannsylvania-gambling-ring.html
Federal authorities indicted
16 people in an alleged  Pennsylvania  sports-betting ring through
which more than 1,000 bettors used phones and the Internet for
gambling.  Those indicted for conspiracy and conducting an illegal
gambling business were members of the Mastronardo Bookmaking
Organization, prosecutors said. The organization, headed by
Joseph Vito Mastronardo Jr., operated on the websites
www.betroma.com and www.betrose.com, prosecutors said today in a
statement.  “This alleged racketeering operation was anchored in
Montgomery County, but had tentacles spreading across the U.S.
and beyond,” District Attorney Risa Ferman of Montgomery County
said in the statement. “Today’s indictment reflects the work of
many law enforcement agents across multiple agencies. These
defendants tried to ‘game’ the system. Today they crapped out.”  Those accused used Costa Rican residents to staff Internet
and telephone sites allowing bettors to wager on football,
baseball and other sports from Jan. 1, 2005, to Jan. 1, 2011,
according to the 23-count indictment. The government asked for
forfeiture of more than $6.3 million as alleged proceeds of the
illegal enterprise.  Mastronardo, 62, of Meadowbrook, Pennsylvania, is charged
with racketeering conspiracy, illegal gambling, money laundering
conspiracy and transmission of wagering information, prosecutors
said.  His wife, Joanna, was charged only with structuring
transactions to evade reporting requirements. Prosecutors said
she made 72 deposits in a year of less than $10,000. Financial
institutions are required to report deposits of more than
$10,000 to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Joanna Mastronardo is the daughter of the late ex-
Philadelphia Mayor Frank Rizzo.  All but one of those charged are in custody, according to
the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Mastronardo, 12-00388, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 