-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Close to 5-Week High Before Note Auction
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-08T15:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/u-s-10-year-yield-close-to-5-week-high-before-note-auction.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
at almost the highest level in five weeks as the U.S. prepared
to sell $24 billion of the securities, the second of three note
and bond auctions this week totaling $72 billion.  Treasuries  rose  earlier amid concern  Greece  will need more
support from European Union leaders after  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the nation’s credit-rating outlook. Separate reports showed
German exports and industrial production dropped, boosting
demand for  U.S. debt  as a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  “The only thing driving the market is the 10-year
auction,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at
Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “If the 10-year
gets to 1.65 percent, it will draw some interest.”  The 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.63 percent at
11:41 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 fell 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/32. The yield increased
to 1.64 percent yesterday, the highest level since July 2.  Treasuries have returned 2 percent this year as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a
9.7 percent gain in the period including reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Buys  The Fed bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries due from February
2036 to May 2042 today, with according to the Fed Bank of New
York  website .  The central bank received $5.901 billion in offers to sell
bonds, or $3.03 for every dollar of debt it sold. The Fed’s Aug.
6 purchase of $4.646 billion of debt maturing from August 2020
to May 2022 attracted $2.51 in bids for each dollar of debt.  The purchases are part of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan
to contain borrowing costs by swapping short-term Treasuries in
the central bank’s holdings for longer maturities. The Fed is
swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-
dated debt to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing
costs.  “The more people wanting to sell bonds indicate that
people think the market is a little toppy,” or at a high in
price, said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12 billion as head
of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth
Management unit in New York.  Note Sale  The 10-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 1.67
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with the record low of
1.459 percent set at the previous auction on July 11.  Investors  bid  for 3.61 times the amount of debt offered
last month, the second-highest level according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that go back to 1993.  Direct bidders  buying for their own accounts purchased a
record 45.4 percent of the notes, based on data back to 2003.
Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 40.6 percent of the debt.  Should weak demand drive the current 10-year note’s yield
above the resistance point of 1.62 percent, the next level at
which buy orders are thought to be clustered is 1.70 percent,
 Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate strategist at
primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in New
York, wrote in a note to clients today.  Europe’s Outlook  If the auction pushes yields below the 1.56 percent level,
the next area where sell orders may be congregated is 1.48
percent, Cloherty wrote.  S&P lowered its outlook on Greece’s debt to negative from
stable, which means it is more inclined to reduce its ranking
for the nation. The government may fail to make the budget cuts
required to receive its next aid payment from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , the rating company said
yesterday in a statement. Greece is ranked CCC by S&P, or eight
levels below investment grade.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, dropped 1.5 percent in June from May, when they jumped
4.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in Wiesbaden.
Industrial production fell 0.9 percent from May, when it gained
1.7 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said in Berlin.  Treasuries briefly extended gains after the  Bank of England 
reduced its growth forecast and said inflation will be below its
target in two years as the euro-area crisis and the U.K. fiscal
squeeze weigh on demand.  Economic Downgrade  The U.K. central bank sees annual gross-domestic-product
growth of about 2 percent in two years, compared with a
projection in May of 2.5 percent. It sees consumer-price growth
at about 1.6 percent by then, below its 2 percent goal.  Treasury trading volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , averaged $197
billion in the two previous trading days this week, compared
with an average of $253.2 billion last week. Trading has
averaged $240.7 billion this year.  “Volumes are down,” said Guy Haselmann, an interest-rate
strategist at primary dealer Bank of  Nova Scotia  in  New York .
“People are prepared to act, but only when they know what
they’re really responding to. They just don’t want to get caught
up in the illiquidity and noise of the summer marketplace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  