-- UBS Bid-Rigging Defendant Was ‘Idiot,’ Witness Tells Jury
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-08T22:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/ubs-bid-rigging-defendant-was-idiot-ex-colleague-tells-jury.html
A key government witness against
three former  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal-bond executives in a bid-rigging
trial called one of the defendants an “idiot” and was asked
today whether he disliked him so much that he put photos of
tortured cats on his desk.  Mark Zaino, a former employee on the bond desk at UBS’s New
York office, told the jury today that while he had joked with
one of the defendants, Michael Welty, about cats, he didn’t
remember placing specific images on Welty’s desk.  Zaino testified for the sixth day in  Manhattan  federal
court in a criminal trial against Peter Ghavami, the former head
of Zurich-based UBS’s municipal derivatives group, Welty and
Garry Heinz, who were both vice presidents and municipal
reinvestment marketers. The three are charged with conspiracy to
defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing prices on investing agreements.  Gregory L. Poe, a lawyer for Welty, questioned Zaino about
how he felt about his former co-worker.  “You didn’t like Mr. Welty, did you?” Poe said. “You
regarded him as very limited?”  Zaino said “at times” he thought Welty was an “idiot,”
and that he thought Welty had limited technical abilities.  Later, Poe asked Zaino about testimony he gave earlier in
the week alleging that Welty had improperly tipped off some
bidders to ensure they won certain municipal bond deals.  The jury had heard audio recordings during Zaino’s earlier
testimony of phone calls in which Welty asked bidders for their
“indications” and told them when their suggested amount was
significantly higher or lower than other bids received.  Feeling ‘Burned’  “It was perfectly appropriate to tell someone they’re wide
or out of line, right?” Poe asked. A bidder “who made a
mistake and was forced to accept the bid felt burned, right?”  Zaino said a bidder might stop working with a particular
agent if the bidder felt the agent allowed him to submit an out-
of-line bid. He said the “primary reason” he would let someone
lower a bid was when he thought the bidder made a mistake.  Zaino, who pleaded guilty to three criminal counts in 2010,
faces as long as 35 years in prison and is cooperating in a bid
for a shorter sentence.  Charles Stillman , an attorney for Ghavami, wrapped up the
cross-examination this afternoon with questions aimed to show
that Zaino, and not Ghavami, was the driving force behind rigged
deals.  ‘Plan to Steer’  “You approached Peter Ghavami over here with a plan to
steer this to Doug Campbell” at  Bank of America  Corp., Stillman
asked Zaino, and Zaino confirmed.  Jurors were shown an e-mail Campbell sent to Zaino thanking
him and Ghavami for a breakfast meeting and asking about a
transaction Zaino has testified the group rigged. Zaino
forwarded the e-mail to Ghavami, leaving only the “thank you”
in the message, and removed the reference to the bond deal.  “Before you forwarded it, you altered it,” Stillman said.
“You eliminated the sentence that referred to the Massachusetts
transaction.”  Prosecutors began their re-examination of Zaino after
Stillman concluded. Zaino is scheduled to continue testifying
tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  