-- Lundbeck in Talks With Possible Alzheimer’s Drug Partners
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-08-08T16:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/lundbeck-in-talks-with-possible-alzheimer-s-drug-partners.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest drugmaker, is in talks with several potential
partners to help develop a treatment for Alzheimer’s disease,
Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg said.  The company, which released results from a mid-stage study
on the AE58054 drug in May, will start late-stage trials as
early as the end of 2012, Wiinberg said today.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Johnson & Johnson’s announcement this week that they were ending
development of their failed bapineuzumab Alzheimer’s drug may
benefit Copenhagen-based Lundbeck.  “The goal of bapineuzumab was disease modification, and
that’s obviously very attractive, but now with the results that
we have announced, this may be one of the lead compounds in
Alzheimer’s development,” Wiinberg said in a phone interview.
Lundbeck has encountered “a lot of companies being very
interested, and now we are having discussions.”  Unlike bapineuzumab, which was aimed at slowing progression
of the disease, AE58054 targets 5-HT6 receptors in the areas of
the brain associated with cognition, resulting in increased
concentrations of chemicals that aid learning and memory
processes. About 18 million people worldwide have  Alzheimer’s
disease , and the population may almost double to 34 million by
2025, according to the  World Health Organization .  Improved Cognition  Statistically significant improvement in cognition was
observed in the mid-stage study, in which 278 patients with
Alzheimer’s disease took AE58054 in combination with donepezil,
a generic version of  Eisai Co. (4523) ’s Aricept, for 24 weeks.  Lundbeck dropped 6.3 percent, the most in a year, to close
at 111 kroner in Copenhagen, after the company published second-
quarter profit and revenue that missed analyst estimates. The
drugmaker  expects  full-year revenue to be in the lower end of
its forecast range of 14.5 billion kroner ($2.4 billion) to 15.2
billion kroner because of increasing pressure from health-care
reforms in  Europe , Lundbeck said today.  While U.S. sales of Lundbeck’s best-selling Lexapro
antidepressant plunged 75 percent in the second quarter after
the drug’s patent expired, the company has introduced three
products in the last year and plans five more over the next 18
months, Wiinberg said.  “We remain bullish given one of the broadest late-stage
pipelines,” Jefferies International Ltd. analyst Peter Welford
said in a note to investors today.  New Antidepressant  As a follow-up to Lexapro, Lundbeck is developing a new
antidepressant, Vortioxetine, which it will submit to U.S. and
European regulators by the end of this year. Sales of the drug
may exceed $1 billion, Welford said.  The company is also awaiting approval of Selincro, which
may become the first new anti-alcoholism treatment in more than
15 years.  European Union antitrust regulators said last month they
sent Lundbeck a complaint over agreements with drugmakers that
may have held back sales of cheaper generic versions of its
antidepressant citalopram.  “Anything the commission says we take very seriously,”
Wiinberg said. Still, “we don’t think we’ve done anything
wrong.”  Lundbeck is preparing a response that will be submitted
over the next few months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  