-- Upstart Offers Dartmouth, Michigan Entrepreneurs Startup Funding
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/upstart-offers-dartmouth-michigan-entrepreneurs-startup-funding.html
Upstart, a company founded this year
by a former  Google Inc. (GOOG)  executive, is unveiling a crowdfunding
service to help college graduates pursue their entrepreneurial
dreams.  With Upstart, graduates in just about any field can raise
capital for a business in exchange for giving up a small share
of their income over 10 years, Bloomberg.com reported on its
Tech Deals blog. The idea is to give graduates a real shot at
starting a company and not just take a traditional job to pay
off  student loans .  “I think it can be giant,” said Dave Girouard, the
founder of Upstart and former vice president of applications  at
Google. “It’s a whole new form of risk capital.”  With Upstart, a student creates a profile that includes
achievements and goals. The student then chooses the funding
amount, and Upstart calculates the percent of income the student
will have to share during repayment. There is no repayment in
years when income is less than $30,000. Backers can commit funds
in increments of $1,000. Mentoring and support are also
provided.  The company will make its platform available in September
to students and recent graduates of  Arizona  State University,
Dartmouth College,  Rhode Island School of Design ,  University of
Michigan  and University of Washington.  College graduates just need some help to get on the path to
becoming a business owner, Girouard said.  “They want to kind of do their own thing but most of our
economy is not geared to help that,” he said.  Upstart’s backers include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
New Enterprise Associates Inc., First Round Capital, CrunchFund
and  Mark Cuban , owner of the Dallas Mavericks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  