-- Turkish Lira Weakens Second Day After Industrial Output Shrinks
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-08-08T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/turkish-lira-weakens-second-day-after-industrial-output-shrinks.html
The lira weakened for a second day
after a contraction in industrial production boosted speculation
the central bank will ease monetary policy to stimulate  Turkey ’s
economy which shrank in the first quarter.  The currency fell less than 0.1 percent to 1.7873 per
dollar at 5:03 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest on a closing basis
since Aug. 2. It has strengthened 5.8 percent this year, second-
most after the Hungarian forint, among 10 currencies Bloomberg
tracks in eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . Yields on
two-year benchmark bonds rose for a third day, advancing three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.73 percent, the
highest since July 30.  Turkey’s industrial production contracted 2 percent in June
over the previous month on a seasonally-adjusted basis, the
first time since January, the statistics office in Ankara said
on its website today.  Annual output  grew 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, lagging the 2.8 percent median estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Adjusted gross domestic
product fell 0.4 percent in the first quarter, the first time
since March 2009.  “The data supports expectations of monetary easing from
the central bank in the coming period,” Tunca Alp, head of
trading at Sekerbank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkey’s central bank has reduced the  average borrowing
cost  to 6.84 percent, the lowest since November 2011, by lending
at its lowest 5.75 percent funding rate in its daily repurchase
agreements auction since June 4. The  inflation  rate fell 0.23
percent in July, the statistics office said Aug. 3, beating the
0.18 percent median forecast of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg and paving way for the central bank to ease policy.  Rate Cut  “We believe that the central bank will cut  interest rates 
because it will favor economic acceleration,” Bora Tamer Yilmaz, a vice president at Halk Securities in Istanbul, said in
e-mailed comments.  Currency forwards show the Turkish currency will weaken to
1.83 per dollar in the fourth quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark debt yields jumped 18 basis points yesterday, the
most since Feb. 27 as Turkey is scheduled to sell 16 billion
liras of fixed-income securities in August, more than double the
total for the previous two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  