-- Storm Weakens After Making Landfall in Mexico’s Yucatan
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-08-08T09:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/hurricane-ernesto-makes-landfall-in-yucatan-center-says-1-.html
Ernesto, the second hurricane of the
Atlantic season, weakened to tropical storm strength as it moved
over  Mexico ’s Yucatan peninsula, the  National Hurricane Center 
said. It’s forecast to cross into the Bay of Campeche later
today and may regain hurricane status over warmer waters.  Ernesto was 55 miles (85 kilometers) west-northwest of
Chetumal, Mexico, moving west at 15 miles per hour, the Miami-
based center said in a 4 a.m. Central time  advisor y. The rain-
laden storm packed 70 mph winds, down from 85 mph at landfall,
the NHC said. A Category 1 hurricane on the five-step  Saffir-
Simpson  scale starts at 74 mph.  Mexico’s state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex, has
wells in the Bay of Campeche that may be shut because of the
storm, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in  Pennsylvania . Mexico, the third-largest oil
exporter to the U.S., supplied 1.05 million barrels a day of
crude in the week ended July 27, Energy Department data show.  “This is not a very strong system,” Rouiller said
yesterday. “I don’t anticipate much damage at all to the
Mexican rigs.”  Hurricane warnings were posted for Barra de Nautla to
Coatzacoalcos. As much as 12 inches (30 centimeters) of rain may
fall over the Yucatan including Belize and northern  Guatemala ,
creating life-threatening flash floods and mudslides, the center
said.  Bay of Campeche  Some computer models predict Ernesto may cross the
mountains of Mexico and re-form in the Pacific. The hurricane
center said it wasn’t ready to forecast that “unusual event.”  Its forecast track shows the storm in the southern Bay of
Campeche later today and tomorrow, moving west, making landfall
in Mexico’s south tomorrow night perhaps at hurricane status,
weakening to a tropical storm and depression status once inland.  In the Pacific off Mexico, Tropical Storm Gilma was nearing
hurricane strength with 70 mph, the center also said. It was 645
miles southwest of the southern tip of  Baja California  moving
west and no danger to land, the NHC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  