-- US Airways Seeks Merger Redemption in AMR After Failures
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-08T21:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/us-airways-seeks-merger-redemption-in-amr-after-failures.html
Doug Parker was snubbed three times
as a merger partner in deal-making that produced the world’s
biggest airlines. Taking over  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  may be his last chance
to break into the top tier of U.S. carriers.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ’s chief executive officer engineered
the 2005 merger creating the company in its current form,
ushering in a round of consolidation that reshaped the industry.
With fewer competitors, the largest carriers have mostly stayed
profitable even with higher fuel prices.  Now, AMR’s bankruptcy gives him an opening to orchestrate a
deal to vault  US Airways  past its rivals to claim the No. 1 spot
in global traffic. Falling short again would leave the Tempe,
Arizona-based airline mired in fifth place among U.S. peers,
with few prospects to improve that status.  “What history proves in this industry is jogging in place
normally results in road kill,” said Jeff Kauffman, a  Sterne
Agee  & Leach Inc. analyst in  New York . “I think Doug recognizes
that very well.”  With AMR’s  American Airlines  resisting a merger and holding
exclusive rights until year’s end to submit a formal
restructuring plan, the 50-year-old CEO is wooing labor groups
and bondholders at his intended target.  Labor Signal  American’s pilots rejected the airline’s final contract
offer today, a “strong statement” that the union favors a
merger with US Airways, according to Fred Lowrance, an Avondale
Partners LLC analyst in Nashville,  Tennessee . Mechanics and
stock clerks ratified a new labor agreement.  Parker got a labor boost of his own today when US Airways
flight attendants reached a contract agreement to unify the
workforce, almost seven years after the merger between the
former US Airways and America West Holdings Corp. Attendants
from the predecessor carriers had been under separate accords.  While Parker has said US Airways doesn’t need to combine to
be successful, he also confronts weaknesses that only a merger
can remedy. His largest competitors have trans-Pacific routes,
hubs in the four largest U.S. metro areas and leading roles in
their airline alliances. US Airways doesn’t have any of those.  “They can survive, but I don’t think his goal is just to
survive. It’s to flourish,” said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan &
Co. analyst in New York who has a buy rating on US Airways.
“That’d be structurally difficult for them to do.”  Bigger Rivals  Parker’s chief competitors are all larger, thanks to
mergers that eluded him. A bid to acquire  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
in bankruptcy failed in 2007. The next year, Delta bought
Northwest Airlines Corp. and became the world’s biggest carrier.  Talks with  United Airlines  in 2008 and 2010 collapsed, with
the second go-round followed days later by United’s agreement to
merge with Continental Airlines Inc. to take the top spot in the
industry.  Jeff Smisek , then Continental’s CEO and now chief of
the combined  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , said he swooped
in because he didn’t want United to “marry the ugly girl.”  Optimism about Parker’s AMR prospects has helped US Airways
more than double this year, to $10.40 today, leading gains among
U.S. airlines. AMR’s 6.25 percent convertible notes due October
2014 have more than tripled to 63 cents on the dollar since the
company’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  Delta Lessons  Parker’s and President Scott Kirby’s pursuit of Fort Worth,
Texas-based American relies on lessons learned from their Delta
effort. They marshaled union and bondholder support early
instead of opening with a hostile approach. And they will need
that backing because AMR, like Delta, is fighting back.  “American is not going to determine its strategic future
based on the urgent need of another company to make a deal,”
CEO  Tom Horton  said in a July 19 interview. “It was unfortunate
that US Airways sought to disrupt our restructuring.”  Parker, a former co-worker of Horton’s at American,
declined to be interviewed. The history he seeks to repeat is
his success in putting together the airline he now runs.  He became America West CEO 10 days before the Sept. 11
attacks in 2001. In 2005, he took over the larger US Airways,
which had filed for bankruptcy twice in two years. He helped
garner almost $1.57 billion in financing from a group that
included Airbus SAS,  ACE Aviation Holdings Inc. (ACE)  and PAR Capital
Management Inc.  US Airways has trimmed operating costs to stay profitable
at its hubs in Philadelphia, Phoenix and Charlotte, North
Carolina. Parker led US Airways to record second-quarter profit
of $321 million, excluding some costs, and an 8.6 percent pretax
margin that beat United, Delta and AMR.  ‘Difficult Hand’  “He’s played a difficult hand pretty well,” said  Philip Baggaley , a  Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst in New York. “He
started with America West, which was a small low-cost carrier
without a great future, and combined that with US Airways, which
was headed for liquidation. Over time, he’s built that into a
pretty profitable carrier.”  That still hasn’t been enough to reward long-term
investors. Since the 2005 bankruptcy exit and America West
merger, US Airways’ shares have  tumbled 48 percent , exceeding
the 37 percent drop in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. Jet
fuel has risen 37 percent in that span.  A US Airways-American combination would pass United as the
world’s biggest airline by traffic. Delta is No. 2. American is
in third place in the U.S., followed by  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,
which bought AirTran Holdings Inc. in 2011.  ‘Equal Footprint’  “Size matters, and the ability to put an extra three
passengers on a plane can make a difference between making and
losing money,” said Sterne Agee’s Kauffman, who has an
outperform  rating  on US Airways. “I’d rather be a carrier of
equivalent size to the big guys in the business with an equal
footprint than a distant No. 3 or No. 5.”  Parker wants to merge with AMR, which has run up four
straight  annual losses , while it’s in Chapter 11. An airline in
court protection can void or rework contracts for jet leases,
facilities and services, and redo union accords to cut the labor
expenses that vie with fuel as the industry’s biggest cost.  He has said he would keep the American name, following his
pattern in the US Airways deal, and hubs that include New York,
 Chicago ,  Los Angeles  and Dallas-Fort Worth. That would shore up
a US Airways network reaching fewer corporate fliers willing to
pay the highest fares.  Shifting to AMR’s Oneworld airline marketing group also
would let Parker work with partners from a position of strength.
US Airways was excluded when fellow Star Alliance members
United,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Air Canada won an antitrust
exemption in 2009 to coordinate trans-Atlantic flights.  ‘Problem Growing’  “US Airways would have a problem growing much other than
maybe a few long, thin routes from their hubs overseas using
newer long-range planes,” S&P’s Baggaley said. “They need more
access to big domestic markets and to faster-growing regions
across the Pacific and in Latin America.”  Missing out on AMR still would leave Parker with a legacy
of being among the first airline executives to recognize, and
act on, the need for fewer carriers and tighter controls on
expansion, Wolfe Trahan’s Keay said.  “I don’t think by any stretch of the imagination that if
he doesn’t execute a merger, he’ll look back on his career with
any remorse,” Keay said. “History may prove he, in fact, was
probably the single most important agent of change in this
industry post-deregulation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  