-- Verisk Says Build It Once, Sell It Many Times After Deal
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-08-08T20:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/verisk-says-build-it-once-sell-it-many-times-after-deal.html
Verisk Analytics Inc. (VRSK)  said its $425
million deal to buy a credit-card data firm is another bet on a
business that will gain from scale as clients increasingly rely
on billions of records to improve underwriting.  The insurance-data firm said yesterday that it would buy
Argus Information & Advisory Services LLC, which has records on
more than 1.3 billion card accounts and logs about 4.5 billion
transactions a month. The closely held company gathers data from
19 of the 20 largest U.S. credit-card issuers and balance
information from retail banks holding about 30 percent of the
nation’s deposits.  Insurers turn to Verisk for industrywide claims trends to
help price their products and improve profit. The Argus
transaction adds to  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Verisk’s
ability to serve bank clients through a business model that
relies on being a central depository for credit-card data.  “Philosophically and culturally, this business is very
consistent with the way we think about value,” Scott Stephenson, Verisk’s chief operating officer, said on a
conference call today. “Build it once. Sell it many times.”  Verisk already serves banks by providing mortgage records,
and said it expects to benefit through Argus from growth in the
payments market as consumers switch to debit and credit cards
from cash and checks. Card issuers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are seeking to limit defaults after
suffering losses stemming from the U.S. recession.  Share Rally  Verisk climbed 3.9 percent to $48.96 at 4 p.m. in New York.
The data provider has more than doubled since its 2009 initial
public offering and counts  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  as an  investor . The company was co-owned by insurers
including Berkshire, Travelers Cos. and  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  before it was publicly traded.  “Given management’s strong track record and what we
understand to be Argus’ large and growing market opportunity, we
are cautiously optimistic that the transaction will enhance
Verisk’s growth profile and return potential,” Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts led by Kelly Flynn said in a note to clients.  Verisk plans to tap its bank line and use cash on hand to
fund the deal for  White Plains , New York-based Argus, according
to a statement yesterday. The firm will “moderate or pause”
share repurchases this year as the company weighs other
opportunities for its cash, including possible acquisitions,
Chief Financial Officer Mark Anquillare said on the call.  The data provider bought back $68.1 million in stock in the
three months ended June 30 and had about $200 million remaining
under its existing repurchase authorization, according to a
statement last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in New York at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  