-- Wasendorf Receiver Gains Right to Cash in Life Insurance
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-08T16:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/wasendorf-receiver-gains-right-to-cash-in-life-insurance.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr.’s court-
appointed receiver won permission from a federal judge to begin
liquidating the Peregrine Financial Group Inc. founder’s assets,
starting with a  life insurance  policy and a jet plane.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in  Chicago  granted
receiver Michael Eidelman’s request after a hearing today.
Eidelman was appointed last month after the federal Commodity
Futures Trading Commission sued Wasendorf and his commodities
firm for allegedly misappropriating more than $200 million in
client money.  The universal life insurance policy, obtained in 2004, has
a cash surrender value of almost $1.3 million, Eidelman’s
attorney, Randall Lending, told the judge. Wasendorf’s Hawker
Beechcraft Inc. 400A jet, though valued at about $3.2 million,
is encumbered by a $4.3 million Cesna Finance Corp. lien.  The plane will probably be surrendered to Cesna Finance or
to Family Air LLC, Lending said in court papers. Lending told
the judge there may be a looming dispute between the receiver
and a Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee appointed to liquidate
Peregrine over the fate of the insurance proceeds because that
policy may have been bought with Peregrine money.  “We will deal with that issue later,” Lending said.  CFTC Case  Lawyers for bankruptcy trustee Ira Bodenstein today asked
Pallmeyer for permission to intervene in the CFTC case. She
directed them to file a formal request within seven days.  Outside the courtroom, Bodenstein’s attorney, Robert
Fishman, told reporters the trustee and receivership were
working together to avoid conflicts.  “It’s complicated,” he said of the simultaneous efforts
to liquidatate assets belonging to Wasendorf and his firm to pay
their respective creditors. “We’re going to do our best to make
it as efficient as we can.”  Peregrine filed for bankruptcy on July 10, hours after the
CFTC filed its lawsuit. The  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm listed
more than $500 million in assets and more than $100 million in
liabilities.  Wasendorf has been charged with lying to U.S. regulators
and is in federal custody.  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine  Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago). The
bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Iowa  ( Cedar Rapids ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  