-- Wet Seal Drawing Buyer as Activist Bristles at Value: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-08-08T20:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/wet-seal-drawing-buyer-as-activist-bristles-at-value-real-m-a.html
Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA) , the U.S. chain that
sells tank tops and denim leggings to teen girls, stands to
boost the lowest retail valuation in America by giving in to an
activist shareholder’s push for a sale.  The company, which fired Chief Executive Officer Susan McGalla last month after only a year and a half on the job, was
valued yesterday at 2.9 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that includes net cash. That’s cheaper than any U.S.
specialty-apparel chain with a market capitalization of more
than $200 million, the data show.  Clinton Group Inc., which owns a 4.8 percent stake in Wet
Seal and may push to remove the board, said the company’s
“right next step” should be to seek a buyer that can revive
the chain after four quarters of  same-store sales  declines. With
attractive store locations, zero debt, and cash and equivalents
equal to 57 percent of its market value, Wet Seal may appeal to
private-equity suitors, according to Snow Capital Management LP.
The  Foothill Ranch , California-based company could fetch at
least $5 a share in a takeover, Clinton Group and  Roth Capital 
Partners LLC said, a 75 percent premium.  “This is a turnaround that is taking too much time,”
Jessica Bemer, a senior research analyst at Sewickley,
Pennsylvania-based Snow Capital, which oversees $2.7 billion
including Wet Seal shares, said in a telephone interview. “It
is not out of the question that private equity could come in and
make something out of it. You have a very nice margin of error
with that balance sheet and some of those assets.”  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Wet Seal, said the company
wouldn’t comment on whether it would consider a sale.  Targeting Teens  Incorporated in 1990,  Wet Seal  operates 550 women’s
clothing stores in the U.S. and  Puerto Rico  under the Wet Seal
and Arden B names, according to its most recent monthly sales
statement. Wet Seal outlets target teen girls and young adults,
while Arden B is geared toward women aged 25 to 39.  The company, which boosted same-store sales as much as 45
percent in fiscal 2006, posted four consecutive quarters of
declines through July as it struggled to lure shoppers amid
competition from chains such as  Hennes & Mauritz AB’s (HMB)  H&M and
Forever 21 Inc. Wet Seal also is on pace to post its first
 annual loss  since 2007, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There has been a lack of management consistency and a
lack of merchandise direction,” Stephanie Wissink, an analyst
at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Cos., said in a phone
interview.  Share Slump  Shares of Wet Seal, which peaked a decade ago at $25.73,
slipped 39 percent in the past year to close at $2.85 yesterday.
That  compares  with a 14 percent gain in the Russell 2000
Consumer Discretionary Index during the same 12-month period.  Today, Wet Seal rose 2.8 percent to $2.93 after earlier
gaining as much as 4.7 percent.  Clinton Group began accumulating a position in the company
in recent months, building its stake to 4.8 percent, according
to Joseph De Perio, a senior portfolio manager at the New York-
based firm, which oversees more than $2.7 billion.  In mid-June, De Perio sent a letter to Wet Seal’s board
criticizing the company’s slumping shares and underperformance
relative to peers.  The board in early July said it was conducting a review of
its capital plan, including its use of cash and operating
performance. It fired McGalla later in the month.  Then, De Perio said in a July 23 letter to the board that
it should hire an investment bank and seek a sale.  “We suspect there are more than a few potential buyers
that will be confident of their ability to use Wet Seal’s
substantial asset base to create a steady and valuable earnings
stream,” he said in the letter.  Strategic Review  Clinton Group estimates Wet Seal could fetch a price of $5
to $8 a share from a buyer.  De Perio said the firm declined to comment beyond its
correspondence with the retailer. Wet Seal on July 30 said that
it is “considering all options” to enhance  shareholder value 
and is developing a strategic plan to be released on Aug. 21.  Including net cash, Wet Seal was  valued  yesterday at 2.9
times Ebitda, the lowest among U.S. specialty-apparel retailers
with more than $200 million in market capitalization and less
than half the industry median of 6.1 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at a 58 percent discount to
sales, less expensive than 90 percent of peers, the data show.  New Vision  “You have a relatively cheap valuation,”  Eric Beder , a
New York-based analyst at Brean Murray, Carret & Co. LLC, said
in a phone interview. A financial firm “could buy it, take
their vision with the company and run it without having to worry
about satisfying a prior CEO. There could be a very exciting
private-equity transaction where they could take it public again
as a growth story.”  Liz Pierce, a  Newport Beach , California-based analyst at
Roth Capital, said a buyout firm could be attracted by Wet
Seal’s strong  balance sheet  and room for operating improvement.
The company’s niche in the teen market and 468 Wet Seal chain
stores could also attract an acquirer willing to turn the
company around, Pierce said.  Wet Seal’s $148.11 million in cash and cash equivalents are
equal to 57 percent of its market value, the highest among its
U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
 operating margin  of 3.12 percent is less than a third of the
group’s average, the data show.  Good Opportunity  “You’ve got a great balance sheet,” Pierce said. “It
gets back to the picture of the market share, the potential,
good real estate, and you have the opportunity to improve
margins.”  Wissink at Piper Jaffray said private-equity firms may not
have much to build on after prior management struggled to define
Wet Seal’s look, and as customers become more cost-sensitive.  “Is there actually brand value?” she said. “A financial
buyer would have to have some confidence that there is going to
be value. It would have to reemerge into the public market in a
different way or the brand would have to have some value in a
different category. That is the thing that I am less convinced
about.”  Still, with Wet Seal trading at 1.07 times book value, the
lowest for a U.S. chain, an acquirer not wanting to run the
chain could “just decouple the business and sell the pieces,”
Wissink said. “You’ve pretty much covered your investment.”  Snow Capital’s Bemer says the company’s competitive
struggles may not be as much of an impediment for a buyer, given
the potential for new management to remake the brand.  “The ability for brands to renew themselves over time is
unique in the specialty-retail area,” Bemer said. “More so
than other parts of the market, a company can come in and change
their look overnight, or in a season or two. We’ve seen it
before. It’s not easy, but it’s possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 