-- Whitman Informant Says She Lied to FBI, Warned Friends
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-08T19:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/whitman-informant-says-she-lied-to-fbi-warned-friends.html
A key informant in the insider-
trading case against Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman
told jurors that she lied to federal agents, destroyed evidence
and tried to warn some of her contacts that she had been
questioned about illegal trades.  Roomy Khan , who said she gave inside information to Whitman
about Google Inc. and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , told jurors under
questioning by a defense lawyer today that she lied to Federal
Bureau of Investigation agents questioning her in 2007 in a
probe of insider trading.  Khan, who had pleaded guilty to wire fraud in 2001 for
passing confidential  Intel Corp. (INTC)  revenue figures to Galleon
Group LLC fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , testified in federal
court in Manhattan that she used a cell phone the government
didn’t know about to tell some of her contacts that she’d been
questioned by the Securities and Exchange Commission, not the
FBI.  “I think I had been lying to the government about a lot of
things and I was just scared to use my own phone,” Khan said.  David Anderson , a lawyer for Whitman, said in his opening
statement in the trial that his client made money from trading
on legitimate information about technology companies. Anderson
urged jurors not to believe Khan and two other government
witnesses, who he called “criminals and liars” testifying
against Whitman in hopes of avoiding prison.  Google, Polycom  Khan, who pleaded guilty to a second set of insider trading
charges in 2009, faces as long as 30 years in prison when she’s
sentenced. She testified for a third day in the trial of
Whitman, her former Atherton, California, neighbor.  Prosecutors accuse Whitman of trading on information from
sources including Khan, who passed him illegal tips on  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Polycom Inc. Those tips and others earned almost $1
million for Whitman’s fund, they said.  Khan testified that she got information about Polycom, the
Pleasanton, California-based maker of videoconferencing
equipment, from Sunil Bhalla, a friend and senior vice president
and general manager of the company’s voice division. Khan said
she passed inside information to contacts including Whitman and
Rajaratnam and traded on some of them herself.  Khan said she initially lied to investigators about her
2007 trading in Hilton Hotels Corp., claiming it wasn’t
motivated by an illegal tip about  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s planned
takeover. She had said she made the trades after learning that
 Paris Hilton  had been sentenced to jail, which she thought would
bring the hotel company publicity that would raise its share
price.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  