-- Will Rude Commenters Seem Quaint in 20 Years?
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-08-08T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/will-rude-commenters-seem-quaint-in-20-years-.html
A couple of weeks ago, using same-sex
marriage as an example, I  wrote about  how quickly moral
perceptions can change.  My point was that surely there is something in our culture
-- an attitude or policy -- that we accept without thinking
today, but will in 20 years seem as outrageous, cruel or absurd
as overt anti-gay prejudice seems today.  Then along came Mr. Chick-fil-A to provide an example. His
company  pledges  “to treat every person with honor, dignity and
respect -- regardless of their belief, race, creed, sexual
orientation or gender.” Twenty or 30 years ago, this would have
placed Chick-fil-A on the forward edge of corporate tolerance.  Now, because he has said a few words against same-sex
marriage, Mr. Chick and his company are in the doghouse big-
time. My Bloomberg View colleague Josh Barro argues  persuasively 
that opposing gay marriage is unavoidably anti-gay. My only
point was: Let’s not get too self-congratulatory. Who knows what
shift in moral attitudes will make us look back in horror and
perplexity at some views we hold today? I offered a few obvious
examples -- using other animals as food was the main one -- and
invited some more creative suggestions from readers. This is a
report on the response.  Proved Right  First, thanks to everybody who offered an example. Many of
them covered familiar ground, such as global warming or  gun
control  or drug legalization or the  Middle East . They amounted
to assertions that, “In 20 years I will have been proved right
about Topic X.”  The notion that there are issues on which the other side
will be drowned in a tidal wave of facts seems a bit naive at a
time when millions of Americans still think President  Barack Obama  was born in  Kenya . A new consensus also seems unlikely on
issues -- abortion, most obviously -- where both sides are
counting on the other side’s doubts to fall away at any moment.  Some predictions lacked much of a sense of moral urgency.
For example: “My nomination is the idea that TVs, phones and
computers are separate devices.” Yes, but will addressing this
false trichotomy make us better people?  My favorite suggestions were issues which, though perhaps
small or unexpected, had a definite ethical or moral component
and left me thinking, “My God, I never thought of that.”  For example,  someone suggested  front lawns. In 20 years,
will it be unthinkable that valuable water (not to mention time
and patience) will be wasted on giving every house a small
square of green to nurture? As I write, on a cold, rainy August
day in the Pacific Northwest, this issue doesn’t seem all that
pressing. It probably looks different in the rest of the
country.  Or how about women’s high-heeled shoes? The ancient Chinese
practice of foot binding is regarded today as unbelievably
barbaric. The corsets and suchlike Victorian devices to narrow a
woman’s waistline don’t score much better on the moral hindsight
scale. Yet fashion dictates to many women that they risk broken
bones, endure pain or at least walk awkwardly in order to
squeeze their feet into somebody’s idea -- often their own, if
“Sex and the City” is to be believed -- of a beautiful shoe.
What were the 1960s all about if half the population still puts
up with this?  Here’s a great one: “voluntary submission to noise that
ruins your hearing.” Or involuntary, for that matter. The level
of ambient noise keeps rising; all those “shovel ready”
construction projects from the stimulus a few years ago seem to
be operating at peak noise level.  Baby boomers , now paying for a
lifetime of rock concerts, are adding loud music to the long “Do
as I say, not as I did” list for their children.  Auto Ownership  Individual automobile ownership may not be illegal in 20
years, one reader suggests. But it may be rare and perhaps
tainted with social disapproval as being hoggish and deeply
ungreen. Telecommuting (that is, working at home) will increase.
Public transportation will never take everybody wherever they
need to go, or even close, but Internet-based pseudo-taxi and
short-term car rental services such as Uber Technologies Inc.
and  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  will fill in the gap. Having your own car will
be something like having your own plane, or at least your own
chauffeur, today.  In 20 years, will we all be carrying a national identity
card? This is one of those issues, like abortion, where some
people see it as a utopian vision and some as a dystopian one.
I’m closer to the first view. They can implant a chip in my
thumb or scan my iris any day if in exchange I never have to
deal with forgotten passwords, lost credit cards, long lines at
airport security, complicated forms to get my birth certificate,
and so on.  One reader says that fiberglass insulation is as dangerous
as asbestos and will be regarded as such in 20 years. Could this
be true?  Another says: “It could be that Mr. Kinsley will be
completely discredited as a polemicist of any note whose ideas
and questions for discussion will be forever ridiculed.” I wish
I could predict that in 20 years, rudeness on the Internet will
be considered just as impolite as rudeness to someone’s face.
But I doubt it.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on questions raised by  New
York ’s  charges against Standard Chartered Bank  and on how the
free market can help  control the deer population ;  Caroline Baum 
on  Milton Friedman’s relevance  today;  Ezra Klein  on  Washington ’s
captivation by a  flawed tax idea ; Laurence Kotlikoff and  Scott
Burns  on the new  $11 trillion rise in U.S. debt ; Caleb Scharf on
how black holes influenced  the evolution of life .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 