-- Won Debt Held by Foreign Investors Monitored for Volatility
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-08-09T05:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/won-debt-held-by-foreigners-monitored-for-volatility-shin-says.html
South Korea  is preparing to increase
monitoring won-denominated debt purchases by foreign investors
and may start buying the securities should volatility in the
market rise, said Shin Hyung Chul, director general of the
treasury bureau at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance.  International ownership of South Korea’s domestic
government bonds may climb to as much as 19 percent of the total
within next year from 17 percent now, said Shin. The government
would be concerned should short-term inflows into the debt
market rise, he said.  “We plan to monitor the foreign-holdings ratio of
benchmark sovereign bonds because, if ownership increases
rapidly, the possibility of volatility rises as well,” Shin
said in an interview in Gwacheon, south of  Seoul , yesterday.
“As a contingency plan, we may discuss with other government
bodies and consider countermeasures such as purchasing the
securities if we see sudden outflows.”  Demand is picking up for South Korean debt, with benchmark
10-year yields at 3.07 percent compared with 1.7 percent in the
U.S. and 0.8 percent for  Japan . The won has strengthened 1.8
percent against the dollar since the end of June, the third-best
performer among the 11 most-used Asian currencies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors increased holdings of fixed-income
securities by 1.4 trillion won to a record 89.7 trillion won
($79.7 billion) in July, the Financial Supervisory Service said
in a statement this month. The government has no plan to
regulate bond purchases by overseas investors, Shin said.  Thirty-Year Bonds  South Korea’s government may reduce debt sales next year as
it boosts efforts to improve the balance between spending and
revenue, according to Shin. It planned to issue 79.8 trillion
won of fixed-income securities this year, the  finance ministry 
said in a statement in January.  The nation is preparing to sell its first 30-year bonds
next month to meet long-term financing needs as the population
ages. Yields on the notes may be at “almost the same level” as
those on debt due in a decade, considering that the  difference 
between 10- and 20-year securities is only seven basis points,
said Shin.  The government has no plan to sell dollar-denominated bonds
“in the near future” as it sees strong foreign demand for
local-currency debt, he said. South Korea last issued dollar
sovereign debt in 2009.  The government may reduce issuance of inflation-linked
bonds should demand dwindle because of slowing consumer-price
gains and a proposed tax on such debt, said Shin. The pace of
price increases reached a 12-year low of 1.5 percent in July,
according to the most recent data. The government is planning to
impose a levy on inflation-linked notes from 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  