-- Xiamen Tungsten Rises by Daily Limit on Rare Earth Plan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T07:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/xiamen-tungsten-rises-by-daily-limit-on-rare-earth-plan.html
Xiamen Tungsten Co. (600549)  rose to the
highest in more than a month in  Shanghai  after the company said
it will accelerate development of its rare earth business.  The stock jumped by the  10 percent  daily limit to 46.06
 yuan , the highest close since June 20. China’s benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent.  The southeastern province of Fujian asked the company to
take a leading role in helping to promote development of the
region’s rare earth industry, Xiamen Tungsten said in a
 statement  to Shanghai’s stock exchange late yesterday. Fujian
wants to consolidate the industry by the end of this year and to
foster a rare-earth company with 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion)
of output by 2015, the company said.  The company, based in the city of Xiamen located in Fujian,
also rose by the 10 percent daily limit on Aug. 6, after the
Shanghai Securities News reported the province had asked it to
take a leading role in the rare earth industry. The shares were
suspended yesterday before its announcement.  “The company has enormous room for growth,” as rare earth
accounted for about 15 percent of Xiamen Tungsten’s revenue last
year, Xiao Shijun, a Beijing-based analyst at Guodu Securities
Co., said in an Aug. 6 note.  China , supplier of 90 percent of the world’s rare earth
minerals, plans to close about a fifth of its existing
production capacity under new industry rules, China National
Radio reported Aug. 6.  Mining Rights  The nation has cut mining rights for rare earths as average
prices of the minerals used in car electronics, laptops and
headphones tumbled by more than half from 2011’s record levels
as users reduced purchases or sought alternative sources.  The province of Guangdong also said on May 31 it’s planning
to complete the consolidation of its rare earth industry through
mergers and joint ventures by 2013. Guangdong will ban the
construction of new rare earth projects and the expansion of
production capacity in the province, according to the
government’s statement.  Fujian won’t offer rare earth mining and control quotas for
mining-right owners that don’t proceed with or complete
consolidation by the end of 2012, Xiamen Tungsten said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  