-- China Downgrades Haikui to Tropical Storm as Lake Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T14:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/typhoon-haikui-lashes-eastern-china-grounding-shanghai-flights.html
Typhoon Haikui weakened to a tropical
storm today after lashing eastern  China  with rain and wind,
forcing Shanghai to raise its highest-level alert and airlines
to cancel flights to and from the city.  Haikui, which made landfall in Zhejiang province today at
3:20 a.m., was located near Huzhou city at 5 p.m., according to
the  National Meteorological Center . The storm, which had maximum
windspeeds of about 108 kilometers (67 miles) per hour, was
moving northwest. Haikui killed two people in Shanghai, injured
seven and toppled more than 30,000 trees, China News Service
said, citing the city flood-management office.  Shanghai evacuated 252,000 people ahead of the storm and
1.5 million people were relocated in Zhejiang, which neighbors
the city to the south, the official Xinhua News Agency said.
Haikui, the third typhoon to hit China in a week, had dumped 350
millimeters (13.8 inches) to 434 millimeters of rain in
Xiangshan, Ninghai and Taizhou in Zhejiang as of this morning.  The storm has caused more than 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6
billion) in damage in Zhejiang, Xinhua said in a separate
report, citing local relief office. Neighboring Jiangsu province
relocated 180,000 people, and the water level in Taihu Lake,
China’s second-biggest freshwater lake, surged above the alert
line, China Radio International said on its website.  Heavy rain brought by the typhoon will last for a long
time, Xinhua said, citing Zhao Fayuan, a Zhejiang relief
official. The province should be prepared for mountain torrents,
mudslides and urban flooding, Zhao said.  Exchanges Open  Shanghai’s stock and futures exchanges continued operating
today even after the city’s weather center raised the typhoon
alert to red, the highest level, at 11:30 a.m. local time.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp., China Southern Airlines Co.
and  Air China Ltd. (601111)  were among carriers that scrapped flights to
Shanghai’s two airports,  Shanghai International Airport Co.  said
on its official microblog hosted on Sina Corp.’s Weibo service.
China Eastern, Air China and Hong Kong-based  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293)  also canceled flights to and from the cities of
Hangzhou and Ningbo, according to their websites.  The Shanghai Railway Bureau suspended the operation of some
trains, including services between to Hangzhou. The city’s  metro
operator  closed portions of the No. 2, 6 and 9 lines, and shut
the magnetic levitation train that serves Pudong International
Airport.  Shanghai International Port Group Co. (600018)  shut operations at
its ports from last night due to “gusty winds,” and may resume
operations early tomorrow, said Jin Cunliang, general manager of
the operations department.  Haikui was forecast to dump “lasting heavy rains” in the
provinces of Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Anhui and the municipality of
 Shanghai  for the next three days, the weather agency said.  Typhoons Saola and Damrey killed at least 16 people when it
made landfall in China last week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Raymond Liu in Beijing at 
 rliu118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  