-- Zynga Chief Operating Officer Schappert Resigns After Revamp
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-08-09T20:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-08/zynga-says-chief-operating-officer-john-schappert-resigned.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Operating Officer
John Schappert is resigning and leaving the board after he was
stripped of some responsibilities at the company, the biggest
developer of games played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network.  Schappert, whose departure was announced in a Zynga
regulatory  filing  yesterday, had lost his role overseeing game
development in a reorganization that was aimed at reviving
growth and making more money from mobile services, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  embarked on the
overhaul in early July, the people said, at the close of a
quarter marked by slowing sales growth. Schappert, lured away
last year from  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  with a pay package worth
$42.8 million, had lost support within the company and taken
some of the blame for its underperformance, the people said.
Zynga may suffer for the loss of a gaming veteran, said Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “Allowing the only seasoned industry executive on your
management team to leave is not going to generate greater
confidence among investors,” said Pachter, who is based in  Los
Angeles . “They certainly have lost a tremendous amount of adult
supervision. I think that’s a mistake.”  Seeking Hits  The blame for Zynga’s troubles falls on the entire
management team, not just Schappert, according to Pachter and
Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  Dallas .
The company hasn’t been able to create a hit to make up for
aging games like “FarmVille,” the analysts said. With a tenure
lasting less than a year and a half, Schappert didn’t have
enough time to make a significant impact, they said.  “The strategy that Zynga has is not working,” Bhatia
said. “This is supposed to be a long-tail business, and it
hasn’t proven to be.”  Zynga  shares  rose 2.1 percent to $3.01 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 70 percent since the company’s
initial public offering on Dec. 15, when it sold shares at $10
each.  Schappert’s exit from the board wasn’t because of any
disagreement with the company or its policies or practices,
Zynga said in the filing. His resignation is effective
immediately.  “John has made significant contributions to the games
industry throughout his career and we appreciate all that he has
done for Zynga,” Pincus said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “John leaves as a friend of the company and we wish
him all the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  