-- 
Facebook Faces Suit Claiming It Disclosed Data

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-11/facebook-winklevoss-settlement-should-be-undone-lawyer-says.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking service, must face a lawsuit in which
it’s accused of giving advertisers personal information about
users who clicked on ads.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in  San Jose ,  California ,
yesterday threw out most of the claims against Facebook, giving
the plaintiffs a chance to refile five of the eight dismissed.
Ware rejected Facebook’s argument that the entire lawsuit should
be dismissed because the users didn’t show an injury sufficient
to bring the case.  “The court finds that plaintiffs have alleged facts
sufficient to establish that they have suffered the injury
required for standing,” Ware wrote in his ruling.  The plaintiffs claim in the lawsuit that, when Facebook
users click on advertisements, their identification or usernames
are transmitted to the advertisers. Advertisers can obtain
users’ names, genders and pictures without their consent, the
plaintiffs said.  Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  Facebook, which has more than 500 million members, has
faced criticism that it doesn’t protect the privacy of users,
especially young people. Last month, the company announced
additional safety tools, including a redesigned “Family Safety
Center” that has videos and articles for teenagers, parents and
teachers.  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto , California is also among the
Internet companies under scrutiny in the European Union for
possible privacy-rule breaches over their use of personal data.  The case is In re Facebook, 10-02389, U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  