-- 
Fed’s Dudley Got 2008 Waiver to Keep AIG Shares After Rescue, Sanders Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-07-21T19:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-11/sanders-says-bernanke-ducks-request-for-details-on-fed-loans.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York ’s William C. Dudley received a waiver in 2008 to keep his
personal holdings of American International Group Inc. shares
after the insurer got a bailout from the central bank.  Dudley, who was the New York Fed’s markets-group chief at
the time and is now the bank’s president, is the senior New York
Fed official identified in a Government Accountability Office
report today as receiving the waiver, Senator  Bernard Sanders , a
Vermont Independent, said in a statement.  Jack Gutt , a New York
Fed spokesman, said Dudley sold his shares after becoming
president in January 2009, about four months after AIG’s rescue.  The GAO criticized the Fed’s standards for managing
conflicts of interest, saying the Dudley example “highlights
the potential for appearance concerns” even if the stake is a
small percentage of the person’s total holdings. New York Fed
employees who requested permission to retain holdings in
companies receiving assistance were “generally allowed” to
keep the investments, the GAO said in its report after a
yearlong review of the central bank’s emergency-lending
programs. The GAO didn’t identify Dudley by name.  “The Fed has no comprehensive system in place to mitigate
the tremendous conflicts of interest that exist,” Warren
Gunnels, a senior policy adviser for Senator Sanders, said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “It looks like in almost
every instance when an employee or an employee of a vendor had
some investments in some of the same firms that received
financial assistance at the Fed, they could simply go to the
office of ethics and get a waiver.”  GAO Audit  Gunnels said he reviewed the GAO audit before its
publication and asked the GAO to name the senior New York Fed
official who received the waivers for his AIG and General
Electric Co. holdings.  “We just wanted to make sure the American people had the
most transparent information possible about this report,”
Gunnels said. “And that they knew exactly who was potentially
gaming the system.”  Dudley “held shares in these companies as part of his
personal portfolio that predated his service at the New York
Fed,” Gutt said in an e-mailed statement. The waiver was
granted partly because “had he sold these shares immediately
after the interventions it would have the appearance of a
conflict.”  After becoming New York Fed President, “Mr. Dudley
volunteered to dispose of the shares at pre-determined dates,
agreed to by the New York Fed’s ethics office,” Gutt said.
“All shares have been disposed of.”  AIG, GE  The waiver allowed the New York Fed official to keep
holdings in AIG and GE, whose combined value comprised “less
than 5 percent of the official’s total financial holdings,” the
GAO said.  “It’s shocking to me that Dudley would have any individual
holdings of AIG, and it really questions the guy’s judgment,”
said Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute  in Washington.  The Fed on Sept. 16, 2008, authorized an $85 billion loan
to AIG to avert the company’s collapse, one day after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history. The bailout later expanded to include $182 billion in
aid from the  U.S. Treasury  and the Fed.  The waiver granted to the senior official said that the
official’s participation in decisions related to AIG and GE was
“critical to the official’s senior-level responsibilities,”
the GAO said.  ‘Appearance’ of Conflict  The New York Fed’s chief ethics officer judged that
“divestiture of the holdings could violate  securities law 
because of the official’s access to material, nonpublic
information” and that selling the shares could have “created
the appearance of a conflict,” according to the GAO.  The GAO said that it “did not assess the appropriateness”
of the New York Fed’s decisions to grant waivers and that
“these decisions are case-specific and necessarily require
subjective judgments.”  The GAO’s audit of the Fed’s emergency-lending programs
from 2007 to 2010 provides more details on the $3.3 trillion in
aid provided to companies and markets to quell the financial
crisis that brought down Bear Stearns Cos., Lehman and AIG. The
Fed was forced to disclose the recipients of many programs in
December 2010 by the Dodd-Frank Act, which also authorized the
GAO audit.  Vendor Selections  “Without additional provisions in conflicts policies and
procedures, the Reserve Banks risk being exposed to the
appearance of conflicts and to questions about the integrity of
their decisions and actions,” the GAO said.  The GAO made seven recommendations to the Fed in the 266-
page report, including strengthening polices for non-competitive
vendor selections, conflicts of interests, risks related to
emergency lending and documentation of lending decisions.  “To the extent not already addressed, the Board and the
Reserve Banks will give each recommendation serious attention,
and will strongly consider how best to respond to each,”  Scott Alvarez , the Fed’s general counsel, said in a response included
in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  