-- ‘Boardwalk Empire’ Revels in New Drug Lord;` March’: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-08-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/-boardwalk-empire-revels-in-new-drug-lord-march-tv.html
Any remembrance that culminates in
 Martin Luther King Jr .’s “I Have a Dream” speech is going to
raise goose bumps.  Still, it’s hard to watch PBS’s “The March,” airing the
night before the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington,
without wishing for a more ambitious and provocative testament
to that transformative event.  Directed by John Akomfrah, narrated by Denzel Washington
and with a producing team that includes  Robert Redford  and Gina
Belafonte, “The March” offers an efficient primer on the
events building up to Aug. 28, 1963, when more than 250,000
Americans gathered on the National Mall running from the
Washington Monument to the  Lincoln Memorial  to demand racial
equality.  “The March” is as finely detailed as a one-hour chronicle
can be, with appropriate attention paid to such crucial
organizers as Jack O’Dell,  John Lewis  and the remarkable Bayard
Rustin (“gay, Red and black,” by one description).  Enraged by the jackboot segregationist tactics of
Birmingham, Alabama, police chief Eugene “Bull” Connor, and
increasingly impatient with the Kennedy administration’s
lackluster civil-rights record, King lent his estimable support
to calls for a massive protest march.  “We are determined to be free in ’63,” he said.  JFK’s Fear  John F. Kennedy , afraid that any violence would turn public
opinion and Congress against civil-rights legislation, privately
demanded that King fire two organizers accused by the FBI of
Communist leanings; King acquiesced on one.  Though the presence of celebrities at the march (Harry Belafonte cajoled everyone from Marlon Brando to Charlton Heston) lent crucial promotional wattage, “The March” might
better have lessened its own star-gazing.  Precious time handed to  Oprah Winfrey , who was nine in
1963, could have been used to address the U.S. Supreme Court’s
recent decision to eviscerate the march’s most immediate
achievement: passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  In an epilogue, President  Lyndon B. Johnson  signs the bill,
ending the film but not the story.  “The March” airs Tuesday, Aug. 27 on PBS at 9 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: ***  ‘Boardwalk Empire’  High body counts have their rewards, at least for long-running dramas like HBO’s “ Boardwalk Empire .”  So long, Bobby Cannavale; hello,  Jeffrey Wright .  The excellent new Season 4 episodes waste no time mourning
Cannavale or the tiresome jerk of a villain whose murder capped
last year’s dismal, convoluted season.  Wright joins the Prohibition-era crime drama as the
marvelously named Dr. Valentin Narcisse, a Harlem-based
Trinidadian drug lord with a mellifluous voice and no patience
for slackers of any color.  Narcisse arrives on the Atlantic City mob scene ruled by
Steve Buscemi’s crime lord Nucky Thompson, adding further depth
to a series that’s never shied from racial issues.  Coolly elucidating the differences between black
(“Libyan”) and white (“Nordic”), Narcisse resents the latter
and disdains all but the most successful of the former. His
revulsion at “mixing” provides the series with one of its most
chilling scenes in memory.  Wright is note-perfect, a standout among the other fine
newcomers, including Ron Livingston, Patricia Arquette, Eric
Ladin as a young J. Edgar Hoover, and Brian Geraghty as an FBI
pretty boy who might not be as wholesome as he seems.  Along with the fresh faces, Season 4 boosts screen time for
Anthony Laciura (as Nucky’s painfully loyal factotum Edward),
and  Stephen Graham , whose menacing, increasingly loose-hinged  Al Capone  ranks among TV’s best performances.  “Boardwalk Empire” returns Sunday, Sept. 8 on HBO at 9
p.m. New York time. Rating: *****  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Michael Di
Paola  on turtles.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 