-- Acquia Hires Finance Chief as IPO Talks Begin
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-26T14:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/acquia-hires-finance-chief-as-ipo-talks-begin.html
Acquia Inc. , which helps companies
manage the software behind their websites, has hired a chief
financial officer and has begun talking to banks ahead of an
initial public offering.  An IPO could come as soon as the second half of 2014, Chief
Executive Officer Tom Erickson said in an interview. To prepare,
the company hired Dennis Morgan, who was CFO at Buddy Media Inc.
and helped arrange its $736 million sale to  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) 
last year. He starts today.  Acquia, which gives customers easier ways to use the open-source software platform Drupal, had $45 million in 2012 revenue
and expects to grow 50 percent this year, Erickson said. The
company still has to release products and wait for its CFO to be
settled in the role before picking banks to lead the offering,
he said.  “We’ve been doing a lot of circuits, going around to meet
banks and public-company investors,” Erickson said. “This
company has long legs in terms of where it can go. I’ve never
taken a company public so I think it’s something I’d like to
do.”  Acquia has raised $68.5 million from investors including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., North Bridge Venture Partners,
O’Reilly AlphaTech Ventures, Accolade Partners, Sigma Partners,
Investor Growth Capital and Tenaya Capital, the company said.
Erickson joined in 2009, after a company where he had been in
charge of products, Tele Atlas, was sold to  TomTom NV. (TOM2)   Open-Source Assistance  The Burlington, Massachusetts-based company is one of
several fast-growing, venture-backed businesses built around an
open-source software platform, which programmers can use and
adapt without paying. New York-based 10gen Inc. assists with
MongoDB database tools, while Cloudera Inc. helps with Hadoop.  “We’re going to see a number of companies that support
open-source software that are going to have the opportunity to
raise more money or come to market in the next few years,”
Morgan said. “Acquia is one of the leading players in that
movement.”  Drupal is a content-management platform powering websites
and applications. Acquia’s customers include  Intel Corp .,
 Stanford University , Twitter Inc. and  Fox News , according to its
 website .  Morgan was looking for companies with promise similar to
Buddy Media, which he helped sell at a price of more than 15
times annual revenue, he said. He also wanted to be at a company
with plans for a public offering.  “It’s the ultimate earning of your stripes as CFO,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  