-- Alierta Puts Aside Slim Rivalry to Agree on German Merger
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-08-26T22:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/alierta-puts-aside-slim-rivalry-to-agree-on-german-merger.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
set aside years of rivalry in Latin America to salvage an $11
billion transaction in  Germany , one of the biggest wireless
mergers attempted in Europe in recent years.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil said today it will
support Telefonica’s purchase of Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus unit
after the Spanish carrier sweetened its bid by at least 450
million euros ($602 million). Representatives at America Movil,
which owns about 30 percent of KPN, and Madrid-based Telefonica
held talks last week before agreeing on the revised terms over
the weekend, said four people familiar with the matter, asking
not to be identified because the deliberations are confidential.  At stake is $7 billion in potential savings and extra
revenue from a merger of E-Plus with  Telefonica Deutschland
Holding AG (O2D)  to create a carrier with more than 43 million clients
in Europe’s largest economy. Telefonica, led by Chief Executive
Officer Cesar Alierta, and  KPN (KPN)  didn’t secure America Movil’s
backing before announcing the transaction on July 23, triggering
Slim to bid for KPN shares he didn’t own, people familiar with
the matter said this month.  “It’s surprising how Telefonica and KPN have turned around
a deal that was almost headed for collapse after Slim´s takeover
bid for the Dutch company,” said Francisco Salvador, a
strategist at FGA/MG Valores in Madrid. “It’s good news for
Telefonica, and definitely great for its German unit, because
otherwise it would have been left with no options to grow.”  Bigger Stake  Under the revised terms announced today, KPN will get 20.5
percent in the enlarged German entity, up from 17.6 percent
initially agreed. Telefonica also gets an option to buy a 2.9
percent stake in the German business from KPN for 510 million
euros after a year. KPN will also receive 5 billion euros of
cash, as originally agreed.  KPN, based in the  Hague ,  Netherlands , didn’t take part in
the latest negotiations, according to people familiar with the
matter. Telefonica directors signed off the revised terms
unanimously at a meeting yesterday, a person familiar with the
matter said. Slim and Alierta didn’t meet to discuss this deal,
one person said.  While KPN shareholders will still have to vote on the
merger at a meeting Oct. 2, Slim’s support removes a major
obstacle, leaving antitrust approval as the next hurdle, the
people said.  KPN  rose  3 percent to 2.33 euros at the close of trading in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 9.9 billion euros. Telefonica
added 0.2 percent in Madrid, while its German division gained
2.9 percent in  Frankfurt .  America Movil  was  little changed  in
Mexico City.  Previous Fights  In a statement, America Movil said it’s committed to its
2.40 euro-a-share offer for the KPN stock it doesn’t own.
Representatives at America Movil and Telefonica declined to
comment on details of the talks that led to the revised pact.
Stefan Simons, a spokesman at KPN, also declined to comment.  This isn’t the first time Slim, 73, has sparred with
Alierta, 68, over European assets. In 2007, Alierta thwarted the
America Movil chairman’s attempt to buy a stake in Telecom
Italia SpA.  Last year, Alierta failed to block Slim from winning a 28
percent stake in the former Dutch phone monopoly by trying to
buy those shares and combine their German businesses, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. Credit-rating
companies warned Telefonica that it could be  downgraded  to junk
if the company were to take on any more debt, scuttling the
talks, the person said.  More Clout  Alierta’s and Slim’s fiercest rivalry takes place in  Latin
America , where their companies are the two biggest providers of
mobile-phone services. They have competed with each other for
more than a decade in countries such as Brazil, Mexico,
Argentina and Colombia.  This time, Telefonica and America Movil were able to
resolve differences in valuation, agreeing to co-own a wireless
carrier to gain more clout to compete with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
and  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland, which sells services
under the O2 brand, together would have a customer base of 43.8
million as of June, surpassing Vodafone Group Plc’s 32.2 million
and Deutsche Telekom AG’s 37.5 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Counting revenue, Telefonica
Deutschland and E-Plus together remained smaller than Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile and Vodafone.  Germany, Netherlands  “If the European competition authority stops this deal it
would send a really negative signal to the industry about the
chances of further consolidation,” said Malte Raether, an
analyst at Warburg Research in Hamburg. “If we see authorities
only asking for minor remedies to the deal, it may have more of
a positive effect on any European market consolidation going
forward.”  Germany and the Netherlands have emerged as hot spots for
telecommunications mergers and acquisitions. Regulators are
considering Vodafone’s $10 billion agreement to buy  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   John Malone ’s Liberty Global Plc last
month increased its stake in Dutch cable provider  Ziggo NV. (ZIGGO)   In 2009, Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom SA agreed to
merge their U.K. units to create the country’s largest mobile
carrier.  Slim’s Pledges  America Movil, which has lost money from its investments in
KPN and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , said it plans to keep KPN’s
headquarters in The Hague. It will also keep KPN’s stock listed
in Amsterdam, unless it obtains 95 percent or more of the
company. America Movil also said it would keep the KPN brand and
investigate expansion investments. Slim last year bid 8 euros a
share for KPN shares.  Robin Bienenstock , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, said
today KPN management and shareholders should try to fight for
better terms from Slim’s bid.  “With their remaining operations undervalued by the
America Movil offer it is reasonable to expect the KPN board to
fight for a better valuation,” Bienenstock wrote in a note.
“We think investor attention should now turn to  Telekom Austria 
and that America Movil’s European strategy is not yet
complete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  