-- ANA to Buy Stake in Myanmar Airline as Yangon Lures Busin
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-08-27T07:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/ana-holdings-said-to-buy-stake-in-myanmar-s-asian-wings-airways.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) ,  Japan ’s largest
airline, will buy a stake in Myanmar’s  Asian Wings Airways Ltd. 
as the Southeast Asian nation opens its economy for overseas
investments.  The Japanese carrier will pay $25 million for a 49 percent
stake in the Myanmar company, the Tokyo-based airline said in a
statement today.  ANA joins  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and Unilever Plc in
expanding in the nation of 64 million people, after the U.S.
eased sanctions last year as Myanmar moved toward democracy
following five decades of military rule.  South Korea ’s Incheon
International Airport Corp. won a $1.1 billion contract this
month to build a new international airport for Yangon, Myanmar’s
largest city, to increase passenger capacity fivefold on
expectations of soaring demand.  “There’s still a lot more room for growth in travel in
 Asia ,” Toshiaki Nonaka, a director of strategic planning at
ANA, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “We want to actively go and
seize that growth. With this tie-up we’re expanding our base for
flights to other Asian countries.”  Asian Wings, based in Yangon, is a closely-held airline
that started flying in 2011 and operates three Avions de
Transport Regional ATR72 planes and an Airbus SAS A321,
according to its  website . It operates routes to “all major
tourist destinations” in Myanmar, according to the site.  Tripling Fleet  The carrier will add 10 Airbus A320s to its fleet over the
next five years, and boost its ATR aircraft to four, more than
tripling its fleet to 15 planes, said Nonaka. ANA is considering
leasing the Airbus planes to Asian Wings and may invest in new
technology for its ticketing system as well, he said.  ANA restarted flights to Myanmar last year, for the first
time in 12 years, as sanctions against the country were eased.  The airport at Myanmar’s capital Naypidaw, the nation’s
biggest with a capacity to handle 5 million passengers, is
served by 18 international carriers.  The new airport in Yangon will be able to handle 12 million
passengers a year when it opens for business in 2018. The city’s
existing airport is also aiming to more than double its capacity
to 5.5 million by 2016.  Travel Demand  ANA’s acquisition will be its first of a new airline since
the company raised 174 billion yen ($1.8 billion) in a share
sale last year for acquisitions and aircraft purchases. All
Nippon Airways, the main carrier of ANA Holdings, said earlier
this year it was looking for acquisitions and partnerships in
countries including India, Thailand and Myanmar after raising
money in the share sale.  “It will help them tap growing travel demand in  Southeast
Asia ,”  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays Securities Japan
Ltd., said of the Asian Wings purchase. “It’s a step in the
right direction, but they need to make more investments to make
the best use of their capital.”  Last month, ANA announced it would buy pilot training
company Pan Am Holdings Inc. for $139.5 million. The carrier
also held preliminary discussions on buying a stake in
Philippine Airlines Inc. from  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the owner of a
49 percent stake in the Manila-based carrier, it said in July.  ANA fell 0.5 percent to 208 yen at the close of trading in
Tokyo today. The stock has advanced 15 percent this year,
compared with a 30 percent gain in Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  