-- Anadarko Rises on $2.64 Billion Mozambique Sale: Dallas Mover
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-08-26T15:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/anadarko-rises-on-2-64-billion-mozambique-sale-dallas-mover.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by
market value, rose after announcing an agreement to sell part of
its stake in a  Mozambique  project for $2.64 billion.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas ,  climbed  as much as
2.6 percent to $92.10, the highest intraday price since July 22.
The stock was up 2 percent at $91.61 by 11:19 a.m. in New York.
Before today, the shares had increased 21 percent this year.  The company yesterday announced the sale of a 10 percent
stake in Mozambique’s Offshore Area 1 to ONGC Videsh Ltd., a
unit of  India ’s biggest energy explorer. Anadarko said the deal
values its pre-transaction holding at more than $9.6 billion. It
also tops the $2.5 billion price Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil
India Ltd. (OINL)  agreed earlier this year to pay for a 10 percent
stake in the area from  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)   “Certainly, it was the highest marker out there so far,”
said  Scott Hanold , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
 Minneapolis  who has a rating on the stock equivalent to a buy
and owns no shares of Anadarko. The price “shows the value
relative to what they’ve discovered so far,” he said.  The company, which will keep a 26.5 percent working
interest in Area 1, will remain operator. Anadarko’s role as the
operator may have enabled it to get a high price, Hanold said in
a phone interview. Anadarko said the transaction is expected to
close around the end of this year pending approval.  LNG Cargoes  The block contains the Prosperidade and Golfinho/Atum
natural gas complexes that together hold an estimated 35
trillion to 65 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas, according
to the company. Anadarko has been working with Eni SpA to
develop a liquefied natural gas, or LNG, project with first
shipments expected in 2018.  The company plans to use the sale proceeds to speed up the
development of U.S. projects such as the Wattenberg field, Eagle
Ford Shale, Permian and Powder River basins, and the Gulf of
Mexico, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said in a
statement yesterday.  Anadarko is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value behind ConocoPhillips. Independent
producers don’t own refineries or a chemical unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  