-- Manchester United Draws With Chelsea as Rooney Takes on Suitor
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-26T23:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/manchester-united-draws-0-0-with-chelsea-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United drew 0-0 with
Chelsea as manager  David Moyes ’s first competitive home game
delivered the only scoreless Premier League match at Old
Trafford since May 2009.  In a meeting between two of the bookmakers’ favorites for
the title, Red Devils striker  Danny Welbeck  had the best chance
last night in the 56th minute, though put his shot from 10 yards
(nine meters) just wide. It was the first league game without a
goal at United’s stadium in 77 matches.  “It was tense,” Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  said in
a televised interview. “People talk about big decider games
early in the season and neither team wants to lose. It was a bit
of a stalemate in those terms.”  The result puts Chelsea a point clear of Liverpool and
Tottenham atop the standings with seven points, though the Blues
have played a game more. Defending champion United has four
points in fourth place after two of 38 matches and visits
Liverpool next on Sept. 1.  Last night’s match marked the first time Moyes went up
against Chelsea’s  Jose Mourinho  since succeeding the retired
 Alex Ferguson  as manager of record 20-time English champion
United. Mourinho in June left Real Madrid and rejoined Chelsea,
which he coached to the title in 2005 and 2006.  Rooney Plays  Moyes picked  Wayne Rooney , who’s been the subject of two
rejected bids from Chelsea, in the starting lineup and the
England forward was cheered throughout by the home fans. Rooney
had four of United’s 10 shots.  “I was very pleased with Wayne’s performance and very
pleased by the reaction from the crowd,” Moyes said in comments
on United’s website. “I told him I might only play him for 60
or 70 minutes and see how he was. But he worked back, he tackled
and he was great.”  Mourinho said Chelsea will wait to see where Rooney sees
his future before making a third offer. United has said that the
27-year-old isn’t for sale.  “It depends on his reaction, on his feelings,” Mourinho
told  Sky Sports . “If now he doesn’t want to leave, we are out
of the scene. We need to know what is happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  