-- Apple, Google, Bosch, CIT Group: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-26T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/apple-google-bosch-cit-group-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  don’t have to reveal confidential data including financial
information, source code, business plans and market research
reports to the public, a U.S. appeals court ruled Aug. 23.  A federal judge shouldn’t have ordered the world’s largest
smartphone makers to reveal “exceptionally sensitive
information” from their patent dispute that has remained under
seal since the trial last year in  California , the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  ruled.  Apple won a $1 billion verdict, though the judge later
ordered a retrial on some of the damages. It’s scheduled to
begin in November.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, who
presided over the trial, ordered the two sides to make public
all exhibits used during the trial and in Apple’s unsuccessful
request for an order that would halt sales of Samsung products.
She declined requests by Apple and Samsung to redact information
from the evidence, though her orders were on hold pending the
appeal to the Washington court.  “We recognize the importance of protecting the public’s
interest in judicial proceedings and of facilitating its
understanding of those proceedings,” Circuit Judge Sharon Prost
wrote for the three-judge panel. “That interest, however, does
not extend to mere curiosity about the parties’ confidential
information where that information is not central to a decision
on the merits.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said the company had no comment. Adam Yates, a
spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  News organizations including the Los Angeles Times,
Associated Press, Wired.com, Bloomberg News and the  New York
Times (NYT)  argued to make the information public. The Federal
Circuit, which hears all patent appeals, said courts generally
should make documents public. The exception, it said, was when
the release will cause competitive harm to a business.  Apple sought to keep portions of 14 documents sealed and
Samsung wanted parts of 12 filings kept confidential.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1600,
12-1606 and 13-1146, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v.
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  Google Buys Wearable Technology Patents From Taiwan’s Hon Hai  Google Inc., which is testing Web-enabled eyeglasses,
bought patents for wearable technology used in gaming and
training simulations from Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., a
primary assembler for Apple Inc.  The head-mounted display technology consists of a computer-generated image that is superimposed on a real-world view,
Taipei-based Hon Hai said in an Aug. 23 e-mailed statement.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Google has been amassing technology for its Glass device
from Taiwanese companies, agreeing to invest in  Himax
Technologies Inc. (HIMX)  on July 22. The eyeglasses can take pictures
and videos and share information via the Internet.  “This deal may allow the company to leverage Google’s
content strength and seek manufacturing contracts from the U.S.
firm on wearable-computing devices,” Edward Chen, a research
analyst at Taipei-based First Capital Management Inc., said by
phone Aug. 23.  Hon Hai doesn’t know if Google will use the display
technology for Google Glass, Laura Liu, a spokeswoman for Hon
Hai, said in an Aug. 23 phone interview.  Terry Gou, chairman of Hon Hai Group, said reports the
company will assemble Glass for Google were speculative,
Economic Daily News reported July 23.  Hon Hai assembles iPhones and iPads, and the company is
hiring as many as 90,000 workers in the Chinese cities of
Shenzhen and Zhengzhou to meet client demand in the fourth
quarter, Liu said. Liu declined to name the clients.  Taj Meadows, a Singapore-based spokesman for Google, said
in an e-mail he didn’t immediately have any information
available on Hon Hai’s announcement.  Bosch Reacquires Rights to Diabetes-Related Patents From Abbott  Robert Bosch GmbH’s Robert Bosch Healthcare systems unit
has reacquired a group of patents and patent applications from
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , according to a company statement.  The 150 issued patents and more than 40 patent applications
are related to diabetes management and monitoring.  The patents returned to Bosch following the termination of
a license with Abbott, according to the statement. The Palo
Alto, California-based company said the patents and patent
applications are now available for licensing to health-care
companies focused on diabetes.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  CIT Group Asked to Back Down on Claims Against Illinois Company  CIT Group Inc. was sued in a trademark dispute by an
 Illinois  truck dealership.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 23 in federal court
in Peoria, Illinois, Central Illinois Trucks Inc. is seeking a
court declaration that it doesn’t infringe the New York-based
bank’s trademarks.  Central Illinois Trucks, which does business as  CIT Group
Inc. , operates truck dealerships in Illinois, repairs trucks and
through its subsidiaries, offers financing and leasing to its
customers.  The company said it has used “Central Illinois Trucks”
and ‘CIT” in connection with its truck sales and service
business. In 2009, it formed CIT Group Leasing, which offers
financing, leasing and rental of trucks solely in connection
with its in-house truck sales and rental business, according to
court papers.  The Normal, Illinois-based company said that while the New
York-based CIT Group may incidentally offer leasing and
financing of trucks, this is not the focus of the bank’s
marketing.  In January, the truck company said it received a cease-and-desist notice from the New York bank. It argued in its filings
that it doesn’t infringe the bank’s trademarks and seeks a
judicial determination to that effect.  Additionally, the truck company asked the court to order
New York’s CIT Group to quit threatening litigation or making
statements that the Illinois company is infringing the bank’s
trademarks.  Curt Ritter, a spokesman for New York’s CIT Group, said in
an e-mail that his company doesn’t comment on pending litigation  The case is Central Illinois Trucks Inc. v.  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,
1:13-cv-01379-JES-JAG, U.S. District Court, Central District of
Illinois (Peoria).  Clorox Bid to Block Copycat Pine-Sol From Mexico to Be Probed  The  Clorox Co. (CLX) , the Oakland, California-based maker of
household cleaning products, persuaded the U.S. International
Trade Commission to investigate imports of cleaning products
made by a Mexican company.  According to the notice placed on the Washington-based
trade commission’s website Aug. 23, Clorox is seeking to halt
the importation of products from  Mexico ’s Industrias Alen SA.  The company filed a complaint with the commission -- which
has the power to block imports that infringe U.S. intellectual
property rights -- in July, claiming that the Mexican company’s
“Cloralex” and “Pinol” brands of cleaning products infringe
Clorox’s Clorox and Pine-sol trademarks.  Clorox filed a trademark-infringement suit against Alen in
federal court in San Francisco April 15. That case was dismissed
on Clorox’s request May 30, with the company noting that the
Mexican company had not responded to the complaint.  That case is Clorox Co. v. Industrials Alen SA, 3:13-cv-01536-JST, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Travel Alberta Files DMCA Takedown Request Against Film Trailer  Travel Alberta , which promotes tourism to the Canadian
province, has  demanded  that a film trailer be removed from
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site. The trailer is no
longer available on YouTube.  The tourism agency claims that a trailer for a forthcoming
film, “Welcome to Fort McMoney -- Remember to Breathe,”
infringes the copyrights for its tourism-promotion films.  The movie is presently the subject of a crowd-sourced
funding campaign on the Indiegogo.com website. The filmmakers
are seeking support to travel to Fort McMurray,  Alberta , to make
a documentary on the tar sands oil project.  On  their page  on Indiegogo Inc.’s site, filmmakers Andy
Cobb and Mike Damanskis claim that the project is an
environmental disaster that is being touted by promoters as
“the fair trade coffee of the oil market.” They say
promotional material associated with the project is
“essentially an oil company ad mixed with a tourism
commercial.”  They make use of one of the tourism board’s “ Remember to
Breathe ” commercial in their film trailer.  In a  statement  on its website, the San Francisco-based
Electronic Frontier Foundation said that the takedown request
was “no more than a crude attempt at censorship” and that the
filmmakers’ use of the tourism-promotion clip fell within U.S.
copyright law’s “fair use” exception.  EFF, a digital rights group, said the trailer used about
four seconds of the travel advertisement in the filmmakers’
efforts to contrast the ad’s lush travel shots to the
environmental destruction of the oil fields.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 