-- Marchionne Says Tobin Will Become CEO of CNH Industrial
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-08-26T09:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/marchionne-says-tobin-will-become-ceo-of-cnh-industrial.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  said Chief
Operating Officer Richard Tobin will run CNH Industrial, the
manufacturer created when the company combines with its  CNH
Global NV (CNH)  farm-equipment division.  “Rich will be assuming the position of chief executive of
CNH Industrial upon completion of the merger,” Chairman Sergio Marchionne said today in a statement.  Tobin, 50, joined Amsterdam-based CNH in 2010 from  SGS SA (SGSN) ,
the world’s largest product inspector. Marchionne is also
chairman of SGS, a company he ran before becoming chief
executive officer in 2004 of Turin, Italy-based carmaker  Fiat
SpA (F) , the original owner of truck and tractor producer Fiat
Industrial.  Shareholders of Fiat Industrial, which makes Iveco trucks,
and its 88 percent-owned subsidiary CNH, which builds Case and
New Holland bulldozers and tractors, approved the merger in
July. The combination is part of Marchionne’s strategy to
improve the company’s growth prospects by shifting focus to the
U.S. market. Fiat spun off Fiat Industrial in 2011.  CNH Industrial will have its primary listing on the  New
York  Stock Exchange. Marchionne, who will be president of the
new company, is seeking to shift the Turin-based manufacturer
away from roots in Italy, which is in its fourth recession since
2001 even as the broader euro area returned to growth in the
second quarter of this year.  Fiat Industrial and CNH both appointed Massimiliano Chiara
as chief financial officer to replace Pablo Di Si, who resigned
to pursue other interests, the companies said in today’s
statement.  Fiat Chairman John Elkann said in May that Tobin is one of
the managers who have been groomed by Marchionne and could
eventually run the carmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  