-- Are Hospitals Already Saving Money for Medicare?
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-08-26T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/are-hospitals-already-saving-money-for-medicare-.html
Medicare continues to exhibit
remarkably slow growth: a modest  3 percent  over the past year.
That’s great news, but a debate is raging about whether this is
caused by a weak economy (and therefore will reverse as the
economy recovers) or other factors (and therefore may persist,
drastically improving the budget outlook).  Two new studies tilt toward the optimistic possibility. The
first, a  technical paper  from the  Congressional Budget Office ,
parsed the decline in cost growth per beneficiary from 7.1
percent a year from 2000 to 2005 to 3.8 percent from 2007 to
2010.  The researchers found that the slowdown was widespread
across beneficiaries, services and regions. Then they examined
whether growth in price or quantity of services had fallen, and
found that less than a 10th of the change could be attributed to
payment rates.  Almost all of the change, then, was due to slower growth in
the quantity of Medicare services. This finding is crucial,
because part of the skepticism over whether the slowdown will
continue is based on experience: Previous periods of slow growth
haven’t persisted. Past Medicare slowdowns, however, were
typically driven by price (in the form of payment reductions),
not quantity of services. Good thing that’s not the case now.  The CBO team then examined various things that might have
caused the quantity slowdown, none of which turned out to have
had much effect. As Megan McArdle  has written , the biggest
factor they could identify was demographics, but even that
accounted for only 0.3 percentage point (or still less than a
10th) of the reduction.  Mystery Factor  The recession, for its part, had almost no effect, which is
not surprising because most Medicare beneficiaries face very
small out-of-pocket charges, and most of their income comes in
the form of Social Security checks, which don’t decrease when
the economy is weak. The researchers conclude that “available
evidence does not support a finding that demand for health care
by Medicare beneficiaries was measurably diminished by the
financial turmoil and recession.”  So what is the mystery factor? Changes in the delivery of
care could have played a role, the CBO surmises, even though
these are difficult to quantify. Hospital admission rates per
beneficiary have fallen, for example, and more end-of-life care
may be taking place at lower-cost hospices, rather than
hospitals. (In 2000, 22 percent of the beneficiaries in the
study who died used  hospice care . In 2009, 42 percent did.) A
“heightened public focus on cost containment” might have
contributed to these trends, the researchers suggest.  My own interactions with hospital executives and other
health-care providers suggest something similar: Most providers
anticipate that, in the future, they will be paid based less on
how much they do than on how well they do it. And that
anticipation is leading to significant change today.  This raises the question of how much scope providers have
to reduce costs without compromising the quality of their care.
Here’s where the  second new paper  comes in. David Cutler and
Ariel Dora Stern of  Harvard University , Jonathan Skinner of
 Dartmouth College , and David Wennberg of the Geisel School of
Medicine examined why Medicare spending varies so much across
regions of the U.S. They found that patient demand explains
little. Instead, it appears to be related to differences from
place to place in the ways doctors practice medicine. The
researchers’ survey of doctors revealed a significant
statistical association between how physicians would treat
hypothetical patients and actual spending patterns across
regions.  Beyond Guidelines  If doctors who tend to provide more intensive care than
medical guidelines suggest instead simply followed those
guidelines, the Cutler team found, Medicare spending would fall
by an astonishing 17 percent. To be sure, in some individual
cases, it makes sense for doctors to go beyond the guidelines,
but do we really think the entire 17 percent is justified?
Findings such as these suggest there is substantial room for
Medicare savings that don’t harm -- and potentially improve --
care.  Neither of these studies is definitive, but they are part
of a growing body of evidence suggesting that big changes are
happening in health care -- and that there is ample scope for
them to continue. In the coming months, as we move into the
silly season of negotiations over the federal debt limit and
next year’s spending levels, the biggest government expense of
all may be improving faster than policy makers yet appreciate.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 