-- Argentine Importers Say Permits Being Delayed to Shield Reserves
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-26T17:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/argentine-importers-say-permits-being-delayed-to-shield-reserves.html
Argentina  is extending the time it
takes to approve import permits in an effort to shore up  central
bank reserves  that have dwindled to a six-year low, according to
Argentina’s biggest importers’ association.  “Imports have become the variable of adjustment of this
model of currency restrictions,” Miguel Ponce, an official at
Cira, which represents companies that account for 80 percent of
the country’s imports, said in a telephone interview from Buenos
Aires. “The most affected by these delays are workers, small
and medium-sized companies and industrial production, as the
lack of parts and machinery is causing a decline in some
industries.”  Argentina is blocking imports from  Brazil , its biggest
trading partner,  Valor Economico  reported today. President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  started tightening import
restrictions in 2011 to protect reserves after capital outflows
jumped. She also banned most dollar purchases. Her efforts
didn’t prevent central bank holdings from dropping to $37
billion on Aug. 23, the lowest since April 2007.  Industrial  output  expanded 2.8 percent in July from a year
earlier, the slowest growth since April, according to the
national statistics agency.  A weakening real, which has tumbled 14.1 percent against
the dollar this year, is making Argentine exports to Brazil less
competitive, according to Cristiano Rattazzi, president of Fiat
Auto Argentina SA. Argentina’s peso has fallen 12.7 percent in
the same period.  “A real at 2.4 per dollar is worrisome for Argentina”
Rattazzi told reporters in  Buenos Aires  on Aug. 22. “A year
ago, there were lots of investors here who were interested in
auto part production. Today you won’t find as many.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  