-- Harrisburg Receiver Releases Plan to Save Insolvent City
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/harrisburg-receiver-releases-plan-to-save-insolvent-city.html
The receiver for Harrisburg, the
insolvent capital of  Pennsylvania , said he agreed with creditors
owed about $362.5 million to a plan to end the city’s fiscal
crisis without the need for another bankruptcy filing.  The city would sell its waste-to-energy plant and lease its
parking system, the state-appointed receiver, William B. Lynch,
said yesterday in a copy of his plan sent to reporters and filed
with Pennsylvania’s Commonwealth Court.  The amount raised by the sale and the lease wouldn’t fully
repay the claims of Harrisburg’s largest creditors. They might
receive more funds later, according to the plan. Municipal
workers also agreed to make concessions.  “Providing meaningful solutions for one set of interests
necessarily means that others need to agree to some
accommodations,” Lynch said in the filing. “This has been true
for all the significant parties or interests that have come
together to forge a workable solution for Harrisburg’s future.”  After the lease and sale of assets, bond insurer  Assured
Guaranty (AGO)  Municipal and Dauphin County would recover at least
$210 million on claims totaling $298.5 million.  They would receive proceeds from a fuel tax, if authorized
by the state legislature, and from future parking revenue to
satisfy the remainder.  The insurer and county covered debt payments on the
incinerator the city skipped starting in 2009.  ‘Good Agreement’  “This is a good agreement for everyone involved and, for
the most part, everybody is close to being made whole,” Dauphin
County Commission Chairman Jeff Haste said in an e-mailed
statement. “We should also keep in mind that we’re doing this
without the city going into bankruptcy, which would have been
very costly to the entire region.”  A proposed resolution to Harrisburg’s crisis comes after a
record bankruptcy filing by  Detroit  and as rates in the
$3.7 trillion market for state and local debt have risen from
generational lows.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on July
18 after decades of decline left it unable to pay its debts and
provide needed services. Detroit owes about
$18 billion to creditors, according to its emergency manager.  Lynch has been negotiating with all of the Harrisburg
groups since he took over last year, following the resignation
of lawyer David Unkovic. The rescue plan is designed to deal
with a municipal debt burden of about $362.5 million, or about
seven times the city’s general-fund budget.  State Approval  The proposal needs approval by the state court judge
overseeing the city’s receivership case, Bonnie Leadbetter.  By settling with creditors, Lynch was able to keep the city
from filing a second bankruptcy case.  In 2011, the City Council defied the mayor and Pennsylvania
state officials by placing Harrisburg under federal bankruptcy
court protection. The case was dismissed when the judge
concluded that the city of almost 50,000 didn’t have authority
from the state.  “It is hoped that in the eyes of those looking for a
template for solving persistent municipal distress, Harrisburg
will be seen as a beacon,” according to the plan.  The City Council in an e-mailed statement said Lynch’s
blueprint “accomplishes the many things we have fought so hard
for.”  ‘Ill-Conceived’  Harrisburg’s crisis stemmed from an overhaul and expansion
of the incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough revenue to
cover the debt. The project proceeded even though the idea that
the facility could pay for itself was “ill-conceived,” Lynch
said in his plan.  He said he will consider “every measure available” to
compel payment from those involved in the “highly imprudent”
transactions. Proceeds would go to the city, county and Assured,
a unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured Guaranty Ltd., Lynch
said.  Ashweeta Durani, an Assured spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company “is committed to working cooperatively”  on a
plan “that both restores the city’s fiscal health and respects
the rights of creditors.”  The Pennsylvania Economic Development Financing Authority,
a state entity, would take over parking garages and outside lots
under a 40-year lease from the Harrisburg Parking Authority, the
city agency that owns them.  The state authority would sell tax-exempt bonds to be
repaid from lease revenue. The deal might generate at least $258
million. Dauphin County and Assured would back a portion of the
debt.  City Parking  Standard Parking Corp. (STAN) , based in  Chicago , would run
Harrisburg’s 9,100-space parking system. AEW Capital Management
LP, a Boston-based property manager, would oversee the real
estate involved. Both would receive fixed fees.  Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority would buy
the incinerator for at least $126 million. Two municipal labor
unions have agreed to contract changes to help save money.  Ambac Assurance, the guarantor that covered payments on
Harrisburg general-obligations, would restructure the debt so
the city paid a lower annual amount over a term 10 years longer
than the original maturity. Harrisburg “will be seen to be
respectful of the credit markets” with this arrangement, Lynch
said.  Ambac didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message
seeking comment left with the company’s media office.  Economic Development  The proposal includes provisions to fund economic
development and infrastructure improvements in the city. In
addition, a fund would be established to pay retiree health
care. The city’s unfunded liability for other post-employment
benefits, excluding pensions, was $177.8 million as of January
2010, according to an audit released in December.  A Harrisburg Authority incinerator revenue bond backed by
 Assured Guaranty  traded Aug. 23 at an average yield of 5.5
percent, or 1.28 percentage points above benchmark debt,
compared with an average yield of 5.1 percent and a spread of
1.11 percentage points on June 27, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A Harrisburg Parking Authority bond traded Aug. 23 at an
average yield of 6.5 percent, or 3.25 percentage points above
the benchmark, compared with an average yield of 6.1 percent and
a spread of 3.91 percentage points on April 1.  The case is Walker v. Harrisburg Authority, 569-MD-2011,
Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 