-- Assad Is Counting on Russia Support in UN Chemical Weapons Probe
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-08-26T06:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/assad-is-counting-on-russia-support-in-un-chemical-weapons-probe.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said he expects  Russia  to ensure the neutrality of a United
Nations probe into the alleged use of chemical weapons by his
army in the war against rebels.  Assad, in an interview with Russian newspaper Izvestia,
said the result of any U.S. military attack on Syria “will meet
the same fate that the U.S. has met since its war in  Vietnam :
failure,” according to a transcript carried by the state-run
Sana news agency.  A UN team is preparing to begin an investigation into
allegations of chemical arms use after some opposition groups
said 1,300 people were killed in a Aug. 21 attack in a Damascus
suburb. A senior U.S. official said yesterday the administration
of President  Barack Obama  had “little doubt” that Assad’s
forces used a chemical weapon in the attack. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel said U.S. forces were ready to strike if ordered by
the president.  “The results can be interpreted according to the whim of
major powers, so what we’re waiting for after the investigation
is the objectivity of the interpretation,” Assad said,
according to Sana. “Of course we count on Russia to prevent any
interpretation that aims to serve the objectives of U.S. and
Western policies.”  Syria and the UN agreed yesterday to the inspection of the
Ghouta area outside Damascus.  The agreement five days after the purported attack is too
late because constant shelling of the area could have corrupted
or destroyed evidence, the U.S. administration official said in
an e-mailed statement. The statement was released on condition
of anonymity because the person wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Pressure is building on Obama to respond, with Senators
 John McCain  and  Lindsey Graham , Republicans on the Senate Armed
Services Committee, calling yesterday for a limited military
response by the U.S. and its allies. The U.S., the U.K. and
 France  are discussing options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  