-- Aussie Bonds Rise With Currency as Investors Weigh Fed Tapering
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-26T07:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/aussie-holds-gain-as-investors-mull-fed-taper-amid-weaker-data.html
Australian  government bonds  rose
along with the currency as investors weigh the U.S. central
bank’s timing for tapering stimulus that has supported higher-yielding assets globally.  Australia ’s  10-year (GACGB10)  yield dropped before a report today
that may show U.S. durable goods orders fell in July for the
first time in four months, signaling the recovery in the world’s
biggest economy remains patchy. The Australian dollar remained
higher after a two-day advance. New Zealand’s currency gained,
halting a five-day slide, as Asian stocks climbed.  “Our U.S. economists are still fairly staunch in their
view that growth will continue its pickup, but not shoot the
lights out,” said  Michael Turner , a fixed income and currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Sydney. “At the moment,
Australia seems to be very much directed by what’s going on in
the U.S. I suspect longer-end yields will track fairly close to
the U.S. over the next couple of weeks.”  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.01 percent as of
4:52 p.m. in Sydney. The rate on sovereign debt due in three
years fell one basis point to 2.78 percent. The nation’s
currency added 0.1 percent to 90.40 U.S. cents after gaining 0.7
percent in the two days ended Aug. 23.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar climbed 0.4 percent to 78.34 U.S.
cents, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.2 percent.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.3 percent.  U.S. Orders  Orders (DGNOCHNG)  placed with U.S. factories for goods meant to last
at least three years probably declined 4 percent last month
after gaining 3.9 percent in June, according to the median
estimate of analysts polled by  Bloomberg News . The Commerce
Department said on Aug. 23 sales of new homes plunged in July by
the most in more than three years.  The  Federal Reserve  currently buys $85 billion of debt a
month to bolster growth. The U.S. central bank will reduce its
purchases to $75 billion at its next meeting on Sept. 17-18,
according to 65 percent of economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg
survey.  “There is improvement in the U.S., but it remains far from
compelling in terms of sustainable long-term growth,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  “The pace of tapering will itself be highly uncertain.
Against the  U.S. dollar , the Aussie and kiwi are going to be
very volatile.”  Volatility Climbs  One-month volatility for the Aussie climbed 34 basis points
to 12.69 percent, set for the highest close since July 16. The
equivalent figure for the kiwi rose 26 basis points to 13.10
percent, headed for the most in almost six weeks.  Australia’s dollar has fallen 10 percent this year, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New Zealand peer has
lost 1.5 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 57 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut
borrowing costs from 2.5 percent to 2.25 percent or lower by its
Dec. 3 meeting. That’s up from 53 percent odds a week ago.
There’s a 90 percent probability that policy makers will keep
rates unchanged when they next meet on Sept. 3, according to the
figures.  UBS AG sees the Aussie falling to 88 cents in a month. “A
weaker currency is a necessary condition for full economic
rebalancing in Australia,” Singapore-based currency strategist
 Gareth Berry  wrote in an Aug. 24 report. “If the currency
refuses to fall of its own accord from current levels, another
RBA rate cut would ensure a resumption of the downtrend.”  N.Z. Deficit  In New Zealand,  imports  exceeded exports by NZ$774 million
($607 million) in July, figures from the statistics bureau
showed today. That compares with the median forecast of a NZ$16
million deficit in a separate poll.  Prime Minister John Key said today a Reserve Bank of New
Zealand model shows its benchmark  interest rate , which stands at
2.5 percent, may rise less due to home-lending restrictions
announced by the central bank last week. There’s a 74 percent
chance the bank will raise rates to at least 2.75 percent by
March 2014, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand ’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, declined one basis point to 3.44
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  