-- Bank Mandiri Says Indonesia More Attractive Than Singapore
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-08-26T04:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bank-mandiri-says-indonesia-attractive-as-dbs-takeover-scuttled.html
Budi Gunadi Sadikin, the head of
 Indonesia ’s largest bank, said his home market is more
attractive than  Singapore  less than a month after Indonesian
efforts to get access to the city state scuttled what would have
been Southeast Asia’s biggest banking takeover.  “It is more important for the Singaporean banks to get
into Indonesia” rather than the other way round, said Sadikin,
president director of  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , referring to his
country’s under-penetrated banking sector and Singapore’s
smaller economy and population. “Singapore to us is a small
opportunity,” he said in an interview last week.  Indonesia’s central bank has been seeking reciprocity in
Singapore for the nation’s biggest banks, including Mandiri, the
largest by assets. At the same time, Indonesia last year imposed
foreign ownership limits that prompted Singapore’s  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  to drop its 66.4 trillion rupiah ($6 billion)
acquisition of PT Bank Danamon Indonesia.  If the Monetary Authority of Singapore showed a “positive
gesture” in granting greater access to Indonesian banks, “then
the transaction would have gone smoothly,” Sadikin said.  He said he would still be “very happy” for Jakarta-based
Bank Mandiri to receive a full banking license in Singapore. “I
won’t open 25 branches in one year. But at least I have the
flexibility.”  Loan Profitability  The average net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, for Singapore banks is 1.8 percent, the lowest in
 Southeast Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
latest company filings. Indonesian banks with a market value of
at least $5 billion boast an average margin of 6.55 percent.  Indonesia’s economy may expand between 5.8 percent and 5.9
percent in 2013, Finance Minister Chatib Basri said on Aug. 23.
The Singapore government estimates growth will range from 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent this year.  Still, Indonesia hasn’t been immune to capital flight from
 emerging markets  on speculation that the U.S. will start
tapering its bond-buying stimulus program. The Indonesian rupiah
fell to the lowest level in more than four years against the
dollar today.  Indonesia needs to address its current-account deficit and
reduce inflation, Sadikin said. Southeast Asia’s largest economy
posted a record current-account shortfall of $9.8 billion in the
second quarter. The central bank raised benchmark  interest rates 
in June and July to combat inflation at a four-year high.  “What we’re doing now is readjustment to the new
realities, the new fundamentals of our economy,” Sadikin said
in a separate Bloomberg Television interview with Haslinda Amin.
“Yes, there will be a short period of shocks, up and down, but
the fundamentals will prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  