-- Bank of Israel Keeps Rate Unchanged at 1.25%
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-26T15:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bank-of-israel-keeps-rate-unchanged-at-1-25-.html
The Bank of Israel kept the
benchmark lending rate unchanged for the third time after
quarterly growth surged and amid signs a global recovery is
strengthening.  The five-member monetary policy panel, which has been led
by acting Governor Karnit Flug since  Stanley Fischer  stepped
down two months ago, left borrowing costs unchanged at 1.25
percent. All 22 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had forecast
the decision.  “The global picture indicates slow improvement in advanced
economies,” the bank said in a statement. In Israel,
“expectations of future economic activity are consistent with
continued moderate growth at a rate similar to that of the
recent period.”  Growth jumped to 5.1 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a 3 percent median estimate of eight economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. In the U.S., jobless claims fell to a
five-year low while in  Europe , factories and services companies’
output improved. In  China , manufacturing resumed expansion in
August, after shrinking in July.  The growth rate and a weaker shekel “gave the bank an
excuse to avoid a rate cut, even though it seems the real reason
is the absence of a new governor,” said Shmuel Ben Arie, head
of shekel  wealth management  at Pioneer Private Wealth Planning
in Herzliya.  The dollar remains weak against the shekel, he added, and
“if it continues to weaken, hurting the economy, the next
central bank governor will have to lower the rate.”  Shekel Depreciated  The shekel was headed for the weakest level in almost seven
weeks after the rate cut, depreciating 0.5 percent to 3.6064 a
dollar at 5:36 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . One-year  interest-rate swaps ,
an indicator of investor expectations for rates over the period,
fell six basis points to 1.25 percent.  The Bank of Israel under Fischer lowered the benchmark rate
twice in May to help spur growth in the export-driven economy,
completing a 2 percentage point cut since 2011. The central bank
has held the rate at 1.25 percent since, the lowest level since
2010.  Monetary panel member Reuben Gronau said Aug. 5 he would
“have to be convinced” that an additional rate cut would help
the economy. He added that others on the committee might think
differently.  Together with the rate cuts in May, the  Bank of Israel 
announced a plan to buy $2.1 billion by the end of the year in
an effort to help moderate the shekel gain. The Israeli currency
strengthened by about 3.3 percent in the past six months, making
it the best performer during that period among the 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation (ISCPIYYN)  quickened to 2.2 percent in July, above the
midpoint of the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for
the first time since September 2012.  It is expected to slow to
to 1.9 percent in the coming 12 months, according to the average
of forecasts in a central bank survey released Aug 19.  Economic  growth  is forecast to slow to 3.2 percent in 2014
from 3.8 percent this year, the central bank said on June 24.  New Governor  The government has not yet approved a central bank chief to
replace Fischer, who left at the end of June after eight years
at its helm. Two nominees withdrew during the government vetting
process. Three more candidates are currently being considered:
Mario Blejer, a former Argentina central banker;  Zvi Eckstein,
a former Bank of  Israel  deputy governor; and Victor Medina, a
onetime Finance Ministry director general and former chief
executive officer of United Mizrahi Bank Ltd.  The bank also today said it would return to monthly
interest rate decisions, instead of 10, reversing a decision not
to meet around major Jewish holidays.  “The Committee was of the opinion that under current
circumstances, it is optimal to maintain the flexibility that
comes with monthly monetary discussions on interest rate
decisions, and resolved to return to a format of reaching
interest rate decisions 12 times per year,” the bank said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  