-- Barcelona, Atletico Win in Spain; Verona Upsets AC Milan 2-1
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-26T00:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/barcelona-atletico-win-in-spain-verona-upsets-ac-milan-2-1.html
Barcelona  and Atletico Madrid won
their second straight games to open the Spanish soccer
championship, while Verona marked its return to Italy’s Serie A
by upsetting AC Milan 2-1.  Defending champion Barcelona beat Malaga 1-0 last night on
Adriano’s goal a minute before half time. Atletico earlier
routed Rayo Vallecano 5-0 in Madrid, with Raul Garcia scoring
the first and last goals.  Barca and Atletico joined Athletic Bilbao and Villarreal in
winning their opening two matches of the new La Liga season.
Real Madrid can join them on six points in the standings by
winning at Granada tonight.  In Italy’s opening round of games, Luca Toni got both goals
in promoted Verona’s home win against AC Milan two days ago.
 Carlos Tevez  scored on his league debut as defending champion
Juventus won 1-0 at Sampdoria.  Inter Milan had a 2-0 home win against Genoa yesterday,
while Napoli beat Bologna 3-0 in Rafael Benitez’s first league
match as coach.  French league champion Paris Saint-Germain picked up its
first victory in Ligue 1 this season last night as Edinson Cavani and Ezequiel Lavezzi scored in a 2-1 win at Nantes.  PSG is four points behind leader Marseille after three
matches, which maintained its 100 percent start two days ago by
beating Valenciennes 1-0.  The four pacesetters in Germany won again to make it three
victories from three games.  Borussia Dortmund  leads the
standings on goal difference from  Bayer Leverkusen , champion
Bayern Munich and Mainz.  In the Netherlands,  PSV Eindhoven  dropped its first points
of the Eredivisie season two days ago by drawing 1-1 at
Heracles, allowing Zwolle to go top. Ajax, seeking its fourth
straight Dutch league title, drew 3-3 at Heerenveen on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 