-- Batista’s OSX Jumps on Debt Agreement, Oil Platform: Rio Mover
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-08-26T21:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/batista-s-osx-names-new-ceo-as-bond-backing-fpso-reaches-brazil.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipping company
controlled by entrepreneur  Eike Batista , rose for the first time
in four days after reaching a debt settlement with one of its
main suppliers and after an oil platform reached  Brazil .  OSX climbed 2.5 percent to 1.25 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , paring this year’s decline to 88 percent.
The benchmark Ibovespa dropped 1.5 percent today.  The company reached an agreement to settle its debt and
terminate a contract with  Acciona SA (ANA)  for constructing a
shipyard, OSX said in an Aug. 23 regulatory filing after markets
closed. In the same filing, OSX said its OSX-3 floating
production, storage and offloading vessel, or FPSO, was in
Brazilian waters. The platform arrived in Rio de Janeiro on Aug.
24 from  Singapore , according to Bloomberg vessel tracking data.  “The agreement opens space for a possible sale of the
company,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at Leme
Investimento, said in a phone interview from Florianopolis,
Brazil. The Acciona accord is crucial because “not having
anybody complaining about debt opens the way for a possible
deal,” he said.  OSX last month hired Credit Suisse AG to look at potential
asset sales as it seeks to redefine its business strategy after
Batista’s  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , its main client,
said July 1 that it may shutdown its only producing field next
year. OSX in May had announced that it was cutting back plans to
build the shipyard. In the Aug. 23 filing, OSX said that Acciona
was its biggest supplier at the shipyard, without saying how
much it owed the Spanish constructor.  New CEO  OSX also said in the filing that Marcelo Maia Gomes, who
previously worked at a corporate restructuring advisory company,
will replace Carlos Eduardo Sardenberg Bellot as chief executive
officer. Gomes, who has degrees in business administration and
mechanical engineering, was advising the company on cutbacks as
general director of Alvarez & Marsal Brasil, according to OSX’s
filing.  The contract to use the FPSO at a field operated by OGX
guarantees $500 million in dollar-denominated bonds due in 2015.
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, owns a minority
stake in the field where the vessel is to be deployed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  