-- Bean Says BOE Giving Clear Signal Rates Staying on Hold
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-26T11:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bean-says-boe-giving-clear-signal-rates-staying-on-hold.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said officials are sending a “clear signal” they
won’t increase  interest rates  anytime soon as he acknowledged
some surprise at the response of investors to that message.  The U.K. central bank is “communicating not just to market
participants, but to people, to households and businesses, to
give them a clear signal that interest rates are not likely to
rise imminently,” Bean said in an Aug. 23 interview in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming .  Less than a month since the BOE projected leaving its  key
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent until late 2016, investors are
signaling skepticism officials will hold out so long. Yields on
short-sterling futures contracts expiring in September 2015 have
risen this month and are at the highest in almost nine weeks.  While Bean said he was “a little bit” surprised by the
reaction of financial markets to the bank’s use of so-called
forward guidance, he said officials were not “in the game of
trying to manipulate market expectations.”  “What we’re trying to do is explain as clearly as we can,
what are the factors that will guide policy going forward,
recognizing the world is an uncertain place,” he said. “The
question of whether what’s in the market is warranted or not
depends very much on your view of how much scope there is for
expansion before inflationary pressures start manifesting
themselves.”  BOE Guidance  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  announced Aug. 7 that officials
would not consider raising rates before unemployment reached 7
percent so long as price and financial stability weren’t
jeopardized. The jobless rate was 7.8 percent in the second
quarter and the bank doesn’t expect it to drop to its threshold
for three years.  Bean was representing the BOE at the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Kansas City ’s annual gathering of central bankers and
economists. He told the meeting that although short-term gilt
yields have moved up in recent weeks, the extent of any
tightening should be tempered by the unemployment threshold
“serving as a reminder of just how much growth is needed to
regain lost ground.”  Still, Bean told the audience the BOE’s aim is to clarify
what it reacts to when setting policy rather than trying to
inject extra stimulus by pledging rates will be lower in the
future than would be appropriate.  Carney Speech  His comments come as Governor Mark Carney prepares for his
first official speech in Nottingham on Aug. 28, with economists
predicting he may use the opportunity to try to pull back market
expectations for higher rates. The 10-year gilt yield rose to
2.76 percent on Aug. 22, the highest since August 2011.  “Mark versus the market will be the key event,” said Rob
Wood, a former BOE economist now at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“We expect him to sound very dovish.”  Data last week showed the economy grew 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, faster than initially estimated. Manufacturing,
services and construction strengthened in the past month to
underpin speculation that the economy maintained momentum.  “We have had a string of generally upbeat data in the last
few months,” Bean said. “We’re looking at growth which will be
getting back to historical averages as we go through into the
second half of this year and into next year.”  Such a backdrop makes guidance “particularly valuable”
because it’s when a recovery starts to gain traction that
investors, consumers and companies may start anticipating higher
borrowing costs which in turn hold back the revival, Bean said.  He noted how on a recent trip to  Northern Ireland  at least
three executives told him guidance was “valuable” and that it
would “make it more helpful for them to invest if they felt
that rates would stay relatively low for some time yet.”  QE Option  While the BOE has suspended its  gilt-buying program  at 375
billion pounds ($584 billion), Bean said if the economy suffered
a “significant slowing” then policy makers may restart it.
It’s “always an option on the table” and “definitely still
there as a policy tool if required,” he said.  As signs of a recovery in the  U.K. housing market  mount,
Bean said he doesn’t yet see any signs of an asset bubble
forming given price gains are in line with general inflation.
The bank is also looking for the number of property transactions
to increase as a sign of greater activity, he said.  “We wouldn’t want to see a house-price boom emerging which
would have potential problems further down the road,” said
Bean. “I can’t say we see signs of that at the moment. At this
stage you certainly wouldn’t say there’s a problem. Clearly it’s
one of the things to look at as all the activity indicators pick
up -- are there any signs of excesses starting to emerge.”  Market Response  Bean sought to explain the response of markets to forward
guidance by noting investors had anticipated some form of signal
before its announcement and it would take time to digest the
message. He also pointed to recent improvement in the economy.  There may also be differences between markets and officials
over the outlook for unemployment. If the recent sluggishness of
productivity remains “pernicious and persistent,” then as
demand strengthens firms could have to take on more workers and
the jobless rate will fall faster, he said.  “It’s possible that market participants may have taken the
view that there’s less scope for a productivity recovery than”
policy makers, he said. “In that case it might be perfectly
reasonable given their beliefs to actually think we might be in
a position of wanting to tighten earlier than if you take the
view that there’s lots of productivity rebound to come.”  While some economists have suggested the 7 percent
unemployment target is too high, Bean said it was legitimate
because it fell between the current rate and the 6.5 percent BOE
economists calculate to be the economy’s medium-term
equilibrium. It’s a “sensible point,” he said.  Bean denied differences among policy makers should be a
reason to question forward guidance. Colleague  Martin Weale 
voted against the decision and others questioned the strategy
before Carney took office last month.  “If this is part of the markets’ problem, I think one
would want to disabuse them that this is an issue,” he said.
“Inevitably the committee had some serious discussions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  