-- Bertelsmann’s RTL to Pull Out of Russia Assets Next Month
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-08-26T10:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bertelsmann-s-rtl-to-pull-out-of-russia-assets-next-month.html
RTL Group SA (RTL)  plans to exit its only
broadcasting asset in  Russia  after failing to gain operational
control of National Media Group, which holds stakes in three out
of the country’s seven most-viewed television channels.  Europe’s biggest broadcaster plans to exercise an option to
sell 7.5 percent of NMG on Sept. 16, Luxembourg-based RTL said
in a  statement  on Aug. 22. The fair value of the stake is 81
million euros ($108 million), said RTL, which is controlled by
German publisher Bertelsmann SE.  “Generally, we aim to have operational control, or at
least there should be a credible path to it,” RTL spokesman
Oliver Fahlbusch said by e-mail today on why RTL decided to
sell. He declined to elaborate.  Russia is restricting foreigners from controlling assets in
strategic industries such as oil and technology. Last year, it
blocked Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  from increasing its stake in mobile
operator  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  to a level exceeding local shareholders.
Internet companies Yandex and Mail.ru have corporate rules
restricting voting power of foreign shareholders.  NMG, co-owned by Yury Kovalchuk, a billionaire ally of
President  Vladimir Putin , also holds stakes in daily newspaper
Izvestia and a radio news station. RTL swapped its 30 percent
stake in Russia’s Ren TV channel into a 7.5 percent holding in
NMG two years ago.  NMG increased sales 23 percent last year to 12.1 billion
rubles ($368 million), according to its  website . This didn’t
include Channel One, the country’s main free-to-air television
channel, where the group holds a quarter stake.  Oksana Razumova, an NMG spokeswoman in Moscow, declined to
comment on the planned sale.  RTL’s content-production arm FremantleMedia has a
subsidiary in Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  