-- Best Buy Founder Schulze to Sell Shares to Diversify Assets
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-08-27T21:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/best-buy-founder-schulze-plans-stock-sale-to-diversify-assets.html
Richard Schulze, Best Buy Co.’s
founder and  largest shareholder , informed the consumer
electronics retailer that he plans to sell an undisclosed amount
of its stock to diversify his assets and raise money.  Under the prearranged plan, Schulze can sell Best Buy stock
between Oct. 1 and March 2014 at prevailing market rates,
subject to minimum price thresholds, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company said yesterday in a securities  filing . Schulze,
72, will have no control over the timing of the sale.  Shares of Best Buy have doubled in the past year after
Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly, who took charge in
September, matched rivals’ online prices and cut annual costs by
$390 million through Aug. 3. The company sold its 50 percent
interest in a European smartphone joint venture with  Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  for about $775 million.  “The guy’s net worth has doubled in the past year,” said
 Michael Pachter , an  analyst  at Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles . He rates Best Buy as underperform, the equivalent of a
sell rating. “Why not take some off the table?”  Best Buy dropped 2.2 percent to $35.02 at the close in  New
York . The shares have almost tripled this year, the second-biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)   Failed Buyout  Schulze, who owns about 21 percent of Best Buy, proposed a
buyout of the retailer a year ago for as much as $26 a share. He
was unable to line up debt and equity funding by a February
deadline, according to people familiar with the matter. He then
rejoined the board as chairman emeritus and nominated two
directors to the board.  Schulze didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.
Matt Furman, a Best Buy spokesman, said the company declined to
comment about the planned sale.  Schulze told the  Minneapolis Star-Tribune  in June that he
and his wife, Maureen, plan to donate half of their net worth
through the Richard M. Schulze Family Foundation, increasing its
worth to about $1 billion from $100 million, primarily to help
kindergarten through 12th grade education and medical research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  