-- Billionaire Blavatnik Wins $42.5 Million JPMorgan Award
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-26T20:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/billionaire-blavatnik-wins-42-5-million-jpmorgan-award.html
Billionaire Leonard Blavatnik won a
$42.5 million breach of contract award against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  over claims the bank stuffed a fund with risky mortgage
securities and lost 10 percent of his $1 billion investment.
Blavatnik lost a negligence claim against the bank.  Blavatnik, 56, ranked 51st on Bloomberg’s billionaires
index with a net worth of $15.6 billion, sued JPMorgan in 2009
in  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , accusing the
biggest U.S. bank by assets of putting more money into mortgage
securities in his CMMF fund than investment guidelines allowed.  Justice Melvin Schweitzer, who presided over a two-week
trial this year, ruled that J.P. Morgan Investment Management
breached its contract with Blavatnik’s CMMF fund by exceeding a
20 percent cap on mortgage securities. The judge awarded
$42.5 million in damages plus interest, in a ruling dated Aug.
21 and made public today.  J.P. Morgan Investment Management classified some mortgage
investments in the account as asset-backed securities,
increasing the amount of the fund’s mortgage assets to as much
as 60 percent of the portfolio, Schweitzer said.  “Whether JPMIM had its own understanding that the ‘asset-backed securities’ category included some types of mortgage-backed securities is of no moment,” Schweitzer said. “There is
no evidence that this was ever communicated to CMMF during the
negotiations.”  Clear Guidelines  The guidelines for the account were clear, that the
investments had to be liquid and low-risk, with returns similar
to a typical money market fund, Blavatnik said in a statement.
He asked for $100 million in damages.  “I hope that this decision sends a clear message to
JPMorgan that they have to honor their obligations to their
clients,” Blavatnik said. “There are a lot of people out there
who, I understand, feel they have been wronged by JPMorgan but
cannot afford to take on a huge bank. They shouldn’t have to.
JPmorgan should do the right thing because it is the right thing
to do.”  Schweitzer found in favor of J.P. Morgan on Blavatnik’s
claim of negligence and breach of fiduciary duty, saying that
evidence shows that the securities were “relatively safe and
desirable” at the time they were bought.  “Subsequent developments caused the securities to become
illiquid and JPMIM advised CMMF to wait out the storm rather
than sell at deeply discounted prices,” Schweitzer said. “The
court finds that JPMIM acted reasonably in light of the
information that was available to it at the time.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 