-- Bitcoin Foundation Meets With U.S. Regulators, Law Enforcement
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bitcoin-group-to-meet-with-federal-regulators-law-enforcement.html
A Bitcoin trade group met with
members of the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network, regulators and  law-enforcement  officials to
discuss the digital currency.  Members of the Bitcoin Foundation yesterday briefed
representatives of agencies including the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation ,  Internal Revenue Service ,  Federal Reserve , Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and Secret Service on the nature of the virtual currency,
created four years ago.  “It’s a kickoff of engagement,” said Peter Vessenes,
chairman of the foundation’s board, who said before the meeting
that it would be “standing-room only,” because of interest
among government officials. “Right now, law enforcement would
read a salacious story, and not know what’s going on. We can
help them understand what’s going on.”  FinCEN released guidance in March saying digital-currency
administrators and exchangers are considered money-services
business subject to regulations and anti-money-laundering
controls. Stephen Hudak, a FinCEN spokesman, called this a
“routine” meeting.  Bitcoin Foundation, a Seattle-based group that promotes the
currency, seeks to improve standardization and security for the
“non-political online money,” according to its  website .
Vessenes described the meeting as an “educational meet-and-greet.”  ‘Ongoing Dialogue’  Marco Santori, chairman of the foundation’s regulatory
affairs committee, said the government officials asked “a lot
of questions” and that he hopes to work with their agencies and
others in the future. “It’s only the beginning of the
conversation,” he said.  The discussion is “part of our ongoing dialogue with
virtual currency providers,”  John Sullivan , a Treasury
Department spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The OCC sent three staff members to the “informational
presentation,” said  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for the agency,
which regulates national banks.  Bitcoin was designed by a person or group using the name
Satoshi Nakamoto, and the actual currency is created through a
system called mining, in which connected computers process
Bitcoin transactions and earn their owners Bitcoins as a reward.
According to Blockchain.info, there are more than 11.5 million
Bitcoins in circulation.  They can be used to buy and sell items ranging from
cupcakes to illegal narcotics, and the surge in their value has
created millionaires out of early collectors. The potential
difficulty in tracking illegal transactions has drawn the
attention of regulators.  State Subpoenas  New York’s top banking overseer,  Benjamin Lawsky , sent
subpoenas to 22 digital-currency companies, including BitInstant
LLC and Dwolla Corp., to determine whether new regulations
should be adopted to govern the emerging industry, according to
a person familiar with the matter. The Senate’s Homeland
Security Committee is also examining possible risks of the
virtual currency, it told regulators in a letter earlier this
month that sought information on their oversight.  Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss , who gained fame after the
brothers’ legal clash with Facebook Inc. co-founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  over the origin of its social
network, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to
create the Winkelvoss Bitcoin Trust -- a variation of an
exchange-traded fund that would hold Bitcoins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 