-- ING Sells Korean Life Insurance Unit for $1.7 Billion to MBK
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-26T09:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/mbk-to-buy-ing-s-s-korean-life-insurance-unit-for-1-7-billion.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  sold its South Korean
insurance unit on its second attempt within a year, raising
about 1.84 trillion won ($1.7 billion) from MBK Partners Ltd.,
the Asian buyout firm formed by ex-Carlyle Group executives.  MBK will pay the proceeds in cash and ING will get an
indirect stake of around 10 percent in ING Life Insurance Korea
Ltd. for about 120 billion won in the unit, ING said in a
statement today. The South Korean operation will continue
working under the ING brand for as long as five years, it said.  The disposal in  Asia  brings ING closer to the end of a
restructuring plan imposed by European Union regulators that
forced the company to sell its global insurance operations. The
takeover is the biggest purchase of financial assets for Seoul-based MBK, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Maintaining the ING brand will be a big help to MBK,”
said Lee Chul Ho, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea Investment &
Securities Co. “MBK should ponder its strategy to restructure
the insurer amid this low-growth, low-rate era for its exit some
day. As the South Korean economy is facing slower growth, it’s
the agenda for every insurer here.”  MBK and ING plan to complete the deal by the end of 2013
subject to regulatory approval, Amsterdam-based ING said in
today’s statement.  Shares of ING declined as much as 1.9 percent and were
trading 1.4 percent lower at 8.660 euros as of 11:07 a.m. in
Amsterdam.  Booking Loss  The transaction comes eight months after ING’s plan to sell
the Korean life insurance business to  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) 
collapsed. In December, KB Financial’s board scrapped buying the
unit, saying it’s a “critical time and it’s important to
maintain a high capital-adequacy ratio amid the economic
uncertainty.” ING had planned to get about $2 billion from the
sale.  ING expects to book about 950 million euros ($1.27 billion)
after-tax loss in the third quarter of 2013 from the sale of
Korean life businesses, according to today’s statement. The
transaction represents 9.2 times of fiscal year 2012 earnings of
ING’s Korean life insurance unit and 0.73 times of its book
value, ING said in the statement.  “Seems like the acquisition price is quite attractive for
MBK,” said Michael Na, a Seoul-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “Once MBK places right management and maps a good
strategy, it may sell it back with good returns.”  ING Life Insurance  Korea  had 23.3 trillion won in assets as
of March, making it the fifth-largest life insurer in the nation
by assets, according to company data on its  website . Net income
for the fiscal year ended March declined to 199.3 billion won
from 241 billion won a year earlier, according to the data.  Asia Sales  ING’s Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen, 70, who will step
down in October, has raised 23 billion euros through more than
35 disposals since taking the helm in 2009.  “This transaction is a major step in the divestment of our
Asian insurance and investment management activities,” Hommen
in the statement. “Together with the scheduled payment of the
next tranche of the core Tier 1 securities to the Dutch State in
November 2013, this will bring us further into the end phase of
the restructuring of our company.”  ING, under orders to sell more than 50 percent of its Asian
insurance operations before the end of the year, last year
succeeded in disposal deals for businesses in  Hong Kong , Macau,
 Thailand  and  Malaysia , with 1.7 billion euros in gains within a
month. Last month, ING agreed to sell its Korean investment
management business to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Korea Business  South Korea ’s financial regulator in November said it’s
studying the impact of low-interest rates and low economic
growth on the  insurance industry .  ING entered South Korea’s insurance market in 1987 with a
branch office and set up a locally incorporated unit in 1991,
according to ING Life Insurance Korea’s website. It hired more
than 1,000 staff as of March, according to the website.  Seoul-based MBK fund focuses on buyout transactions in
Korea, Japan and the Greater China region. The private-equity
firm acquired Invoice Inc., a Japanese provider of
telecommunications billing services, for $211 million in 2010.
It also bought Universal Studios  Japan  in 2009 and acquired
Tasaki & Co., a Japanese jewelry retailer, in 2008, according to
the company’s website. The fund was trying to sell accounting
software maker Yayoi Co. in 2011, two people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time.  ING was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. MBK was advised by Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  