-- BNY Mellon Must Face Challenge to $312 Mln Sentinel Lien
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-27T01:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bny-mellon-must-face-challenge-to-312-mln-sentinel-lien.html
(Corrects name in ninth paragraph.)  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  must
again face a lawsuit challenging its $312 million lien on the
assets of bankrupt Sentinel Management Group Inc., a Chicago-based U.S. appeals court ruled.  Today’s ruling reversed U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel’s 2010 decision to uphold the lien after a 17-day trial.
It also completed a reversal for the appellate court which
affirmed Zagel’s findings in August 2012, then rescinded that
decision without explanation in November.  Sentinel, a failed cash management firm, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2007. Liquidation trustee Frederick Grede later sued BNY to disallow or subordinate its lien,
alleging bank employees knew Sentinel was wrongly using investor
assets as collateral for the firm’s own credit line.  “Although we normally give great deference to the district
court’s factual findings after a full bench trial, we cannot
extend the same deference to internally inconsistent factual
findings, which are, by definition, clearly erroneous,” U.S.
Circuit Judge John D. Tinder wrote for the panel.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the New York-based bank,
declined to immediately comment on the court’s ruling.  Bank’s Lien  While work remains to be done at the trial court level, the
panel said, Grede should be able to avoid the bank’s lien on
grounds Sentinel’s transfer of funds from segregated customer
accounts into its own clearing accounts demonstrates an intent
to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors.  The trio of judges also tasked Zagel with determining what
the bank’s employees knew of about Sentinel before its collapse
when he revisits the issue of whether to subordinate its claim
to those of other creditors,  “Was BNYM’s failure to investigate Sentinel before its
collapse merely negligent? Or was it reckless? Or was it
deliberately indifferent?” Tinder wrote.  “We are extremely gratified after seeing the 7th circuit’s
analysis which adopted our position,” Grede’s attorney,  Chris
Gair , said by phone. “we are looking forward to pursuing the
matter on remand.”  Sentinel was based in Northbook,  Illinois .  The case is In re Sentinel Management Group Inc., 10-3787,
10-3990 and 11-1123, U.S. Circuit  Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  