-- Bo Still Defiant at Trial End as China Lauds Graft Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T10:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bo-remains-defiant-at-trial-end-as-china-heralds-graft-crackdown.html
Ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai
remained defiant as his corruption trial ended with prosecutors
calling for a severe punishment, in a case the Communist Party
called proof of its determination to target high-level graft.  Bo accused his former police chief, who testified at the
trial in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan, of being in love
with his wife as he again asserted his innocence of the bribery,
embezzlement and power-abuse charges against him. The bribery
claim was something “even the lousiest TV drama scriptwriter
wouldn’t create,” he said.  Bo’s rebuttals yesterday concluded a five-day trial in
which the court posted transcripts online, an unprecedented move
that state media called evidence of the proceedings’
transparency. The party is seeking to win over a public that’s
increasingly well-informed -- and unafraid to speak out -- about
official corruption that President Xi Jinping has said threatens
its grip on power.  “The judgment and the sentence may be pre-ordained, but
they took the risk to let him speak,” said Jean-Pierre
Cabestan, a political science professor at Hong Kong Baptist
University. “The question among the public is that many other
leaders may be corrupt the same way. They enjoy so much power
and there are no checks and balances.” The official Xinhua News
Agency said the verdict would be announced at a date still to be
decided.  Murder Coverup  Bo, a former commerce minister, governor and mayor, was
accused of taking more than 21 million  yuan  ($3.4 million),
embezzling 5 million yuan and covering up his wife Gu Kalai’s
role in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. Once a
rising political star, Bo’s downfall in March last year posed
the biggest crisis to the Communist Party since the 1989
Tiananmen Square protests.  In the months since, the party has begun an anti-corruption
campaign and sought to curb lavish spending and ostentatious
displays by cadres. Yesterday Xinhua said a deputy general
manager at  China  National Petroleum Corp., parent of Hong Kong-traded PetroChina Co., was put under investigation for suspected
violations of discipline -- party language for corruption-related allegations.  PetroChina said today three senior managers resigned and
shares were suspended in  Hong Kong  today.  China Mobile Communications Corp., the state-owned parent
of the world’s largest mobile phone company by users, announced
earlier this month it removed the head of its Guangdong unit
amid an investigation for discipline violations. Last month,
former Railways Minister  Liu Zhijun  was given a suspended death
sentence for abuse of power and taking bribes.  Made Mistakes  Bo insisted during his trial that while he made mistakes in
his career, he didn’t commit any crimes, according to
transcripts released by the court in Jinan.  He sought to discredit those who testified against him,
calling his wife crazy, comparing a former businessman in Dalian
to a wild biting dog and saying his former police chief in the
city of Chongqing, Wang Lijun, had lied.  Prosecutors’ claims and Bo’s testimony offered a rare
glimpse into the inner conflicts of one of China’s leading
families. Bo’s father,  Bo Yibo , was one of the revolutionaries
who brought the Communists into power in 1949.  During the trial, Bo said his wife had tried to turn him
against his son from a previous marriage and favor Bo Guagua,
the son she had with him. Gu was convicted last year of
murdering Heywood and given a suspended death sentence.  “Kailai was doing all she can to make me feel that Bo
Guagua is good and Bo Wangzhi is not,” Bo said, according to
the transcript.  Extramarital Affairs  Bo admitted to having extramarital affairs, saying Gu’s
anger upon learning about his infidelity was the reason she went
to live abroad with Bo Guagua. He said Wang had a crush on Gu,
and to counter claims that he and his family had taken bribes,
Bo said he was a simple man.  “I am not interested in what I wear,” Bo said. “I have a
pair of cotton pants that my mother gave me in the 1960s.”  The court’s decision to post transcripts stood in contrast
to the trials of Gu and Wang, who was sentenced to 15 years in
jail for bribery, abuse of power and other charges related to
the cover-up of Heywood’s murder.  Neither of those trials lasted more than two days, neither
person made a public defense, no running transcripts were made
available and both confessed.  The government detailed Bo’s trial to meet public demand
and head off skepticism that it would be another “simple
political performance with a fixed result,” said Zhang Qianfan,
a law professor at  Peking University .  American Way  “Basically it is a drama directed in a European and
American way,” Zhang said.  Transcripts of the trial were edited, with some details
taken out after appearing briefly online, including a section
about directives that Bo allegedly received about handling Wang
Lijun’s case last year.  The charges against Bo skirted other possible crimes,
including human rights violations and interference in the
judicial system when he was Chongqing’s Communist Party leader
from 2007 until early 2012, Zhang said.  Prosecutors said yesterday the facts are clear and the
evidence is sufficient that Bo is guilty of all charges,
according to a posting on the court’s microblog.  Serious Crimes  “The suspect’s crimes are serious, and given that he
doesn’t admit to them, he should not be entitled to more lenient
punishment in the eyes of the law,” prosecutors said, according
to one transcript.  “The determination to punish corruption is always a
requirement for party discipline,” the party’s People’s Daily
newspaper said of Bo’s trial in a commentary to be published
today. The commentary was carried on Xinhua last night.  While that commentary touted the court’s transparency,
Xinhua also reported yesterday that police detained at least two
online rumor-mongers. Celebrity bloggers sometimes propagate
false information, which can “mislead the public and disrupt
social order,” Xinhua said, and spreading rumors violates
“both morality and the law.”  Even if the trial remained tightly controlled, Chinese
leaders are trying give the impression they care about rule of
law, and that could have a positive effect, said Jerome Cohen, a
 New York  University law professor and expert on China’s legal
system.  “The most important aspect of the case to me is its vivid
demonstration of the right of the accused to defend himself,”
Cohen said. Bo was allowed to rebut testimony “in a rather
free-wheeling way that I hope will set a precedent for the
country,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Jinan at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  