-- BOE’s Bean Says Can’t See Signs of Housing Boom Emerging
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/boe-s-bean-says-can-t-see-signs-of-housing-boom-emerging-in-u-k-.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said he isn’t worried the U.K. housing market is
poised to suffer a new bubble.  “We wouldn’t want to see a house price boom emerging which
would have potential problems further down the road,” Bean said
in an interview with  Bloomberg News  published yesterday. “I
can’t say we see signs of that at the moment. At this stage, you
certainly wouldn’t say there’s a problem.”  With housing having struggled during Britain’s recession,
signs are mounting that a  recovery  in the property sector is now
underway, partly because of government measures to boost demand.
A home-value gauge compiled by the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors rose to the highest in almost seven years in
July.  Speaking during a Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, Bean said the central bank
would like to see an increase in housing transactions and that
 home prices  were for the moment increasing in line with  general
inflation .  “I don’t think that we’d want to see a situation where
 house prices  are running ahead at an unsustainably rapid rate,”
he said. “Clearly it’s one of the things to look at as all the
activity indicators pick up -- are there any signs of excesses
starting to emerge?”  Climbing house prices are spurring  consumer confidence  and
growth in a country where two thirds of homes are owned rather
than rented. Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, estimates values rose for a sixth month in July and will
 continue to increase  through the end of the year. Mortgage
lending climbed 29 percent from a year earlier to the highest
level since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.  As the economy shows signs of recovering, Bean said the BOE
is seeking to send a “clear signal” it won’t increase  interest
rates  anytime soon as he acknowledged some surprise at the
response of investors to that message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  