-- Boyner Jumps Most in 41 Months on Price Windfall: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-08-26T15:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/boyner-jumps-most-in-two-years-on-price-windfall-istanbul-mover.html
Boyner Buyuk Magazacilik AS (BOYNR)  jumped
the most in almost 3 1/2 years after a ruling from the regulator
meant an obligatory purchase of its shares by the parent company
will be at a higher price than previously estimated.  The stock  rose  12 percent, the biggest advance since March
2010, to 6.64 liras at the close in Istanbul. The number of
shares traded was 4.5 times the three-month average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100
Index (XU100)  rose 1.2 percent in its first advance in six days.  Altinyildiz Mensucat ve Konfeksiyon Fabrikalari AS , which
now owns 60.5 percent of Boyner, is required to retrospectively
pay interest on the “tender call,” the Ankara-based Capital
Markets Board said after the market closed on Aug. 23. The price
it pays to Boyner’s shareholders must also take into account a
change in the dollar-lira exchange rate between May 31 when the
additional stake in Boyner was bought and the obligatory share-purchase offer, further increasing the outlay as the local
currency has depreciated.  “The call price will be higher than Altinyildiz
predicted,” creating an “arbitrage opportunity” Serhat Kaya,
an analyst at Oyak Securities in Istanbul, said by phone today.
The company may “soon” announce the date on which it will make
the purchase, he said.  Altinyildiz acquired a 30 percent stake in Boyner for $96.7
million from a unit of Citi Venture Capital International. The
move to majority-shareholder status required Altinyildiz to make
a mandatory stock-purchase offer to Boyner’s minority
shareholders. The purchase price was estimated at about $3.11,
equivalent to 5.8 liras, according to a Boyner statement dated
June 3.  The Turkish currency has weakened 5.8 percent against the
dollar since June 3.  “Assuming the call was made from today’s rates, we
calculate a price of 6.8 liras,” Fulin Onder, an analyst at
Tera Brokers in Istanbul, said in an e-mail. “But the final
price will be set by the exact call date and the currency level
at that date.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  