-- BP Misconduct Claims on Payments Unfounded, Official Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/bp-misconduct-claims-on-payments-unfounded-official-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s allegations of misconduct
in the program set up to pay claims in the settlement over the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill were called unfounded by the
administrator of the program.  Patrick Juneau, the administrator, yesterday asked U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing the litigation
connected to the spill, to reject the company’s bid to
temporarily halt payments.  BP “has failed to submit evidence that would even arguably
justify the granting of such an overbroad request,” Juneau’s
lawyers said in a filing in federal court in New Orleans. BP’s
“global aspersions” on the claims office’s “internal controls
and fraud detection systems and processes are uninformed and
baseless,” they said.  Barbier last month rejected the company’s request to stop
the payments while Louis Freeh, former director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, probes allegations of misconduct in the
claims program.  BP renewed the request Aug. 5, citing “new evidence of
more widespread and potentially systemic improprieties” in the
claims program. BP said this evidence was uncovered through a
fraud hotline the company set up.  ‘Apparent Conflicts’  BP also said it discovered that the company’s ability to
appeal payments was tainted because “at least two appeal
panelists had apparent conflicts of interest.”  Juneau said yesterday his office’s investigation had
“ultimately concluded that the allegations were uncorroborated
and that there was no evidence of internal fraud with respect to
any of those claims.”  Juneau said BP was making “repeated attacks” on him and
the claims office to “disrupt and obstruct” the settlement
program’s operations.  Scott Dean, a spokesman for London-based BP, didn’t
immediately respond to a call or e-mail for comment.  Freeh was appointed to investigate allegations of
misconduct after an attorney at the Deepwater Horizon Court
Supervised Settlement Program was suspended and accused of
accepting fees from law firms while processing their clients’
claims from the oil spill. Another attorney was subsequently
suspended following similar allegations.  2010 Sinking  BP faces thousands of lawsuits over damages caused by the
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in 2010. The
blast killed 11 workers and released more than 4 million barrels
of crude from BP’s well off the Louisiana coast.  BP reached the agreement with most private party plaintiffs
last year, initially estimating the cost of the settlement at
$7.8 billion. The company has since raised the estimate to $9.6
billion.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers oppose any halts and dispute the
allegations of tainted payments.  “BP has failed to present any evidence that any claim was
improperly calculated or paid,” attorneys Steve Herman and Jim
Roy, co-leaders of a committee of spill-victims’ lawyers, said
in papers filed to Barbier yesterday. The lawyers said multiple
investigations, including one by BP’s own economist, had failed
to “identify a single claim that was (even allegedly)
improperly influenced, manipulated or paid.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  