-- Brazil Real Weakens Amid Concern Intervention Won’t Stem Decline
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-26T21:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/brazil-real-drops-on-concern-intervention-won-t-work-swaps-fall.html
Brazil ’s real extended the biggest
three-month drop among major currencies on speculation a $60
billion intervention program isn’t enough to stem the slide.  The real fell 1.3 percent to 2.3799 per dollar in Sao
Paulo. It jumped the most in almost two years Aug. 23, the day
after the central bank said it will auction $1 billion of loans
every Friday and offer $500 million worth of foreign-exchange
swaps four times a week for the rest of 2013.  Policy makers are stepping up efforts to support the real
after it declined 14 percent over the past three months, raising
concern that its tumble will fuel inflation already running near
the top end of the government’s target. As part of the
intervention program, the central bank sold all 10,000 currency
swaps offered in an auction today.  “We still need time to see if these measures will really
produce an effect,”  Francisco Carvalho , the currency director
at Liquidez Dtvm, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s real dropped the most among 24 emerging market
currencies after the  Mexican peso  and the Indian rupee today as
investors weighed whether the U.S. Federal Reserve next month
will reduce stimulus that’s boosted demand for the Latin
American country’s securities, Carvalho said.  Swap rates due January 2015 rose 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 10.34 percent. About 100 economists in a
weekly central bank survey cut their 2014 economic growth
forecast to 2.4 percent, from 2.5 percent the week before. The
economists raised their median forecast for inflation this year
to 5.8 percent, from 5.74 percent in the previous survey.  ‘Increasing Substantially’  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index climbed
0.16 percent in the month through mid-August, the national
statistics agency reported Aug. 21. Annual inflation eased to
6.15 percent after surpassing the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range earlier this year.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG raised its year-end forecast for the
central bank’s benchmark Selic lending rate to 10 percent, from
a previous forecast of 9.25 percent.  “The risk of inflation increasing substantially suggests
that it is necessary to promote monetary tightening in greater
magnitude and for a longer period,” the bank said in an e-mailed report.  Indonesian policy makers said Aug. 23 that they will
increase foreign-currency supplies to stem a sliding rupiah,
while allowing more mineral exports this year to narrow a
current-account deficit and spur economic growth.  Peru ’s central
bank sold a record $600 million in the local foreign-exchange
market on Aug. 21 to support the sol after it touched a three-year low.  Foreign Reserves  In its defense of the real, Brazil’s central bank has yet
to tap into its $373 billion in  foreign reserves , which are up
from $261 billion three years ago and $48 billion a decade ago.  The intervention plan announced Aug. 22 adds to swap and
credit-line actions already announced this year totaling $45
billion. The central bank had been conducting the offerings
without an established schedule. The banks said any rollovers of
swap contracts wouldn’t be part of the currency program
announced last week.  Brazil’s business credit delinquency index rose 2.9 percent
in July from the month before, the biggest increase since March
2013, according to Serasa Experian.  Brazil has raised its target lending rate more than any
major economy in 2013, increasing borrowing costs by 1.25
percentage point from a record low 7.25 percent in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  