-- California Rising With Banks Vying to Sell New Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/california-rising-with-banks-vying-to-sell-new-debt-muni-credit.html
California, which relies on private
deals with banks for almost 80 percent of its bond offerings,
plans its biggest competitive debt sale in six years as the
state’s relative borrowing costs sink to the lowest level since
2008.  Governor  Jerry Brown , 75, forecasts an $817 million surplus
this year, the first in almost a decade, after the world’s
ninth-biggest economy ran up more than $100 billion of deficits
since 2007. With  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  raising the
state’s credit grade, buyers of California debt maturing in 10
years are demanding as little as 0.36 percentage point of extra
yield over top-rated munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s about the  least  in five years.  Tomorrow’s $764 million sale of general obligations
includes bonds maturing from 2014 to 2033, according to
Bloomberg data. The issue “should find decent demand,” said
Daniel Solender, director of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , even as investors have withdrawn $21
billion from local-debt mutual funds in the past 12 weeks.  The fund outflows have been triggered by  yields  on
benchmark municipal securities rising to the highest in more
than two years amid concern over  Detroit ’s record $18 billion
bankruptcy and uncertainty whether the  Federal Reserve  will curb
debt purchases. Yet demand from consumers for individual bonds
will help buoy the California borrowing, Solender said.  Yield Rise  “Even though fund flows continue to be negative, retail
demand seems to be strong as they are buying a good number of
bonds with yields rising so much in recent months,” said
Solender, who helps manage $19.5 billion of local debt.  Treasurer Bill Lockyer plans to use $559 million from the
sale to refinance  existing securities  that pay a higher  interest
rate , saving on debt service for the most-populous state. In
April, the state sold $2.7 billion in general obligations,
pricing some bonds to yield 2.37 percent, about 0.58 percentage
point more than the rate on benchmark 10-year munis at the time,
Bloomberg data show.  California debt has benefited from demand for tax-exempt
income after voters in November boosted levies on residents
earning $250,000 or more. They also raised the  sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S. The increases may generate as
much as $6 billion a year,  according to the  nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office.  Fitch raised California’s grade to A, sixth highest, this
month after lawmakers passed a $96.3 billion budget in June that
incorporated the Democratic governor’s more conservative revenue
forecasts and set aside a $1.1 billion reserve. S&P raised its
rating to the same level in January, the first boost since 2006.
Moody’s Investors Service grades the state A1, four steps below
the top. It hasn’t been higher since 2001.  Stronger Housing  A strengthening housing market is buoying the state’s
economy.  California ’s unemployment rate  dropped  to 8.5 percent
in June, the lowest since October 2008, according to the state
Economic Development Department. It still eclipsed the national
average of 7.6 percent that month.  California’s sale is the fourth-largest competitive
offering this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, after
 Washington  sold $1.4 billion in January and another $867 million
last month, and  Pennsylvania  marketed $950 million in April.  The Golden State relied on privately negotiated deals for
almost 80 percent of its general-obligation bond sales in the
last decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lockyer has said that the state’s larger issues, as much as
$6.5 billion at a time, require it to select underwriters
beforehand. Depending on market conditions, the threshold for a
negotiated bond sale is anywhere from $1 billion to $1.5
billion, Lockyer’s spokesman,  Tom Dresslar , said by e-mail.  Less Competition  The $3.7 trillion market for local-government bonds used to
be more competitive. In 1970, 73 percent of municipal offerings
were sold at auction, the U.S. General Accounting Office said in
a 1983 report. In such deals, the bank that offers the lowest
interest cost via the highest bid, or price, buys the securities
and tries to sell them for more.  This year, 25 percent of $204 billion in new fixed-rate
issues were sold that way, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rest were negotiated offerings, in which underwriters are chosen
based on assurances they’ll deliver the cheapest rates.  Of the $80 billion of long-term general-obligation bonds
California issued in the last decade, $14 billion, or 18
percent, were sold at auction through competitive bidding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, issuers in
California have sold $32.4 billion of municipal debt, only 12
percent through competitive deals.  ‘Decent Bids’  “Often if issuers do not have too many competitive deals,
they get decent bids from dealers who are trying to position
themselves to lead negotiated deals,” Solender said. “That
should help demand” for this week’s California sale, he said.  The average cost of issuance for negotiated U.S. muni
offerings in 2012 was $5.76 per $1,000 of debt, compared with
$6.37 for competitive sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
each of the previous three years, negotiated sales cost issuers
more in fees than auctioning debt competitively.  “I think competitive could actually help the state get a
good price because dealers know they should have good retail
demand to work through the bonds over time, and they want to get
the state’s attention for participation in future negotiated
deals,” Solender said.  Rising Issuance  California’s bond deal is leading $5 billion of long-term
debt sales this week, the most  issuance  for such a period since
Aug. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At  3.1 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year muni bonds are
at their highest since April 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with  2.8 percent  for Treasuries with
similar maturity.  The ratio of the two yields is about  110 percent , above the
five-year average of about 101 percent. The higher the
percentage, the greater the relative value of municipal
securities compared with Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  Texas plans to offer $7.2 billion in tax- and revenue-anticipation notes as early as tomorrow to help manage its  cash
flow  in the fiscal year that begins Sept. 1. The notes mature in
August 2014 and are rated SP-1+ by S&P, its highest short-term
credit grade. S&P cited the state’s buoyant economy. Similar
debt offered by the state about a year ago traded with a yield
of 0.15 percentage point Aug. 23, compared with 0.33 percent for
an  index  of top-rated one-year notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  