-- Canadian Dollar Trades Within Cent of Seven-Week Low on Fed Bets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-26T21:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/canadian-currency-weakens-amid-fed-speculation-economic-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar traded within one
cent of the lowest in almost seven weeks versus its U.S. peer
amid speculation on when the  Federal Reserve  will slow the pace
of monetary stimulus in the nation’s biggest trading partner.  The currency pared losses after American durable-goods
orders fell more than forecast, calling into question whether
U.S. growth is strong enough for stimulus cuts. A wave of cash
has flowed into reserve assets including the dollar and euro as
investors pulled money from emerging-market economies boosted by
Fed bond buying. Canadian gross domestic product shrank in June,
a Bloomberg survey forecast before data due Aug. 30.  “We’re still seeing some outflows from the emerging-market
world and those outflows end up in places like the U.S. dollar,
sterling, euro and yen, and not so much in Canada,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “Canada is a little bit
weaker than it was, but overall has been weakening far more than
the other majors.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0501 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in  New York . It declined
earlier as much as 0.4 percent to C$1.0533, after touching
C$1.0568 on Aug. 23, the weakest since July 9. One Canadian
dollar purchases 95.23 U.S. cents.  Canada’s currency lost 1.5 percent last week, the most
since the five days ended June 21, as wholesale and retail sales
fell and consumer-price gains stayed below the central bank’s
1.2 percent inflation target for a 15th month.  Higher Volatility  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was at 7.83 percent today
after reaching 7.84 percent on Aug. 23, the highest since July
16. Implied volatility is used to set option prices and gauge
the expected pace of currency swings. The average for this year
is 6.8 percent.  The loonie fell 1.7 percent in the past month against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. Australia’s dollar lost 2.1 percent,
and the  New Zealand dollar  dropped 2.5 percent, while the U.S.
dollar gained 0.7 percent.  An equally weighted basket of currencies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India ,  China  and  South Africa  on Aug. 21 touched its lowest
level versus the dollar since June 2010 on concern a slowing of
stimulus under the Fed’s quantitative-easing strategy would
intensify outflows from the currencies.  “There’s still underlying concern about tapering weighing
on risk assets,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “Data isn’t
helping the Canadian dollar at the moment, which may be
accounting for some of the softness.”  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  10-year (GCAN10YR)  security down four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.65 percent. It climbed on Aug. 23 to 2.78
percent, the highest since July 2011. The price of the 1.5
percent debt due in June 2023 added 35 cents to C$90.20.  Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years
 decreased  7.3 percent in July, the most since August 2012, after
a 3.9 percent gain in June, the Commerce Department said today
in  Washington . The median  forecast  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 4 percent drop.  Canada’s  economic output  contracted 0.4 percent in June,
helping pare second-quarter growth to an annualized 1.6 percent,
economists in a Bloomberg survey projected before the data. The
economy expanded 2.5 percent in the first quarter.  ‘Weak Number’  “GDP is already forecast to be a miss,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at  National
Bank of Canada (NA) , said in a telephone interview. “The market is
already expecting a weak number there. One would expect that
Stephen Poloz is going to cite the weakness in the Canadian
dollar as less of a headwind and probably comes as welcome
relief to the  Bank of Canada  from an easing perspective.”  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest-rate 
target at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.
The bank’s next policy decision is scheduled Sept. 4. Bank
Governor Stephen Poloz has said the world’s 11th largest economy
is recovering gradually from a global recession amid spare
production capacity.  The Canadian currency slid on Aug. 21 after minutes
released by the U.S. central bank of its last meeting showed
most policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to start reducing monetary stimulus this
year if the economy improves.  Fed Purchases  The Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases have raised
concern they would lead to inflation and debase the U.S. dollar.
Investors are betting slower bond buying will cause the
greenback to strengthen against its Canadian peer.  The central bank will slow its bond purchases at policy
makers’ Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  Futures traders increased for the first time in six weeks
their bets the Canadian dollar will fall against its U.S. peer,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed on Aug. 23. The difference in the number of
 wagers  by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline
in the loonie versus those on a gain -- so-called net shorts --
was 9,544 on Aug. 20, compared with 9,081 a week earlier.  The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S.
dollar  against its Canadian counterpart versus contracts to
sell, fell to 1.53 percent, the lowest since Aug. 15. The
measure rose to 1.64 percent on Aug. 23, the highest level on a
closing basis since July 2. The 2013 average is 1.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  