-- Carney Rolls Out Guidance Campaign as Yields Surge: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-27T10:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/carney-rolls-out-guidance-campaign-as-yields-surge-u-k-credit.html
David Frankish works 140 miles (225
kilometers) north of the U.K.’s financial district, running a
chilled-food transportation firm with 2,000 employees and seven
depots.  Distance from the  City of London  doesn’t stop the chief
executive officer of NFT Distribution Ltd. from sharing
investors’ qualms about Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney ’s
ability to maintain U.K. interest rates at a record low.  As Frankish prepares to attend Carney’s first official
speech in nearby  Nottingham  tomorrow, he’s seeking more insight
into the BOE’s plan to keep its  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent
until 2016. Investors have already expressed their doubts by
adding to bets on higher interest rates before then and pushing
up gilt yields and the pound.  “It’s not skepticism, it’s question marks,” Frankish, 59,
said in a telephone interview, noting risks including sustained
inflation and house-price gains as well as higher market rates
as the  Federal Reserve  unwinds stimulus. “There may be a need
to raise interest rates before 2016,” he said, citing the BOE
benchmark as one factor in his investment plans.  It’s people such as Frankish that Carney needs to convince
if his guidance is to gain traction by inspiring businesses to
invest and consumers to shop. Under the policy, the BOE plans to
keep its key rate unchanged at least as long as  unemployment 
exceeds 7 percent providing the economy doesn’t overheat. The
jobless rate was 7.8 percent in the second quarter and the BOE
sees it above the threshold until late 2016.  Simple Message  “For monetary policy to work most effectively, people need
to understand that rates are going to stay low until the
recovery is stronger,” said  Michael Saunders , chief western
European economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , who plans to
attend the Nottingham event. “Saying the message often and
simply should help.”  Financial markets are already questioning the strength of
Carney’s commitment.  The implied yield on short-sterling contracts expiring in
September 2015 has risen 34 basis points this month to 1.28
percent. It reached 1.36 percent last week, the highest since
June. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold U.K. 10-year
gilts rather than German bunds widened to 85 basis points Aug.
19, the most since June 2010, and was 75 basis points today.  The pound has risen about 2 percent against a basket of
nine developed-market currencies in the past month, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “The gap between Mark and market is now big enough to be a
serious concern for the new governor,” said Rob Wood, chief
U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank in London who previously worked
at the BOE.  Robin Hood Country  Tomorrow’s trip to meet regional business leaders in
Nottingham, the home of legendary outlaw Robin Hood, is the
latest chapter in Carney’s communications drive.  To spread his message, Carney has granted five broadcast
interviews in the past month and will speak to reporters again
after the Nottingham speech. Predecessor  Mervyn King  was less
accessible to the media, preferring in general to limit comments
to quarterly press conferences and prepared speeches.  Noting it’s not just investors he’s seeking to inform,
Carney told  Sky News  on Aug. 7 that officials are providing
clarity so that consumers mulling a big purchase or businesses
debating investment “can make decisions with as much certainty
as possible.”  BOE Surprise  In a Bloomberg News interview published yesterday, Deputy
Governor Charlie Bean said he was a “little bit” surprised by
the market reaction. He ascribed it to the improvement in the
economy as well as investors having anticipated the announcement
and perhaps having a different outlook for unemployment.  Still, he said the bank is trying to give a “clear signal
that interest rates are not likely to rise imminently” and that
executives told him on a recent trip to  Northern Ireland  “how
valuable they thought guidance was.”  The campaign to inform the public was a hallmark of
Carney’s governorship of the  Bank of Canada . He said in December
that his 2009 pledge to keep rates on hold until mid-2010
“worked because it reached beyond central bank watchers to make
a clear, simple statement directly to Canadians.”  The new approach in the U.K. is welcomed by John Carlill,
managing director at Steetley Dolomite Ltd., a Nottingham-based
producer of dolomite that employs about 150 people and has an
annual turnover of 40 million pounds ($62 million).  “It’s good to know rates aren’t going to go up,” he said
in a telephone interview. “That’s the stability we need.”  The need for greater clarity was evident in a June survey
by the BOE, which found 34 percent of households expected
 interest rates  to rise  over the next 12 months .  Rate Survey  Carney may already be gaining some traction. The number of
households expecting the BOE to increase rates in the next two
years fell to 40 percent this month from 53 percent in July,
according to a Markit Economics Ltd. poll of 1,500 people. About
a quarter anticipate an increase within the next year, down from
35 percent in July.  A worry for Richard Barwell, senior European economist at
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, is that people don’t pay attention
to the  so-called knockouts  in the policy pledge. By jumping to
the conclusion that rates are on hold for three years, they may
take on too much risk. That’s in spite of Carney’s caution that
the guidance is conditional on data and not guaranteed.  “The risk is they’ve just heard rates are on hold and
there are no caveats,” said Barwell. “You ought to check what
message people heard.”  Tricky Trends  Even if they are hearing correctly, unemployment and
inflation trends can be “tricky for people to monitor” as they
try to gauge the outlook for rates, said  George Buckley , chief
U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Another point of potential confusion is that officials
themselves appear divided, with several having questioned
guidance before Carney’s arrival.  Martin Weale  voted against it
this month because he wanted the inflation-escape hatch to be
bigger, while some members of the Monetary Policy Committee said
market expectations were not “obviously out of line,”
according to minutes of their Aug. 1 discussion.  That means “more dovish words” from Carney, said
Berenberg’s Wood. “And if that doesn’t work then we’ll see more
votes for quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  