-- Cathay Pacific Says Jetstar Entry to Hurt Hong Kong Aviation
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-26T09:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/cathay-pacific-says-entry-of-jetstar-to-hurt-hong-kong-aviation.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , seeking
to bounce back from its  lowest profit  in at least 15 years, said
allowing foreign airlines to share  Hong Kong ’s traffic rights
would damage the city’s economy as a  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  venture
seeks to start a budget carrier.  Cathay will respond to the government within two weeks on
an application by Jetstar Hong Kong to operate out of the city,
the airline said in an e-mailed statement. The proposal of the
new carrier, part owned by Qantas and  China Eastern Airlines
Corp. (670) , was published in the local government gazette.  About half of Hong Kong’s traffic is controlled by Cathay
and  Asia ’s biggest international carrier is seeking to defend
that dominance while  China ’s economic growth slows. Jetstar Hong
Kong in June sold a stake to a company founded by gambling
tycoon  Stanley Ho  in a bid to win an operating license in the
former British colony, where no budget airline has a base.  “Expecting Cathay to support Jetstar would be like turkeys
voting for Christmas,” said Timothy Ross, a Singapore-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “In such a highly
competitive industry as the airline sector, incumbents do their
best to eliminate potential competition as early as possible.”  Transport Bureau  Hong Kong’s  Transport and Housing Bureau  is currently
reviewing the regime for designation of local carriers and
expects to complete the process “in the next few months,” the
authority said in an e-mailed statement today. The Bureau said
in June it won’t process any application to start airlines in
the city pending the completion of the review.  Under the current system, an applicant must seek an air
operator’s certificate and an air transport license as well as
the designation as a Hong Kong carrier, according to the
Bureau’s statement. Jetstar Hong Kong’s application for the
license was published on the gazette Aug. 23.  “Jetstar Hong Kong is a carrier that is a franchise of and
controlled by Jetstar  Australia  and its parent,  Qantas
Airways ,” Cathay said. Putting some of Hong Kong’s air-traffic
rights “into the hands of a carrier that is controlled by a
foreign airline would also be very damaging to the local
aviation industry and the Hong Kong economy.”  According to Hong Kong’s basic law, the local government
has the authority to issue licenses to airlines incorporated in
Hong Kong and with the city as its principal place of business.  “Whilst we don’t take anything for granted, we are
confident that Jetstar Hong Kong will meet all requirements
including principal place of business,” Jetstar said in an e-mailed statement. “Vast majority of the future direct 600 staff
members will be employed locally.”  Marque Carrier  Cathay this month reported first-half  profit  that missed
analyst estimates. The airline also named Ivan Chu as its next
chief Executive. Chu, who has worked at Cathay for 29 years and
has been chief operating officer since March 2011, will take
over after annual results are announced in March.  Shares of Cathay fell 0.3 percent to close at HK$13.98 in
Hong Kong. The stock has fallen 1.7 percent this year, compared
with a 2.9 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  In June, Jetstar Hong Kong sold a 33.3 percent stake to
 Shun Tak Holdings (242) , a company founded by Ho. Qantas and China
Eastern Airlines hold 33.3 percent each of the proposed carrier.
The venture also named  Pansy Ho , managing director of Shun Tak
and a daughter of Stanley Ho, as its chairman last week.  Jetstar Hong Kong said in June that it is “confident” of
getting approvals before the end of this year.  No budget carrier has a hub at Hong Kong Airport. Oasis
Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which operated budget long-haul
flights, collapsed in 2008 after racking up losses of about HK$1
billion ($129 million) in less than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  