-- McDonald’s to Add Chicken Wings Across U.S. Next Month
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-26T20:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/mcdonald-s-to-add-chicken-wings-across-u-s-next-month.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  plans to introduce
bone-in chicken wings across the U.S. next month as Chief
Executive Officer  Don Thompson  revamps the restaurant chain’s
domestic menu.  The Big Mac seller will start the Mighty Wings rollout
Sept. 9, have the items in all U.S. stores by Sept. 24 and keep
them on sale through November, Ofelia Casillas, a McDonald’s
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company tested the wings in Atlanta and Chicago.  Thompson, who became CEO in July 2012, has been overhauling
McDonald’s menu to boost sales in its home market, where it has
about 14,100 locations. While the chain recently removed Angus
third-pounder burgers from its bill of fare, it also has added
egg-white breakfast sandwiches and chicken McWraps. Competitors
including Popeyes, owned by  AFC Enterprises Inc. (AFCE) , and Wendy’s
Co. also have introduced new chicken items this year.  “They’re being more innovative, and they’re being more
aggressive with the changes on their menu,”  Peter Saleh, an
analyst at New York-based Telsey Advisory Group, said in an
interview. “This is good news because it’s in conjunction with
the football season.”  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain,  rose  0.2
percent to $95.31 at the close in  New York . The shares have
gained 8 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has advanced 16 percent.  Chili Pepper  The wings are flavored with cayenne and chili pepper and
come with sauces including creamy ranch, honey mustard and tangy
barbecue. They will be sold in three-, five- or 10-piece packs,
starting at $2.99.  A national chicken wing introduction may mean higher costs
for other restaurants. Chicken wing prices could rise to $2 a
pound by January,  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst at
Stephens Inc., said in an e-mail. Benchmark Georgia dock
wholesale chicken wing  prices  were at $1.44 a pound today.  McDonald’s Mighty Wings promotion “will be supportive to
wing prices,” she said today.  The company on Aug. 8 said U.S. same-store sales rose 1.6
percent in July. Sales at stores open at least 13 months were
helped by new items, the company said in a statement.  McDonald’s, which gets about 32 percent of revenue from the
U.S., is increasingly vying for the American consumer with
Wendy’s,  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  and other fast-food chains.
Along with egg white sandwiches and McWraps, it has this year
introduced new flavors of Quarter Pounder burgers and blueberry
pomegranate smoothies to lure diners.  The chain has faced a backlash from its store owners when
its menu gets too large or complex. McDonald’s menu has grown
from nine items in 1948 as the chain has experimented with new
foods. Some, such as such as pizza and spaghetti, have flopped
and been removed.  BurgerBusiness.com reported the national wing introduction
earlier, citing a McDonald’s franchisee posting on Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  