-- China Brokerages Gain on Same-Day Trade Optimism: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-26T06:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/china-brokerages-gain-on-same-day-trade-optimism-shanghai-mover.html
Citic Securities Co. (600030)  paced gains by
the nation’s brokerages after the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  said
it is considering a change in settlement rules that would allow
investors to buy and sell a stock on the same day.  Citic, the country’s largest securities firm, advanced 3.8
percent to 10.91  yuan  at 1:48 p.m. local time, heading for its
biggest gain in two weeks. Haitong Securities Co., the second
biggest, jumped 4.9 percent to 11.01 yuan. The  Shanghai
Composite index  advanced 1.4 percent.  The exchange is mulling a move to a “T+0” settlement, an
unidentified exchange spokesman said yesterday on its  Weibo 
microblogging platform. There is no timetable for allowing T+0
 stock trading , Xinhua News Agency reported last month, citing an
unidentified official at the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, which oversees the nation’s capital markets.  “It’s a good news to have for the brokers and something we
definitely will have in the future,” said Zhou Wei, an analyst
at Founder Securities Co. “The key is the timeframe and it’s
for the CSRC to have a final decision on the matter.”  The regulator didn’t immediately reply to a faxed query on
their stance over T+O. China currently operates a T+1 system.  The exchange spokesman said most individual investors are
unable to minimize their losses in the event of a big decline in
the benchmark index by selling the stocks that they bought on
the same day.  China’s stock market was roiled by erroneous buy orders by
Everbright Securities Co. on Aug. 16. The CSRC banned the
brokerage from proprietary trading for three months and pledged
to examine risks in trading systems to prevent such an error
from happening again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  