-- China Southern Posts Profit as Yuan Masks Operating Loss
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-27T10:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/china-southern-posts-profit-as-yuan-masks-operating-loss.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) ,  Asia ’s
biggest carrier by traffic, posted a first-half profit as gains
from the  yuan ’s appreciation helped mask an operating loss
caused by competition with bullet trains. The  shares  dropped.  The airline reaped a foreign-exchange gain of 1.5 billion
yuan ($245 million) in the six months through June. The
Guangzhou-based company’s  profit  missed estimates and was the
worst in three years.  The earnings are a pointer to how the strengthening
currency may help prop results at  China Eastern Airlines (670)  Corp.
and  Air China Ltd. (601111) , both due to report this week. China Southern
-- the only national carrier to fly an Airbus SAS superjumbo and
a Boeing Co. Dreamliner -- is also discounting tickets as high-speed trains offer competition and President Xi Jinping
discourages officials from taking overseas trips.  “The operating loss shows its fundamental airline business
is weak,” said Will Horton, an analyst at CAPA Centre for
Aviation. “Foreign exchange is hugely picking the airline’s net
performance up, but this can be a volatile factor. Over the long
term, you need a steady operating business to accommodate the
infamous volatility aviation brings.”  China Southern  shares  fell 3.8 percent, the most in more
than a week, to close at HK$2.81 in Hong Kong.  Air China (753) ,
reporting later today, rose 0.2  percent and  China Eastern 
advanced 0.4 percent.  Best Performer  Net income  in the six months ended in June fell 19 percent
to 344 million yuan, China Southern said in a  filing  to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday. That lagged behind the 516
million-yuan median profit estimate of five analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The operating loss was 114 million yuan.  Chinese airlines “faced many challenges from economy,
politics and high-speed rail competition,” Citigroup Inc.
analyst Vivian Tao said in a report today.  China Southern generated the foreign exchange gain in the
first half as the yuan was the best performer against the  U.S.
dollar  among 24 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
A stronger local currency helps Chinese airlines pare the
repatriated value of dollar-denominated debts at a time when
they contend with cooling Chinese growth and overcapacity.  High-Speed Trains  “Having been influenced by domestic and international
economic conditions, and with the emerging unfavorable factors
including slowing-down market demand, rapidly increasing
capacity and high-speed rail, the competition in the domestic
market is fiercer,” China Southern said in its statement. This
“put the company’s operation under greater pressure.”  China opened the world’s longest high-speed rail line at
the end of last year between Beijing in the north and Guangzhou
in the south. The service cuts train- travel time between the
two cities to eight hours from almost a day.  China Southern had a currency loss of 314 million yuan a
year earlier, according to its statement. The yuan gained 1.5
percent against the U.S. dollar in the first half.  Passenger yields, a measure of average ticket price, fell
11 percent in the first half, the worst decline in four years.
China Southern carried 43.8 million passengers, 6.3 percent more
than a year earlier, while it expanded seat capacity by 9.3
percent, according to the statement.  The airline plans to deploy its Airbus A380s on Guangzhou-Sydney route in October. The carrier hasn’t won the right to fly
the plane on overseas routes from the nation’s capital Beijing
even after receiving its first superjumbo about two years ago.
The airline has been mostly using its five A380s for domestic
services or on the Guangzhou-Los Angeles route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  