-- China Minzhong Falls by Most on Record After Short Seller Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-08-26T04:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/china-minzhong-falls-by-most-on-record-after-short-seller-report.html
China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ)  slumped by
the most on record after short-seller Glaucus Research Group
accused the vegetable producer of “significantly deceiving”
regulators and investors about the scale of its business.  Minzhong shares were halted in  Singapore  at 53 Singapore
cents, down 48 percent, after tumbling as much as 51 percent,
the most since the company’s listing in April 2010. Short
interest in Minzhong, which has become the latest target of
Glaucus, rose to a record 7.2 percent of the outstanding stock
on Aug. 19 from this year’s low of 3.8 percent in March,
according to the most recent data from research company Markit
Group Ltd.  “Publicly available filings indicate that Minzhong
fabricated sales figures to its top two customers,” according
to the  report  from  Glaucus  today. “Corporate registry records
show that a Taiwan-based food distributor, which was supposedly
Minzhong’s largest customer in the pre-IPO track record period
between 2007 and 2009, was only incorporated in November 2009,
suggesting, in our view, that Minzhong simply fabricated the
sales figures in its prospectus.”  “The company is consulting its legal team and will comment
on the report as soon as possible,” Travis Seet, a Minzhong
spokesman at the company’s Putian headquarters in  China ’s Fujian
province, said by telephone.  China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773)  and China Medical
Technologies Inc. have each separately been the focus of reports
by Glaucus, which claims to “help investors navigate
treacherous financial waters in search of great investment
opportunities,” according to a statement on the home page of
its website. Liquidators were appointed to China Metal in July
and China Medical filed for Chapter 15 foreign-firm bankruptcy
protection in New York last year.  Six of the seven analysts covering Minzhong recommend
investors buy the stock, while one rates the stock a hold,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  