-- China Money Rate at One-Week Low as PBOC Seen Adding Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-26T08:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/china-swap-rate-drops-for-fourth-day-on-reverse-repo-hope.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell to a one-week low on signs the central bank will add more
funds to the financial system via reverse-repurchase agreements.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for seven- and 14-day reverse repos this week, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. It also asked banks to
submit orders for 28-day repurchase contracts and 91-day bills
this morning, the trader said.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 4.06 percent as of 4:14 p.m. in Shanghai, a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center
showed. It touched 3.99 percent earlier, the lowest since Aug.
16. The rate increased 53 basis points over the last two weeks.
The  Shanghai  overnight fixing rate rose 38 basis points to 3.34
percent in the two weeks through Aug. 23.  “It is expected that the PBOC will carry out more reverse-repo operations on Tuesday” after the Shanghai overnight fixing
rate and the seven-day repo rate climbed for a second week, said
Gerry Alfonso, a Shanghai-based trader at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  The one-year interest rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
dropped two basis points to 4.08 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 4.05 percent, the lowest level
since Aug. 15.  ‘Innovative Policy’  “Reverse-repo operations themselves do not indicate a
loosening of the monetary policy,” according to a commentary
written by Xu Shaofeng today in the Financial News, a PBOC
publication. “It only means the monetary authority is trying to
meet the short-term liquidity requirement in the banking system.
Using it, along with the bill rollovers, is an innovative
monetary policy.”  The central bank added 72 billion  yuan  ($11.8 billion) of
funds to the market last week, compared with 47.5 billion yuan
the week before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Ministry of Finance doesn’t plan to auction bonds this week.  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent bonds due May
2023 fell three basis points to 3.96 percent, according to
prices from the Interbank Funding Center. The yield climbed 26
basis points over the previous three weeks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  