-- China Suspended PMI Details Over Accuracy Concerns, Bureau Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-26T10:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/china-suspended-pmi-details-over-accuracy-concerns-bureau-says.html
China suspended the release of
industry-specific data from a  purchasing managers’ index  for
manufacturing because of accuracy concerns, the National Bureau
of Statistics said.  “We can’t ensure all industry-specific data can reach
accuracy requirements,”  Sheng Laiyun , a statistics agency
official, said at a briefing in Beijing today. “Samples in some
industries are very small, and accidental changes may affect
overall data quality -- we were concerned that some of the
numbers may affect related investors and users.”  The statistics bureau and the China Federation of Logistics
& Purchasing suspended the release of some industry-specific PMI
data to subscribers, starting with the June numbers published in
July. That halt underscored concerns over China’s economic
statistics, from exports inflated by false invoicing to a
national unemployment rate that excludes the nation’s millions
of migrant workers.  “I don’t buy NBS’s explanation -- industry-specific data
has been there for years and proved very useful in reading the
Chinese economy,” said Xu Gao, chief economist with  China 
Everbright Securities in Beijing, who previously worked for the
World Bank. “Without these specific data, the credibility of
China’s headline official PMI indicator is undermined,” Xu
said, adding his firm has subscribed to the data for more than
three years.  Cai Jin, vice president of the CFLP, which compiles the
data with the NBS, said previously that publication of some data
had been suspended because of limited time to analyze the large
volume of responses.  Bigger Sample  The logistics federation increased the number of companies
in its manufacturing survey to 3,000 from 820 starting with
January’s reading and also regrouped the industries into 21
categories from 31. The latest release referred to 31 industry
groups.  China’s official PMI rose to 50.3 in July from 50.1 in June
as Chinese Premier Li Keqiang rolled out policies to arrest an
economic slowdown.  “It’s true that industry-specific PMI can be very
volatile,”  said Xu Xiangchun, a steel researcher and chief
analyst at Mysteel.com, in Beijing. Xu said that while July
numbers for a steel industry PMI were released after being
suspended the previous month, numbers for other industries
weren’t disclosed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  