-- CIMB Quarterly Profit Falls 5% as IPOs Slow in Kuala Lumpur
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-08-26T10:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/cimb-quarterly-profit-falls-5-as-ipos-slow-in-kuala-lumpur.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,  Malaysia ’s
second-largest bank by assets, reported a 5 percent drop in
quarterly profit as initial public offerings slowed.  Second-quarter  net income  dropped to 1.05 billion ringgit
($317 million), or 14 sen per share, in the three months ended
June 30 from 1.11 billion ringgit, or 15 sen per share, a year
earlier, according to a stock exchange filing today.  CIMB helped manage three of  Asia ’s biggest IPOs in Malaysia
last year, including palm oil producer Felda Global Ventures
Bhd.’s $3.3 billion share sale in June 2012. The Southeast Asian
nation hasn’t hosted a share sale of more than $500 million
since pay-TV operator Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. listed in
October.  “We are going through the tougher macro operating
environment that we have been bracing for as evident in our
relatively slower asset growth rates in recent quarters,”  Nazir Razak , CIMB’s chief executive officer, told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur today.  Malaysia cut its growth forecast this year after second-quarter expansion missed economists’ estimates. The  economy  may
expand 4.5 percent to 5 percent in 2013, from a previous
prediction of as much as 6 percent, the country’s central bank
said last week.  “At the operational level, we will do better in the second
half on improved momentum from Malaysia and Singapore consumer
and regional banking and more flows in the treasury markets,”
Nazir said.  Philippines Interest  CIMB is still keen on establishing a greater presence in
the  Philippines  after scrapping a plan to buy 60 percent of Bank
of Commerce this year, he said.  The bank’s  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 7.48 ringgit before
the earnings announcement. The stock has dropped 2 percent this
year, compared with a 4.5 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, rose 6 percent to 1.98
billion ringgit in the period, the filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  