-- Cleary Gottlieb, Seward & Kissel, Mayer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-26T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/cleary-gottlieb-seward-kissel-mayer-business-of-law.html
A Washington lawyer with experience
in major antitrust cases has been named head of litigation for
the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division after the
government sued to block the merger of AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   David Gelfand, a partner at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  in Washington, recently represented clients
including Henkel AG, ArcelorMittal SA and Sanofi in antitrust
litigation, according to the firm’s website.  Gelfand also represented Google Inc. before regulators in
its acquisitions of AdMob Inc. and DoubleClick Inc. and was
involved in transactions including  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s
purchase of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc., and  Molson
Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) ’s merger with  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , according to the
firm.  Gelfand, 54, will replace  Joseph Wayland , who stepped down
in November after two years at the division. Wayland led the
department’s successful litigation to stop  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s takeover
of  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  and  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s attempt to buy a
smaller competitor, acting as the lead courtroom lawyer for the
government in both cases. Wayland is now general counsel of  Ace
Ltd. (ACE)   Seward & Kissel Adds Tax Partner in Its New York Office  Jonathan P. Brose joined the  New York  office of Seward &
Kissel LLP as a partner in the firm’s tax group. According to a
statement from the firm, Brose will focus his practice on
investment funds, structured finance and capital markets
transactions.  Brose joins Seward from Sidley Austin LLP, where he was a
partner in their tax group. During his time at Sidley Austin,
Brose developed an expertise in investment strategies for
credit, distressed asset and commodities funds. His experience
in tax law includes structured finance as well as
restructurings. He also supplied tax advice to domestic and
foreign entities on a variety of commercial transactions and
capital market activities.  In the Courts  Sears Must Again Face Washing Machine Class Suit, Court Says  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  must face consumer class-action
litigation over alleged washing machine defects, a federal
appeals court in Chicago ruled after being asked to reconsider
the issue by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Consumers accused the suburban-Chicago based retailer of
selling appliances with faulty computer control systems. They
also alleged that the front-loading machines, made by  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR)  and sold under Sears’s Kenmore brand, accumulate mold.  After the appeals court last year said consumers in six
states could pursue their claims collectively, Sears gained
Supreme Court review. The high court, having earlier rejected
class status in a case against Comcast Corp. for a lack of
common damages, asked the Chicago panel to reconsider its
ruling.  “There is a single, central, common issue of liability:
whether the Sears washing machine was defective,” U.S. Circuit
Judge  Richard Posner  said in a ruling released Aug. 22
reiterating that two classes be recognized.  “It would drive a stake through the heart of the class
action device, in cases in which damages were sought,” Posner
said, “to require that every member of the class have identical
damages.”  Sears and Whirlpool “respectfully disagree,” with the
appeals court decision, Chris Brathwaite, a spokesman for
Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based Sears, said in an e-mailed
statement. The companies will again seek Supreme Court review,
he said.  The case is Butler v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 11-8029, 12-8030,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  Google Seeks Court Approval of Search Privacy Settlement  Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a federal judge to approve a settlement
of a lawsuit claiming the company transferred personal
information contained in user searches to third parties
including marketers and data brokers.  The lawsuit, before U.S. District Judge Edward Davila in
San Jose, California, claims Google “consistently and
intentionally” designed its searches to collect and send data
-- including names, credit card numbers, Social Security
numbers, account numbers, medical information and political
beliefs --and that the information was sold and resold to
“countless other third parties.”  Kassra Nassiri, a lawyer representing plaintiffs in the
case, explained to Davila at an Aug. 23 hearing that users are
concerned about their privacy because that data is now
aggregated in such a way that any single Google search “will be
associated with them in the future.”  Nassiri and  Edward Johnson , a lawyer for Google, asked
Davila for approval of a settlement requiring Google to post
disclosures on a “Frequently Asked Questions” page of its
website telling users whether their search queries are
transmitted to third parties, and allowing them to make
decisions about their privacy choices, according to a court
filing.  Google will also pay $8.5 million that will be distributed
to privacy research and will start an “elaborate advertising
campaign” to generate 200 million hits at various websites
explaining the agreement, Johnson, a Mayer Brown LLP partner,
said.  Davila expressed skepticism about how many people will read
Google’s Web page produced as a result of the settlement, and
asked for detailed information about how the privacy
organizations were selected.  The case is Gaos v. Google, 10-cv-04809, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  US Airways Must Face Frequent Flier Suit Over Mileage Credit  US Airways Group must face a lawsuit from a frequent flier
claiming the carrier is cheating its loyalty rewards program
members when determining how many miles they’ve flown.  U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber in Chicago on
Friday denied the airline’s bid for dismissal of the lawsuit
filed this year by Dividend Miles program member Annette Kwok of
Washington.  Kwok claims the airline “misled and deceived millions of
its members” by crediting them with fewer miles than they’ve
actually flown in conflict with the terms of its program
membership guide.  “While defendants argue that the guide’s unambiguous
language illustrates that they are not in breach, the court
disagrees,” Leinenweber said.  Claiming breach of contract, Kwok is seeking class action
status on behalf of all current and former Dividend Miles
Program members who have been awarded less miles than flown on
qualifying flights plus unspecified compensatory damages.  The Tempe, Arizona-based airline’s media relations
department didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking
comment on last week’s ruling.  The U.S.  Justice Department  on Aug. 13 sued to block U.S.
Airways’ planned merger with  AMR Corp’s (AAMRQ)  American Airlines, which
would create the world’s biggest airline.  The case is Kwok v. US Airways Group, 13-cv-02068, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hythas at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  