-- Clooney Gets Stuck in Space, Johansson Man-Eats in Venice
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-08-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/clooney-plays-astronaut-johansson-turns-alien-in-venice.html
George Clooney and Sandra Bullock
get stranded in outer space, Scarlett Johansson stalks male
hitchhikers, and Zac Efron treats wounded President John F. Kennedy in movies premiering at the  Venice  Film Festival.  Starting tomorrow and ending Sept. 7 on Venice’s Lido
island, the world’s oldest film festival has 20 titles competing
for the Golden Lion award this year -- including, unusually, a
couple of documentaries.  Opening movie “Gravity,” a 3-D science-fiction title,
casts Bullock as a medical engineer who’s on her maiden space
mission with a seasoned astronaut (Clooney). Their shuttle is
wrecked, leaving them cut off from earth and tethered to each
other.  “It was a very intense experience for Sandra: That I have
to admit,” said director Alfonso Cuaron at San Diego’s Comic-Con convention last month, noting that Bullock spent long spells
in a narrow cube of LED lights during the shoot.  “Our focus was not the technology: Our focus was the
performance. It was the emotional journey and how that was going
to be translated,” said Cuaron, known for “Children of Men”
(2006) and Mexican road movie “Y Tu Mama Tambien” (2001).  One contender for the Golden Lion is Jonathan Glazer’s
“Under the Skin.” It stars Scarlett Johansson as an alluring
alien who captures male hitchhikers and has them sliced up and
delivered to a corporation that markets human flesh. The movie
is adapted from a Michel Faber novel.  Dallas Kennedy  In “Parkland,” also a Venice competitor, Efron plays Jim
Carrico -- the first doctor to give President Kennedy emergency
care on the day of his assassination. Director Peter Landesman
recreates the dramatic circumstances at  Dallas ’s Parkland
Hospital that day; Marcia Gay Harden co-stars.  Other stars poised to head up the red carpet this year:
Matt Damon, Tilda Swinton, and Christoph Waltz for Terry Gilliam’s “The Zero Theorem,” about a computer hacker probing
the meaning of human life; and Lindsay Lohan, for “The
Canyons” (by “American Gigolo” director Paul Schrader), an
erotic thriller about an L.A. rich kid who turns violent when he
discovers that his actress girlfriend is cheating on him.
Lohan’s co-star is the real-life porn actor James Deen.  One of the two documentaries vying for the top prize is
“The Unknown Known” by Errol Morris, a portrait of former U.S.
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.  Bertolucci, Sakamoto  This year’s main jury is led by director Bernardo Bertolucci (“Last Tango in Paris”) and includes U.S. actress
Carrie Fisher and Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto.  Other U.S. movies in the competition are “Joe” (by David
Gordon Green), where Nicolas Cage plays an ex-convict who
encounters a teenage boy; and “Night Moves” (by Kelly
Reichardt and starring Jesse Eisenberg), about three
environmentalists who conspire to destroy a hydroelectric dam.  In Stephen Frears’s “Philomena,” also in the official
competition, Judi Dench plays an Irish mother searching for the
son who was taken away from her when she fell pregnant in her
teens.  Screening outside the official contest is a documentary
about cyclist Lance Armstrong, and Italian director Ettore Scola’s tribute to fellow filmmaker Federico Fellini.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  George Walden 
on books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice,  Italy , at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 