-- Coffee Reserves Seen at 2000 Low on Indonesian Rain: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-27T17:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/coffee-reserves-seen-at-2000-low-on-indonesian-rain-commodities.html
Robusta coffee stockpiles are poised
to slump to a 13-year low as torrential rain in  Indonesia 
disrupts supply and consumers wait three more months before
Vietnam’s new crop gets shipped.  Rain in the largest growing regions of Indonesia, the
biggest producer behind Vietnam and  Brazil , was as much as twice
the 30-year average since April, MDA Weather Services says.
Inventories certified by NYSE Liffe will tumble 34 percent to
52,000 metric tons by the end of 2013, the lowest since May
2000, the average of 10 trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg
shows. Futures will gain 13 percent to $2,000 a ton over the
same time, according to the median of seven forecasts.  The deluge delayed harvesting and drying of beans.
Nedcoffee BV, an Amsterdam-based trader with Indonesian offices,
says deliveries from farms have been about 16 percent lower than
last year. Stockpiles already tumbled 38 percent since mid-May
as traders in  Vietnam  curbed cargoes to hold out for higher
prices. Euromonitor International Ltd. predicts a 3.6 percent
expansion in the market for instant coffee, mostly made from
robusta, to a record $29.2 billion.  “It’s tight into the fourth quarter,” said James Hearn,
co-head of agriculture at Marex Spectron Group Ltd., a brokerage
with more than 600 staff and based in  London . “The market will
continue to need the certified stocks. The main question at the
moment is how far and how fast the stocks will fall.”  J.M. Smucker  Robusta fell 7.9 percent to $1,772 this year on NYSE Liffe
in London, while  arabica , the most-consumed coffee, dropped 19
percent to $1.169 a pound ($2,577 a ton) on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
rose 2.5 percent, led by crude oil, cotton and cocoa. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of shares gained 8 percent and the
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 3.4 percent.  Demand for robusta is stronger than arabica, according to
Mark T. Smucker, the president of U.S. retail coffee at The J.M.
Smucker Co. The Orrville, Ohio-based company makes Folgers
instant coffee.  Prices for both types of coffee declined this year as
traders anticipated a supply glut. Robusta production will rise
3.8 percent to 65.3 million bags in the 2013-14 season as demand
expands 1.6 percent to 63.8 million bags, Macquarie Group Ltd.
says. A bag weighs 132 pounds. The bank says the surplus in
arabica will be almost three times larger at 4.2 million bags.  Next Harvest  The robusta surplus has yet to show up in exchange-monitored  warehouses.  Farmers in Vietnam are still storing
140,000 tons from the last harvest after  local prices  dropped 13
percent in the second quarter, according to the median of nine
trader and shipper estimates compiled by Bloomberg and data from
the Dak Lak Trade & Tourism Center.  A rally in prices may prompt Vietnamese growers to sell
some of the beans they have stored from the current crop. The
first significant shipments from the new crop typically are made
in December, arriving in Europe about a month later, leaving an
absence of new supply for the next several months.  “If you plan all your shipments from the new crop for
October, I doubt you will find it,” said Renaud de Kerchove
from Ecom Agroindustrial Corp. in Pully, Switzerland, referring
to supplies from Vietnam. “But you can still find some coffee
from this crop that people will be happy to sell if the markets
rally enough,” said the managing director of coffee for Europe
and Middle East at the company which traded 11 million bags in
2011.  Accelerate Shipments  Vietnam’s 2013-14 harvest probably will increase 17 percent
to a record 1.7 million tons, according to the median of nine
estimates from traders and shippers in the country. Farmers
expanded plantations and rain boosted growth, said Alexander
Gruber, the Ho Chi Minh City-based trading manager at Tong Teik
Pte, a coffee company owned by RCMA Commodities Asia Pte. While
prices may rally to $2,050 next month, they will retreat to
$1,850 by the end of the year, he said.  Rain in Indonesia probably will be “near normal” in the
next two months, said Donald Keeney, a senior agricultural
meteorologist at MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .
That may allow farmers to dry beans and accelerate farm
deliveries that had fallen to 129,844 tons in the five months
through Aug. 2, from 155,152 tons a year earlier, according to
Nedcoffee.  Physical Supply  More shipments may still not boost the European stockpiles
certified by NYSE Liffe as being suitable for delivery into its
contracts if prices stay little changed. Futures are trading at
a discount to physical supply from producing nations, said
Freddie Schol, a trading manager at Nedcoffee, which mostly
transacts robusta. That makes it unprofitable to direct cargoes
into bourse inventories.  Beans from Vietnam for shipment in September and October
were at a premium of $120 a ton to the exchange price last week,
according to Volcafe Ltd., a trading company in Winterthur,
Switzerland. Indonesian supply for the same months cost $130
more. Brazilian robusta is selling at a premium of about 2 cents
to 5 cents a pound ($44 to $110 a ton), according to Flavour
Coffee, a brokerage in Rio de Janeiro.  NYSE Liffe-monitored  inventories  dropped to 78,750 tons on
Aug. 19, the lowest since August 2007. They have declined 81
percent from the record 417,420 tons reached in July 2011,
bourse data show. The 52,000 tons anticipated in the Bloomberg
survey would be the lowest since May 2000, according to Marex.
Inventories of arabica tracked by ICE Futures U.S. expanded 9
percent to 2.8 million bags this year.  Arabica Premium  That signals buyers favor cheaper robusta beans, said Judy Ganes-Chase, the president of J. Ganes Consulting in  Panama 
City, Panama. Arabica’s premium over robusta is now at 37 cents
a pound, from 87 cents in September. Arabica is mostly used in
specialty coffees sold by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and other coffee
shops. Money managers switched to being net long, or betting on
higher robusta prices, as of Aug. 20. They had been net short,
or betting on lower prices, since May 28, NYSE Liffe  data  show.  Falling arabica prices may limit gains in robusta, Hearn
said. The Brazilian real’s 14 percent retreat against the dollar
this year increased revenue from dollar-denominated coffee sales
and encouraged exporters to ship more beans.  Sales of instant coffee by volume will expand 3.7 percent
this year, faster than the 2.3 percent gain for fresh ground
coffee and beans, according to Euromonitor, a consumer research
company in London.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the Vevey, Switzerland-based maker
of Nescafe, accounted for 49 percent of global instant coffee
sales last year, Euromonitor data show.  “There’s plenty of arabica supply out there,” Smucker of
J.M. Smucker said on a conference call with analysts on Aug. 21.
“The demand for robusta is a little stronger, so we might be a
little more bullish on robusta.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  