-- Cold War Bomber Hub Gets a Makeover in Arctic Bond Debut
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-26T17:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/cold-war-bomber-hub-gets-a-revamp-in-arctic-bond-debut.html
Canada ’s northernmost territory,
Nunavut, is borrowing in the bond market for the first time to
revamp the capital’s airport as the Arctic region seeks to
strengthen ties with the outside world and spur development.  The C$140.8 million ($134.1 million) bond through a public-private-partnership will help build an infrastructure link to
resource markets since the capital, Iqaluit, lacks roads
connecting it to northern communities. In addition to air
service, the mostly indigenous Inuit residents depend on barges
that float in goods at high tide from ships lying a mile or two
out at sea.  Nunavut  straddles the Arctic Circle, north of which is
roughly one fifth of the world’s recoverable oil and gas
reserves, according to the U.S. Geological  survey , and is home
to gold, diamond, iron and uranium deposits. While accounting
for about 20 percent of Canada’s land mass, the territory is one
of the world’s most thinly populated regions with 34,000
residents. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who toured the more
than 2 million kilometer (1.24 million mile) region last week,
is pushing economic development in mining to help address the
region’s chronic unemployment.  “The infrastructure needs to be developed so more and more
of these bonds are coming,” John Johnston, chief strategist at
investment-management firm Davis Rea Ltd., said by phone from
Toronto. “If you’re looking at a 30-year horizon, the north is
going to get more and more developed. Over the long run they’ll
get their mineral wealth out.”  P3 Bonds  The bond sale for Arctic Infrastructure Limited Partners
will finance the overhaul of the territory’s main airport in
Iqaluit until the debt matures in June 2047, according to
 Standard & Poor’s , which rated it last week. CIBC World Markets
Inc., manager of the sale, is meeting with investors in coming
weeks and may sell the bonds next month, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the transaction who wasn’t authorized
to speak on the record because the terms aren’t public.  Under the P3 partnership, the bond will provide about half
of the funding to revamp the airport, according to S&P, which
rated the bonds A-, the seventh-highest on a scale of 12. The
government will make payments to partially cover the cost of
building the airport; later it will make monthly payments to pay
bondholders over a 30-year operating period.  “They’re using the  bond market  and the public-to-private
partnership structure to upgrade the airport,” Mario Angastiniotis, an analyst at S&P, said by phone from Toronto.
“It provides a great risk allocation where the risk of the
project is passed down to the private sector with the government
keeping at it arm’s length.”  Yield Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canada’s benchmark 10-year
government bonds rose, pushing yields down three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.66 percent. The price of the 1.5
percent securities maturing in June 2023 gained 21 cents to
C$90.06 at 1:28 p.m. in Toronto.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government ended last week unchanged at 121 basis points,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canada Corporate
Index. Yields fell to 3.29 percent Aug. 23, from 3.32 percent
the week before.  Spreads on provincial bonds were also unchanged on the week
at 73 basis points, according to Bank of America’s Canadian
Provincial & Municipal Index. Yields dropped to 3.13 percent on
Aug. 23 from 3.16 the week before.  Federal-government bonds have lost 3 percent this year,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Provincial
securities have dropped 4 percent, and corporate bonds have
declined 0.7 percent.  Moving Risk  Bouygues Building Canada Inc., Sintra Inc., Winnipeg
Airports Authority Inc. and Infrared Capital Partners Ltd. have
been chosen by the government as the consortium to design, build
and operate and maintain the airport for 34 years.  Opting for a public-private partnership “moves risk to
where it should belong, with the private sector partner, and
allows us to operate the airport once the infrastructure is in
place for 30 years relatively risk-free from a government
perspective,” Chris D’Arcy, Nunavut’s deputy minister of
finance, said in a Aug. 23 interview.  The public-private model is one that the government may
explore to address the territory’s other urgent infrastructural
needs, such as a deepwater port or more housing, he said.  “It’s a model we would investigate given our limits on
borrowing,” said D’Arcy. “There’s no end of need with respect
to increased infrastructure in Nunavut.”  Record Runway  Public-private partnerships, or P3 deals, are increasingly
being used to fund new hospitals, schools and roads in Canada
with private companies taking on the role of equity sponsors and
overseeing construction.  Iqaluit’s  airport , with its main building encased in a
bright yellow shell, needs an overhaul. It was established
during the second World War and its runway, one of the longest
in  North America , once accommodated U.S. Air Force bombers that
patrolled the Arctic as part of the American’s network of DEW
(Distant-Early-Warning) stations during the  Cold War .  Now it’s the main supply line to the north for everything
from perishable food from Southern Canada to mining camps in
even more remote communities above the Arctic circle.  With the retreat of Arctic sea ice, new shipping routes to
 Asia  are opening up through the historic Northwest Passage, and
via Hudson Bay and Greenland to  Russia .  Borrowing Limit  Nunavut’s maiden bond issue comes as the jurisdiction,
carved out of the Eastern Arctic as Canada’s newest territory in
1999, seeks more control of its natural resources and finances
in a process known as devolution.  The federal government limits the amount of debt Nunavut
can assume, according to Moody’s Investors Service, which rates
the territory at Aa1. The limit is currently set at C$400
million, equivalent to 22.7 percent of Nunavut’s 2011-12
revenues.  Planned mining projects by companies including
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  have been either shelved or scaled back as prices
for  iron ore  and gold slump. Nunavut Premier Eva Aariak is
demanding Harper accelerate the pace of talks on devolution, to
return more mining royalties to the people of the territory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  