-- Construction Bank Profit Growth Slows on Rising Bad Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-26T10:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/construction-bank-profit-growth-slows-on-rising-bad-loans-2-.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
nation’s second-largest lender, posted the smallest profit
increase in five quarters, weighed down by rising bad-loan
charges as the economy slowed.  Net income in the second quarter climbed 9.7 percent to
60.1 billion  yuan  ($9.82 billion) from 54.8 billion yuan a year
earlier, based on figures published by the Beijing-based lender
yesterday. That compared with the 58.2 billion-yuan median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The earnings slowdown reflects the pressure Chinese banks
face from higher  nonperforming loans  and weak credit demand as
the world’s second-largest economy heads for the slowest pace of
expansion in 23 years. Combined net income at the bank and its
three largest competitors may grow by less than 10 percent this
year for the first time since they sold shares to the public,
analyst estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News  show.  “The key downside risk for CCB is continued asset
deterioration in the  Yangtze River Delta , as CCB has a greater
concentration of NPLs from that region” than its three largest
peers, Grace Wu, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong
Ltd., wrote in a research note today.  First-half pretax profit from the region fell 7 percent
from a year earlier to 19.4 billion yuan, as soured loans jumped
22 percent from the end of 2012, they wrote.  Bank of Communications Co ., the nation’s fifth-largest,
said Aug. 21 second-quarter net income rose 13 percent, beating
analyst estimates as fee income from services such as sales of
wealth management products and credit cards jumped 30 percent.  New Lending  Shares of Construction Bank gained 0.7 percent to close at
HK$5.83 in  Hong Kong , trimming this year’s decline to 6.3
percent. That compares with a 2.9 percent drop in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  in 2013.  Construction Bank, partly owned by Temasek Holdings Pte,
 Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, doled out 583
billion yuan of new lending in the first half to take its total
to 8.1 trillion yuan at the end of June. Nonperforming loans
rose to 80.3 billion yuan from 74.6 billion yuan at the
beginning of the year as borrowers struggled to repay debt.  China’s banks advanced 2.3 trillion yuan of new loans in
the second quarter, down 3 percent from a year earlier following
a surge in credit in the January-March period. Premier  Li Keqiang  in June signaled a determination to make better use of
existing credit and step up efforts to contain financial risks.  Asset Quality  “Chinese banks’ asset quality shows no sign of
stabilization as the economy remains sluggish,” said Mu Hua, a
Guangzhou-based analyst at GF Securities Co. “Bad loans is a
lagging indicator therefore we expect the NPL balance to keep
rising in the rest of year. The slowdown in loan expansion has
also dragged banks’ profit growth and the trend will continue as
the central bank keeps the lid on total lending.”  Construction Bank set aside 16.1 billion yuan for potential
bad loans in the first half, compared with 14.7 billion yuan a
year earlier.  China’s economy  will probably grow 7.5 percent in 2013,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News last month, as Li expands the role of markets and
restructures the economy to reduce dependence on exports and
infrastructure spending.  ‘Global Downturn’  “China’s economic growth is slowing due to the global
downturn, but it’s at a rate suitable for China,” Construction
Bank Chairman Wang Hongzhang said at a press conference in
Beijing today. “If the economic fundamentals become bad, then
we will also be affected.”  The lender’s operations in coastal Zhejiang and Jiangsu
provinces have already been “badly affected” as local
economies slowed, Wang said.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
country’s largest shipyard outside state control, said July 5 it
was seeking help from the government after a plunge in orders
forced it to cut production and “restructure” its workforce.  In the first half, Construction Bank’s profit rose 13
percent to a record 119.7 billion yuan, according to yesterday’s
statement. Its net interest income gained 11 percent to 187.7
billion yuan after the net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, was unchanged at 2.71 percent. Fee-based income
gained 13 percent to 55.5 billion yuan.  Lending Rates  The People’s Bank of China on July 20 scrapped the lower
limit on the lending rates banks can charge customers, in the
biggest step to move the nation’s financial system toward rates
set by the market. The central bank left the cap on deposit
rates unchanged, on concern that removing it without further
preparations could lead to financial turmoil.  Chinese lenders’ earnings growth may slow to a “high
single-digit” rate, Helen Zhu, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief
 China  strategist, said on July 20. That still exceeds the 4
percent rate estimated for companies in the MSCI China Index,
she said.  Temasek has been increasing its stakes in China’s largest
lenders since 2011 as U.S. shareholders including Goldman Sachs
and Bank of America Corp. sold stock.  Temasek held 7.15 percent of Construction Bank as of June
30, according to yesterday’s exchange filing. Bank of America,
which has offloaded Construction Bank shares four times since
2009, still has 2 billion shares in the Chinese lender with a
lockup period ending this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  