-- Copper Drops After U.S. Durable Goods Fall More Than Forecast
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-08-26T14:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/copper-drops-after-u-s-durable-goods-fall-more-than-forecast.html
Copper fell the most this month on
concern that a bigger-than-expected drop in U.S. durable-goods
orders signals slower demand growth in the country, the world’s
second-biggest user of the metal.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years slid
7.3 percent, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington .
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 4 percent drop. Orders waned for aircraft and capital
goods such as computers and electrical equipment. Copper prices
were down 8.1 percent this year through Aug. 23.  “The durable-goods number was a big disappointment,”
Brian Booth, a senior market strategist at Long Leaf Trading
Group in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “Copper prices
started dropping once traders had a chance to leaf through the
report.”  Copper futures for delivery in December declined 1.1
percent to $3.32 a pound at 10:42 a.m. on the Comex in  New York .
A close at that price would mark the biggest loss since July 30.
Earlier, the metal touched $3.395, the highest since June 5.
Trading in copper was 20 percent below the average for the past
100 days for this time of day, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  “Volume is generally lighter in August,” Booth said.
“You can expect to see more volatility.”  The durable-goods report indicates struggling overseas
markets and the effects of federal government spending cuts are
lingering and holding back manufacturing, which accounts for
about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy .  “With the demand for big-ticket items faltering big-time,
the prospects for solid growth this quarter grow dimmer,”  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania  said in a note to clients.  The London Metal Exchange is closed today for a bank
holiday.  China is the biggest copper consumer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  