-- TD-CIBC Deal to Extend Bank Card-Buying Spree: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-26T20:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/td-cibc-deal-to-extend-bank-card-buying-spree-corporate-canada.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  could reach an
agreement to acquire about half of Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s Aerogold Visa portfolio, expanding its credit-card
offerings as banks try to counter a consumer-lending slowdown.  Toronto-Dominion said today in a  statement  that it is
continuing discussions with Canadian Imperial on a possible
acquisition of the card portfolio. The lenders initially set
today as a deadline for reaching an agreement.  A card deal would be the third in two years for Toronto-Dominion, which has led Canada’s biggest banks on a buying spree
for C$17 billion ($16.2 billion) of credit-card assets since
2009. The next opportunity may be  Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC/A) , the
country’s largest sports retailer, which said Aug. 8 it’s
seeking a financial partner for its C$4.4 billion MasterCard
portfolio.  “It’s all about the ability to connect to customers,”
 Brad Smith , an analyst with Stonecap Securities Inc. in Toronto,
said in an Aug. 12 interview. “Cards are just going through an
incredible premium in this marketplace, and that is reflective
of the perception of an extended period of slower growth here.”  Canada’s six biggest banks, which report third-quarter
results this week, are seeking ways to expand their businesses
as debt-laden Canadians pare record borrowing. Those lenders
will collectively see per-share profit growth in the three
months ended July 31 ease to 1.2 percent on slower loan growth
and tighter interest-rate spreads, underscoring the appeal of
cards, said  Peter Routledge , a National Bank Financial analyst.
He expects TD and CIBC to reach an agreement on cards.  ‘Affluent People’  The six banks had profit growth of 5.8 percent in the
second quarter and 9.6 percent a year earlier, he said.  “Affluent people are spending more money, feeling more
confident about the economy and they’re using their cards more
frequently,” Routledge said in an Aug. 16 telephone interview
from Toronto. “Purchase volumes in Canada on credit cards are
growing at 6, 7 percent, which is a lot faster than loan growth
or growth of the overall economy.”  The eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks
Index  rose  5.4 percent this year, trailing the 26 percent
 increase  of the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of two dozen U.S. lenders.
Toronto-Dominion  advanced  0.2 percent to a record high close of
C$88.96 at 4 p.m. in Toronto trading. Canadian Imperial climbed
1 percent to C$80.69.  Card Issuers  Canadian Imperial was the country’s largest credit-card
issuer last year with C$15.5 billion of outstanding balances,
followed by Toronto-Dominion with about C$15.4 billion,
according to an April issue of the  Nilson Report , a credit-card
industry newsletter.  Royal Bank (RY)  ranked third at C$13.9 billion,
followed by Scotiabank with C$10.1 billion and  Bank of Montreal (BMO) 
with C$8.32 billion of balances.  Adding unsecured credit card debt is not without risk when
consumer debt is near record levels and Canada’s economy is
predicted by economists to grow next year at a slower pace than
in the U.S. Still, the country’s credit-card losses fell to 3.47
percent of loans at the end of October from a high of 5.37
percent in 2009. Delinquency rates have also declined, according
to the Canadian Bankers Association.  “I’ve always felt cards are a pretty good, albeit a little
bit more risky investment,”  John Kinsey , who helps manage about
C$1 billion including bank shares at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, said in an Aug. 15 interview. “It’s higher risk but
it’s also higher reward.”  ‘High-Spread Product’  Credit cards contribute 2 percent to 10 percent of profit
for Canadian banks, depending on the lender, with the percentage
share for Canadian Imperial probably in the mid-to high-teens,
National Bank Financial’s Routledge estimated.  “Credit cards are important to the banks because it’s a
high-spread product and because it’s a high fee revenue business
on top of that,” Routledge said. “As a consequence, it’s a
very productive use of capital.”  Card purchases by Canadian banks accelerated after the
country’s Competition Bureau changed the rules in November 2008
to let financial-services firms issue both  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  credit cards. Banks previously had to select one
or the other under restrictions that were unique to Canada.  Toronto-Dominion has increased its push into cards through
acquisitions. The Toronto-based lender paid C$6.84 billion cash
for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s MBNA Canadian MasterCard portfolio
in December 2011 to gain C$7.36 billion of loans, according to
the company’s 2012 annual report. In March, Toronto-Dominion
bought $5.7 billion of U.S. credit-card balances from  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and agreed to purchase  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s C$495 million
private-label card portfolio, according to financial statements.  Aeroplan Partnership  Toronto-Dominion, which on Aug. 12 was named the new
primary card partner for  Aimia Inc. (AIM) ’s Aeroplan rewards program,
may gain half of CIBC Aerogold cardholders if it concludes a
deal with its smaller rival, the company said in a statement.
Canadian Imperial, which has been Aimia’s partner for 22 years,
wants to keep those Aerogold cardholders who are also bank
customers. Kevin Dove, a CIBC spokesman, said the bank could
retain rights to continue issuing Aerogold cards for at least 10
more years.  “Should this happen, there could be an Aeroplan co-branded
credit-card earning Aeroplan miles offered by both CIBC and TD
from Jan. 1,” Rupert Duchesne, chief executive officer of
Montreal-based Aimia, said in an Aug. 13 conference call. “This
would be an elegant solution that would be a win-win-win for us,
TD and CIBC.”  Legal Options  If an agreement with TD isn’t reached, the lender also has
the right to pursue legal options under its existing contract
with Aimia, CIBC said today in a statement.  There’s no assurance a deal will be struck, the banks said
today in statements. “The parties will make an announcement
when an agreement has been reached or when the discussions have
concluded without an agreement,” Toronto-Dominion said in its
statement.  Canadian Imperial and Toronto-Dominion will probably reach
an agreement, said analysts including CIBC’s  Robert Sedran .  “With apparent positives for all sides, we believe there
is a deal there to be completed and expect positive
resolution,” Sedran said in an Aug. 12 note.  Shoppers Optimum  Other Canadian lenders have been active in cards. Royal
Bank of Canada bought the Shoppers Optimum MasterCard portfolio
in September for an undisclosed amount from Bank of America, and
CIBC acquired Citigroup Inc.’s C$2 billion Canadian MasterCard
portfolio in 2010. Bank of Montreal bought the Diners Club North
America card business from Citigroup in 2009 for C$838 million,
gaining C$873 million in loans.  “If you can bring in new clients to your bank and cross-sell them other products, that’s a very attractive value
proposition,” Linda Mantia, executive vice president of cards
and payment solutions at Toronto-based Royal Bank, said in an
Aug. 8 interview.  Bank of  Nova Scotia  is considering adding credit cards for
its ING Direct unit. The Toronto-based lender is working on a
credit-card strategy with management of the Canadian banking
business acquired in November from ING Groep NV for C$3.1
billion, Robin Hibberd, executive vice president of retail
products and services, said at a June 12 investor conference in
New York.  Scotiabank Cards  An ING Direct credit card is “something we are committed
to exploring,” Scotiabank spokeswoman Michelle Henderson said
in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve been growing our credit-card
business and remain committed to doing so.”  Canada’s finance minister and the Bank of Canada have
warned that mounting  household debt  poses a risk to the
financial system and the economy. The ratio of Canadian
household debt to disposable income rose to a record 163 percent
in the third quarter of 2012, according to the government’s
 Statistics Canada  agency. The ratio has fallen to 162 percent as
of March 31, the data show.  Canada’s housing market is exhibiting few signs of a hard
landing even amid warnings from analysts and policy makers that
a bubble may be forming. Existing home sales rose 0.2 percent in
July from the previous month and 9.4 percent from a year
earlier, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said Aug. 15.
Average sales prices rose 1.9 percent from June, and 8.4 percent
from a year earlier, the Ottawa-based group said.  Quarterly Results  Bank of Montreal and Scotiabank are the first to disclose
results for the third quarter when the Toronto-based lenders
report tomorrow. Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest by
assets, is  expected  to post adjusted profit of C$1.53 a share,
up 2.5 percent from a year ago, according to the average of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Scotiabank, the third-largest
lender, is  estimated  to report profit of C$1.31 a share, a 7
percent advance.  National Bank of Canada , the sixth-largest lender, is
expected to post a 4.2 percent increase in profit to C$2.06 a
share when the Montreal-based bank reports Aug. 28, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Canadian Imperial, the fifth-biggest bank, is estimated to increase profit 3.3 percent to
C$2.13 a share on Aug. 29, the same day Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion report results.  Royal Bank, the largest lender, will post profit growth of
5 percent to C$1.38 a share, while Toronto-Dominion will post
profit of C$1.53 a share, a 20 percent decline from a year ago,
according to the estimates. Toronto-Dominion said July 30 it’ll
report a loss of as much as C$290 million in its insurance
business in the quarter, due to C$418 million in charges for
flood-related claims in Alberta and Toronto and increased
general insurance claims.  Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion, Scotiabank and Bank of
Montreal are expected to raise their quarterly payouts in the
quarter, according to Bloomberg’s Dividend Forecast model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  