-- Dankner Gets More Time to Settle Debt as Court Delays Creditors
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-26T07:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/dankner-gets-more-time-to-settle-debt-as-court-delays-creditors.html
IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) , which has about 2
billion shekels ($556 million) of debt outstanding, has until
October to come up with a repayment plan after it met a court
demand for a deposit of 500 million shekels.  A Tel Aviv court gave controlling shareholder Nochi Dankner
until Oct. 20 to submit a debt plan and set the next hearing for
Nov. 25, according to an e-mailed court statement today. The
court also approved the sale of a 32 percent stake in  Clal
Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  for 1.47 billion shekels.  Dankner has been trying to sell assets and find investors
for his holding company, which owns stakes in  Israel ’s biggest
supermarket chain,  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , and its largest mobile
operator,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  York Capital Management LP was
among bondholders of IDB Holding and unit IDB Development Corp.
Ltd. that joined hands in May to force a debt-to-equity swap
increasing the possibility that Dankner may lose control of the
companies.  Emblaze Ltd. (BLZ) , based in Hertzliya Pituach, Israel, and Tel
Aviv-based  Netz Group Ltd. (NETZ)  on Aug. 15 offered 826 million
shekels for a 80 percent stake in debt-strapped IDB Holding.
That values the company at 1.03 billion shekels, more than three
times its market value. Argentine businessman Eduardo Elsztain,
who was also present at the court hearing yesterday, has been in
talks with bondholders’ trustees for an investment of 770
million shekels in exchange for a 51 percent stake in the IDB
Development Corp. unit.  The combination of unprofitable investments and regulations
to boost competition, cut IDB Holding’s market value to 330
million shekels from 5.06 billion shekels at the end of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  