-- Detroit Mediator Orders Syncora Into Swaps Accord Talks
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-26T14:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/detroit-mediator-orders-syncora-into-swaps-accord-talks.html
Detroit ’s lead bankruptcy mediator
ordered the city and bond-insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc. into
talks in their dispute over a proposed $253 million swaps
settlement.  The city is seeking to buy its way out of an  interest-rate
swaps  contract to save about $50 million a year, a proposal that
Syncora asked a bankruptcy judge to reject when it comes before
the court next month.  U.S. District Judge Gerald Rosen in Detroit ordered
Syncora, the city and swaps holders including Merrill Lynch
Capital Services Inc. to meet with a bankruptcy judge from
 Oregon  to try to settle their differences.  After Detroit filed the biggest-ever U.S. municipal
bankruptcy last month, the city’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr,
asked the judge overseeing the $18 billion case to approve the
settlement with Merrill Lynch and UBS AG. Syncora, which sold
insurance on the swaps, opposes the settlement, claiming that
ending the contract too early could hurt its economic interests.  In an Aug. 23 order filed with the  bankruptcy court , Rosen
told participants to e-mail the mediator with “suggested ways
that the mediation might resolve,” the dispute.  The city, New York-based Syncora and about 20 other groups
were ordered to meet with, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Elizabeth Perris of Oregon, on Aug. 29 in Detroit. Perris has been a
court-appointed mediator for three California cities that also
filed bankruptcy, Vallejo, Mammoth Lakes and Stockton. Stockton
remains in bankruptcy.  Detroit Hearing  The judge overseeing the Detroit case, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Steven Rhodes, is to consider approving the settlement
next month. That hearing will see the first major court fight
over Orr’s proposal to cut city debt while in bankruptcy.  Under the settlement, swap providers would be paid at least
75 percent of what they’re owed, depending on when the contract
is canceled. City attorney Corinne Ball, a partner at  Jones Day 
in New York, said in court on Aug. 21 that the discounted value
of the swaps was about $190 million.  That means the swaps providers are owed about
$253.3 million. Retirees and many of the city’s other unsecured
debtholders, with about $11.5 billion of claims, were asked to
take about $2 billion, or 17 percent, under Orr’s June 14
proposal.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 