-- DoCoMo Rises on Speculation Carrier to Release Apple IPhone
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-08-26T07:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/docomo-rises-on-speculation-carrier-to-release-apple-s-iphone.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  rose in Tokyo
trading, while rivals  KDDI Corp. (9433)  and  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  fell, after
a media report suggested  Japan ’s largest mobile carrier may
start selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Chief Financial Officer Kazuto Tsubouchi said there are
compelling reasons for Apple and his company to reach an
agreement, according to an interview published in SankeiBiz. For
Apple, it doesn’t make business sense not to allow Japan’s
largest wireless carrier to sell the iPhone, while DoCoMo wants
to be able to sell most popular handsets, Sankei said.  No deal has been reached and the two companies may not be
able to come to terms, Sankei reported. DoCoMo has had to
compete against smaller rivals who have been able to offer the
popular handset. Apple, whose market value has declined as sales
growth has slowed, is looking for expansion opportunities.  “Speculation DoCoMo may sell the iPhone is dragging down
KDDI and SoftBank,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at  Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  in Tokyo.  DoCoMo shares rose 2.1 percent to 159,600 yen at the close
in Tokyo, the highest level since May 22.  KDDI fell 2 percent, while SoftBank dropped 0.5 percent.
Japan’s benchmark Topix index lost 0.1 percent.  A report related to DoCoMo potentially releasing the iPhone
affected KDDI’s share price, Takeshi Ota, a spokesman for the
company, said by phone. He declined to elaborate.  IPhone Stance  Jun Otori, a Tokyo-based spokesman for DoCoMo, declined to
comment on the Sankei report. He said there had been no change
in DoCoMo’s position on whether to sell the iPhone.  Fumihiro Ito, a SoftBank spokesman, declined to comment.  DoCoMo may consider altering its stance on the iPhone if it
can limit the smartphone’s share of sales to less than 30
percent of the company’s total, Tsubouchi said this month in an
interview with Bloomberg News.  DoCoMo is trying to spark growth as it adds users at a
slower pace than SoftBank and KDDI, which both sell the iPhone.
DoCoMo is reducing the number of models in its stores by as much
as half as its focuses promotions on Sony Corp. and Samsung
Electronics Co. handsets, Tsubouchi said in the interview this
month.  While the company has 45 percent of the Japanese market,
compared to 28 percent for second-ranked KDDI, it has the
slowest growth among the top three in adding new users.  NTT DoCoMo added 172,500 users in July, compared with
225,200 at KDDI and 254,500 for third-ranked SoftBank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in  Tokyo  at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  