-- Ecuador Receives $1.2 Billion Loan From China for Budget
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-08-26T19:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/ecuador-receives-1-2-billion-loan-from-china-for-budget.html
Ecuador borrowed $1.2 billion from
 China , its second loan from the country this year to help fund
its 2013 budget, according to a Finance Ministry official.  China transferred the money to the Andean country on Aug.
12 as part of a “commercial operation” with Ecuador’s state-owned oil company, PetroEcuador, the official, who asked not to
be identified because he isn’t authorized to comment publicly,
said today in a telephone interview from  Quito . He declined to
give more details about the loan.  President  Rafael Correa , a 50-year-old former economics
professor who’s relied on Chinese lending to prop up public
spending since taking power in 2007, plans to increase
government outlays by 7.8 percent this year even as the Finance
Ministry forecasts economic growth will slow to a three-year low
of 4 percent. The government, which defaulted on $3.2 billion of
foreign debt four years ago, received a separate $1.4 billion
loan from China in February to help fund spending.  China’s embassy in Quito didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment.  Ecuadorean Finance Minister Fausto Herrera said July 8 the
government expected another loan from China this year. The new
loan is part of this credit, the official said.  Ecuador , which holds  South America ’s third-largest oil
reserves, has strengthened ties with China since losing access
to global credit markets after the defaults in 2008 and 2009.  Chinese Loans  The world’s largest commodities consumer has given Ecuador
more than $9 billion since Correa took power, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, while its state-owned companies have won
access to the OPEC-member nation’s oil and metal deposits.  Ecuador borrowed $1 billion from state-owned PetroChina Co.
in 2011 to be paid back with future crude shipments. In
February, the government received a $1.4 billion, eight-year
loan from China with an average interest rate of 7 percent,
according to the ministry.  The government is also planning its first international
bond sale since the default to fund public works projects. The
sale is planned by the first quarter of 2014 and will “depend
on conditions,” Herrera said in July.  Ecuador’s 2013 budget called for spending that was $5.05
billion more than projected revenue, a figure equal to about 16
percent of planned outlays, according to Finance Ministry data.  The yield on the government’s $650 million of dollar-denominated bonds due in 2015 fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.86 percent today as of 3:13 p.m. in  New
York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Ecuadorean bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged today at 6.50
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG
index. The extra yield, or spread, has narrowed 1.76 percentage
point this year, compared with a 0.98 percentage point increase
for the  index , according to JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  