-- Egypt Unrest Worsens Deficit Woes as Exports Slow: Turkey Credit
-- B y   O n u r   A n t   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-08-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/egypt-unrest-worsens-deficit-woes-as-exports-slow-turkey-credit.html
Turkey  may struggle to narrow its
current-account deficit as mounting tensions with  Egypt  make it
harder for traders to reach the Middle East, the destination for
about a fifth of Turkish exports.  Turkish exports shipped via Egypt’s Damietta port to
customers in the country and throughout the Persian Gulf dropped
as much as 30 percent after the army toppled Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi on July 3, triggering violence, according to data
of Mersin, Turkey-based OSF International Logistics Services.
Exports to 10 Middle Eastern trade partners shrank 5 percent in
June, state statistics office data show.  “Nobody seems to realize there is a very serious problem
here,” Mustafa Yilmaz, owner of Cem-Ay transportation, based in
Antakya, Turkey, said by phone yesterday. “We are losing trade
just because of political developments with those countries.”  Turkey’s reliance on the Middle East has increased as the
ratio of exports to countries including  Iraq , Saudi Arabia,
 Kuwait  and Egypt more than tripled in the past decade, according
to data from the Ankara-based statistics office. The country has
been struggling to reduce its current-account gap as it faces
the highest borrowing costs in 19 months and the worst-performing currency after South  Africa ’s rand among  emerging
markets  in Europe, the Middle East and Africa this year.  Turkey has sent goods to the Persian Gulf via Egypt since
trade through Syria, caught in the throes of a civil war, was
shut in late 2011. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
has opposed the Egyptian army’s violent crackdown of pro-Mursi
protests since Aug. 14.  Slowing Growth  “Exports through Egypt can only continue if tensions there
do not increase,” Ali Serdar Kocaoglu, general manager of OSF,
said by phone Aug. 22.  Turkish shipments to 10 major markets in the Mideast
increased almost 15-fold to $29.5 billion during the decade to
2012, making up 19 percent of the nation’s total sales abroad,
according to government  data . Exports rose 7.6 percent in the
first half from a year earlier, down from 61 percent growth in
2012 even after the civil war in  Syria  closed that trade route.  Iraq, which shares a 330-kilometer (205-mile) border with
Turkey, accounted for $10.8 billion of sales in 2012. The bulk
of the remaining shipments to the nine Middle East markets go
through Egypt, with volume falling 30 percent since the
beginning of last month, Kocaoglu said.  Issues involving Egypt will probably be resolved within a
month, Zuhal Mansfield, head of the Turkey-Egypt Business
Council in Istanbul, said by phone Aug. 23. “At the moment
there is not a big problem with Egypt with regard to
transportation of Turkish goods to it or through it.”  Record Low  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9912 per dollar at 6:10
p.m. in Istanbul yesterday, after earlier falling to a record
1.9995. The currency has lost 10 percent this year. The yield on
two-year government bonds jumped 42 basis points, or 0.42
percentage point, to 10.16 percent yesterday, the highest since
January 2012.  The slowdown in exports may exacerbate a current-account
deficit that widened to $35.9 billion at the end of the first
six months in 2013, compared with $30 billion a year earlier.
Turkey may “slightly” miss its forecast for a shortfall of
$60.7 billion this year, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said
Aug. 15.  Credit-default swaps on Turkey, contracts insuring the
country’s debt against non-payment, have climbed 49 basis points
since the military ousted Mursi last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg as of last week’s close. That’s the
second-biggest increase among developing markets in Europe, the
Middle East and Africa.  “Turkey has increased its exports to the Middle East
region due to strong demand,” Nihan Ziya-Erdem, an Istanbul-based economist at  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest
bank by market value, said by phone yesterday. “But this
contribution will go down along with increasing tensions
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  