-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise on China While Rupiah Tumbles
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-26T21:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-as-chinese-brokers-rally.html
Most emerging-market stocks
advanced, led by industrial and technology companies, amid
speculation  China’s economy  is stabilizing. Indonesia’s rupiah
retreated to the weakest level in more than four years.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed at
932.78 as 412 stocks rose, while 344 fell. Citic Securities Co.
paced gains in Chinese brokerages after the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange  said it is considering a change in settlement rules.
Russia’s Micex Index erased an earlier rally as the nation cut
its 2013 growth forecast. The rupiah declined amid concern
policy makers’ steps to boost dollar supply are insufficient.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG increased their
economic forecasts for  China  in the past week as data from
manufacturing to exports indicated the world’s second-biggest
economy is strengthening after a two-quarter slowdown. Concern
that tension between the U.S. and  Syria  will escalate grew after
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said President  Barack Obama  will
hold Syria’s government accountable for using chemical weapons.  “The transition in the type of growth, from construction
and industrial to more domestic demand, is a pretty massive
shift, and I’m amazed China is beginning to pull that off,”
said  Doug Ramsey , the Minneapolis-based chief investment officer
of Leuthold Group LLC, whose firm oversees $1.7 billion. He
spoke in a phone interview. “Just given the values that have
been created, I think emerging-market stocks are going to be
winners in the next market up-cycle.”  Emerging ETF  The  gauge  of developing nations is trading at 9.9 times
estimated earnings, below the valuation of developed markets of
13.7. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund dropped 1.1 percent to $38.23. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 8.7 percent to 25.25.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa declined as Rossi Residencial SA led
declines in homebuilders. The real weakened 1.3 percent on
speculation that the central bank’s $60 billion program may be
insufficient to stem the currency’s slide.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.4 percent in Moscow, erasing an
earlier advance of as much as 0.8 percent. Russia reduced this
year’s growth estimate to 1.8 percent from 2.4 percent, Deputy
Economy Minister Andrey Klepach said by phone today. OAO
Uralkali tumbled after the company’s chief executive officer was
detained in Belarus.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index snapped a five-day
slump as Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS and Akbank TAS added more
than 2 percent. The Turkish lira touched the weakest level on
record as the central bank provided funds to banks at its
benchmark 4.5 percent rate for the first time in six days.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.9 percent. Citic
Securities and Haitong Securities Co. jumped more than 5 percent
after the Shanghai Stock Exchange said it is considering a
change in settlement rules that would allow investors to buy and
sell a stock on the same day.  Most Indian stocks rose as producers of capital goods and
software companies advanced.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) 
rallied for the fourth day, helping a gauge of machinery
producers to its biggest three-day climb in about two months.
The rupee fell the most in a week on concern slowing economic
growth will make it tougher to attract investment as the U.S.
prepares to rein in stimulus.  The rupiah slid 0.6 percent to 10,848 per dollar as of 4
p.m. in Jakarta, after earlier reaching 10,883, the weakest
level since April 2009, according to prices from local banks.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 0.02 percentage point to 347 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  