-- Tepco ‘Whack-a-Mole’ Means Government Takeover in Fukushima
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-08-27T02:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/tepco-s-whack-a-mole-means-government-takes-over-in-fukushima.html
Japan ’s government will lead
“emergency measures” to tackle radioactive water spills at the
wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant, wresting control of the
disaster recovery from the plant’s heavily criticized operator,
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)   “We’ve allowed Tokyo Electric to deal with the
contaminated water situation on its own and they’ve essentially
turned it into a game of ‘Whack-a-Mole,’” Trade Minister
Toshimitsu Motegi told reporters last night in Fukushima. “From
now on, the government will move to the forefront.”  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which is
led by Motegi, “is working to draw up, by some time in
September, both emergency measures and more fundamental steps to
eliminate the roots of the contaminated water problem, as well
as measures to be carried out going forward,” the Prime
Minister’s office said in a response to written questions.  Tokyo Electric ’s shares surged as much as 61 yen, or 13
percent, to 534 yen as of 11:23 a.m. in Tokyo trading. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined as much as 0.8 percent.  “We’re starting to see much stronger language from the
Japanese government,” said Tom O’Sullivan, founder of Tokyo-based energy consultant Mathyos.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has promised more government
funds to aid the cleanup without detailing how they’d be used.  Lead Management  More than two years after the March 2011 nuclear disaster,
Tokyo Electric’s recovery effort has taken a turn for the worse.
Japan’s nuclear regulator last week questioned the company’s
ability to deal with the crisis, echoing comments earlier in the
month by Abe.  Motegi’s visit to the plant comes a week after a storage
tank leaked 300 metric tons of highly radioactive water, which
Japan’s nuclear  regulator  labeled a “serious incident” in its
worst assessment of the problems at Fukushima since the
earthquake and tsunami of 2011 caused reactors to melt down.  It’s now up to the government to lead management of the
contaminated water that’s building up in tanks at the plant at a
rate of 400 tons a day, Motegi said.  The trade minister ordered the utility known as Tepco to
monitor its water storage tanks more frequently and replace the
type that leaked, as well as “thoroughly” identify the risks
of storing highly-contaminated water.  Liquid Glass  “Mr. Motegi said that this leak was caused by human
error,” Tepco President Naomi Hirose said in a separate press
conference last night in Fukushima. “We are very grateful that
we are getting government support.”  In its response to questions, the Prime Minister’s office
said the trade ministry, which oversees the world’s biggest
fleet of nuclear reactors outside the U.S. and  France , will pump
more “liquid glass” or sodium silicate into the ground as one
measure to block the spread of contaminated water.  In addition to the leaky tank, Tepco has admitted that
irradiated water is flowing into the  Pacific Ocean , which the
government estimates at 300 tons a day.  Other steps listed under the government’s emergency
measures include using a subterranean bypass to stop groundwater
reaching the reactors, according to the Prime Minister’s office.  Measures under consideration for the next one year to two
years include fencing off the reactors with what would be the
world’s longest underground “ice wall.”  Ice Walls  These comprise coolant pipes, sunk as deep as 40 meters
(131 feet) underground, to turn soil into a square-shaped
barrier of permafrost. The wall would prevent water flowing from
hillsides from coming into contact with reactors, while blocking
irradiated water from entering the ocean. The government is
still working out how much this would cost, according to the
Prime Minister’s office.  Motegi also gave Tepco until mid-September to restart a
water filtration system known as Alps, which was taken off-line
on Aug. 8 due to corrosion. The loss of Alps, one of two systems
for filtering water used to cool reactor fuel, adds to the
contamination levels of water in the plant’s storage tanks. Alps
is designed to strip out radiation such as strontium, which has
been linked to bone cancer.  Tepco has said it will set up a headquarters to deal with
the storage of contaminated water. The  task force  would be
headed by President Naomi Hirose, the company said in a
statement.  Tank Inspections  The tank that leaked had levels of beta radiation of 80
million becquerels per liter, including strontium, Tepco said on
Aug. 20. That’s 8 million times the limit for drinking water
under health ministry guidelines.  There are about 350 tanks of similar design to the one that
leaked. Two others have had radioactive hot-spots detected on
their seams. The Nuclear Regulation Authority has called the
possibility of other tanks leaking the biggest concern at the
Fukushima site.  An inspection of the leaking tank, which can hold 1,000
metric tons of irradiated water, was inconclusive, according to
utility official Noriyuki Imaizumi on Aug. 24. Imaizumi said the
tank had been built in a different location before earth
subsidence forced it to be disassembled and moved to its current
site. He said it isn’t known if this contributed to the leak.  The tanks were installed by a joint venture of  Shimizu
Corp. (1803) ,  Taisei Corp. (1801)  and  Hazama Ando Corp. (1719) , Tepco spokeswoman
Mayumi Yoshida said. The off-line filtration system was designed
by Toshiba Corp.  Serious Incident Rating  The nuclear regulator is also concerned about hundreds of
smaller tanks with a storage capacity of about 100 tons each,
Shinji Kinjo, who leads a disaster task force formed by the
agency, said. Unlike the 1,000 ton-capacity tanks that hold most
of the plant’s stored water, the smaller tanks aren’t surrounded
by protective cement barriers. Last week’s leak reached the soil
because a drainage valve on one such barrier was open.  Tepco’s monitoring of the storage tanks was inadequate and
it failed to keep records of its inspections, Kinjo said.  The regulator rated the leak as a 3 on the 7-stage
International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale or INES. A 3
rating denotes a “serious incident” making it the worst
accident at the plant since the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami caused the meltdown of three reactors. That was rated a
7, the same as Chernobyl.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  