-- Mets’ Harvey Faces Possible Tommy John Surgery for Ligament Tear
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/mets-matt-harvey-may-need-surgery-on-partly-torn-elbow-ligament.html
New York  Mets pitcher Matt Harvey
has a partially torn ligament in his right elbow that may
require reconstructive surgery that would probably force him to
miss most, if not all, of next season.  Harvey, a 24-year-old right-hander, has been bothered by
forearm tenderness and yesterday underwent tests that revealed a
torn ulnar collateral ligament. Harvey, who was the starting
pitcher for the National League in last month’s All-Star Game at
the Mets’ Citi Field, will be placed on the disabled list and
will probably miss the rest of the Major League Baseball season.  Whether Harvey will need the ligament transplant procedure
known as Tommy John surgery will be determined when the swelling
in his arm reduces over the next few weeks, Mets General Manager
 Sandy Alderson  said. That decision could take months, Alderson
said, and with Tommy John surgery requiring about a year of
recovery time, such an operation would almost certainly leave
the Mets without their ace in 2014.  “These injuries are often progressive, and so it is
conceivable that surgery will be necessary,” Alderson said at a
news conference. “We just need to take the time to see how
those facts resolve themselves.”  Losing Harvey, who has emerged as one of the most
dominating young pitchers in baseball, for an extended period
next season would be a devastating blow to the Mets, who had
planned to limit him to about 200 innings this year. Harvey has
a 9-5 record with a 2.27 earned-run average and a National
League-leading 191 strikeouts in 178 1/3 innings.  ‘Terrible News’  “It’s horrible,” Mets pitcher Zack Wheeler said of
Harvey’s injury after last night’s 2-1 loss to the  Philadelphia
Phillies . “No pitcher ever wants to go through that and no
pitcher wants to hear about it. It’s terrible news. It’s tough,
but hopefully he’ll come back and be a lot stronger.”  Harvey told the Mets’ medical staff that he experienced
more discomfort in his forearm than in the past after allowing a
career-high 13 hits over 6 2/3 innings during his last start,
against the  Detroit Tigers  three days ago.  “Nothing is shooting in my elbow at all,” Harvey said
yesterday. “That’s not the issue. When I heard the news, I was
pretty shocked. I’m still very optimistic. I’m going to do
everything I can so I don’t have to get surgery.”  Michael Hausman, chief of hand and elbow surgery and vice-chairman of the Department of Orthopaedics at the Icahn School
of Medicine at  Mount Sinai  in  New York City , said the UCL is the
primary stabilizing ligament on the inner elbow.  ‘Surgical Reconstruction’  “If there’s any real structural damage, and it can no
longer perform its stabilizing function, the person is going to
have difficulty throwing hard,” Hausman, who isn’t treating
Harvey, said in a telephone interview. “The treatment for that
is surgical reconstruction.”  Stephen Strasburg and Jordan Zimmerman of the  Washington
Nationals  and Adam Wainwright of the  St. Louis Cardinals  are
among the current All-Star major-league pitchers who have
undergone Tommy John surgery, in which the UCL is replaced with
a tendon from another part of the patient’s body. It’s named
after the former MLB pitcher who first underwent the procedure
in 1974. Hausman said about 70 percent to 80 percent of athletes
who have the procedure are able to return to their pre-injury
level of function. Strasburg was able to return to the Nationals
one full year after his surgery.  Alderson said Harvey has received preventive elbow
treatment since spring training, and had experienced forearm
soreness for “some time.”  Harvey threw 2,944 pitches this season compared with a
total of 2,906 last year, according to  Bloomberg Sports  data. He
eclipsed the 100-pitch mark in 18 of his 26 starts for the Mets,
who have slipped out of playoff contention at 58-71.  “This is not a career-ending injury under any stretch of
the imagination,” Alderson said. “There’s plenty of time for
us to see how he responds near-term, but there will always be
the open question of, given a partial tear, how long that
ligament will hold up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  