-- Eurex Futures Exchange Halts Trading on Technical Glitch
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-26T11:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/eurex-futures-exchange-halts-trading-on-technical-glitch.html
A technical glitch halted trading on
Eurex,  Europe ’s largest derivatives market, for about 60
minutes, adding to this month’s tally of exchange breakdowns
following a three-hour shutdown of the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The bourse first  said  it was investigating “technical
issues” in a post on its website at 8.30 a.m. Frankfurt time
today, with data compiled by Bloomberg showing no prices for
futures on the benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 Index and  Germany ’s DAX
Index from about 8:15 a.m. Trading resumed at 9:20 a.m.,
Frankfurt-based Eurex said in a separate statement.  “It added to the concern about electronic markets you’ve
seen recently,” Christoph Hock, an equity sales trader at Alpha
Wertpapierhandels GmbH in Frankfurt, said by phone today. “It
wasn’t really a catastrophe because the U.K. is closed for a
bank holiday and volumes are relatively thin compared to a
normal Monday. But it adds to the recent problems.”  The volume of shares changing hands in Euro Stoxx 50
companies was 24 percent less than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The glitch comes after a three-hour shutdown of  Nasdaq  OMX
Group Inc.’s U.S. markets on Aug. 22 and a software error on
Aug. 20 that caused Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to send
unintentional options orders. The disruption prompted the
Securities and Exchange Commission to push for rules requiring
executives to improve the reliability of their technology.  Israel, China  Yesterday, an errant trade on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
briefly wiped out almost the entire value of Israel Corp., the
holding company controlled by billionaire Idan Ofer. In  China ,
on Aug. 16, a trading error at Everbright Securities Co. spurred
a 53 percent surge in volumes and a swing of more than 6 percent
in the Shanghai Composite Index.  The Tel Aviv bourse canceled transactions in  Israel  Corp.
shares after the stock plunged 99 percent to 2.1 shekels before
rebounding to 1,550 shekels. A trader at a bank made a mistake
typing an order and asked the exchange to annul the trade once
he realized, a spokeswoman at the Tel Aviv stock exchange said.
The trader was fined 10,000 shekels ($2,800), said the
spokeswoman, who asked not to be named.  “We’ve had the hiccups and fat fingers in Nasdaq, China,
Israel,” Hock said. “You have more and more trading errors and
problems at exchanges. If exchanges don’t do it, regulators will
at some point come in with better circuit breakers.”  New System  Eurex, a unit of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , dominates trading of
 interest-rate derivatives  and lists futures contracts based on
the German bund. The exchange moved to a new trading system last
year and last week said it planned to enter the foreign-exchange
market for the first time, seeking to expand into an asset class
dominated by Chicago-based CME Group Inc.  In November 2009, a breakdown forced Eurex to halt trading
for more than 90 minutes. A glitch at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s Liffe
derivatives exchange in October last year interrupted
transactions in some equity and commodities derivatives. A
“connectivity issue” lasting more than six hours stopped
trading on  Spain ’s MEFF futures market in November.  Deutsche Boerse shares fell less than 0.1 percent to 53.63
euros at 1:37 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  