-- Europe Stocks Drop as UniCredit Falls on Italy Wrangling
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-26T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/european-stock-index-futures-rise-kpn-ryanair-may-move.html
European stocks  fell for the first
time in three days amid political wrangling in  Italy  and as
orders for U.S. durable goods declined more than forecast.  UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, retreated 3.5 percent
as members of former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of
Liberty party threatened to topple Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
government. Royal  KPN (KPN)  NV advanced 3 percent as the Dutch phone
carrier won the support of minority shareholder America Movil
SAB for the sale of its German business after acquirer
Telefonica SA sweetened its bid.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.1 percent to 304.48 at
the close of trading, as two shares declined for each one that
advanced. The volume of shares changing hands was 57 percent
lower than the 30-day average as markets in  London  were closed
for a holiday. The gauge has dropped 2 percent since May 22 amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start paring its bond-buying program as soon as next month.  “There is some concern about the renewed political
uncertainty in Italy,” Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at
Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22
billion, said by phone. “It is just a simple risk on, risk off
reflex. Banks are always at the forefront of this.”  Italy’s ruling coalition showed signs of fraying as members
of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party threatened to topple
Letta’s government if the billionaire media magnate is ousted
from the Senate following a tax-fraud conviction.  Yield Spread  The yield on Italy’s 10-year government bonds rose five
basis points to 4.38 percent, pushing the premium over German
bunds to 249 basis points. The gap touched a two-year low on
Aug. 19.  New York  University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said in
an interview with la Repubblica today that a crisis in Letta’s
government would increase the spread to more than 300 basis
points “in a few days.”  Deputy Prime Minister and People of Liberty Secretary
 Angelino Alfano  said Aug. 24 after a meeting of Berlusconi
allies that voting the former premier out of the Senate would be
“unthinkable” and unconstitutional, according to a statement
on his website.  Orders for U.S. durable goods fell more than forecast in
July after three months of increases.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant
to last at least three years decreased 7.3 percent, the most
since August 2012, after a 3.9 percent gain in June, the
Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The median
 forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 4
percent drop.  Tapering Agenda  “On the one hand you want to see an improvement in the
economy but if it does improve too much, tapering is back on the
agenda,” Andreas Nigg, head of equity and commodity strategy at
Vontobel Asset Management in Zurich, said in a telephone
interview. “This is a dilemma for the markets. The best
scenario is moderate growth. Durable goods numbers can be
volatile and fluctuate a lot.”  European Central Bank policy makers can’t rule out lowering
the benchmark  interest rate  from the record low of 0.5 percent
even amid signs the euro-area economy is improving, Governing
Council Member Panicos Demetriades said in an Aug. 24 interview.
By contrast, Bank of Austria Governor Ewald Nowotny said Aug. 22
that he doesn’t see “many arguments now for a rate cut” after
the recent “stream of good news.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 13 of the 17 western
European markets open today. France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  slipped 0.1
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX and the Swiss Market Index each
climbed 0.2 percent.  Italian Shares  Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  lost 2.1 percent as UniCredit
retreated 3.5 percent to 4.42 euros and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, the
nation’s second-biggest bank, dropped 3.3 percent to 1.51 euros.
Mediaset SpA, the broadcaster controlled by Berlusconi, tumbled
6.3 percent to 3.15 euros.  Fiat Industrial SpA, the maker of commercial and
agriculture vehicles spun off from Fiat SpA in 2011, slipped 1.7
percent to 9.49 euros after saying Chief Financial Officer Pablo
Di Si resigned to pursue other interests.  KPN added 3 percent to 2.33 euros after Telefonica
Deutschland said billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil has
committed to vote in favor of the sale of the German mobile
business, called E-Plus. The stake in Telefonica Deutschland
that KPN will retain after completion will be increased to 20.5
percent from 17.6 percent, KPN said.  Telefonica Deutschland, controlled by Spain’s largest phone
company and owner of the O2 brand in Germany, climbed 2.9
percent to 5.22 euros.  Sanofi Surges  Sanofi (SAN)  rose 2.3 percent to 76.65 euros, for the biggest
gain in the Stoxx 600 by index points. France’s largest
drugmaker said tests showed superior benefits of its Fluzone
High-Dose influenza vaccine relative to the standard dose of
Fluzone treatment in preventing flu.  The Stoxx 600 Health-Care Index climbed 0.4 percent for the
best performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 after
Amgen Inc. of the U.S. agreed to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.
in a $10.4 billion transaction.  K+S AG,  Europe ’s biggest potash producer, advanced 4.3
percent to 19.26 euros as Vladislav Baumgertner, chief executive
officer of rival OAO Uralkali, was arrested in Belarus.
Baumgertner was charged with abusing his office as chairman of
Belarusian Potash Co., the trading venture known as BPC that
Russia’s Uralkali and Belaruskali set up in 2005.  K+S has plummeted 27 percent since July 29 as Uralkali, the
world’s largest potash producer, decided to end output
restrictions that underpinned world prices and halt exports
through BPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  