-- Junk Debt Exceeds $2 Trillion in Central Bank Repression
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-08-26T01:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/leveraged-debt-exceeds-2-trillion-in-repression-credit-markets.html
It took three decades for the amount
of speculative-grade debt to reach $1 trillion. It took about
seven years to reach $2 trillion as investors sought relief from
the financial repression brought on by near-zero interest rates.  The market for dollar-denominated junk-rated debt has
expanded more than eightfold since the end of 1997 from $243
billion, according to Morgan Stanley. That compares with a
quadrupling of the investment-grade market to $4.2 trillion as
tracked by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Index.  While Federal Reserve policies have pushed investors toward
riskier investments to generate high yields, allowing even the
neediest companies that might otherwise default to access
capital markets, concern is rising that missed payments may soar
when benchmark rates begin to increase. Martin Feldstein, a past
president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, said last
week that low rates should be allowed to rise because they’re
driving investors into risky behavior.  “The growth in the market, and volume of supply is less
important than quality of issuance,” Adam Richmond, a credit
strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “When we see a heavy volume of lower-quality deals,
that’s when you need to worry a little bit.”  ‘Double Again’  Borrowers from  Michaels Stores Inc. (MIK)  to  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  have pushed issuance of dollar-denominated high-yield,
high-risk bonds and U.S. institutional loans to $704.5 billion
this year, including refinancings, compared with $466 billion in
the first three quarters of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Greater issuance of speculative-grade debt from outside the
U.S., combined with institutional money managers funneling a
larger portion of funds into the market, should boost further
growth, said Tim Gramatovich, the chief investment officer at
Santa Barbara, California-based Peritus Asset Management LLC,
which manages more than $300 million.  “I see absolutely no reason in the next 10 years that this
market can’t double again,” said Gramatovich, who began his
career in 1984 at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the investment
firm where Michael Milken helped forge the market for junk
bonds.  Zero Percent  The  Fed (FDTR)  has kept its benchmark overnight interest rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, when yields
on junk bonds reached a record 22.7 percent on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index.  With yields reaching a record low 5.98 percent in May,
concern is mounting that markets for assets from farmland to
junk bonds may be overheating. Yields on the debt, which have
returned 124 percent since the end of 2008, ended last week at
6.86 percent.  Central bank stimulus efforts are “adding to the risks in
the economy,” Feldstein, a Harvard University professor and a
top economic adviser in the Reagan administration, said Aug. 23
in a Bloomberg Radio interview from the Kansas City Fed’s annual
conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . “The pluses are very small
and the risks are very big.”  The National Bureau of Economic Research, where Feldstein
served as president and chief executive officer from 1977 to
1982 and from 1984 until 2008, determines the dates of business
expansions and contractions.  RJR Nabisco  Led by Milken, Drexel used junk-bond financing to help
spawn a takeover boom culminating in Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
Co.’s $26 billion purchase of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989. The
following year, Drexel filed for bankruptcy and Milken pleaded
guilty to securities fraud, serving 22 months in prison.  “When Drexel fell, people felt that the high-yield market
would be dead,”  Jack Malvey , the chief global markets
strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said in a telephone
interview. “The term we used back then was that it was a
nuclear winter.”  Syndicated lending to speculative-grade companies increased
with the development of a secondary market for loans in the
1990s that attracted non-bank financial firms such as pension
funds and insurance companies, according to a 2004  report  from
the Bank for International Settlements.  Not even the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression derailed the junk market, with returns in 2009 on the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index of 57.5
percent following losses the prior year of 26.4 percent.  Michaels, Chesapeake  Since the end of 2008, borrowers have sold $1.3 trillion of
bonds rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  “If rates stabilize, even at a higher level, you will
likely continue to see strong supply,” Richmond said. “If the
economy is accelerating, we could see more supply” linked to
mergers, leveraged-buyouts and capital expenditures rather than
refinancing higher-cost obligations, he said.  Michaels, based in Irving,  Texas , is undoing about four
years of debt reduction with an $800 million sale of 7.5 percent
notes due in five years to pay a dividend to its private-equity
owners, Bloomberg data show. The debt was ranked Caa1 at Moody’s
and CCC+ by S&P, ratings that indicate very high credit risk
that’s currently vulnerable to nonpayment.  Chesapeake, the second-biggest U.S. natural gas producer,
raised $2.3 billion in March selling senior bonds to redeem
debt, Bloomberg data show. The bonds were rated Ba3 by Moody’s
and BB- at S&P.  Rising Defaults  The Fed will likely begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries next month,
according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from
Aug. 9-13. The central bank is expected to end the program,
known as quantitative easing, by June.  The world’s largest economy will expand 1.6 percent this
year, accelerating to 2.7 percent in 2014 and 3 percent in 2015,
according to the median estimate of 73 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with growth of 2.8 percent last year.  The 12-month trailing default rate on U.S. speculative-grade debt will increase to 3.3 percent by March from 2.5
percent a year earlier, S&P said Aug. 8 in a statement. The
forecast compares with an average of 4.5 percent from 1981
through 2012.  “There will be a reduction in the growth in the high-yield
market as default rates increase but that will be temporary,”
said Edward Altman, a finance professor at New York University
who created the Z-score formula for measuring bankruptcy risk.  Unconventional Securities  While a more restrictive monetary policy from the Fed will
probably crimp issuance in the short-run, the junk market is
still poised to expand in a new era of rising borrowing costs,
said FridsonVision LLC’s Martin Fridson.  “We’re likely to see continued growth,” said Fridson, who
started his career as a corporate debt trader in 1976. “The
demand for paper, which isn’t dependent on the Fed keeping rates
low, will continue to be there,” and borrowers may eventually
issue more unconventional securities such as payment-in-kind
bonds or debt linked to commodity prices to lower their cash
payments, he said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold investment-grade corporate bonds globally rather
than government debentures widened for the first time in seven
weeks. Global bond sales fell for a second week. Loan prices
declined for a fifth week.  Default Swaps  Relative yields on investment-grade bonds from the U.S. to
Europe and Asia expanded 2 basis points to 147 basis points, or
1.47 percentage points, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Corporate Index. Yields rose to 3.138 percent from
3.096 percent on Aug. 16.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. declined. The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.7 basis points last
week to a mid-price of 78.7 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings added 1.9 to 100.97. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  fell 2 to 160 as of 8:17 a.m. in
Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices
show.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  GE Bonds  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has declined 0.7 percent this month, bringing losses for the
year to 3.22 percent.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers last week, accounting for 2.6 percent of
the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Banco Santander SA led $30.2 billion of corporate bond
sales worldwide last week, a 34 percent decline from $46 billion
in the period ended Aug. 16, Bloomberg data show. Spain’s
biggest bank raised $1 billion offering five-year, 3.05 percent
securities through its Abbey National Treasury Services Plc unit
in the U.K.  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index  decreased 0.26
cent to 97.67 cents on the dollar, the lowest level since July
10. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 2.9 percent this year.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 25.4 basis
points last week to 363.5 basis points, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The measure has expanded from
this year’s low of 245.4 on Jan. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  