-- Mexican Peso Plunges Most Among Major Currencies on Fed Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-26T21:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/mexico-peso-swings-surge-to-highest-in-18-months-on-fed-concern.html
Mexico’s peso tumbled the most among
major currencies after Federal Reserve policy makers indicated
they won’t take into account the fallout in  emerging markets  as
they pare back U.S. monetary stimulus.  The currency fell 1.7 percent to 13.1879 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. in Mexico City. The currency’s decline today is the most
among the dollar’s 31 most-traded counterparts.  Developing nations will need to “adjust” to U.S. stimulus
tapering,  Dennis Lockhart , president of the Atlanta Fed, said at
a meeting of central bankers and economists in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming that ended Aug. 24. Mexico central bank Governor Agustin Carstens had asked the Fed to clarify plans for tapering its $85
billion in monthly bond buys. The peso is also falling on
concern education overhaul protests will make it harder for
President Enrique Pena Nieto to pass energy law reforms, said
Pedro Tuesta, a Latin America economist at 4cast Ltd.  “You see the teachers making big demonstrations,” Tuesta
said in a telephone interview from  Washington . “The market is
not very happy with all of these developments and it’s feeding
into this pessimism.”  The protesters oppose a law that would require teachers to
pass exams. While rallies that blocked congressional buildings
and the airport have moved on, the protesters remain camped out
in  Mexico  City’s main plaza and today forced the closure of the
capital’s central boulevard to some traffic.  Bond Yields  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.26 percent
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell
0.66 centavo to 130.25 centavos per peso.  The yields touched a record low on May 9 in part on
expectations that Pena Nieto will succeed in passing legal
reforms to boost growth. Since then they have surged 1.78
percentage points, after his energy proposal didn’t go as far as
a rival plan, while concern mounted about the Fed cutting the
pace of its bond purchases.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, said in an
interview with  Bloomberg Radio  that the domestic economy is the
primary objective of policy. The Fed will pare its monthly bond
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  