-- Fast Retailing Said to Plan Hong Kong Exchange Listing
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   F o x   H u   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-08-26T09:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/fast-retailing-said-to-plan-hong-kong-exchange-listing-1-.html
Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ,  Asia ’s largest
clothing retailer, plans to list in Hong Kong early next year,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Fast Retailing, the Yamaguchi, Japan-based company that
operates Uniqlo brand stores, plans to submit a filing with the
city’s bourse as early as next month for issuing Hong Kong
depositary receipts, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the process is private. The company won’t
raise any money as part of the listing, the people said.  Led by billionaire Tadashi Yanai, Fast Retailing is seeking
to widen its investor base as it expands abroad, the people
said. The company plans to add about  100 stores a year  over the
next decade in  China  to increase outlets in Asia’s largest
economy to 3,000.  As of February, Fast Retailing had 182 Uniqlo stores in
mainland China and 16 in  Hong Kong , according to its website.
The Japanese company has said it won’t slow its China expansion,
even after violent demonstrations over a territorial dispute
between the two nations forced it to close as many as 60 outlets
temporarily in September last year.  Fast Retailing got 77 percent of its sales from  Japan  in
the 12 months through August 2012, down from 82 percent in the
year-earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Besides Tokyo, the company is traded in Germany and the U.S.
Fast Retailing’s American  depositary receipts  have advanced 27
percent this year, trailing the 45 percent rally in the Tokyo-traded stock that took its market value to 3.4 trillion yen ($35
billion)  A Fast Retailing spokesman declined to comment on the
listing plan. The company may start trading in Hong Kong by
February, one of the people said.  Fast Retailing would become the third Japanese company to
list in Hong Kong, following SBI Holdings Inc and  Dynam Japan (6889) 
Holdings Co., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SBI Holdings is also listed in Tokyo, and its Hong Kong
shares have advanced 39 percent this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Dynam Japan raised $194 million in an August
2012 initial public offering, and the pachinko hall operator has
advanced about 20 percent from its offer price.  Fast Retailing Chairman Yanai is Japan’s richest man with a
net worth of $16.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, up $3.5 billion this year. Fast Retailing
shares were the biggest gainer in the  Nikkei 225  in the six-year
period ending in 2012, posting a total return of 191 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  