-- Fed Asks Judge to Leave Swipe Fee Rules During Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-26T20:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/fed-asks-judge-to-leave-swipe-fee-rules-during-appeal.html
The  U.S. Federal Reserve  asked that
its rules on debit-card transaction fees and processing be left
in place while it appeals a decision that they are illegal.  Maintaining the regulations would provide stability in the
debit card marketplace while disagreements on rules are settled,
according to a court filing by the Fed in Washington.  “If the regulations here were vacated by the District
Court, there would be no legally binding standards for
determining the permissible amount of interchange fees an issuer
could receive with respect to a debit card transaction and no
limitations on exclusive routing restrictions imposed by issuers
and payment networks on debit card transactions, lawyers for the
Fed wrote.  The Fed will ask the appeals court for an expedited appeal,
and on that basis, the central bank has the support of retailer
groups who sued to challenge the regulations, according to its
filing today.  ‘‘We’d rather there be no appeal, but if there’s going to
an appeal, we’d want the existing rules to stay in place,” said
Craig Shearman, vice president of the National Retail
Federation, one of the plaintiffs in the case. “Otherwise we’d
be back to the wild, wild west of no caps on swipe fees.”  The Fed is seeking to overturn U.S. District Judge Richard Leon’s ruling that the central bank improperly set the cap on
debit-card transaction fees, known as swipe fees, at about 21
cents for each transaction, and neglected to bolster competition
among payment networks.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  