-- Finland Limps Down Road to Euro Treaty Failure
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-08-26T09:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/finland-limps-down-road-to-euro-treaty-failure.html
Finland  is sliding down a recession-greased slope and risks building up more debt than euro-zone
members are allowed to have.  As early as 2015, Finland “won’t really have the means”
to keep debt below the 60 percent threshold of gross domestic
product allowed in the euro area, according to Pasi Holm,
managing director at Helsinki-based PTT Research Institute.  “Economic growth would help, but there’s none to be
seen,” Holm said in an interview.  The recession Finland sank into last year will continue
through 2013, according to a Bloomberg survey of 11 economists.
The development threatens to deplete government revenue and make
it more difficult for the nation to live up to Europe’s budget
rules, Holm said. Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen, who says
Finland’s AAA is at risk, is meeting with lawmakers and industry
groups today to design a roadmap out of the country’s economic
and fiscal plight.  “If adequate structural reforms aren’t made and if we
don’t get a wage deal that improves our competitiveness, then we
are running a great risk of losing our credit rating,” Katainen
said on a radio channel of the national broadcaster YLE
yesterday. “That would mean that government debt yields would
begin to rise.”  Katainen’s six-party coalition said on Friday the 2013
budget deficit will be 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) wider
than previously estimated, at 9 billion euros, as Finland’s
economic contraction cuts into government income.  Negative Returns  The yield on Finland’s benchmark 10-year bond rose two
basis points on Friday to 2.21 percent, its highest in at least
a year. Finnish government debt longer than one year has
delivered investors a 2.7 percent loss this year, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. By contrast, bonds sold by the
government of Spain yielded a positive return of 7.8 percent in
the same period. Finland’s 10-year yield traded at about 2.2
percent as of 12:14 p.m. in Helsinki today.  “We need specified structural reforms with schedules that
are committed to,” Holm said.  The Treaty on European Union, also known as the Maastricht
Treaty after the Dutch town it was signed in, outlined the
criteria that prospective and existing euro members are supposed
to fulfill. The treaty requires governments to keep deficits
within 3 percent of GDP and debt below a 60 percent threshold.  “These limits are important psychologically, they act as
alarm bells to credit rating companies and others,” Holm said.  Failed Austerity  Finland has been one of the few nations to comply with the
Maastricht rules, even when its economy contracted more than 8
percent in 2009. It’s the only remaining euro member to receive
a stable AAA grade from the three major ratings companies.
Katainen has said any policy steps he takes will be designed to
safeguard the nation’s top credit rating.  “Finland has lost competitiveness for a long time,”
Katainen said today. “Recognizing the facts must lead to
corrective action. Time won’t solve our problems.”  The finance ministry said in June its debt-to-GDP ratio
will grow to 59.9 percent in 2015 from 57.1 percent this year.
The average debt ratio in the euro area increased to 92.2
percent in the first quarter, Eurostat said on July 22.  Finland’s failed attempts at austerity are to blame for its
debt growth, according to Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief economist at
Aktia Bank Oyj. The Nordic nation, which has struggled to
rebound from the decline of flagship companies such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
as well as its paper industry, will “undoubtedly” breach the
60 percent debt ceiling at some point, he said.  ‘Hung Up’  “Katainen’s government has perhaps hung up too much on the
thought that a AAA rating can only be preserved by cutting
spending and increasing tax revenue,” Tyrvaeinen said by phone.
“Should our government announce that they’ve learned from
austerity and chosen a different path, the Anglo-American market
could well applaud such acumen.”  Katainen’s government will this month look into reform
proposals backed by Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, who has
pledged to strike an accord on a structural overhaul of the
economy by the end of the year.  “It’s impossible for me to think that no significant
decisions would be made,” Tyrvaeinen said. “In order to keep
the markets’ confidence, we need the structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  