-- Geneva Mansions Sell at Discount as Tax Scares Expats
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-08-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/geneva-mansions-sell-at-discount-as-tax-scares-expats.html
Real estate broker Alexander Koch de Gooreynd relayed a difficult message to a client last June: the
39.5 million Swiss-franc ($43 million) asking price for his
eight-bedroom lakefront  villa  in Geneva was too high.  The 8,600 square-foot (800 square-meter) home with yacht
mooring, wine cellar and kennels in Collonge-Bellerive, where
 Saudi Arabia ’s King Fahd built a summer palace in the 1970s, had
been on the market for nine months. The seller took his advice
and the house sold for 31.5 million francs in December.  “The heady days are over,” said Koch de Gooreynd, head of
London-based  Knight Frank  LLP’s Swiss residential team, adding
that the house might have fetched the higher price two years
ago. “Vendors are becoming much more realistic.”  Geneva luxury-home prices, among the highest in the
country, are tumbling as buyers are spooked by proposals to end
tax breaks for foreign millionaires and the number of
multinationals moving to the city slows. Houses in Geneva worth
at least 6 million francs have declined by as much as 25 percent
in the past 12 months, said Sebastien Rohner, a Geneva-based
broker at Barnes International Luxury Real Estate.  “I’ve never known a slump like this before,” Rohner said.
“Wealthy people are still attracted to Geneva, but they are
taking their time and renting before buying.”  Market Stagnation  The slump in Geneva’s luxury market comes as the average
house price in the city declined 1 percent to 2.6 million francs
in the first half of 2013 from a record high in 2011, according
to data compiled by  Wuest & Partner AG , a real estate consulting
firm with offices in Geneva and Zurich.  House prices  in Geneva
more than doubled in the previous 13 years, while values in the
rest of Switzerland rose 53 percent, Wuest & Partner’s figures
show.  “In regions like Zurich and Lake Geneva, where house
prices have reached a pretty high level, there is stagnation or
a modest correction,” said Robert Weinert, a market analyst at
Wuest & Partner in Zurich. “Prices have reached a level where
not many people can afford them.”  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index rose in the second
quarter as mortgage lending in Switzerland increased 4.3 percent
from a year earlier, exceeding a gain in disposable household
income of 1.4 percent, the country’s biggest  bank  said on Aug.
5.  To prevent a repeat of the property-market crisis of the
1990s, which hobbled economic growth for years, the  Swiss
National Bank  sponsored the introduction in February of a
capital buffer, which forces lenders to hold an extra 1 percent
of risk-weighted assets tied to residential mortgages.  Cooling Market  That helped cool Geneva’s housing market by pushing up the
10-year fixed home loan rate to 2.4 percent from 1.8 percent in
February, Weinert said.  Geneva, less than a two-hour drive from the ski resorts of
Chamonix and Verbier, has used low taxes, political stability
and quality of life to lure more than 900 multinationals,
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , commodity traders such as Gunvor
SA and hedge fund managers,  Brevan Howard  and BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP. In 2009, Dinara Kulibayeva, second daughter of
Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  and the billionaire owner
of Halyk Savings Bank, bought a house in the Geneva suburb of
Anieres for a record 74.7 million francs.  The influx of expatriates has slowed, sapping demand, said
Claudio Saputelli, an economist at UBS in Zurich and co-author
of the bank’s quarterly bubble index report.  “We’re not seeing as many expats moving to Geneva,” said
Saputelli. “The market has become more and more difficult for
high-end apartments.”  Tax Break  Germany ’s Merck KGaA last year announced plans to close the
Serono unit it bought from billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli in
2007, resulting in the loss of 1,250 jobs in Geneva.  Wealthy foreigners were also drawn to Geneva by a 150-year-old tax break that enables them to avoid paying income tax via
an expenditure-based levy known as a forfait. Geneva’s Socialist
Party in January 2012 submitted the 10,000 signatures necessary
to force a vote on abolishing the program. While the Geneva
government and a majority of the canton’s lawmakers voted in
June to reject that proposal, the initiative prompted the canton
to consider revising the tax break by September 2014.  “This indecision, it kills the market,” Koch de Gooreynd
said. “It’s any concern that things might be about to change.”  After Zurich became the first canton to abolish the forfait
in 2009, with almost 53 percent voting against the system, 97 of
the 201 beneficiaries of the tax left the canton. About two-thirds of them relocated to other parts of  Switzerland .  Negotiating Room  Asking prices for luxury homes in Geneva fell by an average
of 9 percent to 14,829 francs per square meter since peaking in
2011, according to UBS. In the suburbs of Florissant and
Malagnou, east of Geneva’s old town, the drop was 24 percent.  The decline is probably even steeper because the numbers
are based on advertised asking prices and weaker demand is
enabling buyers to negotiate better deals, said Saputelli.  “More and more prices are under discussion,” Saputelli
said in a phone interview. “That wasn’t the case two or three
years ago, when demand was so high that you had no chance to
bargain the price down.”  The decline will probably continue for another 12 months,
said Christian Kraft, head of Swiss retail estate research at
 Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Scared Buyers  The number of new buyers has fallen by half, said David
Colle, managing director of  Luxury Places , a Geneva-based
brokerage. “People are scared a little bit, they’re just
waiting,” he said. “There’s less demand, there’s less buyers
coming every day to us.”  In Cologny, another of Geneva’s millionaire lakeside
suburbs, there are 10 to 15 homes on the market for more than 10
million francs compared with just one or two back in 2011,
Knight Frank’s Koch de Gooreynd said.  “Buyers are increasingly savvy now, especially with such a
big selection out there,” he said. “Still, Switzerland remains
one of the key markets for people to invest, relocate their
business and bring their families due to the safe and secure
environment, stable economy and the high quality of life
available.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 