-- German Business Confidence Probably Rose in August
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-08-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/german-business-confidence-probably-rose-in-august.html
German business confidence probably
rose to the highest level in six months in August after the euro
area, the nation’s biggest trading partner, emerged from its
longest-ever recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107 from 106.2 in July,
according to the median of 42 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (GRIFPBUS)  That would be the fourth straight increase and the
highest reading since February. Measures of current conditions
and expectations also gained, the survey shows.  Germany’s gross domestic product  expanded 0.7 percent  in
the second quarter, beating estimates and helping the 17-nation
euro area  shake off  six quarters of economic contraction. The
country’s growth was led by private consumption and included the
first increase in plant and machinery investment since 2011,
signaling the recovery may be sustained.  “The trajectory for German GDP growth should remain
upwards from here,” said Frederic Pretet, a strategist at
Scotiabank Plc in  London . “While the Ifo is not the earliest
survey indicator to be released each month, it is a reliable
measure. We expect the headline Ifo to follow the lead of ZEW
and PMIs that surprised on the upside.”  Sentiment Surveys  German investor confidence increased more than economists
predicted this month, according to the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research. A purchasing managers index by Markit
Economics showed the nation’s manufacturing climbed to the
highest level in more than two years.  The Bundesbank predicts the German economy will expand 0.3
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. GDP stagnated in the
first three months of the year.  The euro area’s economy expanded 0.3 percent last quarter.
The  European Central Bank  forecasts it will shrink 0.6 percent
this year before growing 1.1 percent in 2014. The Frankfurt-based central bank will publish new projections on Sept. 5.  Henkel AG, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based maker of Loctite
glue and Fa soap and deodorant, on Aug. 8 reported second-quarter profit that beat estimates, citing revenue growth at its
laundry and home-care division in  emerging markets . Hamburger
Hafen & Logistik AG, the handler of about 80 percent of
containers at Hamburg’s port, raised its 2013 volume forecast on
Aug. 14 on growth in Asian and Baltic Sea traffic.  Gradual Recovery  Some German companies are cutting costs amid lower demand
from  Europe .  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-largest steelmaker,
forecast a 2013 pretax loss on Aug. 5 and announced plans on
Aug. 14 to shed more than 1,500 jobs.  “A lot of market participants were surprised by the strong
economic performance in the  euro zone ,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head
of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  told
Bloomberg TV yesterday. “I fear it’s unfounded and that the
recovery in the euro zone will remain relatively weak.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said this month that he expects
a gradual recovery in rest of the year and that the risks
surrounding the outlook are still “on the downside.” The ECB
cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent
in May and Draghi repeated this month a July pledge to keep
rates at current levels or lower for an extended period.  “Things are getting better and there’s reason to believe
that the euro-area economy has bottomed out,” said Stefan Schneider, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “But I do think that second-quarter growth in
 Germany  was a bit over the top, partly due to catch-up effects.
There will be a slowdown in the second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  