-- Ginsburg Embraces Gay-Marriage Rulings as Court Shuns Bold Moves
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-08-26T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/ginsburg-embraces-gay-marriage-rulings-as-high-court-shuns-bold.html
Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  hailed
the U.S. Supreme Court’s incremental approach on gay marriage,
blamed her colleagues for inviting a deluge of political
spending -- and suggested she’s ready to spar over those issues
for years to come.  In a rare interview in her chambers, the 80-year-old
justice reflected on a term in which she helped shape narrow
victories for gay marriage while underscoring her status as the
leader of the court’s liberal wing and its foremost champion of
legal protections for women and racial minorities.  Ginsburg, who has said the court was too bold in the
landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade abortion-rights ruling, said the
justices wisely took a more limited approach in the two gay
marriage decisions. Supporters had urged the court to declare a
constitutional right for same-sex marriage nationwide.  “The court handled both of those cases just the way they
should have,” she said.  Ginsburg smiled and occasionally joked as she relaxed in
her stuffed armchair amid the abstract-art collection that
adorns her Washington office. She made clear she continues to
relish a job she has held since 1993, when President  Bill Clinton  made her the second woman ever to serve on the high
court.  Now the court’s oldest member, she said she won’t rush into
retirement simply to ensure that President  Barack Obama  can
appoint her successor before his term ends in January 2017.  “I’m hopeful about the next president,” Ginsburg said,
declining to say whether she had a candidate in mind.  Admires Obama  Ginsburg has long admired Obama, whose photo, embracing her
at a  State of the Union  address, occupies a prominent spot in
her office. She said in the interview that the president took a
“brave” step by pushing for his health-care law, which was
enacted in 2010 and upheld by the court last year.  She was quick to criticize much of the work of her more
conservative colleagues under Chief Justice  John Roberts .
Ginsburg said the court’s 2010  Citizens United  ruling, which
allowed unlimited corporate campaign spending, had led to a
torrent of money in the 2012 federal elections.  “You take the limits off and say, ‘You can spend as much
as you want,’ and people will spend and spend,” she said.
“People are appalled abroad. It’s a question I get asked all
the time: Why should elections be determined by how much a
candidate can spend and why should candidates spend most of
their time these days raising the funds so that they will
prevail in the next election?”  Campaign Spending  Super-political action committees, political committees,
tax-exempt organizations and other non-party entities reported
$1.04 billion in spending on independent expenditures and
electioneering communications advocating federal candidates in
the 2012 election cycle. That’s three times the $338 million
reported by groups in the 2008 elections and five times the
amount reported in 2004.  Ginsburg said the court shifted, leaving her more
frequently in dissent in major cases, when Justice  Samuel Alito 
succeeded  Sandra Day O’Connor  in 2006. During the most recent
term, Ginsburg read dissents from the bench in an unusually
large number of cases -- five -- including fights over
affirmative action, minority voting rights and employment
discrimination.  She was the lone dissenter in the affirmative action case,
a compromise decision that told a lower court to give tougher
scrutiny to a  University of Texas  policy of considering race in
admissions. The court left intact a 2003 decision that said
schools seeking to ensure campus diversity could consider race
as part of a broad review of an applicant’s file.  Affirmative Action  During the interview, Ginsburg questioned whether the
ruling would have a major impact, saying affirmative action
remains legal under the court’s precedents. Universities can
still put in place the type of plan endorsed by Justice Lewis Powell in 1978, when he wrote the pivotal opinion in the Regents
of the  University of California  v. Bakke decision.  She also said opponents may have trouble recruiting
plaintiffs. “There may not be many challenges ahead to the
university plans,” Ginsburg said.  Ginsburg was in the majority in the two gay-marriage
rulings, both 5-4 decisions. The high court ruled on procedural
grounds in a California case, letting gay weddings resume there
without affecting other states. In the second case, the court
struck down a federal law that denied benefits to legally
married same-sex couples.  Working Late  Long known for working late into the night, Ginsburg said
she produced her majority opinions more quickly than any other
justice in the nine-month term that ended in June. She pointed
to that accomplishment as a sign that she hasn’t begun to slow
down.  “As long as I can do this job full steam, I’d like to do
it,” Ginsburg said. “But at my age you have to go year by
year. So last year I thought I was fine.”  She responded with a quip when a reporter said he needed to
ask her “the mandatory retirement question.”  “Do I think there should be mandatory retirement?” she
said with a chuckle. “I certainly do not.”  Ginsburg has survived both colon and pancreatic cancer. The
diminutive justice has broken ribs twice since June 2012.  As a reporter and photographer left her office, she
volunteered that she was already looking ahead to the term that
starts in October. Among the highlights are another affirmative
action case and a campaign-finance clash.  “It may be as big of a term as last year,” Ginsburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  