-- GoldenTree Hires Barclays’ Marshall for Business Development
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-08-26T16:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/goldentree-hires-barclays-marshall-for-business-development.html
GoldenTree Asset Management LP, a
money manager overseeing about $18 billion in assets, hired
 Brian Marshall  for business development focused on structured
products.  Marshall joined as a managing director in New York, said
Thomas Humphrey, head of business development at the New York-based firm, and to whom Marshall reports. He was previously a
managing director at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   There have been $61 billion of collateralized loan
obligations raised globally this year, the most since 2007,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Wells Fargo & Co . says as much
as $80 billion may be issued in the U.S. in 2013. GoldenTree has
raised two such funds in the last three months. It was the 13th
largest CLO manager in the U.S. by assets with $5.5 billion as
of December 2012, according to a Feb. 28  Standard & Poor’s 
report.  “His experience and long track record of success in
 capital markets  and  investment banking  reflects our continued
commitment to grow our business and attract the best people,”
Humphrey said of Marshall in an e-mailed statement.  GoldenTree invests in credit, specifically leveraged loans
and high-yield bonds through  hedge funds  and CLOs, a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pools high-yield, high-risk
loans and slices them into securities of varying risk and
return.  The firm raised a $195 million CLO with GreensLedge Capital
Markets LLC and Natixis SA this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In June it issued a 303 million-euro
($405.5 million) CLO with Morgan Stanley, according to the data.  More Hires  GoldenTree announced additional hires this month, including
another managing director in business development. James Clarke
joined from Paulson & Co., where he held a similar position,
according to an Aug. 19 news release.  It hired Said Saffari as a partner from ICE Canyon LLC to
expand the firm’s emerging-market debt investments. The firm
also announced Cee Sarabi, a  money manager  in the structured-products group in New York, will be transferring to the London
office in September to lead the firm’s structured-products
business in Europe, according to an Aug. 20 statement.  Marshall, in a newly created role, will have a broader
mandate beyond structured products, working with new and
existing clients, raising money for GoldenTree’s flagship funds,
according to Scott Sunshine, an outside spokesman for the firm
at Water & Wall Group.  Prior to joining GoldenTree he was a managing director in
structured-credit products at Barclays. At the London-based bank
he focused on structured-finance transactions and restructuring
across the U.S. and European fixed-income markets, Sunshine
said.  He began his career at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
was named head of structured-credit sales in  North America  in
2007, Sunshine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  