-- Grain-Carrier Rates Rising as Crop Cargoes Near Record: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-08-27T09:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/grain-carrier-rates-rising-as-crop-cargoes-near-record-freight.html
Near-record agricultural exports are
diminishing the capacity glut in grain carriers, boosting rates
for  Safe Bulkers (SB)  Inc. and other owners to the highest in almost
two years.  Global shipments of wheat, corn and soybeans will rise 11
percent to 365.4 million metric tons in the 2013-14 crop year,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicts. Panamaxes, each
hauling 75,000 tons of cargo, will earn an average of $9,500 in
the first quarter, 32 percent more than now, according to the
median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Investors
may profit because the forecast is 14 percent higher than swaps
traders use to bet on future freight costs.  The U.S. will account for 47 percent of the expansion in
grain shipments as output recovers from the worst drought since
the 1930s, with corn and soybean harvests starting next month.
That will add cargoes for the next two quarters and curb the
shipping glut that caused rates to drop 92 percent since 2007.
Projected Panamax earnings would still be below what most owners
need to break even.  “The increase in grain exports is a shot in the arm for
Panamax owners,” said Frode Moerkedal, an Oslo-based analyst at
RS Platou Markets AS whose recommendations on the shares of
shipping companies returned 20 percent in the past year.
“Panamax earnings have been scraping along the bottom, but now
the market has turned.”  Shipping Costs  Daily earnings for the 750-foot-long vessels rose 30
percent this year to $7,207, according to the  Baltic Exchange ,
the London-based publisher of shipping costs on more than 50
maritime routes. Rates averaged $7,599 since the start of the
year, on course for the lowest annual level since at least 1999.
They peaked at $94,977 in October 2007.  Shares of Athens-based Safe Bulkers, which operates 19
Panamax-class vessels, jumped 96 percent this year to $6.60 in
 New York  trading by the close yesterday. They will exceed $7 in
12 months, according to two of the most bullish analysts
covering the company and tracked by Bloomberg. Rates will top
$10,000 in the fourth quarter, President Loukas Barmparis said
on a conference call Aug. 22.  The average Panamax needs $10,500 to break even once
financing costs are taken into account, Oslo-based Arctic
Securities ASA estimates. Quarterly averages have been below
that level since the end of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Safe Bulkers, which has the highest proportion of
Panamaxes in its fleet among the six biggest owners, can profit
at less than $10,000, Chief Executive Officer Polys Hajioannou
said by phone Aug. 22.  Seven Ships  The company, which is adding seven ships to its fleet, is
betting on a recovery by trading carriers in the  spot market 
rather than on long-term contracts, Hajioannou said. The fourth
quarter is typically the strongest for Panamaxes as U.S. harvest
starts, he said. Safe Bulkers’ most widely tracked measure of
profit will narrow to $53.5 million next year before rising 46
percent to $78 million in 2015, according to the mean of 11
analyst estimates.  “Name another shipping company that hasn’t lost money,”
said David Beard, an analyst at Iberia Capital Partners LLC in
 New Orleans . The ClarkSea Index, a measure of earnings for
vessels across the merchant fleet, averaged $9,086 a day this
year, the lowest annual figure since at least 1990, according to
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Rising agricultural shipments may be offset by declines in
other cargoes. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts a 5.6 percent
drop this year in exports of thermal coal to  China , the biggest
buyer. The fuel burned in  power plants  accounted for 74 percent
of single-voyage Panamax charters in the past year, according to
Morgan Stanley.  Outstanding Orders  The glut in Panamaxes is bigger than for other vessel
classes and capacity will expand 9 percent this year, faster
than any other type of commodity carrier, according to Clarkson.
Orders at shipyards equal 25 percent of the existing fleet, the
most of any vessel type, Couldson, England-based research
company IHS Maritime says.  The overcapacity extend across the shipping industry. The
Baltic Dry Index of costs to transport grains and minerals
plunged 92 percent from its peak in June 2008 and  supertankers 
hauling 2 million-barrel oil cargoes to  Japan  from  Saudi Arabia 
are losing money, according to the Baltic Exchange. The ClarkSea
index peaked at $47,350 at the end of 2007, triggering record
fleet growth just before the global recession.  Crop Shipments  Additional  crop  exports predicted by the USDA will add 1
percent to global dry-bulk trade and increase average Panamax
rates by $2,000 a day from this year’s fourth quarter to the
first half of 2014, according to RS Platou Economic Research,
part of  Norway ’s largest shipbroker. Global crop shipments
peaked at 367 million tons in 2011-12, the USDA says.  Traders favor Panamaxes for hauling cereals because ports
in many importing countries can’t accommodate larger ships, said
 Jeffrey Landsberg , the New York-based managing director of
Commodore Research & Consultancy, an adviser to ship owners.  China’s soybean harvest this year probably will be the
smallest in more than two decades, according to Oil World, a
Hamburg-based research company. The nation’s share of world
demand for the oilseed rose to 29 percent last year from about
12 percent two decades ago, according to the USDA. China’s
population expanded 13 percent to 1.35 billion over the period,
U.S. Census Bureau estimates show.  Extract Oil  Soybeans are crushed to extract oil and the remaining meal
is fed to animals. China has the largest pig herd, with a record
710.6 million animals expected to be born this year, more than
three times the amount 30 years ago, the USDA says. The nation
is also the largest wheat consumer. The London-based
International Grains Council doubled its estimate for Chinese
wheat purchases in 2013-14 to 7 million tons on Aug. 1.  “To start it will be seasonal, but into next year, when
supply gets better, we will see an improvement of the market as
a whole,” Safe Bulkers’ Hajioannou said.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the biggest Panamax owner, will
report narrowing  losses  this year and next before returning to
profit in 2015, the average of as many as 19 estimates shows.
Profit at Nippon Yusen K.K., the second-largest owner, will jump
43 percent to $326.3 million in the fiscal year ending in March,
according to 16 predictions. Both companies also operate
container ships and oil tankers.  “Panamax owners’ confidence is now on a high because of
the increasing supply of grain cargoes,” said Rahul Sharan, a
Gurgaon, India-based analyst at Drewry Maritime Research, an
industry consultant. “It’s a much-needed boost for owners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  