-- IDB Holding Jumps to 2-Month High on Debt Ruling: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-26T09:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/idb-holding-jumps-to-2-month-high-on-debt-ruling-tel-aviv-mover.html
IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) ’s shares are set
for the highest close in two months after a Tel Aviv court gave
controlling holder Nochi Dankner two months to file a repayment
plan and preserve a stake in the holding company.  The  shares  jumped 5.2 percent to 7.15 shekels, poised for
the highest close since June 23, at 12:32 p.m. in Tel Aviv as
the number of shares traded reached more than twice the three-month daily average. The yield on IDB’s 1.07 billion shekels
($297 million) of 5.1 percent bonds due in December 2020 jumped
292 basis points, the most on a closing basis since May 2, to
51.5 percent.  Dankner, who is trying to sell assets and find investors
for his holding company, which has about 2 billion shekels of
debt, has until Oct. 20 to come up with a repayment plan,
according to a  Tel Aviv  court statement today. The delay in the
debt proceedings until a Nov. 25 court hearing came after the
company secured a 500-million shekel deposit and agreed to the
sale of part of its stake in  Clal Insurance Enterprise Holdings
Ltd. (CLIS)  for 1.47 billion shekels.  “The extension buys Dankner some time to try and retain a
stake in the company,” Avihay Hermon, a trader at  Israel
Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT)  in Tel Aviv, said by phone today. “There is
still uncertainty though who will be the controlling holder of
the company.”  Emblaze Ltd. (BLZ) , based in Hertzliya Pituach,  Israel , and Tel
Aviv-based  Netz Group Ltd. (NETZ)  on Aug. 15 offered 826 million
shekels for a 80 percent stake in IDB Holding. That values the
company at 1.03 billion shekels, more than three times its
market value. The two partners will set up a new company owned
70.3 percent by Emblaze and Dankner would own the rest.  Lose Control  Argentine businessman Eduardo Elsztain has been in talks
with bondholders’ trustees for an investment of 770 million
shekels in exchange for a 51 percent stake in the IDB
Development Corp. unit. Bondholders of IDB Holding and IDB
Development, which includes York Capital Management LP, joined
hands in May to force a debt-to-equity swap, increasing the
possibility that Dankner may lose full control of the companies.  Dankner turned a family business that made its fortune in
table salt and real estate into a sprawling holding company with
stakes in Israel’s biggest supermarket chain,  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) ,
and its largest mobile operator,  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  The
combination of unprofitable investments and regulations to boost
competition, cut IDB Holding’s market value to 348 million
shekels from 5.06 billion shekels at the end of 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  