-- Hindu Group Revives Temple Campaign as Polls Approach in India
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-26T09:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/hindu-group-revives-temple-campaign-as-polls-approach-in-india.html
Right-wing Hindu activists rallied
and courted arrests in support of building a temple at a
disputed site in the northern Indian town of Ayodhya, reviving a
campaign that triggered deadly riots two decades ago.  Hundreds of workers belonging to the  Vishwa Hindu Parishad ,
or the World Hindu Council, carried flags and shouted slogans in
the capital  New Delhi  after authorities in the neighboring state
of  Uttar Pradesh  yesterday detained about 1,700 members,
including leaders of the organization. The local administration
said the rally could disturb peace as the world’s second-most
populous nation prepares for elections set to be held by May.  A similar movement in 1992, backed by the  Bharatiya Janata
Party , culminated in the razing of a 16th century mosque that
stood on the site Hindu groups say is the birthplace of their
warrior-god Rama. The demolition sparked Hindu-Muslim riots that
led to more than 2,000 deaths across the country in one of the
worst religious violence since  India ’s independence from British
rule in 1947. The movement also helped propel the BJP to power
six years later.  “The move, supported by the BJP, is aimed to play the
Hindu card and polarize voters on religious lines to get maximum
political advantage in the run-up to general elections,” said
 Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the Centre for the
Study of Developing Societies. “VHP has got the advantage in
mobilizing people.”  Mughal Emperor  The  VHP , which is spearheading the temple campaign, has
vowed a 20-day march across Uttar Pradesh. The BJP condemned
yesterday’s arrests, while the federal ruling Congress party
blamed both the BJP and the regional Samajwadi Party, which
governs the state, for the campaign. Mulayam Singh Yadav, the
leader of SP, defended the state government’s steps to prevent
Hindu activists from entering the town of Ayodhya.  Hindus say the Mughal emperor Babar built the mosque after
destroying a temple that was originally at the place. The
 Supreme Court  is hearing the claims by Hindu and Muslim
organizations after suspending a 2010 lower court ruling that
split the disputed site between religious groups representing
the faiths.  Helped by the temple campaign spearheaded by the VHP and
BJP’s senior leader Lal Krishna Advani, the opposition party
increased its strength in the lower of India’s parliament to 182
by 1998, from as few as two in 1984.  The BJP is now challenging Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
who is besieged by corruption allegations against his
administration, the slowest pace of economic growth in a decade
and a record current-account deficit that drove the rupee to a
record low last week.  The two houses of parliament adjourned today amid uproar
over the VHP’s march and the arrests.  “By preventing the religious march, the state government
has insulted the Hindus,” Yogi Adityanath, a BJP lawmaker, said
in parliament today. “We are demanding that a magnificent
temple should be constructed in Ayodhya. The government should
bring a law for this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at  samnagarajan@@bloomberg.net 