-- ING Boosts Australia Mortgage Bonds to Record as Home Sales Rise
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-08-26T04:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/ing-boosts-australia-mortgage-bonds-to-record-as-home-sales-rise.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Australian unit has
priced a sale of mortgage-backed bonds, boosting the bank’s
annual issuance to the highest on record as home sales rise.  ING Bank  Australia  Ltd. issued A$1 billion ($904 million)
of notes backed by home loans, bringing offerings in 2013 to A$2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lender has
sold 11 percent more residential mortgage-backed securities than
in 2012, previously its busiest year, the data show.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  last week sold the nation’s
largest offering of mortgage-backed bonds since the financial
crisis as record-low benchmark rates fuel home purchases. The
central bank has cut  interest rates  eight times since late 2011,
lifting sales of dwellings in June to the highest since November
of that year, industry data show.  “We’re reasonably upbeat on the housing sector,” said
Gavin Goodhand, who helps oversee A$500 million at Altius Asset
Management Pty in Sydney. “We like mortgage-backed securities
as an asset class. Arrears have continued to be low, which is a
function of the housing market doing well.”  Altius didn’t buy today’s transaction because it already
holds previously issued ING mortgage bonds in its portfolio,
Goodhand said.  ING priced A$920 million of bonds with a 2.9-year weighted
average life at 100 basis points more than swaps, and A$30
million of AB Class notes with a 5.6-year average life at 165
basis points more than the benchmark, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The company retained a further A$25 million of AC notes and
A$25 million of B notes, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.  The sale, which was the issuer’s seventh, attracted 20
investors, according to an e-mailed company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  