-- Minzhong Drop Renews China Overseas Listing Woes: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-27T05:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/minzhong-drop-renews-china-overseas-listing-woes-southeast-asia.html
China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ)  lost half
its market value in less than two hours yesterday after short-seller Glaucus Research Group questioned the vegetable
processor’s accounts, reviving investor concern on Chinese
companies traded overseas.  Glaucus said in a  report  the Putian, China-based company
had been “significantly deceiving” regulators and investors,
sending the stock 48 percent lower in Singapore trading
yesterday and wiping off S$318 million ($248 million) in market
value before trading was suspended. Minzhong said yesterday in a
statement it’s reviewing the report and will issue a response.  Minzhong adds to the list of targets of short sellers
betting against Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong,
Singapore and New York, even as four of the six analysts
covering the stock  recommend  buying it. Minzhong is among 143
China-based firms listed on  Singapore ’s S$967.4 billion stock
market, according to the latest data from the exchange.  “The reputation of Chinese companies in Singapore has now
rock-bottomed,” said Mou Hua Lee, Singapore-based analyst at
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  “With these new allegations, it’s
going to be a very long while before anyone trusts Chinese
companies here.”  Minzhong shares were halted at 53 Singapore cents, after
tumbling the most since the company’s listing in April 2010.
Short interest in the vegetable processor rose to a record 7.2
percent of the outstanding stock on Aug. 19 from this year’s low
of 3.8 percent in March, according to the most recent data from
research company Markit Group Ltd.  Probing Investments  Glaucus was set up to probe companies that appear “too
good to be true,” using experiences ranging from accounting,
law and capital markets, according to its  website .  The firm, which has an office in Newport Beach, California,
has also issued reports on  China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773) ,
 China  Medical Technologies Inc. and  SouFun (SFUN)  Holdings Ltd.  Provisional liquidators were appointed to China Metal in
July and its Hong Kong-traded stock has been suspended since
January. China Medical filed for Chapter 15 foreign-firm
bankruptcy protection in New York last year. SouFun, China’s
biggest real estate website owner, has surged 73 percent since
the April 3 report by Glaucus, compared with the 7.3 percent
gain in the  Bloomberg China-US Equity index .  Singapore Exchange Ltd. queried Minzhong on the share price
decline and will continue to closely monitor developments,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Defend Reputation  Minzhong will take all necessary steps to defend its
reputation and won’t hesitate to take legal action, according to
a separate statement.  Minzhong may have fabricated sales and payments to its
largest supplier, doctored historical accounts and overstated
capital spending, Glaucus said in the report. It also questioned
the food processor’s reported receivables and cash balance.  “Evidence indicates that Minzhong fabricated sales to its
top two customers, suggesting that the company overstated
revenues in its IPO prospectus by at least a third during the
track record period,” Glaucus said, citing corporate registry
records. The company didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on Minzhong’s statement late yesterday.  At least 29 Chinese firms on Singapore’s exchange, where
one in five stocks are China-based companies, have been halted
or ordered to delist since 2008. The FTSE ST China Index of 37
Chinese stocks traded in Singapore, commonly known as S-chips,
has lost 14 percent in the past six months, more than twice the
6 percent slide in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Avoid S-chips  “We typically avoid S-chips,”  Daphne Roth , head of Asia
equity research at ABN Amro Private Bank, which oversees about
$207 billion, said from Singapore. “There is room for Chinese
companies to improve corporate governance. That will help
improve investor confidence.”  Minzhong’s biggest  investor  isn’t concerned. PT Indofood
Sukses Makmur, the parent of  Indonesia ’s biggest instant-noodle
maker and Minzhong’s largest shareholder, is comfortable with
its investment, director Thomas Tjhie said yesterday by
telephone from Jakarta.  Indofood, which doubled its stake in Minzhong to 29.3
percent in March, conducted due diligence on the company before
it made its investment, Tjhie said, adding that he has spoken to
Minzhong’s chief financial officer about the Glaucus report.  Indofood shares declined as much as 3.4 percent to 5,700
rupiah and fell 1.7 percent to 5,800 at the midday break in
Jakarta. The stock lost 5.6 percent yesterday.  GIC Investment  Minzhong’s investors also included GIC Pte, Singapore’s
sovereign wealth fund that manages more than $100 billion of the
city’s reserves. The company said the fund, which invested
through its unit Tetrad Ventures Pte, had fully divested its
stake in February. GIC said in an e-mailed statement it declined
to comment.  Minzhong needs to respond to the claims made by the Glaucus
report, said Wei Bin, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd. in Singapore. The brokerage put the stock under review as
of today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One of the
six analysts covering the stock has a hold recommendation.  “There’s still some value in the S-chips but we need to be
conservative in our views,” he said. “I don’t have enough
facts to prove the report right or wrong at this point.”  The claims against Minzhong come less than a year after
short-seller  Carson Block  said he was betting against  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM) , the Singapore-based commodity trader,
sparking a slump in the stock. Block’s research firm Muddy
Waters LLC later said Olam was likely to fail in a report. The
commodity traded rejected the allegations.  Muddy Waters has also targeted Chinese firms including
Sino-Forest Corp., which plunged 74 percent before eventually
filing for bankruptcy protection. Shares of New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. and Focus Media Holding Ltd.,
rebounded after initial slumps when Block questioned their
accounting. Both companies have denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  