-- Jail Becomes Home for Husband Stuck With Lifetime Alimony
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/jail-becomes-home-for-husband-stuck-with-lifetime-alimony.html
Ari Schochet has grown so accustomed
to being sent to jail for missing alimony payments that he goes
into a routine.  Before his  family-court  hearing, Schochet, 41, sticks on a
nicotine patch to cope with jailhouse smoking bans, sends an
“Ari Off the Grid” e-mail to friends and family, and scrawls
key phone numbers in permanent ink on his forearm.  Schochet, who said he worked as a portfolio manager at
Citadel Investment Group Inc. and  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) 
and once earned $1 million a year, has been jailed for missing
court-ordered payments at least eight times in the past two
years as he coped with the end of his 17-year marriage.  The reason he ran afoul of the law was simple. He was out
of work for most of that time, a victim of a weak economy, and
he ran through his savings trying to pay his wife alimony and
child support that totaled almost $100,000 a year.  “It’s a circle of hell there’s just no way out of,”
Schochet said. “I paid it as long as I could.”  Schochet and ex-spouses in similar changed circumstances
say  New Jersey’s law  unfairly imposes lifetime alimony on them.
If they fail to make payments, like the $78,000 a year Schochet
owes his ex-wife in alimony, they can be jailed for contempt of
court regardless of whether they have a job or resources.  Earning Power  Relief may be on the way. In states such as  New Jersey ,
 Connecticut  and  Florida  where divorce laws are based on century-old notions of what an ex-spouse deserves, laws are being
proposed to limit alimony in recognition of wives’ earning power
and the changed economic circumstances husbands can face.  The  American Academy  of Matrimonial Lawyers in 2007
recommended restricting alimony amounts and duration. The
proposal became the basis for  Massachusetts ’s alimony reform
laws in 2011. Those statutes eliminated permanent alimony and
gave judges guidelines for calculating amounts.  Three states have enacted laws abolishing permanent alimony
with caveats allowing discretion in exceptional cases, according
to  Laura W. Morgan , an attorney and owner of Family Law
Consulting in Charlottesville, Virginia. Lawmakers in at least
10 other states, including New Jersey, are being prompted by
advocates to consider more restrictive legislation, said Morgan,
who is writing an alimony handbook to be published by the
 American Bar Association .  Alimony Formula  New York  lawmakers are considering a  bill  that would create
an alimony formula that would require that only spouses with
much higher incomes than their ex-partners pay support.  Connecticut Governor Dannel P. Malloy in June signed
legislation revising the state’s alimony statutes to add
education and earning capacity to a list of factors to be
considered. The changes, which take effect Oct. 1, direct judges
to specify the basis for any award of permanent alimony. The law
also calls for lawmakers to study the fairness and adequacy of
statutes governing alimony awards and make recommendations by
February.  Florida’s legislature passed an alimony overhaul that would
have eliminated permanent support. Governor  Rick Scott , a
Republican, vetoed the bill in May, citing its provision to
allow changes to existing awards.  Following a state commission’s recommendation in 1995, New
Jersey limited the duration of alimony after short-lived
marriages while leaving intact permanent alimony and judicial
discretion.  Far-Reaching  The first of two proposals before New Jersey lawmakers
would  allow modification  of alimony due to changed circumstances
such as a payer’s unemployment or disability. The bill,
sponsored by Assemblyman Sean Kean, a Wall Township Republican,
would keep permanent alimony. That bill and an identical one in
the Senate have passed the judiciary committees.  A  more far-reaching  proposal, sponsored by six Assembly
members including Kean and Charles Mainor, a Democrat from
 Jersey City , would abolish permanent alimony. Identical
legislation in the Senate is sponsored by Sandra Cunningham,
also a Jersey City Democrat.  The Mainor-Kean bill is modeled on the Massachusetts law,
which was supported by women’s groups and the state bar
association. It would base alimony on the length of the marriage
and income and allow ex-spouses to stop payments when they
retire.  Reform Group  “You have a moral and legal obligation to provide for your
child until they’re 18,” Mainor said in an interview. “You
don’t have that same obligation to your former spouse for the
rest of your life.”  The Mainor-Kean bill is backed by New Jersey Alimony
Reform, an advocacy group headed by  Tom Leustek , a divorced
Rutgers University plant-science professor from Rahway who pays
his former wife alimony based on a private settlement to avoid
litigation.  Mainor’s bill would leave in place three types of alimony:
rehabilitative, reimbursement and limited-duration.  Rehabilitative alimony is to help an ex-spouse become self-supporting. It would generally be limited to five years barring
“unforeseen events.” Reimbursement alimony can be ordered if
one spouse supported the other’s advanced education expecting to
share the “fruits of the earning capacity” it created.  Limited-duration alimony would be awarded for no longer
than half the length of a marriage of five years or less, with
higher percentages for those approaching 10, 15 or 20 years. For
marriages of 20 years or more, payments could last indefinitely.  Circumstances Differ  Alimony would end if the receiving ex-spouse remarried or
entered a new civil union, as permanent alimony does now. It
would end when the paying spouse reached  retirement age , whether
he or she retired. Judges could make exceptions to the rules
“in the interests of justice,” based on evidentiary findings.  The difficulty with strict criteria for alimony amounts is
that family circumstances differ,  Bonnie Frost , a former
chairwoman of the New Jersey Bar Association’s family law
division, said in an interview.  About 22,000 former spouses receive alimony under court
supervision in New Jersey, with child support also going to
about 60 percent of them. An unknown number receive maintenance
under private settlements that couples reach before going to
family court.  Persuading a judge to change amounts is difficult and
expensive, Leustek said. The average fee for a lawyer to start
the process is about $10,000, he said.  Mainor’s bill seeks to rein in judges by requiring them to
justify their refusals to make modifications in writing.  Legal Origins  Judges are following the law, not deciding cases “based on
a public discussion about reform,” said Winnie Comfort, a
spokeswoman for New Jersey courts.  Alimony laws in most states originated when women typically
stayed at home and depended on their husbands for financial
support. If a husband left, the wife was entitled to lifelong
support to avoid starvation, said Morgan, the family law
attorney in Charlottesville. In the 1950s alimony was seen as
necessary to a woman’s survival.  Women now make up almost half the  labor force , 47 percent
compared with 30 percent in 1950, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  says. Dual-income couples accounted for 59 percent,
of married households with children under 18 in 2011, according
to the bureau. About a third of women earned more than their
husbands in 2011, compared with 18 percent in 1987.  “But there is still a glass ceiling, and women are still
earning just 70 cents on the dollar” earned by men, Morgan
said.  Women’s Stories  She called the current push for change “very male-driven.”  “As men retire, they don’t want to keep paying alimony,”
she said. “For every horror story that you can come up with
about a support obligor, I can come up with 10 for an obligee
who can’t make ends meet because her post-divorce standard of
living has so drastically dropped.”  Women paying alimony have horror stories too. Alisa
Whiting, 50, who helped form New Jersey Women for Alimony Reform
last year, worked in the mortgage industry for 25 years earning
about $160,000 with bonus in 2004, when she was a vice president
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , she said.  Whiting’s ex-husband was self-employed with two businesses
and made more than she did for most of their 20-year marriage,
she said.  When he stopped working after she filed for divorce in
2008, she was ordered to pay $20,000 a year in alimony until her
youngest son is out of college and $25,000 a year afterward.  Lost Job  Whiting lost her job that year and went to work for a
 software company  in Woodbridge, New Jersey, earning $52,000 a
year responding to requests for proposals. Her hours were cut
July 1 to two days a week. She takes home about $800 a month,
including unemployment payments, she said.  She plans to represent herself in court in a request for an
alimony modification.  “There are no words to describe the despair that I feel,”
Whiting said. “I’m tired. It’s infuriating. Permanent alimony
is an outdated concept. It’s based on a salary that I don’t have
any hope of ever earning again.”  Support-enforcement hearings for people like Schochet
in Bergen County have been held in the county jail in Hackensack
since  Hurricane Sandy  damaged the courthouse.  Holding Cells  Schochet’s ex-wife, Sharona Grossberg, declined to be
interviewed about her divorce, which became final in April 2012.
Her attorney, William Schiffman, didn’t respond to requests
seeking comment on the case.  Citadel spokeswoman  Katie Spring  said in an e-mail that
Schochet worked as an analyst and “not a portfolio manager”
when he was at the firm. Gordon Runte, a managing director at
New York-based Fortress, didn’t immediately return an e-mail
message seeking comment about Schochet’s employment.  Accused scofflaws like Schochet store their belongings in
lockers in a central lobby before being sent through electronic
metal detectors and corralled in holding cells that flank a
fluorescent-lit multipurpose room.  Judge Lisa Firko, like other family-law judges, conducts
hearings from a makeshift bench while jail employees pass
documents between a court-appointed attorney and probation
staff.  Schochet parks in a dirt lot across the street when he’s
required to make an appearance at Firko’s court.  “When I tell people what’s happened to me these last two
years they say, ‘Your story can’t possibly be true, and you must
be in court because you beat your wife,’” Schochet said. “This
has nothing to do with anything other than money.”  Job Prospects  Since April, he has managed to leave the jail following
each appearance after Firko acknowledged his efforts to secure a
well-paying job. Schochet now works part-time as an entry-level
stock transfer agent, a job that leaves him with about $100 a
month in disposable cash after garnisheeing and taxes. He’s got
a steady girlfriend and job prospects.  “It’s amazing how small you can live,” said Schochet,
whose longest jail stay was 11 days. “I’m down to paying for
electricity, water, my cell phone, Internet and gas. Friends
help out with whatever else I need.”  All that may be in jeopardy after he faced Firko again
yesterday to explain why he was rejected for a court-required
$500,000 life insurance policy naming his ex-wife and children
as beneficiaries.  “I have been more than patient with you,” the judge told
Schochet.  The judge ordered him to surrender to authorities and the
head of the work/release program gave him until 6 p.m. yesterday
to report to jail, where he will spend his evenings and leave
during the day for the next two weeks, when his case will be
reviewed by the judge on Sept. 9. His release is conditional on
paying $25,000 in arrears.  “What am I supposed to do?” he said in a phone interview
yesterday. “This is so against the law, so against my civil
rights. Now I’m stuck in the system again for months. It’s just
unbelievable. I have no recourse. The legal system has totally
stepped away from me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 