-- James Blake Says 14-Year Tennis Career to End After U.S Open
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-26T19:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/james-blake-says-he-ll-end-14-year-tennis-career-after-u-s-open.html
James Blake  said he’ll retire after
the U.S. Open, ending a tennis career that included 10 singles
titles and a career-high ranking of No. 4 on the ATP World Tour.  “I don’t want to be dragged out of this game,” Blake, a
33-year-old American, said at a news conference at the National
Tennis Center in New York, where the season’s final Grand Slam
tournament began today.  Blake, who is ranked 100th and unseeded for his 13th U.S.
Open, takes on  Radek Stepanek  of the  Czech Republic  in the first
round. The time of the match hasn’t been announced.  “There’s so many athletes that say they can never replace
that feeling of having an adrenaline rush, but I get more of an
adrenaline rush these days seeing my daughter wake up in the
morning,” Blake said, trying not to cry. “Despite the tears,
I’m actually really happy about this.”  With a 1-year-old daughter, Blake said, he has no immediate
plans for retirement, other than to work on his golf game and
change some diapers.  Born in Yonkers, New York, and a resident of Westport,
 Connecticut , Blake studied economics at  Harvard University 
before becoming a professional tennis player.  He enters his final tournament with a 366-255 singles
record and having won seven doubles titles, including one in
February. He’s amassed $7.9 million in combined singles and
doubles earnings.  Blake said he considered retiring in April 2012 after
struggling to recover from knee surgery and a shoulder injury,
but wanted to do it on his own terms. His goals were never to
achieve a particular ranking, only to continually improve and be
content with what he had accomplished when he put down his
racket, he said.  “I’ve had 14 pretty darn good years on tour,” Blake said.  Deepest Runs  He reached the quarterfinals of the  U.S. Open  in 2005 and
2006, and did it again in the 2008 Australian Open. Those were
his deepest advances in 41 previous Grand Slam appearances.  Blake had to wear a back brace for 18 hours a day as a
teenager to combat scoliosis, a curvature of the spine, and he
overcame several injuries during his career.  In 2004, he broke his neck while practicing for a clay-court tournament in  Rome , and his father died that year, leading
to a case of the shingles that left half his face temporarily
paralyzed. Blake said he almost retired in each of those cases.  “I was millimeters from breaking my neck in a way that
would have left me paralyzed for the rest of my life,” he said.
“When that happened and I was able to get back in a few months,
I knew how lucky I was.”  Agassi Match  He reached the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open 16 months
after the neck injury, calling his memorable five-set match
against eventual runner-up  Andre Agassi  “the biggest highlight
and lowlight at the same time.”  Blake, who beat second-seeded  Rafael Nadal  en route to the
quarterfinals, won the first two sets against Agassi 6-3, 6-3,
before dropping the next two 3-6, 3-6. Agassi won the final-set
tiebreaker 8-6.  “We both left our absolute best out there on the court,”
Blake said, content that he came up two points short of winning
the match. “That’s just greedy. That night was great for
tennis.”  Blake said the e-mails and text messages he’s received from
friends in the last 24 hours, after news of his retirement
circulated, echoed the sentiments he heard in 2004.  “It doesn’t matter if I win another tennis match ever
again, I’m a friend,” the correspondence has said, according to
Blake. “So I’m lucky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  