-- Japan Sales-Tax Decision Due by Early October, Amari Says
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-08-26T04:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/japan-to-decide-on-sales-tax-increase-by-early-oct-amari-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
will make a decision on a  sales-tax  increase by early October,
before a gathering of Asia-Pacific leaders in  Indonesia ,
according to Economy Minister Akira Amari.  Abe will decide “at the latest” before a summit of
leaders from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which
starts in Indonesia on Oct. 7, Amari said yesterday on NHK
television.  Expert panels comprising business leaders, academics and
policy makers are set to begin meetings today to consider if
 Japan ’s economy is strong enough to withstand an increase in the
tax. Gross domestic product grew an annualized 2.6 percent in
the second quarter from the previous period, a result which
Finance Minister Taro Aso said supported the case for an
increase.  Amari said last week that there is a good balance of views
on the panels, which will include Abe advisers Etsuro Honda and
Koichi Hamada, who are cautious about increasing the levy.  The sales tax is set to rise to 8 percent in April from 5
percent now, an increase that Abe can postpone or cancel should
he determine the economy can’t bear the impact. Abe will take
into account the views of the expert panels and revised GDP data
for the second quarter, due Sept. 9.  The  Bank of Japan  will release a third-quarter Tankan
survey of business sentiment on Oct. 1, and Abe may also
consider those figures, Amari said.  A poll published today by the Nikkei newspaper showed 17
percent of respondents support increasing the tax as planned,
while 55 percent said that while it should be raised, the
government should be flexible on the timing and size of the
increase. 24 percent of those surveyed opposed the measure.  The survey was based on 895 responses from 1,476 households
contacted, and gave no margin for error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  