-- Jets’ Ryan Says Quarterback Decision to Be Made After Preseason
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-26T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/jets-ryan-says-quarterback-decision-to-be-made-after-preseason.html
New York Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said
the National Football League team will wait until after its
final preseason game to settle a quarterback controversy that
had New Jersey’s governor weighing in today.  The Jets haven’t decided who will be the team’s starting
quarterback when the regular season starts in two weeks, Ryan
said today at a news conference.  Mark Sanchez , the team’s
starter for the past four seasons, won’t play in New York’s
final preseason game on Aug. 29 after injuring his throwing
shoulder, potentially clearing the way for rookie Geno Smith to
grab the starting role.  “We’re not going to rush the decision until we’re
completely comfortable with the decision,” Ryan said. “I don’t
know what else to say about it.”  Ryan declined to comment on his decision to play Sanchez
alongside back-ups in the fourth quarter against the  New York
Giants  two days ago after Smith stepped out of bounds for a
safety and threw three interceptions. Sanchez, 26, injured his
right shoulder when he was knocked to the ground after
attempting a pass midway through the fourth quarter.  After the game, Ryan told reporters that he stood by his
decision to play Sanchez. The coach became frustrated when
pushed for more information, invoking freedom of speech to
declare, “I can say anything I want,” and at one point turned
his back on a reporter while answering a question.  Ryan said today that he wasn’t approached by team owner
 Woody Johnson  or General Manager John Idzik to discuss his
decision to play the Sanchez in the fourth quarter or his
actions after the game.  Christie Support  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  endorsed Sanchez as the
starter today in a radio interview, telling New York’s WFAN that
Jets fans have “amnesia” regarding the veteran quarterback. He
said Sanchez’s struggles last year, when he had 26 turnovers,
were a product of a poor supporting cast.  “Yeah, he was awful last year, but by the way, he had no
weapons last year to throw to,” Christie said. “He had no
receiving corps, he had no running game and the offensive line
was below average. So what are you looking for from the guy? I
think they’ve treated him awfully.”  New York’s starter for the past four seasons, Sanchez led
the team to American Football Conference championship games
following the 2009 and 2010 seasons. He has committed an NFL-high 52 turnovers in the past two years, and the Jets are a
combined 14-18 in that span.  No Practice  Sanchez won’t practice this week and is considered day-to-day, Ryan said today. He declined to elaborate on the injury,
and wouldn’t say if the quarterback was scheduled for more tests.
Sanchez completed five of six passes for 72 yards against the
Giants.  Ryan said it hasn’t been decided whether Smith, 22, would
play against the Eagles. He said he had confidence in each of
the team’s four quarterbacks, including Matt Simms and  Greg McElroy .  “Geno has done a lot of really good things,” Ryan said.
“Did he have a rough night last night? Yes, he absolutely did.
But again, I feel confident in him, I feel confident in Simms,
because he’s earned respect.”  Earlier today the Jets announced the release of 15 players,
including former Pro Bowl wide receiver  Braylon Edwards  and
running back Joe McKnight. NFL teams must reduce their rosters
to 75 players by tomorrow and settle on a final 53 by Aug. 31.  The Jets open the regular season on Sept. 8 at home against
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers . In anticipation of the quarterback
uncertainty, the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book moved the Jets to
3-point underdogs. The Buccaneers were previously favored by 2
1/2 points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  