-- Karzai Arrives in Pakistan for Talks on Getting Taliban to Table
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-08-26T06:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/karzai-arrives-in-pakistan-for-talks-on-getting-taliban-to-table.html
Afghan President Hamid Karzai
arrived in  Pakistan  for his first visit in 18 months as he seeks
the support of the new government to nudge Taliban insurgents
toward peace talks.  Karzai is in Islamabad for a one-day visit and is due to
meet Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to discuss the landscape for
Afghanistan after 2014, when the U.S. plans to withdraw the
majority of its combat troops, Pakistani Foreign Office
spokesman Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhary told reporters earlier this
month.  “The first agenda with Pakistan would be the peace
negotiations,” Karzai told reporters on Aug. 24 in Kabul. “I
will travel to Pakistan in a hope to get positive results out of
it. I am not confident but I will only go with hopes.”  His visit takes place at a low-point in relations between
the two neighbors over militants who foment trouble on both
sides. Their 2,640-kilometer (1,640-mile) porous frontier,
established by the British during the 19th century, is viewed by
Pakistan as the international border, while  Afghanistan  claims
territory held by its eastern neighbor.  Karzai and the U.S. are seeking assistance from civilian
and military leaders in Islamabad to help facilitate talks with
the Afghan Taliban, whose leadership they allege is hiding in
and around the southwestern Pakistani city of Quetta in
Baluchistan, a province that borders Afghanistan.  Pakistan’s Role  Pakistani leaders have let Taliban-affiliated militants
from groups like the Haqqani Network operate from Northern
Waziristan “due to their concerns that Pakistan will be left
alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-influenced Afghanistan on its borders” once U.S. troops leave,
according to a U.S. Defense Department report last year.  Karzai, who is barred constitutionally from standing for a
third term in elections due in April 2014, has said Pakistan is
crucial to bringing the Taliban and other militant groups, which
still control large areas of southern and eastern Afghanistan,
into talks.  Secretary of State John Kerry, on a visit to Islamabad in
early August, also pushed for a reset of U.S. ties with
Pakistan. The countries’ strategic dialog last held in 2010,
stalled after the U.S. discovered and killed Osama bin Laden in
a Pakistani town, and a U.S. air strike on a military post near
the Afghan frontier killed 24 Pakistani soldiers.  The Karzai talks in Pakistan come as the U.S. prepares for
the departure of its combat troops at the end of next year. A
Pentagon assessment of the war effort released in late July
found Afghanistan’s security forces can’t go it alone once U.S.
combat troops have left, noting the inability of Afghan security
forces to operate and sustain complex battlefield technologies,
air operations and logistics.  Prisoner Release  Sharif’s government, which won the May 11 general election,
may free more Afghan Taliban detainees to help draw the Taliban
into the peace process, and a list of names would be finalized
during Karzai’s visit, The Express Tribune newspaper said Aug.
19, citing unnamed government officials.  Pakistan released more than two dozen members of the Afghan
Taliban in November and January, including former regional
governors and ministers. Former deputy leader and top military
commander Abdul Ghani Baradar, detained in 2010 in Karachi, was
not among those released.  Sartaj Aziz, adviser to Pakistan’s prime minister on
security and foreign affairs, visited Kabul in July where he
said the country would seek to persuade Taliban leaders to join
negotiations with Karzai’s representatives, according to a
 report  by state-run Radio Pakistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  