-- America Movil to Back KPN German Sale After Bid Sweetened
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/kpn-wins-america-movil-s-support-for-sale-of-german-business.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the carrier that’s
trying to acquire  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s German mobile-phone business,
won the backing of the Dutch company’s biggest investor,  Carlos Slim , after agreeing to sweeten its bid.  Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  has given an “irrevocable
commitment” to vote in favor of the sale of KPN’s E-Plus unit
to  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , KPN said today. The new
terms, including KPN getting a bigger stake in the German entity
than originally agreed, raise the transaction’s value to 8.55
billion euros ($11.4 billion) from 8.1 billion euros.  The support of Slim, with a 30 percent stake in KPN, boosts
the chance the deal will be completed. Slim clarifying his
position on the sale may also help avoid potential opposition
for his separate 7.2 billion-euro bid for KPN from an
independent foundation that has the power to defend the carrier
from a takeover, said Emmanuel Carlier, an ING Groep NV analyst.  “The foundation has said they want  America Movil  to be
clearer on their intentions on E-Plus and now they’ve done so,”
Brussels-based Carlier said. “It no longer makes sense for the
foundation to act.”  The foundation said this month it was concerned that
America Movil isn’t being clear about its offer and should
provide clarity on its position over the sale of E-Plus. The
foundation declined to comment further today, according to
Walter Samuels, a spokesman for the organization.  Telefonica Risks  America Movil is offering 2.40 euros a share to boost its
stake in KPN to more than 50 percent. KPN, based in  the Hague ,
 rose  3 percent to close at 2.33 euros in Amsterdam, valuing the
company at 9.9 billion euros. Telefonica added 0.2 percent in
 Madrid , while its German unit gained 2.9 percent in  Frankfurt .
America Movil was little changed at 13.01 pesos in Mexico City.  For Telefonica, the new terms mean the company risks
overpaying as it seeks to become the biggest carrier in  Germany 
by wireless subscribers, said Javier Mielgo, an analyst at
Mirabaud Finanzas in Madrid.  “Telefonica has finally ceded,” Mielgo said. “It is a
way to secure the deal by putting about 500 million euros on the
table. Telefonica isn’t overpaying too much as it has in past
acquisitions such as Vivo in  Brazil , but the new terms are not
as attractive for Telefonica  shareholders  anymore.”  Sweetened Terms  KPN will get 20.5 percent in the entity combined from its
E-Plus unit and Telefonica Deutschland, up from 17.6 percent
initially agreed. Telefonica gets an option to acquire a 2.9
percent stake in the German business from KPN for 510 million
euros after a year. KPN will also receive 5 billion euros of
cash, as originally agreed.  The improvement in the deal’s terms was “pretty limited,”
said ING’s Carlier.  KPN and Telefonica didn’t secure America Movil’s backing
before the German deal was announced July 23. Just weeks after,
Slim moved on KPN while seeking leverage to get a higher price
for E-Plus or to block the deal, two people familiar with the
billionaire’s plans said this month.  America Movil confirmed in a statement it will support the
German sale under the new terms and also said it is committed to
its offer for KPN. Slim wants to have staying power in  Europe ,
helping insulate his empire from regulatory pressure and slowing
growth in its home country of  Mexico .  Daniel Hajj, America Movil’s chief executive officer and
Slim’s son-in-law, is scheduled to meet with Dutch Economy
Minister Henk Kamp on Aug. 28 to discuss the proposed bid for
KPN, according to a person familiar with the matter, asking not
to be identified because the meeting is private.  An America Movil press official declined to comment on
specific meeting plans. “AMX is very interested in talking to
officials and communicating its intentions to make long-term
investments at the local level,” the company said in an e-mail.  Antitrust Approval  America Movil said it plans to keep KPN’s headquarters in
The Hague. It will also keep KPN’s stock listed in Amsterdam,
unless it obtains 95 percent or more of the company. America
Movil also said it would keep the KPN brand and investigate
expansion investments.  The bid for KPN means Slim is pouring more money into an
investment he has so far made losses on. America Movil spent
about $4 billion increasing its stake in KPN last year, after
bidding 8 euros a share. Slim also owns a stake in  Telekom
Austria AG. (TKA)   KPN’s E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland, which sells
services under the O2 brand, together would have a customer base
of 43.8 million as of June, surpassing  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 32.2
million and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s 37.5 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Counting wireless-service
revenue, Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus together remained
smaller than Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile and Vodafone.  Shareholder Meeting  The German deal, which the companies plan to complete in
mid-2014 pending antitrust approval, will result in cost savings
and revenue synergies of 5 billion euros to 5.5 billion euros,
the carriers have said.  Shareholders are set to vote on the German sale at an Oct.
2 meeting in The Hague, KPN said last week.  “From here only the regulatory hurdles -- that we believe
are surmountable -- remain,”  Robin Bienenstock , a Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst, said in a note. The outcome is “a strong
positive sign for the entire European telecom sector.”  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc
advised Telefonica, while KPN was assisted by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Telefonica Deutschland was
advised by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS AG. Deutsche
Bank AG is advising America Movil on its bid for KPN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  