-- TNT Explores Sale of Continental European Fashion Assets
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-27T07:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/tnt-said-to-eye-sale-of-continental-european-fashion-unit.html
TNT Express NV (TNTE) , the Dutch package-delivery company, said it’s exploring a sale of its fashion-logistics business in continental  Europe  as it reviews its
assets after a failed takeover bid by  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   The business provides transportation and warehousing for
clothing retailers and employs about 660 people, TNT said in a
statement today after  Bloomberg News  first reported the planned
disposal yesterday. The asset is likely to attract interest from
companies and buyout firms, said people familiar with the plan,
who asked not to be identified because talks are private.  “The possible sale of the Dutch operations of TNT Fashion
will be designed to ensure service continuity,” TNT said. “The
sale process will not affect the terms and conditions of
existing agreements with customers and suppliers.”  The Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company is revamping after
UPS, the biggest package-delivery company, terminated a 5.16
billion-euro ($6.9 billion) bid in January amid opposition from
European Union regulators. The overhaul includes the disposal of
a unit in  Brazil  and the company’s domestic road business in
 China .  TNT declined as much as 8 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 6.65
euros in Amsterdam, and traded at 6.67 euros as of 9:19 a.m. The
stock, which lost about half its value on the day UPS pulled its
offer, has declined about 20 percent this year, the third-worst
performer on the 25-member AEX benchmark index.  Seeking Turnaround  The fashion business has about 1,000 employees in total, of
which 330 work in the U.K. TNT is only considering a sale of the
Dutch unit and not the U.K. fashion asset, which is being
integrated into the regional U.K. express operations, it said.
First-round bids are due this month, two of the people said.  TNT said in its July 29 earnings  statement  that TNT Fashion
outside of the U.K. would be reported as an “unallocated”
business. The company reported a second-quarter loss, hurt by an
impairment charge partially stemming from the loss of a
“significant fashion contract” it didn’t identify.  TNT Express plans to improve earnings by 220 million euros
by 2015 to help lift the operating margin to about 8 percent in
its main European markets. The efforts coincide with trading
conditions this year that Chief Executive Officer Tex Gunning,
who took over on June 1, has called “challenging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  