-- NYSE Plans to Review Price Curbs for Lightly Traded Securities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-08-26T19:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/nyse-plans-to-review-price-curbs-for-lightly-traded-securities.html
NYSE Euronext plans to reevaluate a
program aimed at curbing sudden price swings after about 40
thinly traded securities set off trading halts last week.  NYSE said it will work to refine the  system , known as limit
up/limit down, after it briefly stopped trading in some
securities only because they had a wide bid-ask spread,
according to a release from its Arca unit today. About 530
 securities , which move 10,000 shares or less per day on average,
will be removed from the program and return to the old system of
circuit breakers.  “NYSE Arca will work with the SEC and other markets to
identify the best methodology for incorporating low volume
derivative securities into the LULD Plan,” Katrina Clay, an
NYSE spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  Regulators have sought ways of reducing swings in
securities since the May 2010 flash crash that briefly sent the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  down almost 1,000 points. The new
system was in its second phase of implementation when about 40
exchange-traded funds and notes were halted at the open on Aug.
19.  Under the limit up/limit down system, trades aren’t allowed
to take place more than a specified percentage above or below
the average price over the preceding five-minute period. If
prices don’t move away from the specified limits within 15
seconds, the listing market declares a trading pause of five
minutes.  The circuit breaker method stopped trading for five minutes
when the price of a stock or ETF moved 10 percent in five
minutes.  The securities with low trading volume will be removed from
the program on Aug. 28 and reintroduced by Dec. 8, according to
the release today. NYSE began adding the securities to the plan
on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  