-- Obama Says Medal of Honor Given to ‘True American Hero’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-08-26T18:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/obama-says-medal-of-honor-given-to-true-american-hero-.html
President  Barack Obama  awarded the
nation’s highest military award to an Army veteran for bravery
during an attack by Taliban fighters at a remote U.S. Army
outpost in Afghanistan.  Staff Sergeant Ty M. Carter, 33, was awarded the Medal of
Honor for conspicuous gallantry during a ceremony today in the
East Room of the White House. He is the fifth soldier to earn
the decoration for actions in Iraq or Afghanistan. He’s also the
second soldier to get the award as a result of actions from that
single battle.  “If you want to know what a true American hero looks like,
then you don’t have to look too far. You just have to look at
your Dad,” Obama said, directed his remarks to Carter’s
children, who were among 40 family members in the audience.
“Your Dad inspires us just like all those big memorials and
monuments do.”  Carter’s is “the story of what our troops do for each
other,” he said.  Carter, ignoring enemy gunfire, engaged in one of the
deadliest battles waged by U.S. forces in  Afghanistan  when about
300 Taliban fighters attacked an Army combat outpost in Nuristan
Province, a remote, mountainous region in the eastern part of
the country on Oct. 3, 2009.  Carter resupplied ammunition to fighting positions,
provided first-aid to a battle buddy, killed enemy troops, and
valiantly risked his own life to save an injured soldier while
being pinned down in a Humvee by a barrage of enemy fire,
according to the Army’s official account.  Six-Hour Fight  Carter “did all this while under heavy small arms and
indirect fire that lasted more than six hours,” the account
said.  Of 53 members of the Army post, eight soldiers were killed
and more than 25 were injured, according to the Army’s
narrative. In February, the president awarded the Medal of Honor
to another survivor of that firefight, former Staff Sgt. Clinton
Romesha.  Carter has been treated successfully for post-traumatic
stress disorder. “You begin to accept what happened, and when
these flashbacks come, you’re okay with it,” he said in an Army
profile.  Obama said Carter stands as an example for other combat
veterans who need help dealing with the stress of combat. “Now
he wants to help other troops in their own recovery,” Obama
said. “Nobody should ever suffer alone.”  The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the military
who distinguish themselves by gallantry above and beyond the
call of duty while engaged in armed conflict.  Carter is currently stationed at Joint Base Lewis-McChord
in  Washington  State and is assigned to the 7th Infantry
Division.  He grew up in Spokane, Washington, and considers Antioch,
 California , outside  San Francisco , as his home town. He’s is
married to Shannon Carter and they have three children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  