-- Obama Officials Said Divided on Fiscal Debate Strategy
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-08-26T20:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/obama-officials-said-divided-on-fiscal-debate-strategy.html
Facing a sixth fiscal showdown with
congressional Republicans, President  Barack Obama ’s economic and
political advisers are divided over how far to push in pursuit
of a deal on the budget and the nation’s debt limit, according
to two people familiar with the discussions.  The debate centers on how comprehensive an agreement the
White House should seek to end the automatic, across-the-board
spending cuts known as sequestration, which is set to slash $109
billion from projected defense and domestic discretionary
spending in 2014.  Obama’s economic advisers, including the new Office of
Management and Budget Director Sylvia Mathews Burwell and
National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling, are at odds
with his political team, including senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer
and deputy chief of staff Rob Nabors, according to the people,
who asked for anonymity to talk about internal deliberations.  The economic team is pushing to explore a deal that
replaces sequestration with targeted cuts and spending
increases, according to the people. The political aides argue
that the bigger the agreement the more likely it is to collapse,
the people said.  Republican leaders and White House officials have said they
are determined to avoid a shutdown of the federal government or
risking a default by refusing to raise the debt ceiling. While
Obama has said he won’t negotiate on the debt ceiling, the
budget fight with Republicans may get intertwined with the need
later this year to raise the government’s $16.7 trillion  debt
ceiling .  Avoiding Shutdown  “We’re very hopeful that we can avoid a shutdown,”
Burwell said in an Aug. 23 interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  While administration officials say they are confident that
Republicans will get most of the blame from voters if there’s no
agreement -- a view bolstered by polls -- they haven’t reached
consensus on how far to press that advantage.  The president has yet to indicate his preferred approach.
One administration official described the debate as involving
both strategy and policy as the White House prepares its
options. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss private talks, said there weren’t competing camps with
hardened positions.  Congress returns from a five-week recess Sept. 9 with
government funding and the debt ceiling at the top of the
agenda. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew notified congressional
leaders today that the limit would be reached in mid-October.  Sequestration Replacement  House Speaker John Boehner told his colleagues on a
conference call last week that the across-the-board government
spending cuts will stay in place until Obama proposes a
replacement package.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers of
 Kentucky  is pressing for a one- or two-month extension of
current annual spending levels to fund government operations
after the Oct. 1 start of the new fiscal year, which would have
the budget fight colliding with a vote on the debt ceiling.  White House press secretary Jay Carney repeated that the
administration “will not negotiate” on the debt ceiling.  Complicating the differences over federal spending, a group
of Republicans led by Senators Ted Cruz of  Texas , Marco Rubio of
 Florida  and Mike Lee of Utah say they’re willing to force a
government shutdown unless funding is cut off for the
president’s signature health care law.  Markets Calm  Bond investors have shrugged off such political
confrontations. After months of lawmakers fighting over raising
the nation’s debt limit in 2011, yields on 10-year Treasury
notes declined to 2.61 percent on Aug. 2 of that year, from 3.18
percent on July 1, 2011, and continued to fall to 1.88 percent
at year-end.  The U.S.  10-year yield  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.79 percent at 4:20 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  In recent appearances, the president has put the blame on
“a strong faction” of Republicans who are focused on trying to
block his plans rather than do what’s best for the economy.  “They’re threatening to shut down the government and have
another financial crisis unless, for example, we get rid of the
health care reform that we fought to pass,” he said Aug. 23 in
a speech on higher education costs at Lackawanna College in
 Pennsylvania .  Additional Revenue  Obama is seeking to replace automatic spending cuts with
other reductions and additional revenue. He will oppose efforts
by House Republicans to spare  defense  from further cutbacks at
the expense of domestic programs, such as education, Burwell
said.  “The president has been clear on that point,” she said.  Public opinion may aid the White House. A poll conducted
for Fox News Aug. 3-5 found public approval of congressional
Republicans at 24 percent, with 66 percent of registered voters
saying they disapproved. The poll’s margin of error was plus or
minus three percentage points. The same poll showed Obama’s
approval rating at 42 percent.  The fiscal negotiations are occurred against a backdrop of
shrinking U.S. deficits. The budget shortfall narrowed from more
than 10 percent of the gross domestic product at the end of 2009
to 5.7 percent of GDP for the 12 months ended March 31 -- the
smallest gap in four years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The automatic spending cuts of about $1 trillion over 10
years are equally divided between defense and other domestic,
discretionary programs such Head Start for preschool children.  They were part of  deficit -reduction legislation Congress
passed in 2011 that extended the government’s borrowing
authority, a standoff that brought the U.S. to the brink of
default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  