-- Obama Faces Toughest Foreign Policy Challenge in Syria
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-08-26T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/obama-faces-toughest-foreign-policy-challenge-in-syria.html
President  Barack Obama  faces the
toughest foreign policy dilemma of his administration as he
decides how to respond after concluding that Syria’s regime used
chemical weapons against innocent civilians.  Obama “believes there must be accountability for those who
would use the world’s most heinous weapons against the world’s
most vulnerable people,” Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
today. White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
that Obama “has not made” a decision on what action to take.  The issue is coming to a head after the U.S. and other
nations, including the U.K. and France, concluded that Syrian
forces launched a chemical weapons attack on a Damascus suburb
last week that opposition groups say killed 1,300 people. Obama
previously warned that such action would cross his “red line.”  “Barack Obama’s administration is in a grave predicament,
much of its own making,”  Richard Haass , president of the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in New York, said in  a blog posting 
on the council’s website. “A president of the U.S. cannot say
something crosses a red line and then go on conducting business
as usual.”  Failing to take strong action after calling the use of
chemical weapons a “red line” risks opening the U.S. to
condemnation as toothless and numb to an atrocity while
encouraging Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and allies
to continue committing atrocities.  Cruise Missiles  Ordering cruise-missile strikes or other military action
may embroil the U.S. in another Mideast war with little public
support. Military action also may inadvertently aid the Islamic
extremists allied with al-Qaeda who are battling Assad, trigger
retaliatory terrorist attacks by Assad’s Hezbollah and Iranian
allies and create a backlash elsewhere in an unsettled Muslim
world.  “The reality is he’s going to act,” Aaron  David Miller , a
vice president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in  Washington  and a former Mideast adviser to several
administrations, said of Obama in an interview yesterday.  “It’s just a question of when and what” the president’s
response will be, Miller said, and that depends on what he wants
to achieve -- a limited deterrent or an intervention in support
of the opposition.  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, the ranking Republican on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said today on  MSNBC  that
discussions with White House officials lead him to expect an
“imminent” U.S military response. He predicted a “surgical,
proportional strike against the Assad regime.”  ‘Well Beyond’  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said the U.S.
needs to impose a significant cost on the Assad regime for its
actions.  The U.S. should select targets that “that go well beyond
chemical weapons sites, and that hit at key political and
military” locations, such as Assad’s palace in Damascus, the
headquarters of Syrian intelligence and the secret police,
training centers for Assad’s militias, and the mix of air bases
and ground support facilities that do the most to support Syrian
military operations, he wrote in a report posted today on the
 CSIS website . Further, the U.S. should speed arms to the
moderate rebel factions and set clear “red lines” to constrain
Assad’s future actions, Cordesman wrote.  Standoff Weapons  There’s support for that view among U.S. military and
intelligence officials. The use of standoff weapons alone could
backfire unless it’s accompanied by action taken in concert with
some Muslim nations to strengthen the mainstream Sunni rebels
against both the regime and the radical Islamic allies of al-Qaeda, according to U.S. officials who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  “We should, using standoff weaponry -- without a single
American boot on the ground -- take out the airfields,” fuel
facilities and maintenance facilities and also “provide the
right kind of weapons” to elements of the rebels, U.S.
Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  said today during a
visit to South Korea.  The U.S. Navy has four destroyers on station in the eastern
Mediterranean and probably at least two submarines, all armed
with Tomahawk land-attack missiles, said Christopher Harmer, a
naval analyst at the Institute for the Study of War in
Washington.  Those vessels have a combined inventory of about 200
Tomahawks that could take out buildings, aircraft hangars and
control towers or damage a fleet of airplanes or trucks, he
said. The strikes, if desired, could last “for several weeks”
with the naval forces already positioned in the region, he said.  While no one questions the ability of the U.S. to conduct
such a strike, perhaps with military support from NATO allies
Britain and France, predicting the effect is difficult.  ‘Symbolic Rebuke’  “It’s hard for me to imagine that limited strikes would
matter all that much,” said Brian Katulis, an analyst at the
Center for American Progress in Washington who’s worked in the
 Middle East . While such attacks could serve as a symbolic rebuke
to Assad for his use of chemical weapons, they’re unlikely to
“tip the balance on the ground” in a multisided civil war,
Katulis said in an interview.  An ineffectual strike, said one U.S. official involved in
the administration’s deliberations, would be reminiscent of
former President  Bill Clinton ’s 1998 cruise-missile attacks on
the late al-Qaeda leader  Osama Bin Laden  after his group bombed
two U.S. embassies in East Africa.  Escalation Risk  A danger, the official said, is that a strike could prompt
Assad to escalate his use of chemical or biological weapons if
he concludes he no longer has anything to lose. In that case,
the official said, Obama could have no choice but to escalate
the U.S. role in the Syrian conflict at a time when the American
military is under growing budget pressure, frayed by more than a
decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and trying to turn more
attention to the Asia-Pacific region.  Military action also risks expanding the conflict,  Ian Bremmer , president of the New York-based Eurasia Group, said
today on  Bloomberg Surveillance .  “There may well be blowback and I don’t just mean from the
Syrian government calling for attacks against the U.S.,” he
said. “The Iranians have already said this will lead to a
direct explosion across the Middle East.”  Obama, who first won the White House on a pledge to end
U.S. involvement in an unpopular war in Iraq and is now seeking
to withdraw American combat troops from Afghanistan by the end
of next year, made clear last week his reluctance to attack
Syria.  Difficult Interventions  “Sometimes what we’ve seen is folks will call for
immediate action, jumping into stuff that does not turn out
well, gets us mired in very difficult situations, can result in
us being drawn in to very expensive, difficult, costly
interventions that actually breed more resentment in the
region,” Obama said in an interview with  CNN .  The president, who has virtually ruled out putting U.S.
troops on the ground in Syria and has indicated he’s leery of
creating a no-fly zone over the country, emphasized the need to
build an international coalition for any military action. While
administration officials said Russia remains likely to veto any
United Nations resolution calling for military action, a smaller
coalition came a step closer to reality yesterday as leaders
from the U.S., U.K., France and Germany conferred privately on
options.  The Syrian government has denied using chemical weapons,
while pledging to cooperate with a UN review.  Royal Navy  The U.K. government plans to decide tomorrow whether to
recall Parliament and seek approval for taking action, according
to the prime minister’s office. Royal Navy ships were being
prepared to participate in possible cruise-missile strikes that
could start within days, the Telegraph in the U.K. reported
yesterday, citing unidentified government officials.  “Is it possible to respond without complete agreement on
the  Security Council ? I would argue yes it is,”  U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said on BBC Radio 4.  Another U.S. official said that despite the White House
statement accusing the regime of using chemical weapons,
questions remain about what chemicals were used and whether
Assad or some lower-ranking official ordered the attack.  Critics such as Stephen Walt, a professor of international
relations at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government,
said military intervention in Syria would be a mistake.  “Destroying what remains of the Syria government will
create a failed state and end up empowering groups that are
deeply hostile to the United States,” Walt said in an
interview.  ‘Indefinite Draw’  Edward Luttwak, a senior associate at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, said any push for a victory
by rebel forces could be as dangerous to U.S. interests as it
would be to the Assad regime.  “Extremist groups, some identified with al-Qaeda, have
become the most effective fighting force in Syria,” Luttwak
wrote in an opinion column for the New York Times. “If those
rebel groups manage to win, they would almost certainly try to
form a government hostile to the United States.”  Luttwak said the only suitable course for the U.S. among
bad options is to support “an indefinite draw” between Assad
and the rebels in which neither side can gain power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  