-- Obama Climate Plan No War on Coal Says Energy Secretary
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-08-26T19:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/obama-climate-plan-no-war-on-coal-says-energy-secretary.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
combat climate change is not, as critics allege, a “war on
coal,” says U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz.  In June, Obama outlined policies to lower U.S. pollution
blamed for global warming, including limits on emissions from
new and existing coal-fired power plants. The announcement drew
fire from coal producers and lawmakers from coal-producing
states.  “This action has been applauded by many as the most
significant step the president can take to reduce carbon
emissions,” Moniz said in a speech at  Columbia University  in
New York. “This directive has also been derided by some as an
action that is tantamount to a ‘war on coal.’ Quite the
contrary, it is preparing the way for coal to have potentially a
place in the low-carbon world.”  The administration has said it would revamp an $8 billion
federal loan-guarantee program to help companies reduce their
carbon dioxide emissions.  Obama is seeking  government investment  in technology to
make fossil fuels, including coal, burn cleaner, he said. The
new plan expands eligibility for federal loans to proposals that
reduce emissions from oil and gas drilling, and for energy-efficiency efforts such as capturing waste heat from large
industrial facilities to make electricity. Clean-coal projects
also remain eligible for aid.  Energy Diversity  Obama has described his  energy policy  as “all of the
above,” meaning a variety of energy sources, both conventional
and unconventional, will be used.  “‘All of the above’ means we will invest in the
technology, research, development and demonstration so that all
of our energy sources can be enabled as marketplace competitors
in a low-carbon energy world,” Moniz said.  In Obama’s first presidential term, carbon pollution fell
as a depressed economy led Americans to drive less and low
natural gas prices prompted utilities to shutter carbon-heavy
coal plants, and burn gas for electricity.  This year, coal use and  carbon emissions  are up -- and
forecast to grow in the years ahead, jeopardizing Obama’s 2009
pledge to cut  greenhouse gases  17 percent by 2020.  The U.S. had been on a path to reaching Obama’s goal, with
emissions last year down more than 12 percent from the peak in
2007, the steepest drop since the oil crisis of the late 1970s.
Since 2006, no other country has cut its total carbon pollution
by as much as the U.S., according to Obama.  Coal Power  The share of coal-fired electricity fell to 35 percent of
total generation last year, from 49 percent in 2007, while the
share of natural-gas generation hit 30 percent. Burning coal
produces twice the carbon-dioxide emissions as natural gas.  Through June, coal’s share of energy production is up to 39
percent, and natural gas is down to 26 percent as its price has
risen, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Emissions are now forecast to grow by 2.5 percent this year, and
continue on a course of steady growth through 2040.  That projection has environmentalists worried. Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution have led to a
warming of the Earth’s temperature over the past 50 years,
threatening to worsen forest fires, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.  “I am not here to debate what’s not debatable,” Moniz
said referring to the scientific consensus around  climate
change . “We will focus on doing all that we can with current
administrative authorities.”  Gas Boom  Moniz also noted that the U.S. natural gas boom has played
a major role in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions. That boom in
gas production has been enabled by hydraulic fracturing, a
drilling technique that has been blamed for water pollution.  “If you look at each of the issues with fracking, well
completions, surface water management, methane emissions, they
are manageable in the sense that one knows what one has to do,”
Moniz said. “They’re not always managed so that’s where it is
absolutely essential to have the best practices all the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  