-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Trades Near Highest Level in Four Days
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-08-26T14:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/top-oil-market-news-wti-trades-near-highest-level-in-four-days.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Crude Trades Near Four-Day High Amid Economic Recovery Signs  West Texas Intermediate crude traded near a four-day high
amid signs of economic recovery in Europe and speculation that
western governments may launch a military intervention in  Syria .
Brent’s premium to WTI narrowed.  TOP OIL NEWS  Libya Says Oil Exports From Brega Resume as Protests Ease  Libyan oil exports resumed from Brega, one of four ports
where force majeure was declared last week, as protests that
have shut the facilities since the end of July eased, according
to officials in Tripoli.  Oil Speculators Sell as September Slump Looms: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on crude for a fourth
consecutive week before a seasonal lull that has curbed fuel use
each September for the past 21 years.  Libya Using 40% Oil Refining Capacity as Protests Reduce Supply  North African nation is operating three refineries with
combined capacity of 150,000 bbl/day, National Oil Corp.
Measurement Director Ibrahim Al Awami says in phone interview
from Tripoli.  Primorsk September Urals Exports to Jump 25% to High Since May  Russia plans to export more than 1 million barrels a day of
Urals crude oil from the port of Primorsk for the first time
since May, according to a preliminary loading program.  Tropical Storm Fernand Forecast to Weaken to Depression Today  Storm about 60 miles (97 km) northwest of Veracruz, Mexico,
with maximum sustained winds of 45 mph, U.S. National Hurricane
Center says in advisory at 4 a.m. central time today.  CNPC, Petrobras Discuss Cooperation Terms on Pre-Salt Oil Fields  Petrobras introduced cooperation conditions for CNPC on
pre-salt fields, CNPC says in newsletter posted on website
today.  Sinopec Beats PetroChina as Refining Turnaround Helps Profit (2)  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest refiner,
posted a 24 percent increase in first-half net income after its
refining business returned to profit, outperforming PetroChina
Co.  Pemex Debt Ballooning to Record Swells Bond Risk: Mexico Credit  Concern that Mexico’s push to end Petroleos Mexicanos’s 75-year-old monopoly will fail to keep the oil producer from
boosting debt to a record $64 billion is raising its relative
 default risk  to a four-year high.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  HPCL Runs Vizag Refinery at Lower Rate After Fire Kills Eight  Hindustan Petroleum Corp., India’s third-largest state
refiner, is operating its Visakhapatnam plant at 50 to 70
percent of total capacity after a fire Aug. 23 that killed eight
workers.  Venezuela’s Amuay Refinery Explosion Caused by Sabotage: Maduro  Venezuela President  Nicolas Maduro  speaks on state
television.  Tesoro Golden Eagle Refinery Said to Plan October Unit Shutdown  Tesoro Corp. will shut a production unit at the Golden
Eagle refinery in October for repairs that are expected to last
several weeks, two people familiar with the schedule said.  Tesoro Says No Impact to North Dakota Refinery From Emissions  Emissions from Tesoro’s Mandan, North Dakota refinery
earlier today caused no impact to operations, spokeswoman Tina
Barbee said in an e-mail.  More: BP Whiting to Shut Pipestill for 30 Days, IIR Energy Says  BP Whiting to shut 75,000-barrel-a-day crude unit known as
Pipestill 11A for 30 days of repairs starting third week of
September, according to IIR Energy, a Sugarland, Texas, energy
information provider.  New York Gasoline Strongest in Six Months on Irving FCC Shutdown  Gasoline on the northeastern U.S. spot market strengthened
to the smallest discount to futures in six months after Canada’s
largest refinery shut a fuel production unit.  Crack Narrowest in 5 Months, Shell Buys Gasoline: Asia Naphtha  Naphtha discount to Brent crude at narrowest in more than
five months. Shell, Vitol buy gasoline cargoes in Singapore.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Asia Gasoil Crack Falls,  Fuel Oil  Discount Widens: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s premium falls to lowest in more than three
months, indicating reduced profit from producing the middle
distillate product. Fuel oil crack weakens.  Crude Stockpiles Rise in Europe Oil-Trading Hub, Genscape Says  Crude inventories rose 4.7 percent in Amsterdam, Rotterdam
and Antwerp in the week ended Aug. 16, according to estimates
from Genscape Inc. for northwest Europe’s oil-storage hub.  Socar Said to Buy Fuel Oil From BPCL at Discount of $13 to $14  State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan  bought as much as 40,000 metric
tons of fuel oil from Bharat Petroleum Corp., said two traders
who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 2.2 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan rose 2.2 percent to 10.36 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  ONGC Said to Plan $2.6 Billion Purchase of Anadarko Gas Stake  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy explorer,
plans to pay about $2.6 billion to buy Anadarko Petroleum
Corp.’s stake in a Mozambique  gas field , two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Egypt Brotherhood’s Leaders on Trial Amid Crackdown on Group (2)  The trial of the supreme guide of Egypt’s Muslim
Brotherhood and two of his deputies on charges of inciting
violence started in their absence as the Islamist group faces
its toughest crackdown in over three decades.  U.S. Natural Gas Futures Rebound After Biggest Drop in Two Weeks  Natural gas futures rose the third time in four days after
the biggest decline in two weeks.  ONGC May Raise Overseas Debt for $2.64 Billion Africa Purchase  ONGC Videsh Ltd., a unit of India’s biggest energy
explorer, will probably raise debt overseas to fund its entire
$2.64 billion purchase of a 10 percent stake in a Mozambique gas
field from Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  Russia Offers Fukushima Cleanup Help as Tepco Reaches Out (1)  Russia repeated an offer first made two years ago to help
Japan clean up its accident-ravaged Fukushima nuclear station,
welcoming Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s decision to seek outside
help.  Faulty Tank at Fukushima Had Been Dismantled, Moved, Tepco Says  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said a tank that leaked highly
radioactive water at its damaged Fukushima nuclear plant is one
of three that had been dismantled and moved, adding it has yet
to determine if that caused the seepage.  RWE to Start Gundremmingen-B Reactor in Germany Tomorrow  RWE brings forward start of Gundremmingen-B nuclear reactor
in Germany by two days to tomorrow from Aug. 29 previously, co.
says on website.  ONGC May Raise Entire $2.6b for Mozambique Deal From Overseas  ONGC videsh hasn’t taken a final decision on funding
Mozambique acquisition, Managing Director D.K. Sarraf says in
interview with Bloomberg TV India.  OTHER MARKETS  Europe Stocks Fall as S&P 500 Futures Erase Gains, Crops Climb  European stocks fell for the first time in three days as
investors weighed the outlook for central bank stimulus. U.S.
equity-index futures erased earlier gains, crops led commodities
higher and India’s rupee weakened.  Dollar Falls Versus Yen Before U.S. Durable Goods; Rupee Slides  The dollar weakened for the first time in four days against
the yen before a U.S. government report that economists said
will show durable goods orders declined in July.  Euro Seen Snapping Advance on Fed Tapering Bets: Market Reversal  The euro’s rally to a six-month high after the trading bloc
emerged from its longest-ever recession is set to reverse,
trading patterns show, as the impact of the stronger economy is
overwhelmed by the U.S. paring stimulus.  Hedge Fund Gold Bets at Six-Month High After Rally: Commodities  Hedge funds and other speculators raised bets on higher
 gold prices  to the most in six months as signs of slowing U.S.
growth drove bullion above $1,400 an ounce for the first time
since June.  Multiples Growing Fastest Since Dot-Com Bubble as Rally Ages (1)  Price gains of stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
are outpacing profits by the fastest rate in 14 years as the
 bull market  extends beyond the average length of rallies since
Harry S. Truman was president.  Rubber Enters Bull Market as Recovery in China Boosts Demand  Rubber capped a two-month rally in Tokyo to enter a bull
market as a weaker yen and signs that  China’s economy  is
regaining strength boosted demand for the commodity used in
tires.  Rubber on Tokyo Commodities Exchange Advances Into Bull Market  Tocom rubber futures enter bull market almost five months
after slumping into a  bear market .  World Powers Call for Syria Action as UN Probes Allegations (1)  World leaders from Washington to Istanbul denounced what
they said was the use of chemical weapons by Syrian President
Bashar Al-Assad and called for action even as United Nations
inspectors began a probe of the allegations.  Prosecutors Seek Severe Punishment as Bo Xilai’s Trial Ends (1)  Ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai deserves severe punishment
because he refused to admit guilt on bribery, embezzlement and
abuse of power charges, Chinese prosecutors said as his trial
ended today.  SPORTS  Federer Betrayed by Serve in Bid to Match Agassi as Champ at 32  Roger Federer  enters the U.S. Open with his lowest seeding
since 2002, hitting fewer aces and struggling with service
returns as he tries to add to the lone Grand Slam championship
he has won in the past 3 1/2 years.  Sanchez to Miss Jets’ Preseason Finale as Vegas Books Move Line  Quarterback  Mark Sanchez  will miss the  New York  Jets’ final
preseason game with a right shoulder injury, prompting some Las
Vegas sportsbooks to adjust the betting line on the team’s
regular-season opener.  Scott Rallies to Win First PGA Tour Playoff Event by One Stroke  Adam Scott  said he received “a bit of a gift” after
erasing a six-shot final-round deficit and holding on for a one-stroke win at golf’s Barclays, the first of the U.S. PGA Tour’s
four playoff events.  Red Sox Hand Dodgers First Baseball Series Loss Since Mid-June  The  Boston Red Sox  become the first team in more than two
months to win a Major League Baseball series against the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  as Jake Peavy pitched a complete-game three-hitter.  ENERGY PRICES  Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- -------- WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
106.46  +0.04  +0.0  Nymex     Oct.  Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)
110.81  -0.23  -0.2    ICE     Oct. Gasoil ($/Ton)
942.00  -1.00  -0.1    ICE     Oct. Gasoline (c/Gal)
300.03  -0.69  -0.2  Nymex    Sept. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)
3.54  +0.06  +1.6  Nymex    Sept. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.77
-0.15  -0.1    OTC  21 Days Heating Oil            308.53  -0.97
 -0.3  Nymex    Sept. Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- ----- Dollar Index            81.44  +0.1 Gold ($/Oz)  1,395.80  +1.8 MSCI World Index     1,505.94  -0.2
Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  