-- Bolivian Fugitive’s Flight Topples Brazil’s Foreign Minister
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-27T17:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/morales-foe-flees-from-bolivia-escorted-by-a-brazilian-diplomat.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
replaced her foreign minister after a diplomat acknowledged
helping an outspoken opponent of  Bolivia ’s president flee the
country, where he’s wanted on corruption charges, following a
13-month standoff.  Antonio Patriota, a career diplomat, resigned after a
meeting with Rousseff to discuss the incident, which has
strained relations between  Latin America ’s largest economy and
one of the region’s poorest nations. He was replaced by Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, who is currently Brazil’s ambassador to the
 United Nations  in  New York .  Patriota came under fire after Senator Roger Pinto over the
weekend abandoned Brazil’s Embassy in  La Paz , where he took
refuge in May 2012 to escape what he said were death threats for
denouncing alleged ties between drug traffickers and  Evo Morales ’ government. He was shuttled to the border in an embassy
vehicle by a Brazilian diplomat who said he acted without his
superiors’ consent out of humanitarian concerns.  “If Patriota had been in command this wouldn’t have
happened,”  David Fleischer , a Brasilia-based political
scientist, said in a phone interview, adding that the foreign
minister had been advised several times about Pinto’s worsening
health without responding. “Instead he stuck his head in the
sand like an ostrich.”  Humanitarian Motive  Rousseff, like most Brazilians, was only informed that
Pinto had left the embassy in La Paz once Pinto crossed the
border following a nearly 24-hour road journey from the Bolivian
capital in the Andes.  While  Brazil  granted Pinto asylum over a year ago, his safe
passage out of the country was being blocked by Morales’
government, which argued he was trying to evade prosecution on
corruption charges stemming from his time as governor of Pando
state.  “I deeply regret that someone granted asylum by Brazil was
exposed to such danger,” Rousseff told reporters today in
Brasilia.  Brazil’s charge d’affaires in La Paz, Eduardo Saboia, said
he acted to save Pinto’s life as he watched how the lawmaker’s
455-day isolation took its toll on his physical and mental
health. Repeated pleas for help to his superiors in Brasilia
went unanswered, he said.  “I chose to protect a person, someone who is being
persecuted politically, just like President Rousseff was
persecuted,” Saboia said yesterday in Brasilia, referring to
the Brazilian leader’s jailing by the country’s 1964-1985
military dictatorship.  Rousseff’s Response  A visibly angered Rousseff today rejected the comparison.  “I was in the DOI-CODI, I know what it was like,” said
Rousseff, referring to the dungeon-like jail where she and other
political prisoners were held in Sao Paulo during the
dictatorship. “I can assure you that it’s as different from the
Brazilian Embassy in La Paz as heaven is from hell.”  Bolivian authorities said yesterday they’ll continue to
seek his arrest and extradition. Foreign Minister David Choquehuanca also demanded Brazil explain how he was allowed to
leave the embassy under diplomatic cover, though he stopped
short of saying the incident would damage relations.  “What happened is serious, which is why we’re demanding
explanations from Brazil,” Choquehuanca said at a news
conference in La Paz.  Honduran Redux?  The standoff over Pinto recalled another diplomatic
quagmire Brazil faced in 2009 when former Honduran President
 Manuel Zelaya  was holed up for five months in the country’s
embassy in Tegucigalpa, while trying to regain power following
his removal in a military coup.  Zelaya eventually left the embassy, and took exile in the
 Dominican Republic  as part of a deal negotiated with his elected
successor, Porfirio Lobo.  Patriota had tried to quell the dispute by recalling Saboia
and vowing to take any necessary disciplinary action. His
efforts were to no avail, and despite having served as Brazil’s
chief diplomat since Rousseff took office in 2011, his lack of a
close relationship with the president made him expendable, said
Paulo Sotero, director of the Brazil Institute at the Woodrow
Wilson Center in  Washington .  As part of the Foreign Ministry shakeup, Patriota will
continue representing Brazil by taking over Figueiredo’s job at
Brazil’s mission to the UN. Figueiredo, who has also served in
Paris and Washington, last year helped Rousseff organize the Rio
+ 20 environmental conference, the biggest gathering in the UN’s
history.  “Patriota is a well-trained diplomat, he’s a talented guy,
but he was never part of Dilma’s inner circle,” Sotero said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo . “Figueiredo has the most important
thing that Patriota lacks, which is the confidence of his
boss.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  