-- Durable-Goods Drop Imperils Outlook for U.S. GDP Pickup
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-08-26T20:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-fell-more-than-forecast-in-july.html
Orders for durable goods dropped in
July by the most in almost a year, calling into question the
strength of the projected pickup in U.S. growth.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years fell
7.3 percent, the first decrease in four months and the biggest
since August 2012, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . The retreat was broad-based, with demand excluding
the volatile transportation category unexpectedly falling.  The figures signal business investment was off to a slow
start in the third quarter just as housing, a mainstay of the
expansion, shows signs of cooling. Demand for military gear also
declined last month, highlighting the risk that  federal budget 
cuts will continue to slow the world’s biggest economy in the
second half of the year.  “Growth will stay moderate,” said Michael Gapen, a senior
U.S. economist in New York, at Barclays Plc, who forecast non-transportation orders would drop. “The fiscal drag will last
longer.” Barclays cut its tracking estimate for growth this
quarter to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent after the report.  Stocks dropped after comments by Secretary of State  John
Kerry  raised concern tensions in the Middle East will bubble
over. Kerry said President  Barack Obama  will hold  Syria ’s
government accountable for the “moral obscenity” of using
chemical weapons.  Stocks Drop  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,656.78 at the close in New York, erasing earlier gains as
investors speculated the disappointing durable-goods data may
prompt Federal Reserve policy makers to take more measured steps
in reducing how much monetary stimulus they pump into financial
markets.  Elsewhere, sentiment may be picking up. Economic confidence
in the euro area probably rose in August to the highest level in
17 months, adding to signs that the currency bloc’s recovery
from a record-long recession is gathering pace, economists
projected a report from the European Commission will show on
Aug. 30.  The median  forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 4 percent drop in U.S. orders for durable goods.
Estimates ranged from a drop of 8.2 percent to a 3 percent gain.
Bookings rose 3.9 percent in June.  The median reflected a projected slump in demand for
commercial aircraft that reflected previously released figures
from  Boeing Co. (BA)  The Chicago-based plane maker had said it
received orders for 90 aircraft in July, down from 287 the
previous month.  Aircraft Bookings  Today’s figures showed bookings for commercial aircraft
decreased 52.3 percent after climbing 33.8 percent in June.  The setback last month proved to be more broad-based than
economists estimated with bookings also falling for items such
as computers and appliances. Orders  excluding transportation 
equipment declined 0.6 percent after a 0.1 percent gain in June.  Bookings for military equipment decreased 21.7 percent last
month after a 28.7 percent jump in June.  Demand for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment in computers, electronics
and other equipment,  fell 3.3 percent  in July, the biggest
decrease in five months. The drop followed consecutive gains
since March, meaning the three-month average climbed to a 12.8
percent annualized pace from 8.9 percent in June, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Investment Outlook  Shipments of those products, a measure used in calculating
gross domestic product, declined 1.5 percent after falling 0.8
percent in June. The setback indicates business investment was
gaining little traction at the start of the third quarter.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest maker of networking
equipment, said Aug. 14 that global sales have been weaker,
prompting the company to announce plans to reduce its workforce
by about 5 percent.  “Last quarter, I described a continued slow recovery, and
I haven’t seen anything to suggest that this dynamic will change
in the short term,”  John Chambers , chairman and chief executive
officer at  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said on a
conference call. “This recovery is more mixed and inconsistent
than others I’ve seen.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.7 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after a 1.1 percent gain the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures show. The economy has grown
at an average 2.2 percent quarterly pace since the recession
ended June 2009.  Growth Forecast  Growth is projected to pick up in the second half of the
year, climbing 2.3 percent in the this quarter and 2.6 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists from Aug. 2 to Aug. 6.  One of the bright spots in the report was a gain in demand
for motor vehicles. Orders for automobiles and parts increased
0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in June. Cars and light
trucks  sold  at a 15.7 million annualized rate in July and 15.8
million the prior month, the strongest back-to-back readings
since late 2007, according to figures from Ward’s Automotive
Group.  In a sign production will be sustained, the backlog of
orders to factories increased 0.4 percent in July after surging
2.1 percent. Unfilled orders for non-military capital goods
excluding transportation equipment climbed 1.1 percent last
month following a 1.8 percent advance.  Building Backlogs  “Either orders get canceled as the corporate sector loses
confidence in recovery or the orders get filled as confidence
continues to build,” Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economist at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York , said in a research
note. “We are sticking with the latter.” Dutta lowered his
tracking GDP forecast to 2.4 percent from 2.8 percent after
today’s report.  Fed officials are considering when to start reining in $85
billion of monthly asset purchases that have swelled the central
bank’s balance sheet to $3.65 trillion. At the Kansas City Fed’s
annual symposium last week, central bankers rebuffed
international calls to take the threat of fallout in  emerging
markets  into account when tapering monetary stimulus.  Higher borrowing costs show signs of cooling the
residential real estate market that has helped boost growth.
Purchases of  new U.S. homes  plunged last month by the most since
May 2010, Commerce Department data showed last week.  The  interest rate  on a 30-year fixed home loan climbed to
4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22, according to data
compiled by  Freddie Mac . The benchmark gauge for home financing
rose from a record-low 3.31 percent in November and posted its
biggest-ever quarterly gain of 25 percent from April to June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  