-- OTC Derivatives Rules’ Benefits Outweigh Costs, Basel Group Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-08-26T09:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/otc-derivatives-rules-benefits-outweigh-costs-basel-group-says.html
Tougher rules for trading in over-the-counter derivatives will deliver economic benefits that
outweigh the costs they impose on banks, a study found.  A group of supervisors and central bankers set up by the
 Bank for International Settlements  estimated that when
regulators have stricter standards in place, they will boost
global economic output by 0.12 percent per year and the
potential for financial crises will be reduced.  Regulators and banks should try to have the largest number
of derivatives trades as possible pass though clearinghouses,
the group said in a statement today. The market for OTC
derivatives, which are traded away from exchanges and other
regulated venues, should be based around a “modest number” of
clearinghouses, the Basel, Switzerland-based said.  Nations are trying to bolster and align their rules for the
 $633 trillion  market for swaps and other OTC derivatives, which
became a target for reinforced oversight after the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps. Global regulatory plans include boosting the use
of clearinghouses, pushing activity onto regulated markets and
requiring banks to put up more collateral against their trades.  “While these reforms have clear benefits, they do entail
costs,” the group said in the report. “Requiring OTC
derivatives users to hold more high-quality, low-yielding assets
as collateral lowers their income. Similarly, holding more
capital means switching from lower-cost debt to higher-cost
equity financing. As a consequence, institutions may pass on
higher costs to the broader economy in the form of increased
prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  