-- Tottenham Agrees to Sell Bale for $134 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-26T05:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/tottenham-agrees-to-sell-bale-for-134-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale Deal Agreed  Gareth Bale is free to join Real  Madrid  after Tottenham
Hotspur agreed to the world-record 100 million-euro ($134
million) sale of the Wales winger, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The agreement involves a straight cash deal with no players
moving to Spurs from the Spanish club and an official
announcement may be made tomorrow, the newspaper added.  Bale is in Malaga and will travel to Madrid for a medical
and to sign a six-year contract said to be worth 8.5 million
pounds ($13.2 million) a year before tax, the Telegraph said.  Hulk Bid  Tottenham is preparing a 30 million-pound bid for Zenit St.
Petersburg striker Hulk and has 26 million-pound deal in place
to sign Roma forward Erik Lamela, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs also agreed on a fee of 7.5 million pounds with
Steaua Bucharest for defender Vlad Chiriches, resurrecting a
move that broke down earlier this month, the Mirror added.  New Cabaye Bid  Arsenal will this week raise its offer for Newcastle United
midfielder Yohan Cabaye to 17 million pounds after having a 10
million-pound bid rejected, the  Daily Express reported .  If a deal for Cabaye cannot be completed, Arsenal may bid
for Real Madrid’s German midfielder Mesut Ozil, who has been
made available for about 38 million pounds, the Express added.  Mourinho Blames Moyes  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  said  Wayne Rooney ’s desire to
leave  Manchester United  is  David Moyes ’s fault for suggesting
the striker would be a second-choice player this season, the
 Guardian reported .  The Blues remain determined to sign Rooney even after
having two bids rejected and will wait until after today’s
Premier League match between the teams before making a third
offer, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  