-- Pimco to Manulife See Won Bond Gains on Inflows: Korea Markets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-08-26T01:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/pimco-to-manulife-see-won-bond-gains-on-inflows-korea-markets.html
Investors dumping emerging market
bonds have added $11.5 billion to holdings in South  Korea  in six
straight months of purchases, taking advantage of an improving
economy and the region’s best-performing currency.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s biggest bond fund, expects yields to drop because of low
inflation and inflows from global investors. Korean debt is the
largest holding in Manulife Asset Management’s Asian fund.
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. sees the won appreciating
1.2 percent by the year-end after climbing 2.2 percent this
quarter. Emerging-market funds had $44 billion of outflows since
the end of May, EPFR Global said on Aug. 23.  “As investors seek to achieve more balanced allocations,
there will be interest by foreign investors in emerging local
bond markets,” Ramin Toloui, co-head of  emerging markets 
portfolio management at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco,
said in an interview in Singapore last week. “This is
particularly true in the case of Korea, given its size,
importance in the global economy, and high  credit quality .”  The won appreciated this quarter as President Park Geun Hye
oversaw the region’s only budget surplus, a balance of payments
stronger than  China ’s and the lowest sovereign bond risk outside
 Japan . Asia’s fourth-largest economy is less vulnerable to the
Federal Reserve paring stimulus since it has lower foreign
ownership of its debt than  Indonesia  and  Malaysia . Yields on
South Korea’s two-year notes rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, this year. Those for Indonesia jumped 319.  ‘Superior Fundamentals’  “Korean bonds are behaving more like developed markets,”
said Neal Capecci, a managing director for fixed income in Hong
Kong at Manulife Asset, which oversees $43 billion of bonds in
the region. “In the times of stress we are seeing now, some
Asian markets are behaving better than others, and Korea is one
of the markets that are performing well. Economic fundamentals
of Korea are superior.”  Gross domestic product will grow 4 percent next year, the
fastest pace since 2010 and accelerate from an estimated 2.8
percent this year, the  Bank of Korea  forecast in July. Policy
makers introduced a 17.3 trillion won ($15.4 billion)
supplementary budget and cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 2.5 percent in May to aid the economy.  The central bank estimated a record $53 billion current-account surplus and lowered its inflation estimate to 1.7
percent, below its target range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent.
The won has gained 4.5 percent to 1,113.15 in  Seoul  today from a
one-year low on June 25, as the  Indian rupee  plunged 5.8 percent
and Indonesia’s dropped rupiah 9.5 percent.  Capital Outflows  Park, whose approval rating reached more than 60 percent
according to a poll by the Maeil Business Newspaper this month,
faces soaring demand for welfare and record household debt. The
government also needs to act swiftly should financial-market
volatility rise when the Fed trims its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases, the  finance ministry  said in an Aug. 21
statement.  “The Korean market could be affected a lot by what’s
happening in the U.S.,” said Wee-Ming Ting, head of Asian fixed
income in Singapore at Pictet Asset Management, which oversees
$28 billion. “U.S. yields are heading higher and that could
mean Korean government yields are heading higher.”  The 10-year government  yield  climbed 88 basis points since
April 30 to 3.66 percent. Similar-maturity Treasury yields
touched a two-year high of 2.93 percent on Aug. 22 and rose 121
basis points from a five-month low on May 1.  Pimco, Schroder  Pimco’s Toloui said weak domestic demand will keep
inflation expectations and yields in check. Rajeev  De Mello , the
Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Schroder, said
stable global  commodity prices  will help exporters, while
allowing the central bank to leave interest rates unchanged.  “If we see a bit of a recovery in the U.S., as we’ve seen,
a bit of a recovery in China as well as the region, Korea will
benefit,” said De Mello, who manages $10 billion and expects
the won to strengthen past 1,100 per dollar by the year-end and
the 10-year yield to fall to around 3.5 percent. “I’m
moderately positive on Korean bonds. Institutional investors are
still looking to diversify.”  Global investors own 18 percent of the nation’s bond
market, compared with 50 percent for Malaysia and 33 percent in
Indonesia, according to a July report from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Central banks comprise 41 percent of the holdings, it said,
making the won less vulnerable to outflows as the Fed tapers.  Central Banks  The Bank of Thailand has held Korean notes in the past few
years, Deputy Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said in an Aug. 16
interview.  Norway , which has the world’s biggest sovereign
wealth fund, ranked top in the list of net buyers in 2012 with
3.5 trillion won of investment, according to the Financial
Supervisory Service in Seoul.  Overseas funds have  bought  12.8 trillion won more local
debt than they sold in the past six months, the longest run of
net purchases since August, 2011, official data show.  Franklin
Templeton ’s global bond fund boosted Korean securities by 11.4
percent in the second quarter to 11.65 trillion won, or 15.4
percent of its assets, its biggest country allocation, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Templeton officials weren’t
available to comment, said Mae Loon, a spokeswoman in Singapore.  “In the face of the tapering outlook, Korean bonds and the
won are likely to outperform countries such as Indonesia, India
and Malaysia,” said Capecci at Manulife. “The bond market
itself is more liquid, the currency is less volatile and the
investor base is more committed.”  Trading Volumes  The Korean  debt market , Asia’s third-biggest, was valued at
$1.4 trillion as June 30 and is the region’s second most active,
according to the  Asian Development Bank . A measure of  liquidity ,
the ratio of  government bonds  traded in March to the amount of
notes outstanding, was 1.09 for Korea, compared with  Hong Kong ’s
1.55 and Japan’s 1.06, ADB said.  Credit-default swaps insuring the nation’s debt against
non-payment dropped six basis points this quarter to 85 after
two quarters of increases, according to CMA prices. That
compares with 114 for China, whose sovereign debt is rated by
Moody’s Investors Service at Aa3, the same as Korea.  Korea’s budget surplus is 1.8 percent of gross domestic
product, versus a deficit of 5.9 percent for India and a 4.8
percent shortfall for Malaysia, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mirae Asset Global Investments, which oversees $50 billion,
has sold Indian and Indonesian debt in the past three months and
is waiting for the Fed to taper before buying South Korean
notes, according to Will Tseng, a trader in Taipei for the
Seoul-based  fund manager .  “We would like to wait until September or October to
buy,” Tseng said. “The fundamentals support currency strength.
For bonds, I’m betting on the government credit. It is a healthy
and strong government with a growing economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  