-- Potash Discount of 10% Said to Be Negotiated in Brazil
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-08-27T16:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/potash-discount-of-10-said-to-be-negotiated-in-brazil.html
Potash is being negotiated in Brazil
at a discount of as much as a 10 percent on July prices by  Soc.
Quimica & Minera de Chile SA ,  Latin America ’s biggest fertilizer
producer, said two people with direct knowledge of the process.  SQM is negotiating with Brazilian buyers to sell the crop
nutrient at $360 to $385 a metric ton, said one of the people.
Plant Bem Fertilizantes SA, based in the southern farming state
of Parana, may pay SQM $375 to $380 a ton for a 15,000-ton
shipment, from $400 to $415 last month, said the other person.
Both asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  The prospective transactions indicate prices have “drifted
little” since Russia’s OAO Uralkali announced July 30 an end of
production restrictions and predicted the crop nutrient would
sink below $300 a ton,  Brazil ’s Grupo BTG Pactual said today in
a note to clients. Uralkali may have charged $370 to $380 a ton
to Brazilian customers, undercutting rivals charging $390 to
$400 a ton, Argus FMB said Aug. 23.  An external public relations representative for Santiago-based SQM didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment and
didn’t answer phone calls. Plant Bem executives declined to
comment on the company’s fertilizer purchases, an assistant said
by phone from Maringa, Brazil.  CEO Detained  Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, quit the
joint venture with Belarus last month over a dispute about
foreign sales. Belarus officials detained Uralkali Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner after inviting him to
Minsk for talks.  South America  will be the first major farming region to
enter its planting season since the Eastern European venture’s
collapse. Brazilian soybean growers, which use potash to boost
crop yields, next month will start planting a record 88.4
million-ton crop, researcher Agroconsult said in its first
forecast for the coming harvest.  Plant Bem imports potash via its port facility in Paranagua
and sells products to fruit, grain and oilseed farmers in
central and southern Brazil.  SQM shares fell 0.3 percent to 13,288 pesos at 9:38 a.m. in
Santiago, extending a year-to-date decline to 52 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  