-- Pritzker Family Agrees to Acquire TMS for $690 Million
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-08-26T14:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/pritzker-family-agrees-to-acquire-tms-for-690-million.html
Chicago’s Pritzker family, owner of
a controlling stake in  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , agreed to acquire
steel mill servicer  TMS International Corp. (TMS)  for $690 million in
cash.  Pritzker Organization LLC, the family’s investment firm,
will pay $17.50 a share for TMS, the companies said today in a
joint statement. The price is 12 percent more than Glassport,
Pennsylvania-based TMS’s closing price on Aug. 23. TMS’s board
unanimously approved the takeover and majority shareholder  Onex
Corp. (OCX) , a Toronto-based private equity firm, agreed to sell its
60 percent stake to the Pritzkers.  TMS is North America’s largest provider of outsourced
services for  steel mills  with 36 office and 81 customer sites
across 12 countries and 36 offices, according to the statement.
The company buys and sells raw materials, transports steel
products and does slag processing and steel surface
conditioning.  “TMS is a leading provider of mill, procurement, and
logistics services to the  steel industry , with an exceptional
management team and a proven track record of delivering value to
its customers,” Tom Pritzker, chairman and chief executive
officer of the Pritzker Organization, said in the statement.  TMS rose 12 percent to $17.41 at 10:25 a.m. in  New York ,
the highest intraday price since it began trading publicly two
years ago. The Class A shares have gained 39 percent this year.
Onex fell 0.4 percent to C$51.63 in Toronto.  Equity Funding  The transaction is valued at about $1 billion when
refinanced third-party debt is included, according to the
statement.  The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter. The
business interests of Tom Pritzker, who also serves as chairman
of Hyatt, and Gigi Pritzker, CEO of film-production company Odd
Lot Entertainment LLC, are providing equity funding. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are the buyer’s
advisers and will provide debt financing for the takeover.  Bank of America Corp. is TMS’s financial adviser and Kaye
Scholer LLP is its legal adviser. Latham & Watkins LLP is legal
adviser for the Pritzkers.  The value of the offer was calculated based on the 39.4
million Class A and Class B TMS shares that are outstanding,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  