-- PZU Jumps as Polish Insurer Discusses Extra Payout: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-08-26T11:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/pzu-jumps-as-polish-insurer-discusses-extra-payout-warsaw-mover.html
PZU SA, Poland’s largest insurer,
headed for the biggest advance in two weeks, as its supervisory
board discusses options to return excess capital to
shareholders.  The  stock  climbed as much as 2.2 percent and traded 1.9
percent higher to 448.5 zloty at 1:09 p.m. in Warsaw. The shares
have gained 2.6 percent this year, while the benchmark WIG20
Index has lost 6 percent.  The  state-controlled  company may pay out dividend from its
excess capital of about 5 billion zloty ($1.58 billion),
according to two people familiar with the proposals who asked
not to be identified. Proposals for the board include dividend
and a share buyback plan, one of the people said.  “In our view the dividend for 2013 will amount to about 5
billion zloty,” Jaromir Szortyka, a Warsaw-based analyst at PKO
Bank Polski SA, said in a note today. “The key question is
whether PZU’s management will decide to pay an interim dividend
this year or make the entire payout to shareholders in 2014.”  An interim dividend is “most probable” and may reach from
20 zloty to 30 zloty a share, Pawel Kozub, an analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Warsaw, said in a note today. “In our view PZU
will present the capital management plan together with its
second-quarter results” tomorrow.  Poland  last week increased its target for 2013 dividends
from companies supervised by the Treasury Ministry to about 6.5
billion zloty from 5 billion zloty as the government seeks cash
to plug a growing budget deficit. The ministry has gained abound
5.5 billion zloty in dividends so far this year, it said in an
e-mail to Bloomberg news on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  