-- Williams Sisters Win at U.S. Open as Federer Is Delayed by Rain
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-08-27T04:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/radwanska-advances-as-u-s-open-starts-under-threat-of-showers.html
Sisters Serena and Venus Williams
lost a total of four games in rolling to first-round wins at the
 U.S. Open  tennis championship, where rain pushed five-time
champion  Roger Federer ’s opening match back a day.  The season’s final Grand Slam tournament started with long
delays for some fans because of tightened security measures at
the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows,  New York . After
wins by the Williams sisters and No. 2 men’s seed  Rafael Nadal ,
the first day ended with an intensifying rain that prevented
Federer from taking the court for the final featured night match
in Arthur Ashe Stadium.  The suspension comes two weeks after the U.S. Tennis
Association, which runs the U.S. Open, announced plans to build
a retractable roof over Ashe -- the largest tennis venue in the
world with 22,000 seats -- that could be in place by the 2016
tournament. Federer, seeded seventh in the men’s draw this year,
will return to the stadium this afternoon for his  first-round
match  against Grega Zemlja of Slovenia.  Top-seeded Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  is in action tonight,
facing Ricardas Berankis of  Lithuania , while No. 5 Tomas Berdych
of the  Czech Republic , No. 10 Milos Raonic of  Canada  and No. 13
John Isner of the U.S. are among the other top men’s seeds
scheduled to play opening-round matches.  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, the women’s No. 6 seed, and
No. 7 Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic will play in Arthur
Ashe Stadium during the day session, while second-seeded
 Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus is scheduled to play tonight’s
final match on the main court.  Williamses Win  Serena Williams, the women’s top seed and defending
champion, won the first 10 games of her match and eased to a
6-0, 6-1 victory against Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , a former
French Open champion. Williams, 31, a 16-time Grand Slam singles
winner, also won the U.S. Open in 1999, 2002 and 2008, and beat
Azarenka for the title a year ago.  Two-time champion Venus Williams, who is not seeded this
year after falling to No. 60 in the world rankings, began her
60th Grand Slam tournament with a 6-1, 6-2 upset of No. 12 seed
Kirsten Flipkens.  Serena Williams  said she was just as pleased
about her sister’s victory as her own.  “I definitely was happy to see Venus win,” said Williams,
who finished her 60-minute match just as raindrops began to fall
last night. “I know she’s been working hard. For her to come
through was just awesome.”  Sloane Stephens, at No. 15 the second-highest American
women’s seed, was forced into a third-set tiebreaker before
defeating Mandy Minella of Luxembourg 4-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5).  “I got off to a really slow start, was nervous, tight,
hands were shaking,” Stephens said. “I managed to play some
good points and, kind of like, get loose.”  Keys Loses  Another American woman, 18-year-old Madison Keys, failed to
make it out of the first round, losing 6-3, 6-4 to ninth-seeded
Jelena Jankovic of Serbia.  Nadal, the 2010 U.S. Open winner from Spain, improved to
16-0 in hard-court matches this season with a 6-4, 6-2, 6-2
victory over American Ryan Harrison. Nadal missed the tournament
a year ago because of a knee injury.  Nadal’s day match was halted for a few minutes by a light
shower that made the court slick, though heavier rain didn’t
move into the area until about 9:30 p.m. local time. With the
 National Weather Service  forecasting several hours of rain and
possible thunderstorms, tournament officials suspended play for
the night before Federer’s match began.  Two men’s matches on secondary courts between unseeded
players were both in the fourth set when play was halted.  Roofs Coming  The USTA said on Aug. 15 that it will have roofs over its
two biggest stadiums within five years, bringing the U.S. Open
in line with the sport’s other three major championships, which
all have covered stadiums or plans to build them.  A retractable roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium is the central
element of a $550 million renovation plan that comes after bad
weather caused scheduling delays at the tournament the past five
years. A new 15,000-seat Louis Armstrong Stadium also will have
a roof by 2018 at the latest, the USTA said.  Before play began yesterday, one of the entry lines
stretched the length of the boardwalk that separates the tennis
center from the  New York Mets ’ Citi Field and the No. 7 line
subway station, about a quarter mile (0.4 kilometer).  Enhanced Security  The long wait was a result of enhanced security measures
this year that include metal detectors. USTA spokesman Chris Widmaier said organizers hope to expedite tennis fans’ entry in
coming days and lines were considerably shorter for yesterday’s
night session.  Widmaier said the USTA was examining tighter security
measures even before the bombings at April’s Boston Marathon,
which left three spectators dead. He said the gates would open a
half-hour earlier today at 9:30 a.m.  Third-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland  and No. 5 seed
Li Na of  China  also won opening-round women’s matches yesterday.
Men’s No. 4 seed  David Ferrer  of Spain and eighth-seeded  Richard Gasquet  of France advanced in straight sets, while Daniel Evans
of Britain, who reached the main draw through the qualifying
rounds, upset 11th-seeded Kei Nishikori of Japan 6-4, 6-4, 6-2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  