-- Red Sox Hand Dodgers First Baseball Series Loss Since Mid-June
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-26T05:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/red-sox-hand-dodgers-first-baseball-series-loss-since-mid-june.html
The Boston Red Sox become the first
team in more than two months to win a Major League Baseball
series against the Los Angeles Dodgers as Jake Peavy pitched a
complete-game three-hitter.  The Red Sox beat the Dodgers 8-1 last night to take two of
three games in the interleague series in Los Angeles.  The victory came on the one-year anniversary of the nine-player trade between the teams in which the Red Sox sent the
Dodgers their three highest-paid players: first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez , pitcher  Josh Beckett  and outfielder  Carl Crawford . It
also put the Red Sox back in first place in the American League
Eastern Division by one game over the Tampa Bay Rays, who lost
to the New York Yankees 3-2 in 11 innings.  The Dodgers, who lead the National League West by 9 1/2
games, failed to win a series for the first time since losing
two of three games in Pittsburgh from June 14 to 16.  The Yankees avoided a three-game series sweep in St.
Petersburg, Florida, yesterday as  Alfonso Soriano  hit a one-out
double in the top of the 11th inning, stole third base and
scored on a sacrifice fly by  Curtis Granderson .  The Detroit Tigers improved their AL-best record to 77-53
by routing the New York Mets 11-3 to complete a three-game
sweep.  Miguel Cabrera  hit his 42nd home run of the season for
the Tigers and now has 10 in his past 19 games.  The Atlanta Braves avoided a fourth straight loss in St.
Louis with a 5-2 victory against the Cardinals. Mike Minor
allowed one run over seven innings for the Braves, who have the
best record in the National League at 78-52.  The Cardinals fell to 76-54 and are tied atop the NL
Central with Pittsburgh, which was shut out 4-0 by the San
Francisco Giants.  Also yesterday,  Roy Halladay  returned to the mound for the
first time in three months and allowed two runs over six innings
in the Philadelphia Phillies’ 9-5 win against the Arizona
Diamondbacks. It was Halladay’s first win since April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  