-- Three Charged With Stealing Flow Traders Trading Software
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-26T05:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/three-charged-with-stealing-flow-traders-trading-software.html
Two men who were employed by  Flow
Traders  were charged in  New York  with stealing the firm’s
electronic trading software by e-mailing it to themselves from
their work accounts.  Glen Cressman, a trader at the New York office of the
Amsterdam-based company, sent e-mails to himself in December
2012 with trading strategies and valuation algorithms, according
to the complaint in state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . He is
charged with two counts each of unlawful duplication of computer
related material and unauthorized use of secret scientific
material, according to copies of a complaint brought by the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  Jason Vuu, a Flow Traders employee until his resignation in
March, was charged with 20 counts of the same offenses. His e-mails were sent from August 2011 to August 2012, and he
sometimes changed the file format of the attachments to make it
difficult to recognize their contents, according to the
complaint.  Vuu is accused by prosecutors of sharing the software code
with Simon Lu, who wasn’t a Flow Traders employee, to create
their own trading company. Lu is charged with three counts each
of unlawful duplication of computer related material and
unauthorized use of secret scientific material.  Code Uncompromised  “I’m confident that when the DA’s office has completed
their investigation they will find Flow Traders did not suffer
any economic loss,” Jeremy Saland, a lawyer for Vuu, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “Their algorithms and code weren’t taken or
used in any malicious way that damaged or compromised their
financial security.”  Charles Ross , a lawyer for Cressman, Paul Shechtman, a
lawyer for Lu, and Joseph DeMarco, a lawyer for Flow Traders,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages yesterday
after regular business hours seeking comment on the charges.  Founded in 2004 in Amsterdam, Flow Traders, has trading
offices in  Singapore  and New York and has specialized in-house
software that responds instantly to information, trading
securities, futures, options, exchange-traded-funds and
commodities, bonds, and foreign exchange instruments, according
to its website.  The complaints were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  