-- Rheinmetall, Atlas Probed for Bribing Greek Officials
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-26T11:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/rheinmetall-atlas-probed-for-bribing-greek-officials.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  and Atlas Elektronik
GmbH, a unit jointly owned by  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and European
Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., were raided as part of a
German probe into allegations of bribery by employees.  The suspects are being investigated over payments to Greek
officials from 1998 to 2011 to win contracts for submarine
equipment, Frank Passade, a spokesman for the prosecutors’
office in Bremen, Germany, said in an interview today. Atlas, a
naval electronics manufacturer, allegedly paid 8.5 million euros
($11.4 million) in bribes and Dusseldorf-based Rheinmetall, an
armored vehicle maker, paid 9.1 million euros, Passade said.  “Atlas informed us in 2010 about the matter, but at the
time the facts indicated that we didn’t have jurisdiction since
everything happened abroad,” Passade said. “Tax investigators
inspecting Rheinmetall’s books last year brought new aspects to
light prompting us to open a probe.”  Germany  has seen a wave of bribery investigations since
Siemens AG was raided in 2006. Ferrostaal GmbH was fined 140
million euros ($187 million) as part of a settlement in 2011
over bribes to officials in Greece and  Portugal  to win submarine
orders.  The allegations in the Bremen probe overlap with events
that were part of the Ferrostaal case, Passade said. The
searches of Rheinmetall and Atlas took place last week, he said.
He declined to identify any suspects.  The companies confirmed the raids. Oliver Hoffmann, a
spokesman for Rheinmetall, said the allegations are baseless.
Atlas, based in Bremen, is cooperating with the probe, said
Steffen Leuthold, a spokesman for the company.  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported the raid earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 