-- Rubber Enters Bull Market as China Boosts Demand
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-08-26T07:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/rubber-poised-for-bull-market-as-china-s-recovery-boosts-demand.html
Rubber capped a two-month rally in
 Tokyo  to enter a  bull market  as a weaker yen and signs that
 China’s economy  is regaining strength boosted demand for the
commodity used in tires.  Rubber for delivery in January advanced 2.8 percent to 277
yen a kilogram ($2,812 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange, a 22 percent gain from this year’s lowest close for a
most-active contract of 227.2 yen reached June 26. Futures fell
into a bear market on April 1.  Rising prices may boost costs for  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,
Michelin & Cie. and Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., the biggest
tiremakers, and help farmers in Thailand after the economy in
the largest producer nation entered a recession in the second
quarter. Chinese manufacturing expanded this month after
shrinking the most in almost a year in July, while output from
European factories and services companies improved.  “Rubber resumed a rally as optimism grew that Europe’s
economy may solidify its recovery and the Chinese growth may be
accelerating, leading to an expansion in demand,” said  Kazuhiko Saito , chief analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  China accounts for 33 percent of global demand and tires
represent 70 percent of natural-rubber consumption in the
country, according to estimates from the Qingdao International
Rubber Exchange Market. China and Europe are the biggest
consumers, according the International Rubber Study Group.  A preliminary purchasing managers index for China by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 50.1 from 47.7,
exceeding all 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  China Manufacturing  Premier  Li Keqiang  rolled out measures to support growth
fueled by domestic demand in the world’s second-biggest economy
after a two-quarter slowdown.  Futures also drew support from the foreign exchange market
as Japan’s currency traded near a three-week low against the
dollar amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce bond
buying as early as next month while Japan’s central bank will
maintain unprecedented stimulus.  Declines in the yen, which has depreciated 5.4 percent
against the dollar since rubber fell into a  bear market , boost
the appeal of futures denominated in Japanese currency.  Stockpiles monitored by the Tokyo bourse fell to 5,848 tons
as of Aug. 10, the lowest level since Jan. 20. The volume fell
58 percent from this year’s peak of 14,079 tons.  Thai rubber farmers plan to hold a demonstration on Sept. 3
in Bangkok and some provincial areas to press the government to
set minimum prices, Perk Lertwangpong, head of a rubber farmers’
group, said by phone today.  Thai rubber exports tumbled 32 percent in July from a year
earlier to 169,581 tons, according to data from the Ministry of
Commerce.  Rubber for delivery in January rose 2 percent to 20,700
 yuan  ($3,382) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. Thai
rubber free-on-board added 1.2 percent to 83.95 baht ($2.63) a
kilogram, according to the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  