-- South African Union Lowers Gold-Wage Demands to ‘Single Digit’
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-08-26T15:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/s-africa-unions-hold-back-gold-mining-strike-for-revised-offer.html
One of the four South African unions
representing labor at wage talks with gold producers lowered its
salary-increase demands to “single-digit” percentage points as
negotiations are set to continue tomorrow.  Minority union Solidarity, which along with the Association
of Mineworkers and Construction Union today held discussions
with seven gold companies through the Chamber of Mines, will
accept pay increases of less than the initial 10 percent sought
from employers, General Secretary Gideon du Plessis said.  “Solidarity has moved,” Du Plessis said today by phone.
“We will listen should the employers adjust their offer.”  Talks stalled on July 24 after Solidarity, UASA and the
National Union of Mineworkers, which wants an increase of more
than 60 percent for entry-level pay, rejected the initial offer
by the chamber, which represents companies including  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer. The chamber
raised its proposal to 5.5 percent with additional compensation
and to 6 percent in some job categories on Aug. 21. South
Africa’s  annual inflation rate  was 6.3 percent in July. Strikes
could cost the gold industry 349 million rand ($34 million) a
day in revenue, according to the chamber.  The chamber will again meet Solidarity and the AMCU
tomorrow, Charmane Russell, an external spokeswoman for the
organization at Russell & Associates, said by phone.  The AMCU, which wants basic wages for entry-level miners to
be more than doubled to 12,500 rand a month and represents 17
percent of the miners, hasn’t changed its demands, Russell said.  No Decision  Two other labor unions are also holding out for a revised
offer by the companies before deciding on whether to declare a
strike.  The NUM, which represents 64 percent of employees at the
seven gold companies, and minority union UASA have yet to decide
on whether to strike after being given permission to do so by a
mediator on Aug. 21.  “I’m going back to see if there’s any offer on the
table,” Franz Stehring, head of mining at UASA, said by phone
today. The union is “still carrying on with strike ballot,” he
said. UASA proposed a raise of 18 percent for miners.  The NUM will give companies until Aug. 31 to increase their
wage proposal before deciding whether to strike, spokesman
 Lesiba Seshoka  said yesterday.  The chamber declared a dispute with the AMCU on July 29,
and referred the matter to the Commission for Conciliation
Mediation and Arbitration for resolution. The commission engages
the sides for a period that can last as long as 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  