-- S&P Says Municipal Mortgage-Seizure Plan Would Hurt Bond Grades
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-08-26T17:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/s-p-says-municipal-mortgage-seizure-plan-would-hurt-bond-grades.html
Standard & Poor’s  probably will
demand greater protections for investors when mortgage bonds are
backed by loans to homeowners in jurisdictions that use eminent
domain to seize debt to help borrowers.  The use of eminent domain, such as contemplated by
Richmond,  California , would create an “additional risk of
default,” as well as require different assumptions on the size
of per-loan losses, S&P analysts  James Taylor  and Sharif
Mahdavian said today in a report. The ratings firm would likely
require more credit support, or protection such as some classes
of deals taking losses before others, they wrote.  “The comparative decline in value for mortgages in
jurisdictions that have employed eminent domain would likely
make securitizations more speculative,” the New York-based
analysts said. “We would expect this to translate into a higher
mortgage rate and/or fewer credit opportunities for borrowers in
those jurisdictions.”  Richmond is furthest along in considering using its eminent
domain powers in such a way, which is being advocated by
 Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC  and studied by about a dozen
municipalities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P’s
statement on its potential reaction if the effort progresses
follows the ratings company’s response in 2003 to a predatory-lending law in  Georgia  with a refusal to grade bonds with home
loans in the state.  Trustees Sue  Mortgage-bond trustees representing investors including
BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co. sued
Richmond on Aug. 7, alleging the proposal was unconstitutional
and would cause more than $200 million in losses for bondholders
as they sought a court order blocking any seizures.  The city, which is located north of Oakland and Berkeley,
and Mortgage Resolution Partners, which is advising
municipalities and lining up private funds that would profit as
the buyer of the loans, said in an Aug. 22 court filing that the
suit is premature and should be dismissed.  S&P rates more than 1,000 deals with mortgages from
Richmond, according to its report. Of those, 98 percent had less
than 1 percent exposure, with none having more than 2.5 percent,
the firm said.  “However, once such proceedings are instituted, we would
consider the potential effect of similar claims, particularly
from other jurisdictions with significant populations of
underwater performing mortgages,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  