-- Sanchez to Miss Jets’ Preseason Finale as Vegas Books Move Line
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-26T04:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/sanchez-to-miss-jets-preseason-finale-as-vegas-books-move-line.html
Quarterback Mark Sanchez will miss
the  New York  Jets’ final preseason game with a right shoulder
injury, prompting some Las Vegas sportsbooks to adjust the
betting line on the team’s regular-season opener.  Sanchez is listed as day-to-day after being injured late in
the fourth quarter of the Jets’ preseason win against the New
York Giants two days ago.  He’ll sit out the team’s National Football League preseason
finale against the Philadelphia Eagles on Aug. 29, the Jets said
without disclosing the nature or severity of Sanchez’s injury.  While the Jets didn’t say whether Sanchez will be ready to
play in their first regular-season game on Sept. 8 against the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book yesterday
moved the Jets to 3-point underdogs. The Buccaneers had been
favored by 2 1/2 points before yesterday.  Sanchez has a bruised shoulder joint,  ESPN reported , citing
a person familiar with the situation it didn’t identify. The
Jets won’t know how long Sanchez will be out until he’s able to
resume throwing, ESPN added.  Sanchez completed five of six pass attempts for 72 yards
against the Giants before getting injured when he was hit by
Marvin Austin with just over five minutes left in the game at
MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  If Sanchez isn’t ready to play against the Buccaneers, the
Jets may start rookie Geno Smith, who completed 16-of-30 passes
for 199 yards against the Giants yet also threw three
interceptions. Those turnovers came in a span of 12 passes and
Smith also made a mistake by taking a safety when he stepped out
of the back of the end zone while trying to elude a pass rush.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  