-- SEC Proposal, CFTC Rules, BB&T, Monte Paschi: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-08-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/sec-proposal-cftc-rules-bb-t-monte-paschi-compliance.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White, responding after system
errors caused a three-hour halt on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market last
week, said she will push to adopt proposed automated-trading
rules.  The failure that affected Nasdaq’s system for reporting
quotes and trades bolsters the case to pass a proposal issued in
March, White said in an Aug. 22 statement. Advancing it will
require the regulator to face down opposition by exchanges,
which have pushed the SEC to limit the scope of the rule,
including how much information about glitches they must be
provide.  “I will work to advance rules that the commission proposed
earlier this year regarding new standards for the trading and
other systems that are central to the integrity of our
markets,” White said.  White, who told Congress earlier this year that she would
scrutinize market stability efforts, also said she would
“convene a meeting of the leaders of the exchanges and other
major market participants to accelerate ongoing efforts to
further strengthen our markets.”  The failure stemmed from “a connectivity issue between an
exchange participant” and the system for disseminating quotes
and prices, known as a securities information processor, or SIP,
Nasdaq said in an Aug. 22 statement.  The SEC’s proposal, Regulation SCI, would require self-regulatory organizations such as exchanges, clearing firms, and
SIPs to adopt policies to prevent failures, stress test their
systems to ensure trading continues through a disruption, and
report glitches to regulators. The rule also would cover
exchange competitors known as alternative trading systems, or
dark pools. The SEC has said 10 dark pools are large enough to
be subject to the regulation, based on data from 2012.  The rule would replace a voluntary program created after
the stock market crash of 1987. Requiring compliance through a
rule that would authorize the SEC to respond to compliance
failures with penalties such as fines and sanctions.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Said Near Releasing Plans for Regulating High-Speed Trading  The top U.S. derivatives regulator is poised to announce a
range of potential methods for overseeing automated and high-frequency trading, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s four members are
within days of approving the concept release, according to the
people who spoke on condition of anonymity because the document
isn’t yet public. Approval of the release, a step prior to
proposing new rules, would trigger a public-comment period.  The agency, along with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, has scrutinized high-frequency and algorithmic
trading since May 6, 2010, when $862 billion in equity value was
erased in 20 minutes before share prices recovered. The CFTC’s
release, which has been debated for more than a year, would seek
comment on new testing, supervision and risk controls for
automated trading, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in April.  A number of recent computer malfunctions have raised
questions about the reliability of electronic markets.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
concept release. The CFTC has scheduled a technology advisory
committee meeting on Sept. 12 to discuss the automated trading
concept release as well as swap-trading and record-keeping.  Dijsselbloem Seeks Tighter Leverage Rule for EU Banks Than Basel  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
group of 17 euro finance ministers, will seek stricter rules on
leverage for banks across Europe.  Banks considered too big to fail should aim for a ratio of
capital to assets of at least 4 percent, exceeding the 3 percent
threshold proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
for 2018, Dijsselbloem said in a letter to the Dutch parliament
published on the government’s website on Aug. 23.  The Netherlands will seek permission for governments to
apply the rules nationally should they fail to agree on the
common framework, Dijsselbloem said. “Further steps are needed
to make the banking industry more solid and stable to ensure it
can perform its role in the economy adequately,” he said.  Regulators are facing resistance from lenders including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , who have issued stock,
sold units or hoarded earnings to increase a different measure
of financial strength known as the Basel III Tier 1 capital
ratio which allows banks to weight their assets according to
risk.  The leverage ratio for the biggest U.S. lenders would rise
to 5 percent for parent companies and 6 percent for their
banking units under a proposal by regulators in July.  BB&T Wins Federal Reserve Approval for New 2013 Capital Plan  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , North Carolina’s second-biggest bank, won the
 Federal Reserve ’s approval for a new 2013 capital plan after its
original proposal was rejected in March.  BB&T will continue paying a 23-cent quarterly dividend, the
Winston-Salem-based bank said in an Aug. 23 statement. The Fed
didn’t object to its payment of preferred dividends, the firm
said.  The lender’s initial capital plan was shot down based on a
qualitative assessment, the central bank said at the time. The
Fed didn’t provide information on how the new plan differed from
the earlier one, when it announced its decision in an Aug. 23
 statement .  BB&T changed how it calculates risk-weighted assets to
conform with regulatory guidance, the Fed said when it objected
to the plan on March 14. The adjustments increased those assets
and triggered a drop in BB&T’s risk-based capital ratios,
according to the Fed.  “In light of several factors, we approached the
resubmission conservatively and did not request a further
increase in capital deployment at this time,” Chief Executive
Officer Kelly King said in the statement.  Regulators have run annual stress tests on the biggest U.S.
banks to see how they would weather an economic shock, a
strategy to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. The
banks submit capital plans, which are proposals of dividend
payouts and share buybacks that were curtailed during the
crisis.  Compliance Action  Italy’s Consob Claims Monte Paschi Obstructed Regulator in 2012  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ’s management was
accused by Italy’s market regulator Consob of obstructing its
supervisory duties last year by giving incorrect or incomplete
information on past financing and derivatives deals that led to
a fraud probe.  Consob wrote in a note to prosecutors in Siena dated Feb.
15 that the bailed-out bank misled the regulator between April
2012 and July 2012 in response to Consob request for information
on the financing of Banca Antonveneta SpA’s purchase in 2008,
according to a document reviewed by  Bloomberg News  and
originally obtained by consumer group Codacons.  Monte Paschi also withdrew information on a derivative
contract with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in its communications to the
regulator from November 2011 through October 2012, Consob said
in the document. The Rome-based agency asked prosecutors to
start a probe into alleged regulator obstruction, the document
said.  Magistrates are accusing former executives, including ex-chairman Giuseppe Mussari and General Manager Antonio Vigni of
withholding information from regulators about how the bank
financed its purchase of Antonveneta. Prosecutors are also
probing whether former managers at Monte Paschi, which piled up
losses of 7.9 billion euros ($10.5 billion) in the past two
years, used derivative contracts to obscure more than 700
million euros of losses.  A Consob spokesman declined to comment. A Monte Paschi
spokeswoman wasn’t available for a comment.  Six U.K. Furniture Stores Mislead With Fake Prices, OFT Says  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  and five other U.K. carpet and furniture
retailers are misleading consumers by inflating prices before
offering discounts, the Office of Fair Trading said as it asked
the stores to stop the practice.  Using so-called reference pricing, companies tout a
“higher artificial price when advertising the current price of
a product,” the OFT said in an Aug. 23 statement. “There were
a significant number of products amongst certain high street
retailers where no sales at all took place at the artificially
inflated reference price.”  The regulator has asked the retailers to sign legally
enforceable agreements to stop the practice, which it said
infringes consumer protection regulations. The allegations come
as Britons prepared for a three-day holiday weekend that is
traditionally a busy time for sales promotions.  “There is no suggestion in the letter of Carpetright
having behaved in a manner which breaches competition law,” the
retailer said in a statement after receiving the request from
the OFT. The regulator declined to name other retailers who
received the letter.  Courts  AMR Seeks November Trial for US Airways Merger Lawsuit  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  are
seeking a trial as early as Nov. 12 to combat the government’s
lawsuit to block their $12.1 billion merger, while the  Justice
Department  is pushing for a February date.  A February trial would “cause serious harm and cannot be
justified,” the airlines said in an Aug. 22 joint filing. The
carriers and the department asked U.S. District Judge Colleen
Kollar-Kotelly in Washington for a hearing to resolve the
dispute over timing. The judge set an Aug. 30 hearing to address
the trial schedule and asked both sides to file a joint report
by Aug. 28.  “The parties’ urgency to complete their transaction is far
greater here than in ordinary merger cases,” the airlines said.
“American’s ongoing bankruptcy proceedings compound the costs
and uncertainties associated with the delays caused by the
government’s lawsuit, including approximately $500,000 in
bankruptcy-related professional fees alone every day that the
bankruptcy continues.”  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said by e-mail that “the timing proposed by the department is typical in
a merger transaction of this magnitude, which affects so many
consumers.”  The suit is an obstacle to American’s plans to exit
bankruptcy through a deal that would create the world’s biggest
airline. The planned merger, the Justice Department said in its
lawsuit filed Aug. 13, would hurt competition in the  airline
industry  and remove the incentive for  US Airways  to offer lower
prices.  The airlines aren’t engaged in talks to settle the lawsuit,
a person familiar with the situation said last week.  On Aug. 23 the Justice Department named David Gelfand, a
partner at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton LLP in Washington,
as head of litigation for the antitrust division.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Tipped by Second Doctor, U.S. Says  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Mathew Martoma,
charged with trading on illicit tips from a physician about an
Alzheimer’s drug, was accused by prosecutors of getting inside
information from a second doctor.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in Manhattan filed a
revised indictment Aug. 22 claiming the second source,
identified only as “Doctor-2,” did paid consultations with
Martoma, which were arranged through an unidentified “financial
services firm” that provided expert networking services to SAC,
the hedge fund company founded by  Steven A. Cohen .  “Doctor-2 provided confidential information about the drug
trial and other Alzheimer’s disease drug trials to Martoma with
the expectation that Martoma would assist Doctor-2 in obtaining
additional clinical trial business,” according to the new
indictment.  The U.S. claims Martoma used the information from the two
doctors, who were involved in the trial of bapineuzumab, or
“bapi,” to help the hedge fund make $276 million by trading in
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth. The government has called it the
biggest criminal insider-trading case against an individual in
history.  Martoma pleaded not guilty to the charges in the
superseding indictment during an Aug. 22 hearing before U.S.
District Judge Paul Gardephe in Manhattan. He is scheduled to go
to trial Nov. 4.  If convicted, Martoma faces as much as 20 years in prison
on the securities fraud charges and five years on the conspiracy
charge.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Apple Duels With U.S. Over E-Book Price-Fixing Remedies  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the U.S. Justice Department filed dueling
proposals for a court order that will cover the company’s
conduct in e-book sales after a judge found the government’s
original recommendations were too harsh.  Under the department’s revised proposal filed Aug. 23, an
injunction against Apple for its role in fixing e-book prices
would expire in five years instead of 10 as in the original
plan. The U.S. still seeks a court-appointed external antitrust
monitor, a measure Apple objects to.  “This is unreasonable and unjustified and exceeds the
bounds of even criminal price-fixing cases,”  Orin Snyder , a
lawyer for Apple, said in an Aug. 23 letter to U.S. District
Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan.  “The purpose of the remedy is to fix the competitive
problems, restore competition to the marketplace and to prevent
the illegal behavior from continuing in the future,” Gina
Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said in an
e-mail.  Cote ruled after a non-jury trial in July that Apple, the
maker of the iPhone and iPad, had conspired with five book
publishers to fix e-book prices. At an Aug. 9 hearing on the
government’s initial proposal, Cote said she didn’t want to
over-regulate Apple’s businesses. She told the parties to
discuss new remedies and return for another hearing tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Whitney Says ‘Wouldn’t Want to Be’ JPMorgan Amid Probes  Meredith Whitney , chief executive officer of Meredith
Whitney Advisory Group, talks about the shutdown of the Nasdaq
Stock Market, regulatory probes of U.S. banks and the outlook
for  Ben S. Bernanke ’s successor at the Federal Reserve.  She speaks with Sara Eisen and  Michael McKee  in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  To watch the video, click here.  Lew Doesn’t Think Nasdaq Halt Had ‘Frightening Aspects’  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew speaks about the Nasdaq
Stock Market halt, the  U.S. economy  and fiscal policy.  Lew, speaking in Mountain View, California, also comments
on U.S. banking rules and China’s currency policies.  To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  