-- Serbia’s Top Ruling Party Threatens Snap Poll on Cabinet Delay
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-26T07:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/serbia-s-top-ruling-party-threatens-snap-poll-on-cabinet-delay.html
Serbia ’s lawmakers delayed a vote on
a revamped cabinet after the prime minister’s party failed to
agree on its own list of nominees and prompted its larger ruling
partner to threaten early elections.  Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic’s coalition-dominating Progressive Party is pushing to take over the prime
minister post from Ivica Dacic and shuffle the cabinet with his
Socialist party. The two sides ejected Mladjan Dinkic and his
party from the government last month and will begin a debate
today on a law to split the Finance and Economy Ministry, which
Dinkic led, into two entities to pave the way for a new cabinet.  The parties have agreed to reconstitute the cabinet by the
end of August. Dacic did not propose any new names at a meeting
on Sunday, and Vucic, whose former nationalist Progressives have
a strong lead in opinion polls, said the Socialists needed to
act fast to avoid early elections.  “There is a limit where we, on the political scene, can
tolerate someone’s arrogance, someone’s insolence,” Vucic told
404 members of his party’s main board on Aug. 25. “You won’t
have to wait long for the moment when we have to say enough” to
policies that halt Serbia’s progress, he said.  Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlovic told Belgrade newspaper
Informer that government shuffle would be incomplete if Vucic
didn’t take the prime minister’s post and Dacic should “think
about resigning.”  Vucic has tapped former McKinsey & Co. associate Lazar
Krstic to become finance minister. He has also invited former
International Monetary Fund head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and one-time Austrian chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer to be advisers. Dacic
is expected to present his new prospective members of the
government on Friday. He said talks with candidates would be
held later this week.  With Serbia’s next election due in 2016, the Progressives
lead opinion polls with more than 40 percent support. Vucic says
he wants to overhaul the pension system, improve the business
environment, reduce unemployment and lure investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  