-- Shrinking Yield Gap Masks Berlusconi Risks: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-08-27T11:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/shrinking-yield-gap-masks-berlusconi-risks-euro-credit.html
Italian  borrowing costs  relative to
 Germany  are shrinking as bund yields climb, in turn masking
investor concern about the potential for political turmoil,
credit-default swaps suggest.  The cost of insuring Italian  government securities  against
default has risen 8.5 percent since reaching a low for the year
in May. The yield premium investors demand to own its 10-year
bonds rather than German bunds dropped to a two-year low last
week. The correlation between bonds and derivatives is at its
lowest level since January, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Evidence of an economic rebound in the euro region has
pushed German yields higher while underpinning demand for
Italian debt, even as former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
party threatens to withdraw from the coalition government. The
increase in German rates was exacerbated by speculation that the
U.S. Federal Reserve will soon scale back its bond purchases.  “Italian yields are out of whack with its political
situation,” said Robin Marshall, who helps oversee about $22
billion as director of fixed income at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management in  London . “Some investors may have
expressed their bearish view through the CDS instead of selling
the underlying bonds. It’s more the case of German yields being
pushed higher by concern about the Fed’s tapering than a
reflection of progress in structural reforms in Italy.”  Tax Fraud  Berlusconi, 76, was convicted of fraud linked to  tax
evasion  in the purchase of U.S. film rights for the ex-premier’s
broadcast company  Mediaset SpA. (MS)  The stability of Italian Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s four-month old coalition was called into
question after Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party threatened
to withdraw its support if Letta’s Democratic Party votes to end
the former prime minister’s mandate as senator.  The 60-day correlation coefficient between Italy’s yield
spread and its default swaps is down to 0.68, the least since
January, from 0.92 in April. A coefficient of 1 means the two
values move in lockstep, while zero shows no relationship and
minus 1 shows they move in the opposite directions.  The difference between yields on Italian 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity German bunds is about 252 basis points. It
touched 227 basis points on Aug. 19, the least since July 22,
2011. The spread widened to a euro-era record of 575 basis
points on Nov. 9, 2011.  Fractured Coalition  Italy ’s upper house is set to vote on expelling Berlusconi
from the Senate. The Senate committee for immunity and elections
will discuss the issue on Sept. 9, according to the upper house
press office. The process may take weeks before a final vote by
the entire chamber follows.  “If in a private company, a partner reports another one or
tries to get rid of him, the business doesn’t exist anymore,”
Renato Brunetta, chief whip of Berlusconi’s party in the
parliament’s lower house, said on Aug. 22. The PD “would
provoke the government’s fall,” he said.  Italy’s borrowing premium has dropped amid speculation the
Fed will start tapering bond purchases, which pushed bond yields
in core markets up at a faster pace than those of peripheral
securities. Ten-year Italian bonds yield about 4.40 percent,
down from as high as 4.96 percent on Feb. 27. The yield on
German bunds rose to 1.98 percent on Aug. 23, the highest since
March 2012, and is currently about 1.87 percent.  The U.S. central bank will reduce its monthly purchases of
$85 billion in bonds at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65
percent economists in an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey. The median
estimate is for a cut to $75 billion each month.  Broken Economy  “Financial markets are worrying about the wrong thing,”
said Neil Williams, chief economist at London-based Hermes Fund
Managers, which oversees about $40 billion. “They seem
hypersensitive to a withdrawal of U.S. stimulus, rather than a
euro-region that’s not yet fixed. The convergence we’ve seen in
yields is doubtless a symptom of the complacency that’s being
attached to the euro-region.”  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, retains influence over
the government even after Italy’s top court rejected his final
appeal earlier this month. He is unlikely to spend time in jail,
given Italy’s effort to reduce prison populations and the
leniency traditionally accorded to criminals over the age of 70.
He maintains his innocence.  While recent economic data suggested the worst may be over
after the euro region’s longest recession, the recovery was led
by Germany, which grew 0.7 percent in the second quarter.
Italy’s economy shrank 0.2 percent.  ‘Political Risk’  Standard & Poor’s cut Italy’s credit rating to BBB on July
9, its second-lowest investment grade, citing weaker growth and
budget targets that are “potentially at risk.”  The shrinking bond spread was also driven partly by the
fact that Italy hasn’t issued any conventional bonds so far this
month. Sales of those securities will resume on Aug. 29, the
government announced today.  “The Italian-German bond spread may widen further to 270
basis points once the debt sales resume, especially if the
lingering political risk worsens,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  