-- Snyder Bets on Spurned Health Exchange to Help Detroit Retirees
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-08-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/snyder-bets-on-spurned-health-exchange-to-help-detroit-retirees.html
     Aug. 26 (Bloomberg)-- Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  wants
to reduce bankrupt Detroit’s costs by moving municipal retirees
to insurance exchanges created under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care overhaul. His fellow Republicans, who dominate the
legislature, aren’t making it easy.  A plan promoted by Kevyn Orr, the city’s emergency manager
whom Snyder appointed, would require former workers not under
Medicare to switch to exchange policies from city-paid coverage.
Yet lawmakers squelched Snyder’s plan to run and market the U.S.
Affordable Care Act in the ninth-most-populous state, where 1.3
million -- 13 percent of the population -- are uninsured.  “Nobody knows what’s going to happen,” said Don Taylor,
president of the Retired Detroit Police and Fire Fighters
Association. “They say open enrollment starts Oct. 1. Nobody
knows what to do. The state doesn’t know. The city hasn’t done
anything.”  Most Americans are required to have insurance beginning
Jan. 1 under the federal law, which let states opt out of
setting up exchanges with subsidized coverage for the poor and
those of middle income. The U.S. government will run  Michigan ’s,
along with those of 26 other states that wouldn’t create their
own. Health-care advocates, who are mounting campaigns to enroll
residents in the system starting Oct. 1, say they lack money for
advertising and count on word of mouth to reach the uninsured.  Charting Course  “No question we are going to miss folks,” said Don
Hazaert, director of Michigan Consumers for Health Care, a
coalition that advocates taking advantage of the law’s
opportunities. “The vast majority who are eligible for health-care coverage don’t know it. Someone has to explain it for
them.”  Hazaert’s coalition of about 250 organizations is among
four “navigator” groups that will divide a $2.5 million
federal grant for outreach programs in Michigan.  A separate $3.7 million from the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department was given to 31 health centers to help
enroll people. The clinics serve 600,000 patients a year, and
about one-third of them are uninsured, said Rebecca Cienki,
chief operating officer of the Lansing-based Michigan Primary
Care Association.  A state-run program would have had its own office,
computers and website in addition to a larger marketing budget,
said Caleb Buhs, spokesman for the state Insurance and Financial
Services Department.  Snyder plans a hotline for consumers to ask about the new
health-insurance network, said Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman.  Unto Death  A functioning exchange is one key to Orr’s plan to
restructure $18 billion of debt that burdens the city of
700,000, a former automobile-manufacturing capital that has been
in decline for decades. Unfunded liabilities for retiree health-care are $5.7 billion, Orr has said, so shifting costs to the
U.S. would take a burden off the city, which filed a record
municipal bankruptcy July 18.  Retirees would get a monthly stipend of as much as $250 to
help pay premiums. Orr also proposed reduced benefits for
retirees who qualify for Medicare, the federal insurance program
for people over 65 and the disabled.  Yet Snyder’s fellow Republicans have been hostile to an
exchange. The governor’s appeal for a state-run program died in
the Michigan Senate this year.  “People were still a little in shock that Obamacare was
really coming and didn’t want to help it,” said Republican
Majority Leader Randy Richardville, who said he supported an
exchange.  Poor Health  Senator Bert Johnson, a Democrat who represents part of
 Detroit , agrees with Orr’s plan for retirees. He said the lack
of support for an exchange shows how the state shirks
responsibility.  “Republicans continue to be caught up in ideology and not
necessarily rooted in sound public policy,” Johnson said.  Neither has the legislature agreed to Snyder’s entreaties
to expand Medicaid, the joint federal-state insurance system for
the poor, as Obama’s law permits. Medicaid covers 1.8 million
Michiganders, of whom 1.1 million are children, said Angela
Minicuci, a Community Health Department spokeswoman. A larger
program may add 477,000 residents, most of them working adults.  The Senate may vote on the issue this week, and Snyder is
determined to get it approved, Wurfel said.  “He’s going to focus on the outcome and what he can do to
clear through the clutter,” Wurfel said.  Beating Streets  Meanwhile, Oct. 1 draws near and, with it, the federally
run exchange.  To help get word out, Washington-based Enroll America is
enlisting volunteers in Michigan, among 10 states where the
nonprofit organization has paid staff, said state director Erin
Knott. The nonpartisan group, whose leaders include members of
Obama’s election campaigns, promotes the new law. Knott said
teams are knocking on doors and arranging informational events.  Consumers Mutual Insurance of Michigan, a nonprofit
cooperative created to accept Affordable Care Act customers, is
distributing 2 million fliers and even refrigerator magnets.  “We’re five weeks away and we’ve got to reach a lot of
people,” said David Eich, a spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 