-- Corn, Soy Jump Most in More Than Year as Heat Hurts Crops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-08-26T20:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/soybeans-rally-to-highest-since-june-as-hot-weather-curbs-crops.html
Corn jumped the most in 14 months
and soybean futures rallied the most since 2011 as hot, dry
Midwest weather threatens to erode crop yields in the U.S., the
world’s biggest grower. Wheat also advanced.  Temperatures will average as much as 14 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal during the next 10 days, with little rain expected
in the Midwest,  T-Storm Weather LLC  said in a note to clients
today. July and August will be the driest since 1936 in Iowa,
Illinois and  Indiana . Corn production will be 2.2 percent below
the government’s forecast on Aug. 12, while the soybean harvest
will be 3 percent less, Professional Farmers of America said
Aug. 23, after a tour of crops in seven states last week.  “The weather is cooking the crop that the Pro Farmer tour
already said was smaller than expected,”  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co., said in a
telephone interview from  Minneapolis . “The hot, dry weather
will knock down the corn and soybean crop potential daily.”  Corn futures for December delivery surged 6.5 percent to
close at $5.005 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active contract since June
25, 2012. Earlier, the price touched $5.0825, the highest since
July 16.  Soybean futures for delivery in November jumped 4.6 percent
to $13.895 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest advance for a most-active contract since Oct. 11, 2011. Earlier, the oilseed rose
by the 70-cent exchange limit to $13.98. Prices rose 5.5 percent
last week, the third straight increase.  Smaller Crops  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has cut its corn-crop
forecast three times in as many months, predicting production of
13.763 billion bushels. While that would be a record, it is down
from 14.14 billion expected in May. On Aug. 23,  Cedar Falls ,
Iowa-based Pro Farmer predicted the crop would be 13.46 billion.  Soybean output may fall below the government’s estimate of
3.255 billion bushels, reaching 3.158 billion, after planting
delays and unusually cool, dry weather stunted growth, according
to Pro Farmer, a farm adviser and newsletter producer.  “The market’s increasingly getting a bit nervous about the
soybean crop,”  Paul Deane , an agricultural economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said by telephone
today. The forecast from Pro Farmer is “only adding to
sentiment,” he said.  Rain for the Midwest will be blocked by a large ridge of
high pressure over the next 10 days, increasing stress on more
than half the U.S. crops, Gail Martell, the president of Martell
Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,  Wisconsin , said in a report
to clients today. Windy conditions will further accelerate
moisture loss, reducing kernel and pod filling and lowering
yield potential, Martell said.  Crop Conditions  Soybean-crop conditions declined in 14 of the top 18
producing states, and corn ratings declined in 11 states, the
USDA said in a  report  today after the close of trading. About 58
percent of the soybeans were rated in good or excellent
condition yesterday, down from 62 percent a week earlier, the
USDA said. Corn rated in good or excellent  condition  fell to 59
percent from 61 percent a week earlier.  “Crop conditions continue to decline, and that trend is
likely to continue with the extremely warm weather that is being
forecast for the week ahead,” Bill Northey, Iowa’s secretary of
agriculture, said in a release today.  “Hot temperatures and
dry soils can hurt yields on both corn at soybeans at this point
of the season.”  Wheat futures for delivery in December rose 3.2 percent to
$6.6675 a bushel in Chicago, the biggest gain since April 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  