-- Starbucks to Open First Cafe in Colombia Next Year
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-26T20:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/starbucks-to-open-first-cafe-in-colombia-next-year.html
After buying coffee from Colombia
for almost half a century,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  is finally opening a
cafe there, part of its accelerating expansion in Latin America.  The world’s largest coffee-shop operator will open a cafe
in Bogota in the first half of next year and then five more
locations later in 2014, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz 
said in a telephone interview. The stores will be operated
through a joint venture between  Alsea SAB (ALSEA*)  and  Grupo Nutresa SA (NUTRESA) ,
and will sell locally sourced and roasted espresso and coffee.  “This is long overdue,” Schultz said. “There is
tremendous enthusiasm as we talk to people and walk the streets
-- most of these Colombian people we talked to have consumed
Starbucks coffee somewhere else.”  It would be disappointing if Starbucks didn’t have 50
stores in Colombia in five years, Schultz said at a press event
in Bogota today.  Starbucks is expanding to countries with growing middle
classes to help boost sales. The Seattle-based  company , which
has about 8,000 cafes outside the U.S., opened its first
locations in  India  in 2012 and  Vietnam  this year. In Colombia,
Starbucks will compete with chains such as Juan Valdez Cafe,
whose parent company Procafecol SA was created in 2002 by the
Colombian Coffee Growers Federation.  Alsea, based in Mexico City, earlier this year acquired
parts of Starbucks Argentina and Chile that it didn’t already
own. Alsea, which operates  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  and  Burger King
Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  stores in  Latin America , will have a 70 percent
stake in Starbucks operations in Colombia. Grupo Nutresa, based
in Medellin, Colombia, is the nation’s largest publicly traded
food company.  USAID Agreement  Starbucks also is forming a pact with the U.S. Agency for
International Development to invest $3 million to secure coffee
quality and supply in certain regions of Colombia. Starbucks and
USAID are each investing $1.5 million during the next three
years for research to help small-plot coffee farmers in
Colombia. The money will go to Starbucks’s farmer support center
in Manizales to pay for agronomists to analyze soil and advise
growers on factors that affect yield, such as climate, pests and
fertilizers.  Colombia has been Starbucks’s largest or second-largest
coffee-bean supplier in its 42-year history, Schultz said during
an earlier interview. In 2012, Starbucks bought about 545
million pounds of coffee from 29 countries, about 27 percent
more than it bought the previous year, according to the
company’s annual global responsibility  report .  Recently, the company has invested in countries where it
buys beans to help secure supply and consistent quality as it
opens more locations. Earlier this year, Starbucks bought a farm
in  Costa Rica  to experiment with coffee varieties and expand its
grower-support program.  Farmer Support  Starbucks opened its first farmer support center in 2004 in
Costa Rica. Last year, it opened branches in  Colombia  and China
for agronomists to help local coffee growers improve the quality
and size of their harvests. The cafe operator has said it wants
to sell all ethically sourced coffee by 2015.  USAID has initiated other projects to help areas in
Colombia affected by internal conflict, drug trafficking and
violence. Last year, the government agency began working on a
program to increase access to renewable energy in the South
American nation.  Starbucks, which has about 19,200 stores worldwide, has
 gained  34 percent this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
advanced 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  