-- Swedish IPO Appetite Improves as Stockholm Market Nears High
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-08-27T10:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/swedish-ipo-appetite-improves-as-stockholm-exchange-nears-high.html
The appetite for initial public
offerings is growing in  Sweden  and more companies are dusting
off plans to sell shares as Stockholm’s OMX All-Share Index
approaches a record high and market volatility fades.  “I think there has been pent-up demand to raise capital on
the stock exchange,” Adam Kostyal, head of European listings at
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , said in a phone interview.  Two companies have been added to Stockholm’s main market
this year while nine more joined Nasdaq OMX’s alternative First
North exchange. That compares with a total of five new companies
for the corresponding period in 2012 and 11 for the full year.
In 2011, there were 29 listings.  The development in Sweden is part of a global trend, with
rising stock markets boosting confidence and lower volatility
improving predictability while funds flow to the equity market
from fixed income, according to Kostyal. The number of announced
IPOs in western  Europe  have increased 8 percent to 81 so far
this year and have gained 12 percent to 286 offerings in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockholm’s All-Share Index, with 279 member companies, has
gained 12 percent this year and is trading near levels last seen
in October 2007 and about 10 percent below the all-time high set
in July that year. The measure lost 1.6 percent to 385.8 at
11:53 a.m. in Stockholm. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, an estimate of volatility, is now at around
14, compared with a high of about 80 in late 2008.  Receptive Market  “To use the stock market to raise capital is a very
attractive alternative for many companies,” said Kostyal, who
has worked for Nasdaq OMX since 2001 and took his current role
last year. “But then it’s also necessary that the market is
receptive to these companies and provides the valuation and
reaction that the companies are looking for and that is what we
see right now.”  Vehicle inspection company  Opus Group AB (OPUS)  is the latest
addition to Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. It started trading on the main
market July 2 after being listed on First North since 2006. The
stock has advanced 32 percent since the shift. Plans to move in
the summer of 2008 were put on hold after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. later that year. In January 2012, Opus
again considered a shift, but shelved the plans as it was busy
with an acquisition.  “So we’ve started this project twice, but had to pull the
handbrake twice,” Chief Executive Officer Magnus Greko said in
a telephone interview.  New Types  Opus saw the plan through this time because the IPO market
has improved and the company wants to access new shareholder
types, such as foreign institutional investors, Greko said.  “We have a quite large international stamp on our business
and, above all, we want to keep growing internationally.”  Kostyal, 41, said next year could become even more
interesting than 2013 if the market holds up and added he sees
no signs of a deviation from the current positive trend.  “We try to find some kind of consistency in the dialog
with the market and try to attract the market with some degree
of regularity instead of having spikes, where 2011 is a relevant
and comparable goal, albeit ambitious,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in  Stockholm  at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  