-- Swedish Exporters See Higher Western-Europe Demand, Study Shows
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-08-26T12:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/swedish-exporters-see-higher-western-europe-demand-study-shows.html
Swedish exporters’ confidence in
western European markets climbed to the highest in more than two
years after the euro-area emerged from a record-long recession
in the second quarter, led by Germany and  France .  An index measuring exporters’ expectations of demand from
western  Europe  reached 56.1 in the third quarter, where a
reading over 50 signals expansion, compared with 49.1 in the
second quarter, Business  Sweden  said in a report today. The
reading was the highest for western Europe since the second
quarter of 2011, it said. The overall export managers’ index
rose to 56.5, from 51.6 in the second quarter.  “This indicates that there are underlying reasons to
expect improvement that a lot of companies are seeing,” Mauro Gozzo, chief economist at Business Sweden, said in an interview
in Stockholm today.  Sweden, which sends some 40 percent of exports to western
Europe, has seen economic growth slow and unemployment rise as a
result of slumping European demand in the wake of the region’s
debt crisis. Sweden, home to companies including  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ,
 Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  and  SKF AB (SKFB) , exports about half of its output, of
which 70 percent is shipped to Europe. The 17-nation euro-area
economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through June,
ending a run of six quarterly contractions.  Companies with annual export sales of as much as 250
million kronor ($38.3 million) were more positive about demand
in western Europe than companies with exports exceeding that
number, Business Sweden said. Still, the biggest improvement was
seen among larger companies, the report showed.  Smaller Companies Positive  The subindex measuring expectations of demand among large
Swedish exporters rose to 55.8 in the period from 48.5 in the
second quarter. The subindex for smaller Swedish exporters
climbed to 61.1 from 59. Business Sweden surveyed 225 companies
between Aug. 6 and Aug. 20.  “The reason small companies are more positive could be
because they are more niched while large companies are more
affected by the macro-situation as a whole,” said Gozzo.  The strong krona has pressured earnings at Swedish
companies with a majority of production in Sweden, such as pulp
and paper makers, as well as at small companies with sales
mainly in Europe. The krona’s 1.8 percent drop against the euro
since June 24 will probably not alleviate the situation much,
Gozzo said.  “From a historical point of view, the level is still
pretty high,” he said. “It’s a tougher world out there and
likely to remain so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm   at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  