-- Sweden May Raise Bank Capital Rules Further, Norman Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-26T09:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/sweden-may-raise-capital-rules-for-banks-further-norman-says.html
Swedish banks , already subject to
some of the world’s toughest capital rules, may face even higher
requirements as the government tries to protect the economy and
public finances from future crises.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman today proposed a
raft of measures aimed at strengthening bank industry stability
in the largest Nordic economy. Steps include giving the
Financial Supervisory Authority more tools and putting the
regulator in charge of oversight, according to an e-mailed
statement.  “In addition to these measures to form a stricter
framework and tougher rules for the banks, the development and
the risks that are tied to it means it may be necessary to
sharpen the requirements on the financial sector further in the
future,” Norman wrote in an opinion piece in Dagens Nyheter
newspaper today. “That could, for example, include higher
capital rules for banks.”  Sweden’s four biggest banks already face stricter  capital
requirements  than standards targeted elsewhere.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB must hold at
least 10 percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted
assets this year, and no less than 12 percent by 2015. The  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , headed by Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves, sets a 7 percent minimum from 2019.  Shares Drop  Shares of Sweden’s four largest banks were the biggest
decliners on the benchmark Stockholm OMX30 index today, with
Handelsbanken  dropping 2 percent  to 285.7 kronor as of 11:30
a.m. local time. Swedbank lost 1.9 percent to 153.7 kronor,
while SEB and Nordea fell 1.5 percent to 70 kronor and 1.8
percent to 80.5 kronor, respectively. The Bloomberg Banks and
Financial Services Index decreased 0.8 percent.  The central bank and the financial regulator have clashed
openly over which body should have the main responsibility for
limiting systemic risk in  Sweden . Today’s proposal from the
government marks a defeat for Ingves, who had argued that the
central bank is best suited to handle macro-prudential
supervision.  Sweden also plans to introduce counter-cyclical buffers for
banks from 2014 and to require the financial industry to
contribute to the Riksbank’s foreign currency reserves. The
government will also set up a formalized financial stability
board that includes the financial markets minister as well as
the heads of the regulator, the Riksbank and the debt office.  The proposals include giving Sweden’s financial stability
fund its own assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  