-- U.K. Institute of Directors Says High Speed Rail Too Expensive
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 6 3 0 1 9 3 1 ]   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   [ ]
-- 2013-08-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/u-k-institute-of-directors-says-high-speed-rail-too-expensive.html
     Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) --The U.K. Institute of Directors
called on the government to abandon plans for a high-speed rail
line linking London to northern  England , arguing it is too
expensive.  The 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) project, known as HS2,
will cut journey times and increase capacity on existing lines
for freight. It split the opposition  Labour Party  last week,
with leader  Ed Miliband  and transport spokeswoman Maria Eagle
supporting it while treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  raised doubts.
The government said it remained committed to the plan.  “Businesses up and down the country know value for money
when they see it, and our research shows that they don’t see it
in the government’s case for HS2,” Simon Walker, Director
General of the Institute of Directors, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “There appears to be little enthusiasm amongst
IoD members, not even in the regions where the benefits are
supposed to be strongest. Indeed, our research shows that almost
every region expects London to benefit the most.”  The IoD speaks for 38,000 business directors in the U.K. It
asked members to take part in an online poll Aug. 1-11, and
1,323 responded. Of those, 27 percent said HS2 represented good
value for money, while 50 percent said it was poor value.  Members of the Labour Party, which while in government drew
up the original plans for HS2, have been turning against it in
recent months. Both former Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson 
and former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling have
criticized the plan.  ‘Self-Mutilation’  On Aug. 24, former Transport Secretary Andrew Adonis, who
is now advising Miliband on economic policy, hit back, warning
that it would be an  “act of national self-mutilation”  if the
party were to cancel the project if it wins the 2015 election.  HS2 is unpopular among people who live on the route, which
passes through Conservative-supporting rural districts. To try
to allay concern, more than half the 140 miles (225 kilometers)
of the first leg, from London to Birmingham, will be in cuttings
or tunnels.  The government intends to introduce legislation supporting
HS2 by the end of 2013, with a plan for it to be passed by
Parliament by 2015. Construction would then begin in 2017, with
the line to Birmingham opening in 2026. After Birmingham the
line will split, with tracks going to Manchester and Leeds.
These sections wouldn’t open until 2033.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  