-- U.S. Corporate Credit-Default Swaps Rise; IFC Plans Bond Issue
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-26T22:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/u-s-corporate-credit-default-swaps-rise-ifc-plans-bond-issue.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds climbed after Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said the president will hold  Syria ’s government accountable for
using chemical weapons. International Finance Corp. plans to
issue five-year notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.8 basis points to a mid-price of 79.5 basis points as of 5:49
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates.  The measure was down as much as 0.7 basis point earlier
before Kerry said President  Barack Obama  will make an “informed
decision” and hold Syria’s government accountable for the
“moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons against its
people. Economic data this morning showed durable goods orders
in the U.S.  fell  in July for the first month since March,
triggering speculation the  Federal Reserve  will not commit to a
large-scale reduction in stimulus efforts.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 2.6 basis points to 390.4, Bloomberg prices show.  IFC Offering  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 2.9 basis point to 131.2
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt climbed 4.7 to 583.1.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  The new bonds from IFC, an arm of the World Bank Group, may
be sold tomorrow and may be rated Aaa at Moody’s and AAA at S&P,
according to person familiar with the offering, who asked not to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  