-- U.S. Midwest Cities Bake as Temperatures Reach Well Into the 90s
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-26T12:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/u-s-midwest-cities-bake-as-temperatures-reach-well-into-the-90s.html
Minneapolis may reach 98 degrees
Fahrenheit (37 Celsius) today and Chicago 93 as a heat wave
persists across the Midwest, the  National Weather Service  said.  Temperatures across southern  Minnesota  and northern Iowa
are expected to be about 15 degrees above normal through the
rest of the week, according to  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Much of the
Midwest and Great Plains will have readings about 8 degrees
higher than the norm.  “Chicago should see upper 80s to low 90s for most of the
week,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  Heat advisories have been issued for parts of Minnesota,
Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin,  North Dakota ,  South Dakota  and
Nebraska, where the heat when combined with humidity may feel
like 105 degrees in some places, according to the weather
service. Excessive heat warnings have been issued in southern
Minnesota, western Wisconsin and central Iowa.  Minneapolis reached 90 on Aug. 24 and 96 yesterday. Today’s
expected high would give the city its first heat wave since
July, weather service records show. A heat wave is defined as
three days with temperatures of 90 or more.  A reading of 98 it would also be the highest in  Minneapolis 
so far this year.  Warm September  Hotter-than-normal weather may persist across the Midwest
through September, according to  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Temperatures are expected to be 8 degrees above normal from
Montana to Illinois from Aug. 31 to Sept. 4, according to MDA.
That above-normal warmth may also reach from the Canadian
provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba to the U.S. states of
Missouri and Kansas.  The forecast calls for temperatures to range from 3 to 5
degrees above normal from the Rocky Mountains to the U.S. East
Coast during the same time frame, according to MDA.  Much of the Midwest and Ohio Valley are expected to have
temperatures at least 3 degrees above normal from Sept. 5 to
Sept. 9, MDA said. The warmest weather is expected to be in the
Pacific Northwest while the East Coast will be close to
seasonal.  The normal average temperature in  New York  City on Sept. 4
is 73 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston it’s 68; in Chicago,
69;  St. Louis , 76; Houston, 83; Seattle, 64; and in Burbank,
California it’s 75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  