-- U.S. to Sell $500 Million of Attack Helicopters to Indonesia
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-08-26T12:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/u-s-to-sell-500-million-of-attack-helicopters-to-indonesia.html
The U.S. agreed to sell a fleet of
Apache attack helicopters to the Indonesian Army in a
transaction valued at as much as $500 million.  Indonesia  will buy eight Apaches and the U.S. will provide
training to their pilots on tactics, techniques and procedures
for operating in Southeast Asia, a U.S. defense official said in
an e-mailed statement.  “The U.S. for the first time has agreed to sell Indonesia
new AH-64E Apache attack helicopters,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a prepared statement from Jakarta where he met his
counterpart Purnomo Yusgiantoro.  The helicopters, fitted with Longbow radar, are made by
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  Various models of the Apache are flown
by the U.S. Army and the military in  Egypt , Greece,  Israel ,
Japan,  Kuwait , the Netherlands,  Saudi Arabia , Singapore, the
United Arab Emirates and the U.K., according to its  website .  The U.S. in 2005 lifted restrictions on arms sales and
military cooperation with Indonesia, which were imposed in 1991
because of the country’s human rights record. A defense
cooperation agreement was signed about five years later.  In November 2011 the U.S. agreed to provide Indonesia with
24 refurbished F-16 jet fighters from the Pentagon’s used
aircraft inventory. The jets are made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
of Bethesda,  Maryland .  Indonesia has made progress in improving transparency and
protection of human rights, according to Hagel. This may “lead
to even more momentum in our defense relationship,” he said.  Economic Performance  The U.S. didn’t attach conditions restricting the use of
the Apache aircraft, according to Yusgiantoro. Indonesia is
buying new helicopters as it hasn’t modernized its armed forces
for the past 15 or 20 years because of the 1998 Asian financial
crisis, he said at a joint press briefing with Hagel.  “In other countries when economic performance gets better,
when there’s good economic growth, some funds can be used to
modernize the armed forces,” the minister said. “That is
what’s happening with Indonesia.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who is due to hand over
power in elections next year, is seeking to shore up his legacy
of political and economic stability in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation. As he nears the end of a decade in power, the
leader faces an economy that is growing at the slowest pace
since 2010, a slumping rupiah and the fastest inflation in more
than four years.  Gross domestic product increased 5.81 percent from a year
earlier in the three months ended June 30, the first time the
economy expanded less than 6 percent since 2010. The rupiah fell
to the weakest since April 2009 today, while inflation in July
climbed to 8.61 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Jakarta at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  