-- Hungary Set to Slow Rate-Cut Pace Ahead of Fed Tapering
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-27T10:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/hungary-set-to-slow-rate-cut-pace-ahead-of-fed-tapering.html
Hungary ’s central bank will probably
slow the pace of interest-rate cuts for the first time in a year
as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to scale back bond purchases
narrows monetary-policy room in emerging economies.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will reduce the two-week deposit
rate to 3.9 percent from 4 percent after 12 consecutive monthly
quarter-point cuts, according to 16 of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Four expect a cut to 3.75 percent, one a
reduction to 3.85 percent and one forecast no change. The
announcement will be made at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Policy makers are fine-tuning monetary policy with rates at
a record low, seeking to fortify a recovery from last year’s
recession while safeguarding financial stability and the
attractiveness of local assets as the Fed considers when to
start paring stimulus. Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy
said last month that policy makers may start cutting rates in
smaller steps than previously.  “The central bank senses that the current interest rate is
close to the ‘floor’ and policy makers recognize the risks
stemming from the external environment,” Mariann Trippon, a
Budapest-based economist at  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s CIB Bank, said
in an e-mail. “Still, as long as the country’s risk premium
doesn’t deteriorate sustainably and significantly, they’ll keep
chipping away at it.”  Forint Weakens  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 300.02 per euro by 12:38
a.m. in Budapest, pushing the currency’s loss in the past month
to 0.9 percent. It has depreciated 6.5 percent since Aug. 1,
2012 as the central bank cut its benchmark rate by 3 percentage
points in the period.  The rate may fall to between 3 percent and 3.5 percent,
Matolcsy said on July 23. Forward-rate agreements indicate that
investors expect the benchmark rate to drop to 3.75 percent in
the next three months before policy makers raise it back to 4
percent in nine months.  Matolcsy has pointed to subdued growth and record-low
inflation for continued rate cuts, while emphasizing that policy
makers monitor financial stability risks in their decisions.  Gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent from the previous
three months in the second quarter based on preliminary data,
the statistics office said Aug. 14. The inflation rate was 1.8
percent in July, near a 39-year low, remaining below the central
bank’s 3 percent medium-term target for a sixth month.  Market Exodus  Emerging-market stocks have lost more than $1 trillion
since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed “could take a step down”
in its $85 billion monthly bond purchases.  Central bankers across eastern Europe are seeking the
limits of policy easing as the euro area’s debt crisis saps
demand for exports. The Polish central bank ended a nine-month
cycle of interest-rate cuts in July, with the benchmark at a
record-low 2.5 percent.  Romania  this month unexpectedly speeded
up easing with a half-point cut to 4.50 percent, also a record
low.  Czech central bankers are debating whether to start koruna
sales for the first time in more than a decade after three cuts
last year brought interest rates near zero. Russia left its main
lending rates unchanged this month while signaling increased
concern about slowing economic growth.  The forint’s relative resilience in the past month to
emerging-market outflows may make the case for an extension of
the quarter-point cuts, Goldman Sachs said in report yesterday.  “Though Governor Matolcsy said last month that the” rate-setting Monetary Council “might continue easing in smaller than
usual steps, still muted market reaction should allow for a
’full’ cut of 25 basis points,”  Goldman Sachs (GS)  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  