-- Hungary Central Banker Weighs FX Mortgage Principal Cut
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-26T11:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/hungary-central-banker-weighs-fx-mortgage-principal-cut.html
Hungary’s government should consider
cutting the outstanding principal on foreign-currency mortgages,
central bank Vice President Adam Balog said in a report.  The proposal would expand to the principal of the loans a
plan in which the government and banks split the interest
payments of the mostly Swiss-franc loans on the share above 180
forint per franc, according to the report on the Budapest-based
central bank’s website today.  “This wouldn’t be a one-time, immediate foreign-currency
conversion of the outstanding debt but the gradual yet complete
conversion into forint and elimination of the exchange-rate
risk,” Balog said in the report, co-written with Magyar Nemzeti
Bank Managing Director Marton Nagy.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government last month pledged
to phase out $8 billion in foreign-currency mortgages to reduce
the vulnerability of households to exchange-rate swings after
installments soared as the forint weakened during the economic
crisis. The ratio of non-performing foreign-currency mortgage-related loans reached 21 percent at the end of June, according
to central bank data.  The forint strengthened 0.2 percent to 241.05 per Swiss
franc by 1:15 p.m. in Budapest. It lost 32 percent in the two
years through Sept. 1, 2009, more than any of the 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, except the Romanian leu.  Exchange-Rate Barrier  The proposal may help boost participation in an “exchange-rate barrier” plan, which drew 37 percent of eligible borrowers
as of June 2012, Balog and Nagy said. So far, 257,600 borrowers
holding 1.2 trillion forint ($5.3 billion) of foreign-currency
mortgage debt decided against joining the plan.  Some borrowers may have decided against joining because the
program only postpones capital repayment on the part above the
fixed  exchange rate  by five years, after which installments may
rise about 10 percent, Balog and Nagy wrote.  The government in 2011 temporarily allowed foreign-currency
mortgages to be repaid at below-market rates, forcing lenders to
swallow losses. The forint plunged 15 percent against the euro
in the second half of 2011, the most in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  