-- United Engineers Said to Seek Sale of Units After WBL Purchase
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-08-26T09:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/united-engineers-said-to-seek-sale-of-units-after-wbl-purchase.html
United Engineers Ltd. (UEM) , the
engineering company that helped build  Singapore ’s Shangri-la
hotel, is seeking a buyer for two units it purchased as part of
the acquisition of WBL Corp. this year, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The company plans to sell its stakes in Nasdaq-listed
 Multi-Fineline Electronix Inc. (MFLX)  and Singapore-traded MFS
Technology Ltd., both controlled by WBL, said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the deliberations are private. The
two companies have a combined market value of $439 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  United Engineers bought a majority stake in WBL for $725
million in May, and now owns 96 percent of the China-focused
property developer and distributor of Jaguar, Bentley and
Bugatti cars. Multi-Fineline and MFS both specialize in the
design and manufacture of flexible printed circuits, according
to WBL’s  website .  “The group is presently undertaking a strategic review in
relation to WBL and as part of its on-going strategies, the
group may from time to time review investment and divestment
opportunities as well as streamline its activities and
businesses,” United Engineers Chief Financial Officer Lester
Wong said in an e-mailed response to questions.  United Engineers, which owns 61.1 percent of Multi-Fineline
and 77.3 percent of MFS Technology through WBL, may seek S$300
million ($234 million) to S$400 million for its stakes, one of
the people said. WBL in December said it was exploring options
for its Multi-Fineline holding.  Multi-Fineline posted a third-quarter loss of $31.5 million
as sales tumbled. The company’s shares have fallen 23 percent
this year, cutting its market value to $375 million.  MFS
Technology (MFS)  has a market capitalization of S$81.7 million after
declining 8.1 percent in Singapore trading this year. The
company’s third-quarter profit dropped 67 percent from a year
earlier to S$1.3 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  United Engineers in June proposed a plan to raise about
S$490 million by selling shares to existing investors, allowing
the company to cut debt that reached S$2.5 billion on March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  