-- Potash Dispute Escalates as Uralkali CEO Held in Belarus
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-08-26T20:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/uralkali-ceo-detained-in-belarus-on-charge-of-abuse-of-office.html
The business dispute roiling the
global potash market escalated after Belarus accused top
executives at Russian producer  OAO Uralkali (URKA)  of a criminal
scheme, threatening to embroil both governments in a conflict
that could cause broader economic and political damage.  Belarus officials detained Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner after inviting him to Minsk for talks.
He’s still chairman of Belarusian Potash Co., the joint venture
with state-owned Belaruskali that the Russian company said July
30 it was withdrawing from.  Baumgertner was charged with abusing his office at the
venture and could face as many as 10 years in prison if found
guilty, Pavel Traulko, a spokesman for Belarus’s Investigative
Committee, said yesterday by phone.  Belarus officials have issued warrants for the arrest of
four more Uralkali executives, accusing them along with
Baumgertner of a scheme to cut Belaruskali out of decision-making at the venture, causing damages and losses of about $100
million.  Uralkali, the world’s largest  potash  producer, quit BPC
last month over a dispute about foreign sales. The Russian
company is better positioned to go it alone outside the venture,
which had controlled more than 40 percent of global exports,
because it has the lowest costs of any major producer. Potash is
used by farmers to help crops resist drought.  Price Forecast  Uralkali has said potash may drop to less than $300 a
metric ton, from about $400 in the first half, as it exits BPC
and steps up output to gain market share. Prices may already be
falling in  Brazil , where Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA is in
talks to sell the fertilizer at a discount of as much as 10
percent compared with July, two people with knowledge of the
process said yesterday.  A price drop is unwelcome news for Belarus, a country of
9.5 million people, where revenue from its potash industry
accounts for almost 20 percent of the budget.  Belarus has a history of economic and political disputes
with its much larger neighbor. Russian crude oil imports were
briefly cut off in 2011 after the countries failed to agree on
price.  Baumgertner’s arrest “crosses every line,” Russian First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  told reporters yesterday.
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government to
resolve the situation with Belarus, Shuvalov said. The move is
“inappropriate and not like a partner’s.”  ‘Outrageous Provocation’  Uralkali issued a statement denying the allegations against
Baumgertner. The act was an “outrageous provocation,”
Alexander Babinsky, a company spokesman, said by phone. The CEO
traveled to Minsk at the invitation of Belarusian Prime Minister
Mikhail Myasnikovich and was detained at the airport after their
talks, he said.  “This will make it difficult for the two to get back
together in any kind of trading venture,” Boris Krasnojenov, an
analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone.
“Belarus may be pushing Uralkali to split markets between them
after the breakup of the venture.”  Uralkali dropped 3.5 percent to 157.62 rubles in Moscow
yesterday, the biggest decline since Aug. 5. The situation is
“painful” for the company because it’s starting talks with
customers for next year’s supply contracts, Konstantin Yuminov,
an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said by phone.  Belarus may be pressuring Uralkali to give it at least the
option to sell potash to  China  this year, Elena Sakhnova, an
analyst with VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  Stocks Gain  Outside  Russia , investors bought potash stocks on
speculation the latest development means there won’t be a “race
to the bottom” on potash prices, Horst Hueniken, a Toronto-based  money manager  at  Dundee Corp. (DC/A) , said by phone.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,  North America ’s largest
producer, climbed 2.3 percent in  New York  yesterday while
Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  rose 3.2 percent and U.S. competitor
Mosaic Co. gained 1.2 percent.  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  advanced
2.7 percent in  Tel Aviv .  The other four Uralkali employees being pursued by Belarus
include Oleg Petrov, the company’s director for marketing and
sales as well as a BPC board member. Belarus is seeking the help
of Interpol, Traulko said. The country plans to seize Uralkali
property and other assets, Interfax reported yesterday.  “We’re not talking about separate criminal incidents,”
Traulko said by phone. “Officers of the law discovered a whole
criminal scheme and an intricately thought-out strategy to
implement over many years.”  Kerimov Probe  Investigators are probing whether Russian billionaire
 Suleiman Kerimov , Uralkali’s biggest shareholder with a 22
percent stake, is involved, Traulko said by phone. Anton Averin,
spokesman for Kerimov’s investment company Nafta Moskva,
declined to comment.  Belaruskali CEO Valery Kirienko said Aug. 19 that his
company and BPC opposed Uralkali’s strategy and would seek an
investigation. He said the Russian managers at BPC had fled
Belarus, leaving their belongings behind, and “were afraid to
return for some reason.”  Alexander Lukashevich, a Russian Foreign Ministry
spokesman, said yesterday he’s aware of the issue and declined
to comment further. Olga Dolgaya, Myasnikovich’s spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately answer phone calls seeking comment.  The Russian Embassy in Minsk sent a note to Belarus’s
Foreign Ministry asking for a meeting with Baumgertner, Interfax
reported yesterday, citing embassy adviser Vladimir Marchukov.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  