-- Watchdog Faults Hiring at Energy Department Loan Office
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-08-26T15:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/watchdog-faults-hiring-at-energy-department-loan-office.html
A senior official in the U.S. Energy
Department’s loan office hired a friend for one position and
forwarded the names and resumes of 10 people to a contractor,
which may have influenced its hiring practices, a report from
the department’s inspector general said today.  The contractor, which, like the official, wasn’t named in
the report, hired all 10 of the people, the report said. The
contractor said it didn’t feel pressure to hire the individuals,
which it said were all qualified for the positions.  The loan programs office manages a portfolio of billions of
dollars in outstanding loans to clean-energy companies and auto
manufacturers, part of an effort by the administration to
promote technologies that release less carbon dioxide emissions
in response to climate change.  “The appearance of favoritism in the federal hiring
process and active involvement in the contractor staffing
process could erode the public trust in the hiring process and
could damage the relationship between the department and its
contractors,” according to the report by the inspector general,
the agency’s auditor.  Congressional Republicans  have criticized the office for
trying to pick “winners and losers” among companies. The
office gave a $535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra LLC, the
solar panel maker that went bankrupt two years later. The office
says the failure rate has been less than originally estimated by
the law that set up the office.  Applicants Screened  The loan program official who was the subject of the
inspector general’s report “acknowledged screening applicants’
resumes and, in some cases, conducting preliminary phone and in-person interviews of certain applicants prior to referring
specific resumes to the contractor for employment
consideration,” the report stated.  The report was signed by Sandra Bruce, assistant inspector
general for inspections.  The loan programs office said it established interview
panels and limited hiring authorities to only a few officials,
excluding the person who was the subject of the inspector
general’s report, in an effort to strengthen its hiring
practices.  While the inspector general’s office said it verified the
senior officer’s contention that the friend hired to work in the
office was qualified for the position, the report said the
hiring may have been influenced by the prior relationship.  Officials told the inspectors that the office had trouble
attracting qualified applicants to fill slots where specific
technical expertise was required.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  