-- UN Team Probes Syria Chemical Charges as Response Weighed
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r ,   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-26T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/world-powers-seek-syria-action-as-un-probes-allegations.html
A United Nations inspection team
braved sniper fire to collect evidence and interview survivors,
witnesses and doctors in its probe of an alleged chemical
attack, according to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  A vehicle carrying the scientists was hit by fire from a
sniper en route to the Damascus suburb where Syrian rebels
allege that chemical weapons killed more than 1,300 people, Ban
said in an e-mail. After returning to  Syria ’s capital for a new
vehicle, the team reached the site, visited two hospitals,
conducted interviews and gathered samples, Ban said.  While the UN investigated, world leaders from Washington to
Istanbul called for action to punish Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad for what they said was his use of chemical weapons.  “I’m putting here the case that the Assad regime did this,
and that the use of chemical weapons on a large scale like this
cannot go unaddressed,” U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague
told BBC Radio 4.  Hague said Britain is convinced Assad was behind the Aug.
21 attack in Ghouta, outside Damascus, and that there was
agreement with the U.S. and France on the need to respond. The
U.K. government plans to decide tomorrow whether to recall
Parliament and seek approval for taking action, according to a
person familiar with discussions who asked not to be named.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry was scheduled to make a
statement on Syria at 2 p.m. Washington time, the State
Department said in an e-mailed statement.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said his country
will join a “coalition” against Syria if the UN fails to act.  Syria’s government denies the accusations.  ‘Surgical’ Strike  “I think a response is imminent,” U.S. Senator Bob Corker
of  Tennessee , the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, said today on  MSNBC . Corker said he expects
“a surgical, proportional strike against the Assad regime for
what they have done.” Obama doesn’t need authorization from
Congress to begin military action, he said.  Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican, said the U.S.
should use “standoff weaponry” to destroy Syrian airfields,
fuel and maintenance facilities.  “If the United States stands by and doesn’t take very
serious action -- not just launching some cruise missiles --
then, again, our credibility in the world is diminished even
more, if there’s any left,” McCain told reporters today in
 Seoul .  Syrian authorities and opposition activists blamed each
other for the gunfire aimed at the UN investigators. Ban said he
told UN disarmament chief Angela Kane, who is in Damascus, to
“register a strong complaint” with the Syrian government and
opposition forces about the sniper attack “so that this will
never happen” again.  ‘Massacre’s Origin’  The UN inspectors intend to continue their probe tomorrow,
UN spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters in New York.  Israel ’s Minister of Intelligence Yuval Steinitz said the
use of chemicals was “clear.” French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said it was “obvious” the weapons had been used and
that the “massacre’s origin comes from the regime of Bashar al-Assad.”  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov accused the West of
rushing to judgment before the UN inspectors complete their
work. “Western leaders are making statements that indicate that
they won’t wait for the results of this commission, they have
already decided everything,” he said.  Three hospitals in Syria’s Damascus governorate have
reported seeing 3,600 patients displaying neurotoxic symptoms on
the morning of Aug. 21, the  Doctors Without Borders  humanitarian
group said. Of those patients, 355 reportedly died, the group
said.  Constant Shelling  The integrity of the inspectors’ findings may be
compromised because constant shelling of the area in the five
days since the purported attack could have corrupted or
destroyed evidence, a U.S. administration official said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. intelligence officials and international partners have
concluded that chemicals were used, based on the reported number
of victims, reported symptoms of those who were killed or
injured in the Aug. 21 attacks, witness accounts and other facts
gathered, according to the U.S. statement.  “There is very little doubt at this point that a chemical
weapon was used by the Syrian regime against civilians in this
incident,” according to the official’s statement. The statement
was released on condition of anonymity because the person wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  ‘Drums of War’  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for the first time in
three days as orders for U.S. durable goods dropped more than
forecast in July and as Libya oil exports resumed from one of
the closed ports. It gained earlier on speculation that tension
in Syria would affect Middle East supplies. WTI for October
delivery slid 53 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $105.89 a barrel at
12:17 p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are up 15
percent in 2013.  Any military action against Syria may have “extremely
dangerous” consequences for the region and recent U.S.
statements have set off “deep alarm” in  Russia , Lavrov told
Kerry in a phone conversation yesterday, the Foreign Ministry in
Moscow said on its website.  Hossein Sheikholeslam, the Iranian parliament’s director-general for international affairs, said nations are “beating
the drums of war.” He told the state-run Fars news agency that
Israel risks being the “victim” if any attempt is made to
attack Syria.  Security Council  The U.K.’s Hague and  Turkey ’s Davutoglu signaled that
action may be taken even without the backing of the UN Security
Council, which has balked at strong action against the Assad
government in the past.  “Is it possible to respond without complete agreement on
the security council? I would argue yes it is,” Hague said.
“Other countries including  France  are very clear that we can’t
allow the idea that chemical weapons in the 21st century can be
used with impunity.”  Assad has dismissed the accusations as “nonsense,”
telling the Russian newspaper Izvestia that allegations were
“politicized.” The U.S. will be faced with “failure” if it
decides on the military option, Assad said. “America has waged
many wars, but has never been able to achieve its political
objectives from any of them,” Assad said in the interview.  Obama said a year ago that the use of chemical weapons by
the Assad regime would cross a U.S. “red line.” The U.S. now
has four destroyers equipped with Tomahawk cruise missiles in
the Mediterranean Sea, compared with three that have been there
for months, according to a U.S. official familiar with the
forces there. None of the ships -- the USS Gravely, the USS
Barry, the USS Mahan and the USS Ramage -- has been assigned a
mission, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  