-- WTI Trades Near Four-Day High Amid Economic Recovery
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-08-26T11:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/wti-climbs-a-third-day-while-brent-s-premium-narrows-on-libya.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
near a four-day high amid signs of economic recovery in  Europe 
and speculation that western governments may launch a military
intervention in Syria. Brent’s premium to WTI narrowed.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent in  New York .
Economic confidence in the euro area probably rose to the
highest level in 17 months in August, adding to signs that the
currency bloc’s recovery from a  record-long recession  is
gathering pace. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said
Britain is convinced President Bashar Al-Assad is behind last
week’s chemical weapons attack in Syria, and there’s agreement
with the U.S. and  France  on the need to respond.  “There’s a surprisingly robust economic recovery,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , the head of commodities research at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s supporting prices but not catapulting
them to a new level.”  WTI for October delivery climbed as much as 95 cents to
$107.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.51 at 12:06 p.m. London
time. The contract increased 1.3 percent to $106.42 on Aug. 23,
the largest gain since Aug. 9. Prices are up 16 percent in 2013.  Brent for October settlement slipped as much as 32 cents,
or 0.3 percent, to $110.72 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a
premium of $4.31 to WTI, narrowing for a third day. Stock
markets in the U.K. are closed for a public holiday.  Libyan Output  The U.S. concluded Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime probably used chemical weaponry against civilians,
calling an agreement yesterday to let United Nations inspectors
review the area not credible. The  Middle East  accounted for 35
percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this year,
International Energy Agency data show.  “There is an increased risk level now to the extent that
Western nations may feel the need to take some action” on
Syria, said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets
in Sydney.  Brent’s premium shrank as  Libya  resumed exports from the
port of Brega, one of four ports where force majeure was
declared amid protests that shut the facilities since the end of
July. This may add about 90,000 barrels a day to current
shipments of 500,000 barrels a day from the nation, a member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Storm Fernand  Tropical Storm Fernand was forecast to weaken to a
depression after making landfall over the Mexican state of
Veracruz, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory. It was heading west-northwest on a path over  Mexico 
away from oil installations, according to the center’s forecast.  Atlantic storms are followed closely by energy companies
and commodity traders because they can disrupt natural gas and
oil production and processing and destroy crops.  An index of European sentiment rose to 93.8 from 92.5 in
the previous month, according to the median of 26 economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The European Commission
publishes its economic-confidence report on Aug. 30.  Money managers reduced net-long positions in WTI crude, or
wagers that prices will increase, by 2 percent to 302,762
futures and options combined in the seven days ended Aug. 20,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
report on Aug. 23.  Hedge funds  and other speculators boosted net-longs in
 Brent crude  to 208,313 lots in the same period, from 193,527 in
the week to Aug. 13, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  