-- Yahoo Japan Seen Chasing Smartphone Ad Deals: Real M&A
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-08-26T06:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/yahoo-japan-seen-chasing-smartphone-ad-deals-real-m-a.html
Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , armed with $4
billion in  cash , is putting the nation’s smartphone advertising
and online shopping companies on alert as it searches for growth
at home.  In the past five years, its sales growth was a third of the
average among peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
the operator of  Japan ’s most-visited Web portal failed to extend
its dominance to smartphone services. Japan’s ad sales on those
devices are projected to almost triple by 2017.  Yahoo Japan may find a logical target in blogging service
 CyberAgent Inc. (4751)  as its smartphone ad sales surge, said Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. Buying the rest of  Japan Net Bank Ltd.  would
add online banking services to help catch up with Rakuten Inc.
in Internet shopping, said Ichiyoshi Research Institute Inc.  “The future is mobile,” Amir Anvarzadeh, a manager for
Japanese equity sales at BGC Partners Inc. in  Singapore , said in
a phone interview. “If they’re looking to expand into any area
within their own realm, it has to be mobile.”  The company this month hired Ryu Hirayama, former vice
president of  investment banking  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 Tokyo . He advised on mergers and acquisitions at the bank,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Smartphone Advertising  Yahoo Japan  rose  1 percent to 51,100 yen in Tokyo trading.
CyberAgent added 1.1 percent to 245,500 yen.  Yahoo Japan, whose  biggest shareholders  are SoftBank Corp.
and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , is targeting a 77 percent jump in operating
profit within six years by expanding in e-commerce and offering
more smartphone and tablet-computer services.  Ad revenue  from
those devices made up just 9 percent of sales last quarter.  Acquiring CyberAgent, owner of the Ameba blogging service,
and  Start Today Co. (3092) , a $2.3 billion operator of online clothing
shops, would help Yahoo Japan attract users, said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Iwai Cosmo.  CyberAgent, Japan’s biggest smartphone advertising agency
by volume, last quarter generated 60 percent of its revenue from
smartphones and services such as gaming that are tied to the
devices. It has a market value of $1.6 billion.  Start Today rose 0.8 percent to 2,103 yen.  Yahoo Japan’s “target areas should be somewhere on the
smartphone,” said Naoshi Nema, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in  Hong Kong . “Their online shopping is not as strong as
Rakuten’s. They may want to enforce that area because it has
very good synergies with smartphones.”  Mobile Supremacy  Selling more goods online drives up Web visitors and swells
ad sales. Portal owners such as Yahoo Japan typically take a cut
of transactions executed through their sites.  Boosting Yahoo Japan’s 41 percent  stake  in Japan Net Bank
may accelerate online expansion, said Hiroshi Naya, an analyst
at Ichiyoshi Research. The Internet bank, Japan’s first, boosted
profit more than fourfold last quarter. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp. also owns a 41 percent stake.  Kimihiko Sato, a spokesman for Yahoo Japan, declined to
comment. Representatives for Start Today and Japan Net Bank also
declined to comment.  CyberAgent (4571)  spokeswoman Sonoko Miyakawa said
the company has no plan to sell its advertising business.  Within two years, mobile devices will surpass personal
computers as the primary method of accessing Yahoo Japan’s
services, the company said in June. Currently, less than a
quarter of users tap its shopping services with smartphones.  Yahoo! Takeovers  “Screen sizes on mobiles are getting bigger,” said
Anvarzadeh at BGC Partners. “This is super important because
that paves the way for PC-type content to finally migrate
towards mobile content.”  Japan’s smartphone advertising market will almost triple
from 2012 to 221.3 billion yen ($2.2 billion) in 2017, according
to CyberZ Inc., a unit of CyberAgent.  Yahoo Japan’s quest for growth mirrors that at Yahoo! Inc.,
which owns 35 percent of the Tokyo-based company. Led by Chief
Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer , Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo agreed to buy blogging platform Tumblr Inc. for $1.1
billion in May. Yahoo Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Goldman
sits on Yahoo Japan’s board.  Yahoo Japan is bound by an agreement with Yahoo against
doing business outside Japan with the Yahoo brand, spokesman
Junji Miyahara said earlier this month.  The addition of Hirayama from Goldman Sachs indicates Yahoo
Japan plans to make deals a higher priority, said Justin Weiss,
an analyst at JI  Asia  in Tokyo.  Takeover History  “This new hire suggests they’re becoming even more serious
and certainly more systematic,” Weiss said. “Having someone
help identify promising targets could be an important step.”  Yahoo Japan, 43 percent-owned by billionaire Masayoshi Son’s SoftBank, didn’t specify Hirayama’s role.  The company has made 13 acquisitions since the beginning of
2012 totaling $671 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was the purchase of a 42 percent stake in
office supplier Askul Corp. for $410 million, followed by the
acquisition of CyberAgent’s foreign-exchange unit.  Yahoo Japan  isn’t under pressure to do more deals,
according to Weiss at JI Asia. The company’s ad sales from
smartphones almost doubled to 8 billion yen last quarter from a
year earlier.  Even so, Yahoo Japan hasn’t expanded at the pace of online
competitors.  Its average sales growth in the past five years was 7.3
percent, lower than the 27 percent average among Internet media
peers valued at more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Rakuten’s average was 16 percent while Start Today
delivered 30 percent, the data show.  Tokyo-based Rakuten, led by billionaire Hiroshi Mikitani,
said it had  29 percent  of Japan’s e-commerce market last year,
higher than Amazon.com Inc.’s 12 percent and 6.2 percent at
Yahoo Japan. Rakuten started as an online shopping mall and
expanded into brokerage, insurance and credit card services.  Past acquisitions at Yahoo Japan may not be enough to catch
up, said Naya at Ichiyoshi Research Institute.  Yahoo Japan “has only done small deals, not major ones,”
Naya said. “The company needs to focus on Japan and make bold
moves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  