-- Yemen Raises October Masila Crude Premium: Persian Gulf Oil
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-08-26T12:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/yemen-raises-october-masila-crude-premium-persian-gulf-oil.html
Yemen raised the premium it will
charge for October shipments of its Masila blend crude to the
highest since June, reversing three straight declines in the
formula used to set the country’s official oil selling price.  Iran ’s Mohsen Qamsari will take over the role of
international affairs director at National Iranian Oil Co.,
replacing Mohammad Ali Khatibi, who is retiring, Tehran Times
newspaper reported.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product-market news and forthcoming events:  Crude  Yemen raised the premium it will charge for October
shipments of its Masila blend crude to $1.16 a barrel more than
the Dated Brent benchmark, the state oil marketing committee
said Aug. 18. That’s an increase from the 45 cent premium set
for September loadings, stemming three straight reductions and
bringing the premium to its highest level since June.  Yemen agreed to sell its entire allotment of 2 million
barrels of Masila blend crude offered for October to energy
trader Arcadia, according to the statement. State-owned Aden
Refinery Co. will buy all 1.65 million barrels of Marib Light
offered for October at a price flat to Dated Brent.  Iran’s new oil minister Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh said last
week he plans to revive the country’s oil production to pre-2005
levels, a time when he also served as oil minister, according to
comments to the  Fars News agency . Historically the second-largest OPEC producer after Saudi Arabia, Iran has slipped to
sixth place as sanctions imposed by the U.S. and its allies
against Iran’s nuclear program restricted oil exports.  Zanganeh pledged to return oil production to 4.2 million
barrels a day. The current level is 2.56 million barrels,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Iran replaced Khatibi as NIOC’s international affairs head
with Qamsari, who had previously held the post of international
affairs director at the state-run company, according to reports
in Tehran Times on Aug. 21. The Oil Ministry’s news website
Shana said on Aug. 20 that Khatibi was retiring.  Neither report said whether Khatibi’s other position as
Iran’s governor to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would be affected. Khatibi remains Iran’s OPEC
governor unless a new appointment is made by Zanganeh, said an
official in Khatibi’s office, who declined to be identified.  In regional trading, Oman and Dubai grades both gained for
a third week out of four this month, each rising 0.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oman rose 65 cents a
barrel to $107.66 a barrel in spot trading in the week ended
Aug. 23, while Dubai increased 66 cents to $107.53 a barrel.  Refined Products, Fuel Tenders and Refineries  Kuwait  last week offered 74,000 metric tons of naphtha for
September loading, according to a tender document obtained by
Bloomberg News. State-owned Kuwait Petroleum Co. offered to sell
24,000 tons of Light Naphtha for Sept. 14-15 loading and 50,000
tons of full-range naphtha for Sept. 16-21 loading. The identity
of the buyers in the bidding that closed Aug. 20 was not
immediately available.  Kuwait National Petroleum Co. last week controlled a fire
that broke out at the Mina Abdullah refinery’s crude unit, a
company spokesman said Aug. 21. The fire had no impact on
exports or production, spokesman Mohammed Al-Ajmi said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  