-- Yosemite Fire Costs San Francisco Power as Water Unharmed
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-26T22:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/yosemite-fire-costs-san-francisco-power-as-water-unharmed.html
A wildfire spreading within miles of
water and hydropower sources for  San Francisco  in  Yosemite
National Park  has cost the city $600,000 for replacement
electricity, officials said.  The Rim Fire grew today to about 150,000 acres (60,600
hectares) or 234 square miles and was 15 percent contained,
according to the  California Department of Forestry and Fire 
Protection, which has command of the fire crews. About 3,400
personnel were fighting the blaze, which erupted Aug. 17 and
threatened 4,500 structures.  The fire was less than two miles from the  Hetch Hetchy
Reservoir  at 9:15 a.m. local time, said Harlan Kelly Jr.,
general manager of the  San Francisco Public Utilities
Commission . The lake, about 160 miles (260 kilometers) east of
San Francisco, supplies 85 percent of the city’s water and
powers San Francisco International Airport, San Francisco
General Hospital and the city’s transit system.  “We are trying to protect as many facilities around our
watershed and trying to minimize the damage,” Kelly said today
in an interview. “As far as the water is concerned, our major
concern is the ash getting into the water system. We have not
started to see signs of the ash.”  The commission deactivated electrical transmission lines
and two of three hydroelectric power plants in the area of the
fire on Aug. 19 and had spent $600,000 buying replacement
electricity, according to a statement yesterday.  ‘Piggy Bank’  In addition to tapping wholesale power markets, the utility
is borrowing from a “piggy bank” with  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  to make up
for 110 megawatts out of service because of the fire. That
represents 69 percent of the agency’s 160 megawatts of supplies
in the area.  It will take several days after the fire is out to bring
back the transmission lines, requiring the city to continue
buying power, Kelly said. He said he couldn’t estimate how much
power costs may climb.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  declared a state of
emergency for the city on Aug. 23,  citing  “conditions of
extreme peril” because of the threat to the utilities.  The Hetch Hetchy system serves 2.6 million water customers
in San Francisco and the  Bay Area . Water flows from the
reservoir, more than 3,000 feet above  sea level  in the Sierra
Nevada Mountains, through tunnels to San Francisco.  Reserve Supply  San Francisco’s water system has supplies in Bay Area
reservoirs and is linked with the East Bay Municipal Utilities
District and the Santa Clara Valley Water District, according to
the commission.  Most of Yosemite National Park wasn’t affected by the fire
and is relatively smoke-free, according to the park’s  website .  Outside the park, the fire destroyed most of the structures
at the city of Berkeley’s Tuolumne Family Camp, which has
operated since 1922, according to a  statement  on the city’s
website. The camp, about seven miles west from the park
entrance, was evacuated Aug. 20.  The Rim Fire is not threatening the state’s high-voltage
transmission lines and power supplies remain adequate, Steven
Greenlee, a spokesman for the  California Independent System
Operator , which manages the state’s power grid, said by e-mail.  PG&E had 158 customers without power as of 9:30 a.m. local
time, said a spokeswoman, Nicole Liebelt. The utility had shut a
power line at the request of the fire incident command, Liebelt
said. PG&E has been unable to assess damage to the company’s
equipment due to safety concerns, she said.  Several large fires damaged utilities in  Southern
California  in recent months.  A blaze that spread across almost 30,000 acres north of  Los
Angeles  in June triggered “multiple forced outages” on lines
that connect to Northern California and the Pacific Northwest,
according to the California Independent System Operator Corp.,
which manages the state’s power grid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  