-- Hypo Real Estate Starts Sale of Depfa to Meet EU Conditions
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-08-26T19:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/hypo-real-estate-starts-sale-of-depfa-to-meet-eu-conditions.html
Hypo  Real Estate Holding AG (REAEH) , the
German lender bailed out during the financial crisis, said it
will begin the sale of its Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit.  The lender opened a public tender offer for Depfa and
called for bids by 12 p.m. local time, Sept. 12, Munich-based
Hypo Real Estate said in a statement today. No transaction is
anticipated before early 2014, the company said.  Hypo Real Estate received European Union approval in 2011
for a bailout as  Germany  injected 10 billion euros ($13.4
billion) of capital to save it from collapse after Depfa
couldn’t raise financing following the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “In the course of the last year, operations have been
stabilized and portfolio risks were significantly reduced,”
Hypo Real Estate said in the statement.  As part of the restructuring agreement with the EU, Hypo
Real Estate Chief Executive Officer Manuela Better has to sell
the Depfa unit, which is closed to new business, by the end of
2014. As of June 30, Depfa held a core public sector finance
portfolio of 40 billion euros, with secured instruments
accounting for about 80 percent of the funding.  Better also needs to find a buyer for  pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank , which combines most of the continued business of
Hypo Real Estate by the end of 2015.  The state and financial institutions also provided Hypo
Real Estate with credit lines and debt guarantees of as much as
142 billion euros.  Hypo Real Estate, which is fully owned by the German
government since its bailout, transferred about 176 billion
euros of assets in 2010 to the FMS Wertmanagement, the bad bank
that’s winding down the portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  