-- Zurich Insurance’s Wauthier Committed Suicide, Police Say
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-08-27T15:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-26/zurich-insurance-finance-chief-pierre-wauthier-found-dead.html
Pierre Wauthier, chief financial
officer of  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , probably committed suicide
at his home, according to police. He was 53.  An autopsy to determine the cause of death “clearly
pointed to a suicide,” Marcel Schlatter, a police spokesman for
the canton of Zug, Switzerland, where Wauthier lived and was
found dead yesterday, said by telephone today. He declined to
disclose further details out of consideration for the family.  Wauthier is the second top Swiss executive in five weeks to
have taken his life after Carsten Schloter, 49, chief executive
officer for  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , Switzerland’s biggest phone company,
was found dead at his home on July 23. Wauthier, a married
father of two, was appointed CFO at  Switzerland ’s largest
insurer in September 2011 after previous roles as group
treasurer and head of centrally managed businesses.  “The board of directors, group executive committee and all
of our colleagues are deeply saddened and pass on our
condolences to the family and relatives,” Chief Executive
Officer Martin Senn said in a statement yesterday.  Schlatter said that Wauthier lived in Walchwil, a
municipality on the eastern shore of Lake Zug. The citizen of
Britain and France had joined Zurich Insurance in 1996. Vibhu Sharma, group controller, will take over as CFO on an interim
basis, according Zurich Insurance.  Wauthier, who held a master’s degree in international
finance from l’Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales and a
Masters in private law from the Sorbonne University in Paris,
began his career at  KPMG  in 1982, according to Zurich
Insurance’s website. He worked for two years at the French
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  and joined  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
1985, before taking on the job at Zurich Insurance.  Zurich Insurance, based in Zurich, said on Aug. 15 that
floods in central Europe and tornadoes in the U.S. contributed
to a 27 percent decline in second-quarter net income to $789
million, missing analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  