-- Manchester Utd. Beats Norwich to Extend Premier League Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-02T19:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/manchester-utd-beats-norwich-4-0-to-extend-premier-league-lead.html
A Shinji Kagawa hat trick helped
Manchester United beat Norwich 4-0 to continue its push to a
record-extending 20th English soccer league title.  Wayne Rooney also scored at Old Trafford today as United
ran its unbeaten run in the Premier League to 16 games. The
league leader now has 71 points, 15 more than second-place
Manchester City, which visits Aston Villa in two days.  Liverpool routed Wigan 4-0, last-place Queens Park Rangers
won 2-1 at Southampton and Chelsea beat West Bromwich Albion 1-
0. Also, Everton defeated Reading 3-1, West Ham won 1-0 at
Stoke, Swansea beat Newcastle 1-0 and Sunderland came from
behind to draw 2-2 with Fulham.  With a Champions League game against Real  Madrid  next week,
Manchester United was forced to work harder than expected in
avenging a 1-0 loss at Norwich in November.  United controlled play in the first half but didn’t break
through until stoppage time when Robin van Persie knocked
Antonio Valencia’s cross to Kagawa, who shot past Mark Bunn.  Norwich pressured early in the second half, but didn’t
really test United goalkeeper David de Gea. The Reds manager
Alex Ferguson, with an eye toward the Champions League, took top
scorer van Persie off in the 66th minute and brought on  Danny Welbeck .  United doubled the lead with 14 minutes left as Rooney ran
onto a pass in the Norwich area and laid off a ball which Kagawa
easily tapped past Bunn. Kagawa completed his hat trick in the
88th minute off another pass from Rooney, who then closed the
scoring two minutes later.  Top Scorer  Luis Suarez scored a hat trick and Stewart Downing added a
goal as Liverpool won at Wigan. Suarez leads the league with 20
goals, one more than van Persie.  Jay Bothroyd scored the winning goal in the 77th minute as
QPR won only its third game of the season on manager Harry Redknapp’s 66th birthday. Loic Remy also scored for QPR, which
remains last in the 20-team league, but move within four points
of Wigan in the last spot in the standings above the relegation
zone.  Demba Ba scored as Chelsea beat West Brom to move above
Tottenham, which plays Arsenal tomorrow, in third place. It was
the Blues’ first home game since interim manager Rafael Benitez
criticized the club’s fans for protesting against his hiring in
November.  Marouane Fellaini, Steven Pienaar and Kevin Mirallas scored
as Everton won for just the second time in seven games, while
Jack Collison’s goal ended West Ham’s eight-match away winless
run.  Luke Moore scored in the 85th minute as Swansea, which won
the first major trophy in its 101-year history in the League Cup
final last weekend, beat Newcastle. Goals from Craig Gardner and
Stephane Sessegnon earned Sunderland the draw with Fulham, which
led 2-0 after scores from Dimitar Berbatov and Sascha Riether.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 