-- Bernanke Says Raising Interest Rates Early Risks Stifling Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/bernanke-says-raising-interest-rates-early-risks-stifling-growth.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled he will keep the Fed’s target interest rate
low to support the economy, even as some colleagues warn the
policy risks triggering financial market instability.  “Premature  rate  increases would carry a high risk of
short-circuiting the recovery, possibly leading -- ironically
enough -- to an even longer period of low long-term rates,”
Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in San Francisco. “Only a
strong economy can deliver persistently high real returns to
savers and investors.”  Bernanke in congressional testimony this week defended the
Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying the benefits
of reducing borrowing costs and fueling growth outweigh any
potential costs. The Federal Open Market Committee is debating
when to curtail the bond-buying amid concern the stimulus may
encourage asset-price bubbles and complicate the Fed’s eventual
reduction of its $3.09 trillion balance sheet.  The Fed chairman said in response to audience questions
that “monetary policy can be a relatively blunt tool for
addressing problems in a given market.” He cited the Fed’s
attempt in the 1920s to raise rates to head off a stock market
boom, and the subsequent Great Depression, to warn of the risks
from using interest rates to restrain financial markets.  Bernanke said the central bank seeks to avoid causing
disruptions by holding at 0.25 percent the interest rate it pays
on reserves that banks keep at the Fed. He said he has
“concerns on the effects of functioning of markets” if the Fed
cut the rate to zero.  Regain Footing  In his remarks, Bernanke expanded on his argument that the
Fed’s accommodation remains warranted. By allowing the economy
to regain its footing, long-term rates will gradually rise,
providing a better return to savers than if the central bank
raised rates now, Bernanke said.  “If, as the FOMC anticipates, the economic recovery
continues at a moderate pace, with  unemployment  slowly declining
and inflation expectations remaining near 2 percent, then long-
term interest rates would be expected to rise gradually toward
more normal levels over the next several years,” he said at a
San Francisco Fed conference titled “The Past and Future of
Monetary Policy.”  Bernanke devoted the bulk of his speech to an analysis of
why longer-term interest rates in much of the world have fallen
near record lows. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note hit a
record 1.379 percent on July 25 and has since risen to 1.84
percent.  Bernanke’s remarks were also a response to an FOMC debate
that has emerged publicly over how to confront financial
instability that could be provoked by an extended period of very
low rates.  Leveraged Loans  Fed Governor Jeremy Stein said last month that some credit
markets, including leveraged loans and junk bonds, show signs of
too much risk taking. Kansas City Fed President Esther George
has warned that prices of some farm land have hit “historically
high levels.”  Bernanke said the Fed is “responding to financial
stability concerns with the multipronged approach” that
consists of monitoring risks, increased supervision and
regulation of the financial system and communicating central
bank policy well in advance to avoid surprising markets.  “While the recent crisis is vivid testament to the costs
of ill-judged risk-taking, we must also be aware of constraints
posed by the present state of the economy,” he said. “In light
of the moderate pace of the recovery and the continued high
level of economic slack, dialing back accommodation with the
goal of deterring excessive risk-taking in some areas poses its
own risks to growth, price stability, and, ultimately, financial
stability.”  Asset Bubbles  Bernanke noted that while too-low rates risk spurring asset
bubbles, interest rates that rise too quickly threaten to impose
losses on institutions that hold fixed-income assets.  The Fed has said it will start selling some of its  assets 
as it withdraws stimulus. “Adjustments to the pace or timing of
asset sales could be used, under some circumstances, to dampen
excessively sharp adjustments in longer-term interest rates,”
he said.  During his semi-annual testimony to Congress this week,
Bernanke faced criticism from Senator Bob Corker, a Republican
from  Tennessee , who said the Fed’s low-rate policy is
“basically punishing people who’ve done the right things and
throwing seniors under the bus and others that have saved
money.”  Riskier Assets  Representative John Campbell, a Republican from  California ,
said that “savers and retirees are being forced into riskier
assets in the search for some sort of yield. When this unwinds,
that is going to be a problem for our savers and retirees.”  The FOMC reiterated in January it will keep its benchmark
interest rate near zero as long as the unemployment rate is
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. It also said it intends to keep buying bonds until
there is a “substantial improvement” in the labor market.  Unemployment was 7.9 percent in January. Consumer prices,
as measured by the Fed’s preferred gauge, rose 1.2 percent from
a year earlier, the least since October 2009.  The Fed’s asset purchases are helping to maintain gains in
the stock market as low rates encourage investors to seek higher
returns. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rallied  13 percent  last
year and has climbed  6.5 percent  this year amid data showing the
economy is weathering a fiscal stalemate in Washington.  Bond purchases by the Fed are also pushing down borrowing
costs on everything from  mortgages  to auto loans, spurring the
consumer spending that accounts for 70 percent of the world’s
largest economy.  Income Dropped  Consumer spending rose in January even as incomes dropped
by the most in 20 years, showing households were weathering an
increase in payroll taxes by reducing savings.  Household purchases climbed 0.2 percent in January after a
0.1 percent gain the prior month, a Commerce Department report
showed yesterday in Washington.  Manufacturers are expanding production as consumer demand
grows and businesses boost investment. The Institute for Supply
Management yesterday said its  factory index  rose to 54.2 in
February, the highest reading since June 2011.  Applied Materials, the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, forecast fiscal second-quarter sales that beat most
estimates, indicating that some customers are expanding output
on brisk demand for mobile devices.  “The momentum in the business is strong,” Michael Splinter, chief executive officer at the Santa Clara,
California-based company, said at a conference. “Our display
business is starting to come back. Orders are picking up there
as well.”  Bernanke and his FOMC colleagues will know more about the
job market when the Department of Labor releases its monthly
report on March 8. The unemployment rate last month was
unchanged at 7.9 percent, with 160,000 jobs created, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  