-- Canadian Dollar Weakens to Eight-Month Low as Growth Stagnates
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/canadian-dollar-weakens-to-eight-month-low-as-growth-stagnates.html
The Canadian dollar weakened to the
lowest level in eight months against its U.S. counterpart as
growth in the world’s 11th-largest economy stagnated and concern
increased that European financial turmoil will resume.  The currency fell for the fourth straight week as the
economy grew at a 0.6 percent annualized pace from October to
December, the slowest since the second quarter of 2011. The
report is the last major one before the Bank of  Canada  meets
next week on interest rates. Inconclusive elections in Italy
risk jeopardizing deficit-reduction austerity measures, driving
investors away from higher-returning assets and currencies.  “Negative sentiment has really turned against the Canadian
dollar,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “There’s a
lot of pessimism right now with global growth in general.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0268
per U.S. dollar in Toronto. The currency touched C$1.034
yesterday, the weakest level since June. One loonie buys 97.39
U.S. cents.  The loonie fell 3.3 percent in February, a second
consecutive monthly decline and the biggest drop since May.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, reached
their lowest point this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks was little changed.  Policy Meeting  Futures traders reversed wagers the Canadian dollar will
rise against the greenback, betting it will fall for the first
time in eight months,  figures  from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Hedge funds and other large speculators had 21,433 more
bets the Canadian dollar would fall than bets it would gain, so-
called net shorts, on Feb. 26, compared with 19,379 more bets it
would gain, or net-longs, a week earlier.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to
1.80 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
gained C$1.26 to C$108.08.  Fourth-quarter growth fell short of Bank of Canada Governor
Mark Carney’s Jan. 23 projection of a 1 percent expansion rate.
Signs the economy is struggling to reach full output led Carney
to say that an increase in his benchmark interest rate is “less
imminent.” The bank, which meets March 6, has warned interest
rates could rise in every policy decision since April.  U.S. Comparison  The U.S. economy expanded in the fourth quarter after
contracting in the previous period, a report showed Feb. 28.
Gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate, up
from a previously estimated 0.1 percent drop, according to
revised figures from the Commerce Department.  American factories expanded in February at the fastest pace
in almost two years as The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index rose to 54.2, the highest reading since June 2011.
Other data showed U.S. consumer spending rose in January.  “People have started to realize that we’re heading to a
huge divergence of performance between Canada and the U.S.,”
said Clement Gignac, chief economist at Industrial Alliance
Insurance and Financial Services Inc., by phone from Quebec
City. “So Canada will underperform the U.S. economy.”  Rate Speculation  Canada’s two-year government bonds have risen in the last
two weeks, with yields falling 20 basis points to 0.94 percent,,
shrinking the Canadian debt’s  yield advantage  over its U.S.
counterpart to 70 basis points, the least since July.  Trading in overnight index swaps suggest a rate cut is more
likely than an increase. Derivatives traders priced in a 1.3
percent cut by the Bank of Canada’s May 29 meeting.  “Given the slow growth, it’s highly unlikely the Bank of
Canada will be hiking rates any time in 2013,” Adam Button, a
currency analyst at Forexlive.com, said by phone from  Montreal .
“The mythical Bank of Canada rate hike is like the pot of gold
at the end of the rainbow, we just keep moving towards it, but
it never gets any closer.”  The loonie has fallen 0.87 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has gained 3 percent
and the euro has risen 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  