-- Celgene Psoriasis Drug Helped Third of Patients in Study
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-03-02T16:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/celgene-psoriasis-drug-helped-third-of-patients-in-study.html
Celgene Corp. (CELG) , the maker of the
cancer drug Revlimid, said its experimental psoriasis medicine
helped quell the redness and inflammation associated with the
skin disorder in a study.  The drug, apremilast, helped one-third of patients achieve
a 75 reduction of symptoms, based on a standard  Psoriasis Area
and Severity Index  measurement. That compared with 5.3 percent
of those on placebo with the same score, called PASI-75, Celgene
said in a statement as it presents the data at the  American
Academy of Dermatology  meeting in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , today.  Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease that causes red, scaly
patches on the skin and affects as many as 7.5 million in the
U.S., according to the National Psoriasis Foundation. The market
for treatments may approach $10 billion worldwide, according to
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group Inc. in  New York . He
said investors may have been looking for at least 40 percent of
patients reaching the PASI-75 metric.  “This would place apremilast slightly less effective than
the biologic therapies (e.g., Enbrel, Humira, Stelara) but with
a best-in-class safety profile,” Schoenebaum wrote in a Feb. 28
research note.  The data presented today were from a study called ESTEEM 1,
one of two clinical trials in the third and final phase
generally required for regulatory approval. Summit, New Jersey-
based Celgene said in January that both ESTEEM 1 and ESTEEM 2,
which together included about 1,250 patients, had met their
study goals and that it plans to seek regulatory approval for
apremilast in psoriasis in the second half of this year.  Psoriatic Arthritis  Celgene also has tested the drug in psoriatic arthritis,
another autoimmune condition, and has plans to apply for
approval in that indication in the first half of this year. It’s
also running trials in ankylosing spondylitis, Behcet’s disease
and rheumatoid arthritis. Apremilast may bring in $1.14 billion
in revenue in 2017, according to the average of 12 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Celgene today also reported that 59 percent of patients
achieved a 50 percent reduction in symptoms, compared with 17
percent of those taking a placebo. The drug was generally well
tolerated, with a 3.6 percent of patients on apremilast and 3.2
percent on placebo reporting severe side effects, Celgene said.  Apremilast is an oral drug that inhibits an enzyme called
PDE4 that’s associated with inflammation, according to Celgene.
Other drugs such as  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Enbrel and
 AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ’s Humira, which target the inflammatory protein TNF,
and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Stelara, which suppresses IL-12 and
IL-23, are given by injection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  