-- Chavez Getting Chemotherapy Treatment After Cancer Surgery
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-02T23:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/chavez-receiving-chemotherapy-after-cancer-surgery-maduro-says.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is
undergoing chemotherapy after cancer surgery in Cuba more than
two months ago and is in “good spirits” in spite of the
severity of the treatment, Vice President Nicolas Maduro said.  Chavez is enduring the difficult treatment he is receiving
at a military hospital in Caracas, Maduro said. After suffering
a respiratory infection in late December that required the
insertion of a tracheal tube to aid breathing, Maduro said
Chavez’s health began to improve, allowing doctors to begin
additional treatments that he said included chemotherapy.  “The treatments President Chavez is doing are difficult,
but he has right now a strength superior to what he is receiving
and is in good spirits,” Maduro said on state television, after
attending a Mass at a chapel in the hospital where Chavez is.
From mid-January, “there was a general improvement in the whole
clinical picture of his vital organs, of his strength and the
doctors and President Chavez decided to begin complementary
treatments. Do you know what complementary treatments are? Well,
chemotherapy that they apply to patients after operations.”  Aside from photos released last month and Twitter messages
posted to Chavez’s account upon arrival, the 58-year-old leader
hasn’t been seen in public since traveling to Havana in December
for his fourth cancer surgery in 18 months. No images of
Chavez’s return to Caracas were broadcast and the government
said he isn’t able to speak, fueling speculation among investors
that he won’t be able to finish his term in office.  Nearing Death  The lack of information about the health of the self-
declared socialist who took office in 1999 has sparked rumors in
the past week that he’s brain dead or nearing death.  Maduro said yesterday that foreign media and “criminal
groups” in Miami that, he says, are led by former top U.S.
diplomats to the region, are funding a campaign to destabilize
 Venezuela  as Chavez languishes in a hospital bed.  Opposition groups in Venezuela also have sought to create
disturbances by encouraging people to loot shops in Caracas,
Maduro said, without providing more details.  In order to receive chemotherapy a patient has to be in
reasonable shape to withstand the treatment, though Chavez is
probably receiving palliative care to improve his quality of
life rather than to cure the disease, said Sunil Daryanani, a
Caracas-based oncologist. The treatment often is applied to
appease worried relatives, he said.  Probably Palliative  “If someone’s on chemotherapy, that person should be in
relatively stable condition,” Daryanani said in a phone
interview. “In the case of Chavez, this would be second-line
treatment, having had first-line chemotherapy a year and a half
ago. Palliative treatment tries to hold off the disease for as
long as possible, though the first intention is for quality of
life.”  While announcing Dec. 8 that he required further surgery to
treat his cancer, Chavez anointed Maduro as his successor and
called on Venezuelans to vote for the former bus driver and
union leader in the event that he didn’t survive the operation.
Under Venezuela’s constitution, if Chavez dies or steps down an
election must be held within 30 days.  “Given the delicate state of his health, the death of
Chavez in coming hours, days or weeks appears to be an
increasing possibility,” Diego Moya-Ocampos, a political risk
analyst at IHS Global Insight Inc in  London , said today in an e-
mailed note to clients. “The test now is how long the
administration can justify its tenure without further legal
ratification and before other political actors from Chavismo,
the opposition and military come forward demanding that the
Constitution is respected and for elections to take place.”  Capriles, Maduro  Chavez’s opponent in October’s election, Miranda state
Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, said yesterday that Maduro
is lying about Chavez’s health, including that his ministers
held a five-hour meeting with him Feb. 22.  “Maduro has repeatedly deceived the president’s followers
and Venezuelans over the real situation of the president,”
Capriles said in a  Twitter message . “Let’s see how they explain
in the next few days the lies they’ve told over the president’s
situation.”  Maduro denied the accusations. The government is monitoring
Capriles’s movements and knows he has traveled to Colombia,
Miami and New York seeking funding and plotting against
Venezuela, Maduro said today, saying he could pinpoint the exact
street in  Manhattan  where Capriles could be found at that moment
and that he was planning to meet with U.S. Assistant Secretary
of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Roberta Jacobson while
there.  Cuba, Surgery  “Those who conspire abroad in Colombia, Miami or New York
against the Venezuelan people should be very careful in what
they do,” Maduro said today. The government wouldn’t hesitate
to apply the law, Maduro said.  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area. The tumor was excised in a
subsequent operation, Chavez said, without specifying the exact
location or type of cancer.  After four bouts of chemotherapy, he returned to Cuba in
February 2012 for a third operation after his medical team
discovered a second tumor and underwent several rounds of
radiation therapy over the following months. In July, he said he
was “free, totally free” of illness, echoing words he said in
October 2011 after completing chemotherapy treatment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 