-- China PBOC Adviser Says Monetary Tightening Pressure Eased
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-03T03:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/china-pboc-adviser-says-monetary-tightening-pressure-has-eased.html
Pressure on China to tighten
monetary policy and macroeconomic controls is easing as
inflation will be “relatively low” this month due to slowing
food-price gains, central bank adviser Song Guoqing said.  Compared with January and February, the pressure “has in
my view, been relieved,” Song said at a forum in Beijing
yesterday. “That’s good news for growth.” He estimated first-
quarter economic expansion will accelerate to 8.3 percent.  The People’s Bank of China drained cash from the financial
system in each of the two weeks since the Lunar New Year holiday
ended on Feb. 15, boosting speculation that it was tightening
amid concerns inflation was accelerating and real-estate price
gains were excessive. The State Council stepped up efforts to
cool the property market on March 1, five days before the
country’s legislature is due to start its annual meeting that
will see Li Keqiang take over from Wen Jiabao as premier.  The measures “will lead to downside risks to property
prices and investment but the effectiveness of the policy
depends on whether the money supply will be tightened as well,”
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Hong Kong, said in a March 1 note. Monetary policy will probably
tighten “in the next several months,” which will slow economic
growth, he said.  Control Prices  Housing Minister Jiang Weixin said he was confident the
government will be able to control home prices, the Shanghai
Securities News reported on its website yesterday. Jiang, a
member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference,
spoke in Beijing on the eve of that advisory body’s annual
meeting. The legislature, the National People’s Congress, will
begin its session on March 5.  China’s economy expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in two
years. The pace may accelerate to 8.2 percent in the three
months through March, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News in February. Nomura’s Zhang
predicts expansion of gross domestic product will ease to 7.3
percent in the second half.  Purchasing managers indexes released over the past week
indicate the economy’s recovery from a seven-quarter slowdown
may have peaked.  Slower Expansion  A services industries gauge for February fell to 54.5 from
56.2 the previous month, the slowest expansion since September,
according to a report today from the National Bureau of
Statistics and  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing .  The federation’s manufacturing PMI released March 1 fell to
50.1, the weakest level in five months, while a separate gauge
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to a four-
month low of 50.4. Readings above 50 indicate expansion while
those below that number signal a contraction.  Song, a professor at Peking University, said yesterday he
expects first-quarter growth will be higher “mainly because the
comparative base in the first quarter of last year is very
low.” The property tightening measures were announced too late
to affect expansion for the period, he said.  GDP climbed 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012
from a year earlier, down from 9.7 percent in the first quarter
of 2011, according to previously released data from the National
Bureau of Statistics.  Song, one of three academics who sit on the People’s Bank
of China monetary policy committee, said “low inflation” is
still the main objective for China’s monetary policy.  Demand Recovery  The nation must be alert to changes in price-gain
expectations and to imported inflation, the  central bank  said in
a quarterly monetary policy report released Feb. 6. An economic
recovery and expansion in demand may pass through to the
consumer-price index in a “relatively fast manner,” and
monetary easing in major developed economies may push up
commodity prices, the central bank said.  Consumer inflation eased to 2 percent in January from a
year earlier after a 2.5 percent increase the previous month,
government data show. UBS AG estimated February’s rate was 3.3
percent while Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. forecast 3 percent, as
the Lunar New Year holiday pushed up food prices, according to
reports last week.  China’s new-home prices rose for a ninth straight month in
February, SouFun Holdings Ltd. said March 1, 10 days after Wen
told local authorities to “decisively” curb property
speculation and ordered cities with rapid price gains to limit
home purchases.  Price Expectations  Property controls “are still in a crucial period and
expectations of further gains in housing prices are
increasing,” the State Council said in its March 1 statement.  It called for higher down payments and interest rates for
second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively fast” price
gains and ordered stricter enforcement of taxes.  Real-estate companies  found hoarding land or collaborating
to push up home prices will be barred from getting new
development loans or raising funds in capital markets, it said.  Chinese regulators “know well the damage a real-estate
bubble can cause to a nation’s growth and treasury,” David Loevinger, former senior coordinator for China affairs at the
U.S. Treasury Department, said by e-mail. “With the middle
class being priced out of city centers, China can ill afford to
again let real estate prices run far ahead of household
income,” said Loevinger, now an analyst in Los Angeles at TCW
Group Inc., which oversees about $138 billion.  Cash Withdrawal  The PBOC  drained  a net 5 billion  yuan  ($803 million) of
capital last week after withdrawing 910 billion yuan the
previous week, the most since Bloomberg started compiling the
data in 2008. The monetary authority sold repurchase contracts
for the first time since June on Feb. 19, taking out funds from
banks after they lent the most money in two years in January.  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on March 1 the cash withdrawal
was aimed at removing funds injected before the Lunar New Year
festival, according to a report on the Securities Times website.  The overnight money-market rate rose 5 basis points on
March 1, increasing for a ninth straight day. The rate completed
its biggest weekly jump in a year, climbing 190 basis points to
4.10 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  About a quarter of the 910 billion yuan drained in the week
after the holiday was “aimed at liquidity tightening” and the
reintroduction of repurchase contracts was a “tightening
signal,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior strategist
with Credit Agricole CIB, said in a Feb. 21 note.  Rather than tightening policy, the central bank’s actions
were designed to smooth liquidity after the festival from Feb.
9-15 and to counter reviving capital inflows, according to Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.  “Inflation pressures are still manageable, something that
we expect to continue given China’s modest growth recovery in
the coming quarters,” he said in a note on Feb. 22.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  