-- Cybersecurity Should Top China Trade Talks, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-03-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/cybersecurity-should-top-china-trade-talks-lawmaker-says.html
Cybersecurity should be made the top
issue in any U.S. trade discussions with China as a way to
pressure the government in Beijing to halt rampant computer
espionage, U.S. House Intelligence Committee Mike Rogers said.  Rogers, a Michigan Republican, has accused China of
widespread digital spying aimed at stealing intellectual
property from U.S. companies.  “We have to deal with it now or we’re going to have a
horrible problem,” Rogers said yesterday in an interview with
Emily Chang on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West.” “If
they want to be great international players in the international
global economic market, you can’t act like a thief.”  Security firm Mandiant Corp. said in a Feb. 19 report that
the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group that has attacked
at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator Victoria Espinel and other Obama administration officials said last week
they will put diplomatic pressure on countries implicated in the
theft of trade secrets.  Rogers said conversations with the White House over a
cybersecurity bill he reintroduced this month are “going in the
right direction.”  The proposed legislation from Rogers and the House
Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland, would give legal protection
to companies that share cyber threat information with each other
and the government.  Personal Information  Discussions with the White House have focused on ways to
minimize the personal information that is shared and determine
whether the Homeland Security Department, Federal Bureau of
Investigation or National Security Agency should oversee
information sharing, Rogers said.  Rogers said he expects a bill will pass the House in April.
White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden declined to comment on
the discussions.  President  Barack Obama  issued an executive order Feb. 12
directing the government to share more cyber-threat data with
the private sector and develop voluntary cyber standards for
critical U.S. infrastructure such as power grids. The order
instructs federal agencies to look at incorporating the
standards into their existing regulations.  The administration threatened to veto a version of the
Rogers bill last year, saying the measure didn’t go far enough
to boost computer defenses and failed to protect the privacy of
consumer information. It hasn’t commented on the newly
reintroduced bill, while saying it will soon submit its
cybersecurity legislative priorities to Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  