-- ECB’s Coeure Says Europe Needs to Rebalance Its Social Contract
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-03-02T23:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/ecb-s-coeure-says-europe-needs-to-rebalance-its-social-contract.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said  Europe  must rebalance its social
contract because the economic crisis “disproportionately
affected the more vulnerable social groups.”  Workers who could “lose their employability” if they
remain jobless for too long may threaten economic growth in the
17-nation euro region, Coeure said in a speech today at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . He did not discuss monetary policy.  “There are signs of a growing mismatch between worker
attributes and job requirements across a number of euro-area
countries,” Coeure, 43, said today at the Kennedy School’s
“Europe 2.0” conference. “Future growth depends on human
capital being cultivated and expanded.” The area’s  unemployment
rate  climbed to a record 11.9 percent in January as the bloc
remained mired in recession.  Coeure also said the debt crisis is fueling “nationalist
temptations that do not help to achieve a consensus on
cooperative solutions or to allow a return to stability and
growth.” Such challenges may ultimately threaten peace in the
region, he said, according to the text of his speech.  “Solidarity within member states and at the European level
can restore investors’ confidence in the capacity of the EU and
the euro area to resolve their problems,” Coeure said. “If
this is achieved, the collective response to the crisis will
have protected the sustainability of national social contracts
while reinforcing the effectiveness and legitimacy of the
European contract.”  Central Bank  Governments must solve the sovereign-debt crisis, he
said. “A central bank can help mitigate the impact of the
crisis but the steps it takes cannot be a permanent substitute
for resolute action by governments,” he said. “The central
bank can buy time for political bodies to act, but it cannot buy
enough time for them not to act.”  In response to an audience question, Couere said the
European Commission or the European Council should be
responsible for resolving cross-border bank failures, not the
ECB.  “In some cases there is a need to tap taxpayers’ money and
this is the case with resolution,” Coeure said. “This is why
we need a single resolution authority, and this single
resolution should not be with the ECB.”  ‘Firm Conviction’  “I have this very firm conviction that a central bank
should not engage in distributive policies,” he said. “We do
not have any kind of mandates to do that. So when designing the
future institutions we have to make sure that anything that is a
distributive purpose remains within the political sphere.”  European Union Financial Services Commissioner Michel Barnier, in a Feb. 26 Bloomberg Television interview, renewed
his call for the EU to leverage national resources as it
determines how to restructure or shut down failing banks. The
Brussels-based commission will announce proposals later this
year for a European Resolution Authority, which Barnier says
should make use of national funds rather than a central pot of
money.  “We need to make proposals that will be accepted and we
know the reservations of countries such as  Germany ,” Barnier
said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  