-- Egypt Police Clashes With Protesters Leave One Dead, Dozens Hurt
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-03-02T16:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/egypt-police-clashes-with-protesters-leave-one-dead-dozens-hurt.html
One person was killed and dozens
were injured in  Egypt  as clashes between security forces and
protesters fueled opposition accusations of “excessive force”
against demonstrators.  Forty people, including police, were hurt overnight in the
Nile delta city of Mansoura, state media reported. The Interior
Ministry said the body of one person was taken to the hospital
and that his brother said he died after a police car struck him
“without intention.” The incident is being investigated, it
said. In Port Said, about 500 people hurled rocks and Molotov
cocktails at the old police headquarters in the Suez Canal city,
setting parts of it ablaze, the ministry said.  The violence heightens tensions that have plagued the
country’s transition since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  and stifled efforts to revive a battered economy. It
comes ahead of parliamentary elections due to start in April.
President Mohamed Mursi and his Muslim Brotherhood supporters
say the vote is a step toward stability, while the main
opposition bloc, the National Salvation Front, has said it will
boycott it.  The clashes coincided with the arrival U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  in Cairo. He will urge Mursi and opposition
politicians to overcome their differences for the sake of the
country’s faltering economy, said a U.S. official not authorized
to speak on the record.  The use of “excessive force by the security forces in
cooperation with the thugs of the Muslim Brotherhood” marks
“beyond doubt the collapse of all political and moral
legitimacy for this regime,” the opposition Egyptian Popular
Current said today in a statement.  ‘Civil Disobedience’  The protests in Mansoura, Port Said and other cities
“highlight the spread of the popular rejection of the current
authority,” it said. “We are confident that this will
spread,” building toward “complete civil disobedience,” the
group said.  The  Interior Ministry  said in a statement that in Mansoura
protesters threw rocks and firebombs at a local government
building while chanting anti-government slogans. Police forces
fired tear gas and arrested 28 people after attempts to “open
dialogue” with the demonstrators failed, it said.  Mursi’s opponents accuse him of working to tighten his grip
on power and that of the Muslim Brotherhood while failing to
achieve the goals of the 2011 revolt. His supporters say it’s
too early to judge his performance in office and that rampant
protests undermine efforts to stabilize the country.  The head of Egypt’s elections commission, Samir Abul Maati,
told reporters today that registration of candidates for
legislative election will start on March 9. The four-stage vote
is scheduled to begin on April 22 with parliament due to convene
on July 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  