-- Euro Falls in Longest Stretch Since June on Record Unemployment
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-02T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/euro-falls-in-longest-stretch-since-june-on-record-unemployment.html
Europe ’s 17-nation common currency
posted its longest stretch of weekly losses since June as demand
slumped after  Italy ’s election produced a hung parliament and
euro-area unemployment climbed to a record.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose to the highest level since August as
investors weighed the U.S. government’s failure to avoid
automatic budget cuts. The euro fell below $1.30 for the first
time in two months as the region’s inflation rate was below the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling before a policy
meeting March 7. The Labor Department may report on March 8 that
U.S. employers added 160,000 workers last month, a Bloomberg
survey shows.  “It’s a combination of Italy’s election and generally soft
economic data out of the  euro zone ,” Dan Dorrow, the head of
research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said of
the euro’s decline. “We saw unemployment grinding higher.”  The euro fell 1.3 percent this week to $1.3022 in New York
after dropping 3.8 percent in February, snapping a six-month
rally. The single currency touched $1.2967, the lowest level
since Dec. 11, and weakened 1.1 percent to 121.87 yen. The
dollar rose 0.2 percent to 93.59 yen.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, gained 1 percent to 82.273, and reached the highest
since Aug. 20.  Investors have sought the dollar against the euro as short-
term interest rates have swung to the U.S. currency’s favor.  The difference between the rate on a two-year interest-rate
swap denominated in euros and that in dollars has narrowed to
five basis points from about 27 basis points in January. Swap
rates typically mirror the trend of movements for similar-
maturity government debt yields.  “Front-end yield spreads between the euro zone and U.S.
have moved measurably against the euro for the past month,”
 Robert Lynch , a New York-based currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview. “That’s after
having moved measurably in favor of the euro in the prior two
months.”  Futures traders  are betting  the euro will weaken against
the dollar, reversing to a net-short position of 9,394 contracts
as of Feb. 26, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The week before, large
speculators held a net-long position of 19,103 contracts.  Wagers that the British pound would fall against the dollar
 rose  to 36,130, the most in a year.  Yen Down  The yen weakened yesterday by the most to the dollar since
Feb. 11.  Japan ’s currency has declined for five straight months,
the longest streak since 2008.  The  Bank of Japan  may add monetary stimulus as early as
April as prospective governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  looks to
demonstrate a more aggressive approach to tackling 15 years of
falling prices. Kuroda, the Asian Development Bank president,
would take office after Governor Masaaki Shirakawa retires March
19, if confirmed by Parliament following his official nomination
Feb. 28.  “I would expect that dollar-yen trend to resume,” Faros
Trading’s Dorrow said.  Markets were buffeted by the standoff between Democrats and
Republicans about how to replace the cuts totaling $1.2 trillion
during nine years, known as the sequester, $85 billion of which
would occur in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  Global Economy  “It’s hard not to say that there’s something going on in
the world that means lower growth,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer
in  New York  at BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview.  Unemployment in the U.S. hasn’t been less 7 percent since
November 2008. The rate will be unchanged at 7.9 when the Labor
Department reports the figure on March 8, according to median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s real gained 0.7 percent to the greenback and South
Korea’s currency was up 0.5 percent in February, the biggest
gainers of the dollar’s 16 most-traded peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The pound lost 4.4 percent and Norway’s
krone weakened 4.8 percent.  This year, the real has strengthened 3.6 percent as the
pound has lost 7.5 percent.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area was
47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said, below the
level of 50 that shows contraction. Unemployment in the region
climbed to 11.9 percent in January, the highest since the data
series started in 1995, the European Union statistics office
said.  “The overall picture is consistent with a euro-zone
economy that is still stuck in recession,” said  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 London . “There are downside risks for the euro. The ECB could
signal it is closer to further monetary easing next week.”  The euro is forecast to be about unchanged at $1.30 by the
end of the year, while the yen is estimated to weaken to 95 to
the greenback, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  