-- Gillard Faces Loss of Western Sydney Labor Heartland, Poll Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-02T02:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/gillard-faces-loss-of-western-sydney-labor-heartland-poll-shows.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  faces the loss of four electoral districts in the key
battleground of western Sydney, traditionally a stronghold of
her  Labor party , according to an opinion poll.  The seats of Werriwa, Chifley, Blaxland and McMahon -- two
held by Gillard government ministers -- would be lost if an
election were held now, according to a  ReachTel  automated poll
conducted on the evening of Feb. 28 and published in the  Sydney
Morning Herald  today. The survey of more than 600 people in each
seat had a margin of error of just under 4 percent.  “Western Sydney is crucial to any party that wants to form
government,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a politics lecturer at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne . “People in these seats are
traditional Labor heartland voters, and when we see these sorts
of poll results that show Labor is not at all popular there,
then really it confirms the government’s bad polls nationally.”  Gillard, who set an election for Sept. 14, will try to
arrest the slide in a five-day tour through western Sydney next
week, and will stay in the local suburb of Rooty Hill rather
than the  prime ministerial residence  on Sydney harbor. Her party
is struggling in New South Wales to contain fallout from
scandals involving former local Labor lawmakers at an anti-
corruption commission. Sydney, the state capital, is  Australia ’s
largest city.  Rosella Shut  Concern about  job security , particularly in industrial
western Sydney, has intensified as a 60 percent rise in the
currency hurts the competitiveness of manufacturers.  Rosella , a
saucemaker founded before Australia became a nation in 1901,
yesterday announced the shut down of its plant with the loss of
70 jobs in the region.  At the  2010 election , Chifley and Blaxland were won by
margins of 12.3 percent and 12.2 percent, respectively,
according to the Australian  Electoral Commission . McMahon and
Werriwa were held with 7.8 percent and 6.8 percent, it showed.  Today’s ReachTel poll showed a return to the leadership by
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  would save two of the seats and
make the other two winnable.  “Each of these polls is yet another blow to the prime
minister’s authority,” Ghazarian said. “I don’t think Rudd
will become prime minister again before the next election,
because it appears he doesn’t have the support in his own party
room. But even if he doesn’t become prime minister, it opens the
way for the party to look at possible alternatives and try to
arrest the slide the Labor party is on.”  Preferred Leader  Gillard slipped behind opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as
Australia’s preferred leader for the first time since August, a
Newspoll published Feb. 26 showed. The ruling Labor party rose 1
point to 45 percent on a two-party preferred basis, with the
Liberal-National opposition down 1 point to 55 percent.  The Newspoll showed 24 percent of respondents said they
were more likely to vote for Labor if Rudd was restored as party
leader, with 13 percent saying they were less likely to and 62
percent saying it would make no difference.  In New South Wales, the nation’s most-populous state, an
anti-corruption inquiry has been hearing allegations that former
state Labor minister Eddie Obeid earned millions of dollars from
illegal property deals.  The seats of Werriwa and Blaxland in Western Sydney were
held by former Labor prime ministers Gough Whitlam from
1952-1978 and  Paul Keating  from 1969-1996, respectively.  “Western Sydney is the place that Labor sees itself as
representing,” said Ghazarian. “Working class families with
mortgages, people concerned about health care and education,
issues that Labor has long been seen to be leaders in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  