-- Groupon $4.2 Million to Lefkofsky-Backed Companies
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/groupon-4-2-million-to-lefkofsky-backed-companies.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  paid $4.21 million for
services from companies partly owned by Eric Lefkofsky, the
executive chairman and one of two board members appointed to run
the daily deals site following the ouster of  Andrew Mason  as
chief executive officer.  Groupon disclosed Mason’s resignation as director and
Lefkofsky’s business transactions in a filing yesterday with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The board’s haste in removing Mason following three
quarters of missed results has left Groupon’s operation in the
temporary care of two part-time leaders, Lefkofsky and Vice
Chairman  Ted Leonsis , investors with ties to dozens of companies
in Chicago, Washington and San Francisco. Disclosing such
connections is a common practice for investors who become
involved in a company’s operations, according to  Erik Gordon , a
business and law professor at the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor.  “Venture capitalists, especially fairly big ones, often
have keiretsu,” or a web of companies, Gordon said in an
interview yesterday. Groupon’s leaders had to disclose such
relationships per SEC rules “because they are taking control of
the management,” he said.  In conjunction with the changes, Leonsis stepped down from
his role as chairman of the  audit committee . Robert Bass,
another director, will assume that role, the filing said.  Business Relationships  InnerWorkings Inc. (INWK) , a company co-founded by Lefkofsky,
received $1.1 million from Groupon last year for marketing
services, according to the regulatory filing.  Echo Global
Logistics Inc. (ECHO) , also co-founded by Lefkofsky, earned $1.9
million providing supply-chain management for Groupon in 2012.
Groupon also paid $325,000 to Fooda Inc., $260,000 to
Lightswitch and $625,000 to Benchprep -- all startups backed by
Lefkofsky’s investment firm, Lightbank LLC.  Leonsis is chairman and CEO of Monumental Sports &
Entertainment LLC, which made $300,000 in proceeds selling event
tickets in partnership with Groupon.  “The InnerWorkings and Echo Global Logistics
relationships, which are just two of over 60 investments by
individual board members, were only in place for a limited
period of time and we don’t expect them to continue going
forward,”  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Groupon’s board,
wrote in an e-mail. “We have strict measures in place to make
sure every related party deal goes to audit.”  Lefkofsky holds a 6.2 percent  stake  in InnerWorkings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He served as director
there until October 2012, the company said in its filing. The
Groupon chairman  owns  a 14 percent stake in Echo Global, where
he is still the largest shareholder. Lefkofsky left Echo
Global’s board in December.  Groupon disclosed the business relationships to comply with
Item 404 of Regulation S-K in the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission Act, the filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  