-- Kerry in Egypt Pushes for Political Talks, Economic Action
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-03T16:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/kerry-in-egypt-to-push-for-political-dialogue-action-on-economy.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
urged Egyptian officials and opposition politicians to overcome
their differences for the sake of the country’s faltering
economy.  “It is paramount, essential, urgent that the Egyptian
economy get stronger, get back on its feet,” Kerry said at a
gathering of business leaders in Cairo yesterday. He urged
Egyptians “to come together to meet the economic challenge at
this particular moment.”  Kerry, making his first visit to Egypt as secretary of
state, urged Egyptians to respect democratic rights, engage with
each other and compromise in order to restore the economy.
Kerry’s goal is to encourage Egyptians to tackle changes
required for a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan.  Kerry and Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi today met for
more than two hours, twice as long as had been scheduled,
according to a U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to speak on
the record. They discussed Middle East peace, the conflict in
Syria, Iran, and Egypt’s economy, the official said.  Kerry also raised the importance of building human rights
and the rule of law, urging the reform of Egypt’s courts,
security services and changes to a law that allows police to
monitor non-governmental organizations, according to the
official. Preventing sexual violence, a long-standing problem in
Egypt that has grown more severe at political demonstrations,
was also discussed, the official said.  Egyptian Economy  “There must be a willingness on all sides to compromise on
the issues that matter most to all Egyptians,” Kerry said in an
appearance with Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr yesterday. The
foreign minister told Kerry that he expects the U.S. “to stand
by Egypt in this period, especially in the economic issues.”  Egypt, a signatory to the 1978 Camp David peace accord with
Israel, has enough  currency reserves  to cover three months’ of
imports, including food and fuel. Political tensions, driven in
part by the adoption of an Islamist-backed constitution, have
deepened the crisis. The turmoil is jeopardizing $1.5 billion a
year in U.S. aid, about 80 percent of which goes to the
military, and may destabilize the U.S. ally.  Kerry began making his case yesterday, meeting NGOs,
political parties, members of the government and the
intelligence service. Today he will also meet with Defense
Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi, the U.S. official said.  In his meetings with political leaders, Kerry conveyed the
need to take steps necessary for the IMF loan, including
increasing tax revenue, reducing energy subsidies, and making
clear to the parliament what the approval process entails, the
official said.  Kerry told the business group that “to attract capital, to
bring money back here that will invest, to give business the
confidence to move forward, there has to be security and there
has to be a sense of political and economic viability.”  In his appearance with Amr, Kerry said the U.S. is “not
here to interfere” and that it wasn’t choosing sides in a
political fight. “We come here as friends for the Egyptian
people, not for one government or one person or one party or
ideology, but for the Egyptian people,” he said.  Opposition Criticism  Opposition parties have criticized the U.S. for continuing
to work with Mursi’s government even as it has restricted
rights, including limiting protests and some free speech rights.
A March 1 report by the Center for American Progress, a
Washington policy group, said the efforts by Mursi to
concentrate power in the executive branch has “crippled Egypt’s
overall ability to deal with its policy agenda” and “caused
considerable damage to Egypt’s unity.”  Kerry said his meetings with opposition leaders, some of
whom have threatened to boycott next month’s parliamentary
election, were “very, very spirited.” He directly tied the
health of the democracy to the economy, saying “a vibrant
democracy stimulates business” and stressing the U.S. belief
that it is essential that the Egyptian constitution include
protections for freedom of speech, religious diversity and
minorities.  Opposition Criticism  Some opposition members refused to attend meetings with
Kerry, in part out of anger at U.S. work with Mursi, who was
leader of the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood before becoming
president.  About a dozen protesters from “the revolutionary
movements” gathered outside the Foreign Ministry to denounce
Kerry’s visit, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  The protesters condemned what they called “the alliance
between the Brotherhood and the United States,” MENA said. A
number of groups have called for demonstrating against what they
say is “U.S. pressure” on the Egyptian opposition to take part
in next month’s elections and in talks called for by Mursi, MENA
reported.  Egypt can’t emerge from its economic crisis without
reaching an accord with the IMF, Planning and International
Cooperation Minister Ashraf El-Arabi told reporters Feb. 21 in
Cairo.  Egyptians are facing an official 13 percent jobless rate
and 6.3 percent consumer-price inflation. That gives Egypt the
sixth-worst misery rate -- inflation plus the unemployment rate
-- among 59 nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Youth unemployment rates in North Africa and the Middle
East are projected to remain above 25 percent for the next five
years, and may rise higher in some nations, according to a
November 2012 report by the International Labor Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  