-- Napolitano Urges Parties to Guard General Interest
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-03-02T14:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/napolitano-urges-parties-to-guard-general-interest.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
told parties to put public interest and the country’s
international reputation first as comedian-turned-politician
Beppe Grillo reiterated his party won’t back any government.  “I recommend realism and moderation,” Napolitano said
today in a statement. “We must all safeguard general interest
and the international image of the country, avoiding any
premature and categorical determination.”  Italian bond yields surged after elections on Feb. 24-25
ended in a four-way parliamentary split, raising doubt over the
stability of the next government. Pier Luigi Bersani, whose
party won the most votes, has resisted cooperation with  Silvio Berlusconi , and has said he would seek a compromise with
Grillo’s upstart political movement.  The comedian, whose anti-austerity 5 Star Movement will be
the third-largest in parliament, today reinforced on his blog
that his party won’t lend its support to any government in a
confidence vote, especially one consisting of Bersani and
Berlusconi. Grillo said he would back specific legislation on a
case-by-case basis.  “‘I repeat for one last time: 5 Star Movement won’t give a
confidence vote to any government,” Grillo said.  Renegotiate Debt  Bersani is under pressure to provide  Italy  with a stable
government to pull the economy out of an 18-month recession and
help the country service its $2.6 trillion debt.  Grillo called for a renegotiation of the country’s debt,
according to an interview with  Germany ’s Focus Magazine
published today. He said Italy should leave the common currency
and take back the lira if the terms don’t change.  As part of efforts to form a stable government, President
Napolitano wants bring forward the first parliamentary meeting
to March 12 from March 15, Italian newspaper  Corriere della Sera 
reported today.  European Union leaders, including EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , said this week that Italian government stability is
crucial to the region. Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report Feb. 27 that the gridlock may re-ignite the euro-area’s
debt crisis as turmoil in the bloc’s third-largest economy risks
spilling over into weaker sovereigns like Portugal and  Spain .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  