-- PBOC’s Yi Says China Prepared for Currency War, Xinhua Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-02T06:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/pboc-s-yi-says-china-prepared-for-currency-war-xinhua-reports.html
China  is “fully prepared” for a
currency war should one happen, central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in Beijing yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  “China is prepared,” Yi was quoted as saying by the
agency, which gave no further details about where he spoke. “In
terms of both monetary policies and other mechanism, China will
take into full account the quantitative easing policies
implemented by central banks of foreign countries.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from Group of 20
nations meeting in Moscow last month sharpened their stance
against governments trying to influence exchange rates as they
sought to tame speculation of a global currency war. Their
comments followed a slump in the yen against the dollar and euro
spurred by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign for
more monetary easing to fight 15 years of deflation.  The yen has fallen about 11 percent against the U.S. dollar
in the past three months in anticipation of greater stimulus by
the new Japanese government.  A currency war can be avoided if policy makers in major
countries observe the consensus reached at the G-20 meeting that
monetary policies should be aimed at domestic economies, Yi
said, according to the English-language Xinhua report.  China’s foreign-exchange regulator, which is headed by Yi,
warned in a report this week that quantitative easing in
developed nations will lead to capital inflows into  emerging
markets  and that policy easing can’t solve all of a country’s
economic problems.  China’s  yuan  rose 0.18 percent this week, the first gain
since the five days ended Jan. 18. It slipped 0.04 percent to
close at 6.2237 per dollar yesterday in  Shanghai , according to
prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System, after
reports indicated the country’s manufacturing growth slowed last
month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  