-- Philippines Seeks Sabah Clan’s to Surrender as 14 Killed
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-02T19:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/philippines-seeks-peaceful-end-to-malaysia-standoff-as-14-killed.html
The  Philippines  called on the
remaining members of an armed Muslim clan that invaded a
Malaysian town a fortnight ago to surrender following a shootout
that left at least 14 people dead.  Twelve loyalists to Jamalul Kiram, who claims to be the
 sultan  of Sulu, and two Malaysian commandoes were killed March 1
in Lahad Datu, Sabah police chief Hamza Taib said. About 100
members of his group, which says it has sovereignty over part of
 Malaysia , remain in the area, Taib said by phone.  Surrendering is the “just and only correct thing” for
Kiram’s followers to do in Lahad Datu, presidential spokesman
Edwin Lacierda said yesterday in Manila, reading a statement
from President  Benigno Aquino . “If you have grievances, the
path you chose is wrong,” he said.  The incident revived a decades-old sovereignty dispute over
Malaysia’s Sabah state months after Prime Minister Najib Razak
helped Aquino reach a peace deal with Muslim separatists. The
Sulu sultanate says it leased Sabah to the British North Borneo
Company in 1878, an  agreement  Malaysia views as a secession of
territory.  About 180 people, including 30 with weapons, arrived in
Lahad Datu around Feb. 12 to assert the Sulu sultanate’s claims
to Sabah. Ten surrendered during the shootout and others fled by
sea, Philippine foreign affairs spokesman Raul Hernandez said.  ‘Exposed to Danger’  Taib said police imposed a curfew on the afternoon of March
1, and nobody had been arrested or escaped. Malaysia acted with
restraint as Aquino urged the group to return to the
Philippines, Najib said.  “The longer they stay, they will be exposed to danger in
terms of what can happen to them,” Bernama news agency cited
Najib as saying. “I guarantee we will not allow this matter to
continue without security forces taking action.”  Aquino warned Jamalul Kiram on Feb. 26 that he will face
charges if he fails to order followers to return home. The
Philippines plans to pursue its territorial claim to Sabah later
under international law, Ricky Carandang, a spokesman for
Aquino, said in  Manila .  Kiram plans to report the shootout with Malaysian
authorities to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, his
spokesman Abraham Idjirani said in an ABS-CBN News television
interview.  Jamalul’s title of sultan is disputed by other members of
the Kiram family who claim it themselves, according to the
 Philippine Daily Inquirer . The Province of Sulu  website  lists
Ismael Kiram as sultan.  Sabah fell under British control after World War II and
joined Malaysia in 1963. It had a poverty rate of 19.7 percent
in 2009, highest among Malaysia’s 13 states, according to
government  statistics .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  