-- Philippines May Shun Borrowing Abroad This Year, Treasurer Says
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-03-02T21:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/philippines-may-shun-borrowing-abroad-this-year-treasurer-says.html
The  Philippines  may shun the global
bond market this year as record-low interest rates at home and
flush money supply supports increased domestic borrowing,
Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said.  “If we see again that we have a good market reception in
the domestic auction like last year we can increase the size of
our domestic borrowing,” De Leon said. “As much as possible we
would like to fund more domestically and if 100 percent is
possible, why not? But, so far, the baseline” 80 percent will
borrowed locally and the rest will be raised overseas.  The Asian nation plans to borrow a total of 730 billion
pesos ($17.9 billion) this year, De Leon said in an interview in
the Philippine southern city of Samal. The government may also
repurchase foreign-denominated debt for a third straight year as
part of its liability management, she said.  The Philippines is boosting domestic borrowing to help curb
capital inflows that have made the peso the best-performing
currency in Asia and among  emerging markets  in the past 12
months. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas considers inflows as among
its biggest challenges this year, and Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said last month that the government is “closely
coordinating” with the monetary authority on borrowing.  The $225 billion Asian economy is reducing its budget
deficit, extending debt maturity and cutting foreign-currency
risks in pursuit of an investment-grade credit rating. President
Benigno Aquino’s administration has conducted bond exchanges,
debt repurchases and peso-bond sales to overseas investors since
starting a six-year term in June 2010.  Peso-Denominated Debts  The Philippines raised domestically 84 percent of its
borrowing last year, higher than its 75 percent target as it was
more “favorable” to borrow from the local market, De Leon
said. The government may also swap peso-denominated debts to pay
its foreign currency-denominated borrowings, she said.  The Philippines repurchased $1.2 billion in foreign-
currency bonds in November for almost $1.5 billion to cut annual
interest costs by $53 million, De Leon has said. In 2011, the
Philippines spent $1.7 billion buying back $1.3 billion of debt.  The nation held a debt swap in September 2010, exchanging
shorter-maturity dollar securities with longer-term bonds
denominated in the U.S. currency. In December that year, the
Philippines issued almost 200 billion pesos in new 10- and 25-
year notes in a swap. It conducted another bond exchange in July
2011.  “We will continue to be opportunistic,” De Leon said
yesterday. “If there are compelling advantages for us to do
similar transactions, why not?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  