-- Threating Iran Won’t Help in Nuclear Talks, UN Envoy Says
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-03-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/threating-iran-won-t-help-in-nuclear-talks-envoy-says.html
Iran ’s United Nations envoy  Mohammad Khazaee  said threats against his country won’t help in
negotiations over its nuclear program.  “Threatening Iran is not going to work,” Khazaee said in
an interview with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program scheduled
to air today. He cited the 1980-1988  Iran-Iraq war  following the
attack by the late Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein , “a war which
was supported, you remember, by the U.S. and western countries
and even some Arab countries.”  World powers, led by the U.S., are seeking a deal to curb
the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program, which they say may have
a secret military dimension, in return for ending economic
sanctions imposed to punish Iran for illicit atomic work.  While Iran would accept direct talks over its nuclear
program with the U.S., any additional “pressure” to drive Iran
to the negotiating table would backfire, Khazaee told  CNN .  “Iran welcomes negotiation and direct talks with the
United States, provided that we make sure that the U.S. is
serious and do not act differently,” Khazaee said. “My point
is, as soon as you say, we are ready to talk to you and work
with you, but at the same time, we punish you and put pressure
on you and your people -- Iranians cannot accept that.”  Iran and six world powers last week agreed on further
meetings after two days of talks in  Kazakhstan , the first since
negotiations broke down in June, 2012. On CNN, Khazaee repeated
the Iranian view that the talks were a “turning point” with
the U.S., Britain,  France , Germany, Russia and China.  Ease Restrictions  The group offered to ease restrictions on its exports of
petroleum products and some additional items in exchange for
Iran’s agreeing to cease its output of 20 percent enriched
uranium, according to Russian negotiator Deputy Foreign Minister
Sergei Ryabkov.  Technical talks are scheduled to be held in Istanbul on
March 18, and political discussions with international
negotiators will resume in Almaty, Kazakhstan, on April 5-6,
according to Iran’s negotiator Saeed Jalili.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  