-- Opportunity to Fix U.S. Economy Squandered, Romney Says
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-03-03T15:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/romney-says-sequester-golden-moment-squandered-by-obama.html
President  Barack Obama  and the U.S.
Congress are squandering an “almost once-in-generational
opportunity for America to solve its fiscal problems,” former
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said.  That opportunity, Romney said in a “Fox News Sunday”
interview was the combination of the expiration of Republican
President George W. Bush’s income-tax cuts at the end of 2012
and the automatic spending cuts that went into effect March 1.  “I see this as this huge opportunity, and it’s being
squandered by politics, by people who are more interested in a
political victory than they are in doing what’s right for the
country,” Romney said in the Fox interview. “And it’s very
frustrating.”  “The hardest thing about losing is watching this, this
critical moment, this golden moment, just slip away with
politics,” Romney, who lost the 2012 election to President
Obama, a Democrat, said.  Romney didn’t say what he would have done instead.  Obama “has the opportunity to lead the nation and to bring
Republicans and Democrats together,” Romney said. “It’s a job
he’s got to do and it’s a job only the president can do.”  Asked whether New Jersey Republican Governor Chris
Christie’s “literal embracing” of Obama in the wake of
superstorm Sandy hurt his presidential bid, Romney said, “I
lost my election because of my campaign, not because of what
anyone else did.”  The chief weakness of his effort, he said, was that “we
weren’t effective in taking our message to minorities, to
Hispanic-Americans, African-Americans. We did well among the
majority population. But that was our failing.”  Romney is scheduled to give his first post-election policy
address later this month at the American Conservative Union’s
 Conservative Political Action Conference  in National Harbor,
 Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  