-- Russell Indexes to Reclassify Greece as Emerging Market
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-02T18:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/russell-indexes-to-reclassify-greece-as-emerging-market.html
Russell Investments, which advises
funds with $2.4 trillion in assets, will reclassify  Greece  to an
emerging from a developed market, an unprecedented step taken
after a recession reduced the nation’s economy by 20 percent.  Greece, which was raised to developed market status by the
adviser in 2001, has failed one or both of Russell Indexes’
economic and operational risk assessments each year since 2011,
according to a  note  on the company’s website. The relegation
will force managers to buy and sell shares to align holdings
with their funds’ criteria.  “Since the country began revealing unsustainable levels of
public debt in 2009, it has been in an unfortunate economic
tailspin that at times has threatened to pull apart the entire
European Monetary Union,” according to a statement from Mat
Lystra, Russell’s senior research analyst. While bailouts by
 Europe  have eased its debt burden, “more than loan repayments
will follow the diffusing of the crisis, since any opportunities
in the  Greek economy  have become inherently riskier exposures
for global investors,” Russell said.  Greece is the first country Russell has cut to emerging
from developed market status, according to Michael Gelormino, a
spokesman in New York.  Reclassifications are rare and require three years of
“sustained changes in economic criteria,” Russell Indexes said
in the statement. Bank of Greece Governor  George Provopoulos 
said on Feb. 25 that unemployment will increase this year after
averaging 24.5 percent in 2012. While the country’s benchmark
ASE Index of equities has doubled since reaching a three-decade
low in June, it remains down 81 percent since October 2007.  ’Negative Stigma’  “Any index provider’s downgrading of a market’s
categorization is a consequential decision, and Russell does not
take this action lightly,” the Seattle-based company said.
“Although the size of the Greek market has declined
significantly in the past three years, there are still costs
associated with this change for indexers of developed and
 emerging markets . Additionally, a negative stigma may attach to
any developed market that loses its advanced designation.”  In determining whether to reclassify a market, Russell
assesses how it compares with other countries in terms of per-
capita income, total market capitalization, the size of its
individual companies and the level of trading volume, among
other things.  Coca Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA (EEEK) , the world’s second-
largest Coca-Cola bottler, is in the process of moving its
listing to the London Stock Exchange in an effort to boost
trading volume.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , another index adviser, put the Greek
market under review for downgrade last June and said the
migration of Coca Cola HBC worsened its changes of remaining a
developed market. MSCI’s decision is expected later this year.  Two Bailouts  The combined value of Greek stocks is about $48 billion,
about the same as  Pakistan  and less than  Mexico , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The total will probably fall below
 Vietnam ’s $41 billion in capitalization after the removal of
Coca-Cola HBC, the data show.  Greece has received two bailouts from the euro area and
 International Monetary Fund  worth 240 billion euros ($313
billion) and conducted the world’s biggest sovereign debt
restructuring since it triggered the region’s debt crisis in
2009. The aid has been tied to measures to cut the country’s
deficit and reform its economy.  The nation is gradually exiting from its crisis, with
confidence building and deposits returning, even as it faces
another difficult year in 2013, Provopoulos said Feb. 25 in a
speech at the central bank’s annual shareholder meeting. The
country’s economy, which entered a recession in 2008, will
continue to contract this year before beginning its recovery in
2014, he said.  Russell’s country classifications are announced each year
in March and any changes become effective at the conclusion of
its annual index reconstitution process in late June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  