-- Swiss Go to Polls on ‘Fat Cat’ Pay as Approval Probable
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/swiss-go-to-polls-on-fat-cat-pay-as-approval-probable.html
The Swiss vote today on whether to
give shareholders some of the world’s strongest powers to
determine the pay of top executives. Approval looks probable.  Nearly two thirds of voters plan to back the so-called
anti-fat cat initiative in the referendum that would allow a
binding annual shareholder vote on executive compensation for
listed companies and block big payouts for new hires and for
managers when they leave. Executives who break the rules could
face fines and jail.  Voting will end at noon local time and results are expected
later today. Most Swiss will have cast their ballots by mail.  Governments across Europe are considering limits to manager
compensation after using taxpayer money to aid banks and
corporations during the financial crisis. If successful, the
measure would make Swiss shareholders among the most powerful in
determining the bosses’ paychecks, among them  Novartis (NOVN)  AG Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  CEO  Paul Bulcke .  “People are allergic to this shift towards an Anglo-Saxon
pay culture,” said Michael Hermann, a political scientist at
the University of Zurich. “Not only the social-democratic left,
but also conservative voters from the countryside and small
towns don’t like it.”  Payout Scrapped  The topic has dominated Swiss media coverage in the past
months. Novartis’s plan to pay outgoing chairman  Daniel Vasella 
as much as $78 million to prevent him from working for rival
companies undermined the campaign’s critics. In response to
public ire, Europe’s biggest drugmaker scrapped the accord last
week.  Popular initiatives are commonplace in Swiss politics, on
issues ranging from health care to European Union membership. At
least 100,000 signatures are needed for an initiative to come up
for a national ballot. Voters repeatedly have taken a pro-
business view in referendums about taxes. Last year, they also
rejected a proposal for longer statutory vacation.  How much executives take home was called into question in
Switzerland after the country’s biggest bank,  UBS AG (UBSN) , had to be
bailed out in 2008. The matter also touches on the issue of
immigration. Foreign managers -- among them  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  -- can receive as much
as 13 million francs ($13.8 million) a year, while nurses, hotel
staff and construction workers complain they face competition
from immigrants willing to do their jobs for less.  Top Pay  At least five of Europe’s 20 highest-paid CEOs work for
Swiss companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among
them are the Americans Dougan,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s Joe Hogan and Jimenez
of Novartis.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Austrian chief Severin Schwan
and Nestle’s Bulcke of Belgium are also in the top tier.  The initiative was backed by 64 percent of voters
questioned by pollster gfs.bern with 27 percent opposing it. The
poll, conducted among 1,416 voters between Feb. 8 and Feb. 15,
had a margin of error of 3.3 percentage points.  If the measure succeeds, the Swiss will have stiffer rules
than Germany or Britain. As the economy contracted in 2009,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  passed a law giving supervisory
boards more power to curb executives pay. In the U.K., public
companies will have to give shareholders binding votes on
executive pay every three years, Business Secretary Vince Cable
said in June.  The initiative was started by Thomas Minder, managing
director of a company that makes herbal toothpaste, who blames
highly-paid executives for the financial crisis. Minder says big
payouts highlight the gap between corporate chiefs and the
average wage earner.  ‘Criminalize Society’  Critics of the initiative say it would make Switzerland
less appealing to multinationals such as offshore drilling
contractor  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and oilfield service company
 Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , which moved to the Alpine nation
to take advantage of a low  tax rate .  “It would criminalize society,” Nestle CEO Bulcke told
Blick newspaper in a Feb. 15 interview. “Clearly, in the longer
term it will make Switzerland less attractive for entrepreneurs
and managers.”  Business lobby Economiesuisse has also warned that passing
Minder’s measure will drive out taxpaying companies. It favors a
less stringent counterproposal.  If voters back the curbs as expected, the government will
have to amend national laws. That process of implementation will
probably prove complicated, given that the parties in parliament
disagree about the pay limits: while the Social Democrats
support Minder’s plan, the pro-business Free Democrats are
against it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  