-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Fall Most in 6 Months on Bernanke Assurances
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-03-02T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-02/u-s-10-year-yields-fall-most-in-6-months-on-bernanke-assurances.html
Treasury 10-year note yields slid
the most since August as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank would support the economy, and
haven demand grew amid European turmoil and U.S. spending cuts.  U.S. government  securities  rose for a second week as
Americans’ income fell the most in 20 years and inflation, as
gauged by the Fed’s preferred measure, was unchanged in January.
Bernanke signaled the central bank will keep buying bonds under
its third round of quantitative easing. The  jobless rate  held at
7.9 percent last month, data next week may show.  “The market was priced for very little risk, which is very
different than where it was last year,” said Michael Pond, head
of global inflation-linked research in  New York  at Barclays Plc,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Bernanke
made it clear that monetary policy is not likely to change any
time soon and QE3 will continue until the labor market improves
substantially.”  The  10-year note  yield dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 1.84 percent this week in New York trading,
the biggest decline since the five days ended Aug. 31, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They sank 11 basis points in
February. The 2 percent note due in February 2023 gained 1 3/32,
or $10.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 14/32.  Thirty-year bond 
yields fell 10 basis points to 3.05 percent.  Ten-year yields  climbed  37 basis points in December and
January as investors sought higher-yielding assets on
speculation the Fed might scale back its bond-buying and
Europe’s debt crisis had eased.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index rose 0.2 percent this week
after gaining 5 percent in January and 0.7 percent in December.  ‘No Reluctance’  The Fed chairman indicated in congressional testimony Feb.
26-27 the central bank is prepared to keep buying bonds at its
present pace. He dismissed concern that record easing risks
sparking inflation or asset-price bubbles. The Fed purchases $85
billion of Treasury and mortgage debt a month, putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs to fuel growth.  “Bernanke’s stay-the-course message set the tone for this
week,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “There was no
reluctance from him. He defended the asset purchases, suggesting
they are not going to stop any time soon, and that will continue
to support the Treasury market.”  U.S. government securities were also supported by elections
in  Italy  this week that failed to give any political party a
clear majority. That cast doubt on the stability of the next
government and spurred bets the country’s commitment to
austerity may be diluted, worsening  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Wagers Increased  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
to the highest level this year their net-long position in 10-
year note futures in the week ending Feb. 26, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 115,908 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the most since Dec. 11. Net-long positions rose
by 62,620 contracts, or 118 percent, from a week earlier, the
biggest percentage gain since Jan. 25, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Automatic reductions in federal spending set to begin
yesterday in the U.S. may lower gross domestic product by 0.6
percentage point and cost 750,000 jobs by the end of 2013,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The cuts total
$1.2 trillion over nine years, with $85 billion scheduled to go
into effect in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  Washington ‘Paralysis’  “There’s a lot of paralysis going on in D.C.,”  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at the primary dealer
Nomura Holdings Inc., said yesterday. “It’s not clear yet on
how it’s going to go, so people are buying Treasuries first and
asking questions later.”  Bonds initially pared gains yesterday as the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index advanced to 54.2 for February,
from 53.1 in January. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures
exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey in
which the median projection was 52.5. A reading greater than 50
signals expansion.  The Commerce Department reported that while  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the  U.S.
economy , rose 0.2 percent in January,  incomes  slid 3.6 percent.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of prices, called the core
personal expenditures index because it excludes food and fuel,
rose 0.1 percent in January, less than the 0.2 percent forecast,
department data showed. It was little changed in December.  Jobs Report  U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs in February, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the Labor Department
reports the data on March 8. Payrolls grew by 157,000 positions
in January. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.9 percent,
economists estimated.  The Treasury sold $99 billion of two-, five- and seven year
notes this week. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors
that place their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased an
above-average amount of securities at each of the auctions.  Treasuries returned 0.6 percent in February, after losing 1
percent in January, according to Bank of American Merrill Lynch
bond indexes. The  S&P 500  rose 1.4 percent last month and gained
5.2 percent in January, including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  