-- ‘White Money,’ Rank Probe, Polly Peck Ex-CEO: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-21T12:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/-white-money-rank-probe-polly-peck-ex-ceo-verdict-compliance.html
Switzerland is delaying plans to
require foreign clients of Swiss banks to declare they are tax-
compliant to patch together two sets of legislative proposals,
the Federal Department of Finance said.  The delayed consultation proposal for a tax-compliant and
competitive financial center will be submitted to the Federal
Council in January 2013 along with a draft consultation on
combating  money laundering , according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday by Daniel Saameli, a spokesman for the Bern-based
department.  Switzerland is developing a “white-money strategy” in
response to a crackdown on offshore financial centers by the
U.S. and European countries eager to recoup money from taxpayers
banking abroad. At the same time, talks with the U.S. to end a
tax-evasion probe haven’t concluded and Germany’s Social
Democratic Party is blocking an accord that would tax German
customers of Swiss banks while keeping their identities secret.  The Swiss government  said in February  that it will propose
“concrete measures” by September covering the regularization
of past undeclared assets, the introduction of withholding taxes
and obligatory declarations for foreigners to show they are tax-
compliant in other countries.  The two sets of proposals will be published together to
ensure consistency, Saameli said.  Compliance Policy  Secret Libor Committee Clings to Anonymity After Rigging Scandal  Every two months, representatives from the world’s largest
banks meet at an undisclosed location to review the London
interbank offered  rate .  Who sits on the British Bankers’ Association’s Foreign
Exchange and Money Markets  Committee , the body that governs the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities worldwide,
is a secret. No minutes are published. The BBA won’t identify
any members, saying it wants to protect them from being lobbied,
and declined to make the chairman available for interview.  The group’s lack of transparency is symptomatic of a self-
regulated system that failed to stop traders around the world
manipulating the world’s most widely used benchmark  interest
rate  for profit. The group has sole responsibility for all
aspects of the functioning and development of Libor, according
to the BBA. Its functions include the design of the benchmark,
which banks sit on the panels that determine the rate, and
scrutiny of all rates submitted.  The committee has so far failed to produce reforms that
convince regulators and to levy sanctions against banks that
have admitted to manipulating the rate. After the Bank for
International Settlements first raised concern Libor was open to
manipulation in 2008, the committee stepped up scrutiny of rate
submissions.  For more, click here.  Hedge Funds Pose Limited Risk to Financial Stability, FSA Says  Hedge funds pose a limited risk to the stability of the
financial system, according to a survey by the U.K.’s  Financial
Services Authority .  Funds have a “strong ability to manage the liquidity of
their assets and liabilities,” the FSA said in a  report 
published on its website today. The regulator collected data on
funds with a total of more than $380 billion under management.  Banks and other counterparties of hedge funds have
“increased margining requirements and tightened other
conditions on their exposures to hedge funds since the financial
crisis,” according to the FSA report.  Hedge funds and private-equity firms have come under
scrutiny from lawmakers who said they were partly to blame for
the economic turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The European Union has approved measures
to require hedge-fund managers to restrict bonuses and increase
disclosure to regulators.  German Banks Seek End to National Regulation, Handelsblatt Says  Germany’s BDB association of private commercial banks
proposes shifting regulation of the industry to the  European
Central Bank , Handelsblatt reported, citing an unpublished
position paper drafted by the group.  The proposal would end political influence over regulation,
the Dusseldorf-based newspaper reported in an article e-mailed
before publication. Germany’s Bafin financial-market regulator
and the Bundesbank, the German central bank, would give up
powers of their own and carry out oversight on the ECB’s behalf,
Handelsblatt cited the BDB paper as saying.  Separately, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
plans tighter rules for investment funds than regulations set by
the European Union’s  Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
directive, which Germany has to implement,  Handelsblatt 
newspaper reported.  Schaeuble, in a draft law, plans to curtail open-ended
property funds and closed-end funds, affecting a combined
business of 218 billion euros ($269 billion), the newspaper
said, citing a letter from the  Finance Ministry  to lawmaker
 Frank Schaeffler .  Compliance Action  U.S. Seizes $150 Million Tied to Hezbollah Money-Laundering  The U.S. seized $150 million in connection with a
Hezbollah-related money laundering scheme that involved the
defunct Lebanese Canadian Bank, the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Manhattan said.  The funds came from a U.S.-based account of Beirut-based
Banque Libano Francaise SAL, which is holding money in escrow
from the $580 million sale of the defunct Lebanese Canadian Bank
to Societe Generale de Banque au Liban, prosecutors said in a
statement.  Lebanese Canadian Bank, based in Beirut, was accused by
federal prosecutors in December of helping launder at least $329
million for the Hezbollah, designated as a terrorist
organization by the U.S. State Department, in a scheme that
involved buying and selling used cars. Cash from the car sales
as well as proceeds of narcotics trafficking were funneled to  Societe Generale de Banque au Liban, based in Beirut, and
Banque Libano Francaise SAL are not accused of any wrongdoing,
prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Lebanese Canadian Bank SAL, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rank’s Purchase of Gala Unit Referred for U.K. Antitrust Probe  Rank Group Plc (RNK) ’s proposal to buy the casino unit of Gala
Coral Group Ltd. for 205 million pounds ($322 million) was
referred by a U.K. regulator for a full antitrust review.  The deal may “substantially reduce competition in the
casino sector” and should be investigated by the U.K.
Competition Commission, Britain’s Office of Fair Trading, which
conducts initial merger reviews, said in a statement yesterday.  “The OFT is concerned that the merger would reduce
competition both at a national level and in nine local areas,”
the watchdog said. “A reduction in competition in the casino
sector could result in a worse deal for consumers.”  Rank offered to buy 23 casinos in the U.K. and three non-
operating licenses, the Maidenhead, U.K.-based gambling and
bingo group said in May. The company said it would finance the
purchase with new three-year bank facilities totaling 175
million pounds, as well as existing loans.  Marc Cohen, a Rank spokesman, declined to comment when
reached by phone.  Wendel Not Aware of Insider Trading, Will Cooperate on AMF Probe  Wendel SA (MF) , France’s largest publicly traded investment
firm, said it’s not aware of any events that may have led the
national stock market regulator to open an investigation into
insider trading in its shares.  The probe focuses on share trading and not specifically on
any “insider trading at Wendel,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. Wendel pledged full cooperation with the
Autorite des Marches Financiers in its investigation. A
spokeswoman for the company wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Autorite des Marches Financiers, the French market
watchdog, is investigating possible insider trading relating to
Wendel, Le Point reported last week, without saying where it got
its information.  The market watchdog is looking into the increase in
Wendel’s share price that followed the company’s announcement in
November that it had entered exclusive talks to sell Deutsch
Group SAS to  TE Connectivity Ltd. (9TC) , the magazine said on its
website Aug. 16.  Barbara Frugier, a spokeswoman for AMF, and Christine
Anglade Pirzadeh, a spokeswoman for Wendel, declined to comment,
the magazine said.  Argentina Complains at WTO Over Spanish Curbs on Biodiesel  Argentina yesterday filed a complaint at the World Trade
Organization against the European Union over Spanish curbs on
imports of Argentine biodiesel.  Argentina said Spain in April applied a rule that
discriminates against its biodiesel in favor of that produced in
the 27-nation EU, the Geneva-based WTO said.  Yesterday’s request for consultations is the first step in
WTO dispute proceedings and means the governments must now hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute.
If the discussions fail, Argentina can ask WTO judges to rule.  Courts  Whitman Capital’s Doug Whitman Guilty of Insider Trading  Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman was convicted of insider
trading following a trial in which he spent more than two days
on the stand telling jurors he was innocent.  A jury in Manhattan federal court yesterday found Whitman
guilty of all four counts against him after deliberating since
Aug. 17. Prosecutors claimed he traded on illegal tips about
 Polycom Inc. (PLCM) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  His
sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 20.  Whitman, 54, is the first defendant in the government’s
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading to testify at trial.
Jurors also heard testimony from three witnesses who pleaded
guilty to passing illegal tips, including  Roomy Khan , a key
government informant who helped prosecutors convict Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Whitman’s conviction follows 66 insider trading guilty
pleas and verdicts won by prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan since August 2009.  Whitman was charged with two counts of conspiracy and two
counts of  securities fraud . The securities-fraud charges, the
most serious Whitman faced, carry a possible sentence of as long
as 20 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Polly Peck CEO Nadir Found Guilty of Theft at U.K. Trial  Asil Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief
executive officer who fled the U.K. in 1993 for Northern Cyprus
to avoid trial, was found guilty of stealing from the company.  Nadir was convicted yesterday on three counts of theft and
cleared on one, Jina Roe, a spokeswoman for the Serious Fraud
Office, which prosecuted the case, said in an e-mail.  Nadir, who testified he fled Britain as a “broken man”
with no hope of receiving a fair trial, returned to the country
in August 2010 to face the charges after prosecutors said he
would be granted bail. He has been on trial since January. The
jury has been deliberating for more than a week at London’s
Central Criminal Court, known as the Old Bailey.  Prosecutors alleged that, between 1987 and 1990, Nadir and
his associates withdrew money from the now-defunct food-
packaging firm’s U.K. accounts, funneling it to Swiss and
Bahamian firms. When London-based  Polly Peck  collapsed in 1990,
administrators found more than 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion)
owed to creditors was unrecoverable from units of the company,
which Nadir built up during the 1980s by expanding into
electronics and hotels and acquiring the Del Monte fruit brand.  The SFO accused Nadir of 13 counts of theft totaling about
34 million pounds, using a selection of “sample” transfers.
Prosecutors said on the first day of trial that the actual
amount is about 150 million pounds. Yesterday’s verdicts found
Nadir guilty of stealing 5.55 million pounds and not guilty of
another 2.5 million-pound theft.  Prosecutors said Nadir stole from the company’s accounts at
National Westminster Bank Plc and Midland Bank Plc through at
least 70 transfers, and that the money was used to secretly buy
shares in Polly Peck and other companies. Under Nadir’s
leadership, Polly Peck loaned hundreds of millions of pounds to
its subsidiaries in Turkey and Cyprus in the years before the
company’s collapse. Nadir later said the money was for a capital
expenditure program and advance payments to citrus growers,
according to the SFO.  Comings and Goings  Japan FSA to Keep Staff Increases to ‘Minimum,’ Matsushita Says  Japan’s banking regulator must improve supervision by using
existing resources more efficiently and any staff increases
would be kept to a “minimum,” Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita said.  Supervision improvements are needed after scandals such as
those involving AIJ Investment Advisors Co.’s accounting fraud,
according to a statement by Matsushita.  Matsushita spoke at news briefing in Tokyo.  Earlier, he said after his appointment in June that he
would like to bolster staff at the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission.  Shasky Calvery to Head U.S. Treasury’s Law Enforcement Unit  The U.S. Treasury Department selected Jennifer Shasky
Calvery as the new director of its Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network, which maintains financial transaction data and analyzes
information for law-enforcement purposes.  The department said Shasky Calvery is expected to begin her
new job in September and will replace director Jim Freis, who
has led the network, known as FinCEN, for more than five years.
The director of FinCEN is appointed by the department’s
secretary and reports to the undersecretary for terrorism and
financial intelligence.  Shasky Calvery joins FinCEN from the Justice Department.  JPMorgan Picks Raymond to Head ‘London Whale’ Probe, WSJ Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  picked former  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  CEO Lee
Raymond to head an inquiry into the activities of Bruno Iksil,
the trader known as the “London Whale,” the Wall Street
Journal said, citing people familiar with the investigation,
whom it didn’t identify.  Raymond will be joined by real-estate developer Laban
Jackson and  William Weldon , a former CEO of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
who is still the company’s chairman, the newspaper reported.  Raymond, a board member of JPMorgan, heads the bank’s
remuneration committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 