-- ABC Moves Kimmel to Take on Leno, Letterman in Late Night
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-21T20:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/abc-moves-kimmel-to-take-on-leno-letterman-in-late-night.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC TV network
will begin airing Jimmy Kimmel’s late night show at 11:35 p.m.
starting in January to vie with NBC’s  Jay Leno  and David Letterman on CBS.  “Nightline,” the newscast that previously ran in the time
slot, will move to 12:35 a.m. and will also get a prime-time
show, the  broadcast network  said today in an e-mailed statement.
The switch is effective Jan. 8, ABC said.  Kimmel, 44, brings a younger face to the time slot in a
move that ABC said will satisfy advertiser demand, draw more
viewers and boost revenue. In the TV season ended in May, he
increased his audience by 3 percent from a year ago, garnering
the most viewers in five years, ABC said. “Nightline” ranks as
the most-watched network show in its current time period.  “Given the passionate fan base ‘Jimmy Kimmel Live’ has
built over the past decade and the show’s ratings and creative
momentum this season, the time is right to make this move,”
 Anne Sweeney , president of the Disney/ABC Television Group, said
in the statement. “There is the potential for far greater
upside over the long term with this shift.”  Disney, based in Burbank, California, fell 1.6 percent to
$49.64 at the close in New York. The shares have climbed 32
percent this year.  As part of the change, “Nightline” will also expand to
prime time on Friday nights at 9 p.m. starting March 1, ABC
said. The ABC News series “What Would You Do?” will be moved
to a new time, the network said.  Nightly Audience  “Nightline” has averaged 3.76 million viewers since
September, the most-watched program at 11:35 p.m. weeknights,
according to Nielsen ratings supplied by TV networks. The
newscast’s audience has slid 5 percent from a year ago.
“Kimmel,” taped in  Los Angeles , is averaging 1.76 million
viewers at midnight.  “I am excited, honored, and grateful to ABC for this
strong vote of confidence, inexplicable as it may be,” Kimmel
said in separate e-mailed statement.  “Late Show with  David Letterman ” is averaging 3.02
million viewers on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network at 11:35 p.m.,
down 11 percent from a year ago, according to the Nielsen data.
In April, Letterman, 65, signed a new contract through 2014.  “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno,” which airs concurrently
on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, has declined 5 percent to average 3.68
million viewers. Leno, 62, recently accepted a reduction in pay
to avoid deeper job cuts at his show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  