-- Abengoa Leads Solar Gainers on Minister’s Comments: Madrid Mover
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-21T15:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/abengoa-leads-solar-gainers-on-minister-s-comments-madrid-mover.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the biggest recipient of
subsidies for solar-thermal power in Spain, rose to a five-month
high, leading industry gainers, after Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said he’ll stop plans to claw back money from companies.  Abengoa gained as much as 7.4 percent to the highest since
March 28 in  Madrid  and rival solar-thermal developer  Acciona SA (ANA) 
jumped by the same amount. Montoro said in an interview he will
veto Industry Ministry proposals for a tax on solar energy
that’s aimed at curbing the debts of Spain’s power system.  While Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria is seeking to tax
Spain’s most heavily subsidized energy source, Montoro said the
plans breach European law and the nation should focus on cutting
its  budget deficit . The clash opens a rift in the Cabinet at a
time that Spain is struggling to avoid an international bailout.
Soria today rejected Montoro’s comments,  Europa Press  reported.  Abengoa climbed 98 euro cents to 14.495 euros by 5:22 p.m.
in Madrid trading, Acciona gained 2.81 euros to 40.72 euros,
while the benchmark Ibex 35 index was up 0.9 percent.  “This is certainly good news for the cleaner generators,”
said Shai Hill, an energy-company analyst at Macquarie Capital
Europe Ltd. in  London . “Solar and solar-thermal is the focus.”  Spain’s second recession in three years is shrinking tax
revenues, while the Budget Minister has announced more than 100
billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases since December.
Unemployment reached a record 25 percent in the second quarter.  “We have much bigger issues facing us as a country and as
a government,” Montoro said. “We shouldn’t get distracted. We
need to guarantee we meet the budget in the short term.”  Surprisingly Frank  While Montoro sees the  energy industry  as a source of tax
revenue that’s unable to flee overseas, Soria fears the power
system’s own deficit needs to be resolved before it ends up
dumped on the state, adding to the nation’s debt, Hill said.  “This is a very senior politician opening up a discord
from within the cabinet,” Hill said. “I’m surprised he’s
spoken so frankly.”  The industry minister aims to prevent 24 billion euros ($30
billion) of power-system debt winding up on government books as
Spain’s state-controlled power market threatens to deteriorate.
The exposure could reach 50 billion euros within four years
unless the government reduces subsidies, Soria said July 11.  “Then we wouldn’t in the end have a problem in the energy
industry, we’d have a problem in the financial system of a
similar magnitude to what we face currently,” he said.  Power Deficit  Spain ’s power system spends about 6 billion euros a year
more than it receives from consumers after previous governments
piled subsidies for clean energy, idle gas-fired plants, poor
families and island dwellers who would otherwise face higher
electricity prices on top of the cost of generation and
transmission. Soria in July sketched out his plan to curb the
deficit by imposing higher taxes on renewable-energy producers.  “For a minister or a department to go public saying
there’s agreement is a technique I’m used to, that’s normal,”
Montoro said in the interview, asked about Soria’s proposals.  He also denied reports the Industry Ministry would impose
an environmental tax on natural-gas customers. “It’s not
decided,” he said. “They have decided to float the idea in the
media but I have the final say on the creation of taxes.”  The conflict over the energy subsidies, which helped turn
Spain into the world’s biggest purchaser of solar panels in
2008, leaves Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s Cabinet divided.  Soria today responded to Montoro’s pledge to block a solar
tax by telling reporters at a press conference that the industry
ministry was responsible for the decision,  Europa Press  said.  Soria Reacts  “Areas of responsibility within the government are very
clearly defined and any kind of proposal or measure relating to
energy reform comes under the remit of the Industry Ministry,”
he said in Las Palmas, the  Canary Islands , the agency reported.  State guarantees to the power industry are part of the debt
mountain left from Spain’s decade long economic boom. Rajoy was
already forced to seek a 100 billion-euro lifeline for the
banks. His government may need more budget cuts before the
European Union’s rescue fund can buy Spanish debt, European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2.  Spain’s 10-year bond yields reached a euro-era high of 7.75
percent last month as investors doubted it could pay its debts.  Abengoa, based in Seville, has forecast earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 169 million
euros from Spanish solar plants from 2014. It uses mirrors to
focus the sun’s rays to power steam turbines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  