-- Adebayor Makes Permanent Spurs Move, Henriquez to Join United
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-22T01:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/adebayor-joins-tottenham-on-permanent-move-from-manchester-city.html
Tottenham Hotspur completed the
permanent signing of Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor
as  Manchester United  acquired its second Dutch player in a week
and got permission to sign Chilean teenager Angelo Henriquez.  Adebayor, 28, spent last season on loan with Spurs and led
the Premier League soccer club with 18 goals in 37 appearances.
He scored 15 goals in 34 games for City after joining from
Arsenal in 2009.  “I’m pleased to be signing for Spurs on a permanent
basis,” Adebayor said on Tottenham’s website yesterday. “It
may have taken longer than expected but I’m delighted to be
back.”  Spurs will pay City about 5 million pounds ($7.8 million)
for the 2008 African Footballer of the Year and the Togolese
forward will receive a 4 million-pound signing-on fee as well as
a payoff from City, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Adebayor, who joins  Jermain Defoe  as the only senior
strikers on Tottenham’s roster, has 99 goals in 224 games since
joining the Premier League with Arsenal in 2006. He also spent
the second half of the 2010-11 season on loan at Real Madrid.  Spurs said they reached an agreement with Norwich City
yesterday for the transfer of Cameroon international defender
Sebastien Bassong. Norwich said Bassong, 26, joined on a three-
year contract for an undisclosed transfer fee.  Tottenham also agreed to sell central defender  Michael Dawson  to Queens Park Rangers for an initial fee of 7.5 million
pounds, the British Broadcasting Corp.  reported . The England
defender, who is yet to have a physical exam at QPR, agreed to
the move in principle after being told he would be third-choice
center-back at Spurs this season, the  BBC  added.  ‘Exciting Options’  Manchester United signed left back Alexander Buttner from
 Vitesse Arnhem  on a five-year contract yesterday. Buttner, 23,
was part of the Netherlands’ preliminary squad for Euro 2012 and
follows countryman  Robin van Persie  to United after the striker
signed from Arsenal on Aug. 17.  “Alexander is one of the best young left backs in
Europe,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said on his club’s
website “He’s someone we’ve been watching for a while now. He
gives us some really exciting options in that position.”  United said in a  later statement  that Henriquez, 18, has
been granted a work permit that will enable the striker to
complete his transfer to the Red Devils.  Henriquez, who underwent a physical exam last week, will
play his final game for  Universidad de Chile  against Santos
today and a further announcement on his move to Old Trafford
will be made in due course, United added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  