-- Afghan Insider Attacks Complicate Obama’s Handover Plans
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-21T17:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/afghan-insider-attacks-complicate-obama-s-handover-plans.html
The increase in “insider attacks”
by Afghans against U.S. and coalition forces is complicating
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to withdraw American troops from
 Afghanistan .  “We’ve got to make sure that we’re on top of this,” Obama
said yesterday at a White House news conference, citing an
“uptick” in attacks by Afghans working with coalition forces
in the past year.  The administration’s strategy to pull out U.S. combat
troops by the end of 2014 rests on transferring primary
responsibility for Afghanistan’s security from 130,000 U.S.-led
international troops to Afghan forces by the middle of next
year. That has meant mass recruitment of Afghans for shoulder-
to-shoulder training with coalition forces.  Killings by Afghans of coalition troops on patrols, during
recreation time and in barracks has raised questions about
vetting, training and sharing quarters when cooperation and
trust are at a premium. The  International Security Assistance
Force  in Afghanistan counts 40 insider killings so far this
year, compared with 35 in all of 2011.  ‘Creating Distrust’  The attacks and new precautions aimed at preventing them
“are creating distrust right at a time when the U.S. needs to
work more closely with Afghans,”  Kenneth Katzman , an
Afghanistan specialist at the  Congressional Research Service  in
 Washington , said in an interview. “Afghans may not be ready by
the end of 2014. If that’s true, there may be a decision that
the U.S. needs to keep more forces after 2014 than previously
thought.”  The plane of U.S. Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who was in Afghanistan yesterday to
discuss the insider attacks, was fired upon by militants without
hurting anyone.  Militants fired on the U.S. Bagram airbase, damaging the
plane that had brought Dempsey, NATO said today in an e-mailed
statement. Dempsey left Afghanistan on a different aircraft.
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed claimed responsibility in a
phone interview.  The rash of “green-on-blue” attacks, named for the colors
of Afghan and allied uniforms, may make the war an issue in the
U.S. presidential campaign, as the decade-long American mission
remains entangled in Afghan government corruption, ethnic
divisions and debate in Washington over how to define success.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said at a
campaign event in Manchester,  New Hampshire , yesterday that
Obama has failed to regularly address the nation on “what the
mission is, what its purpose is, how we’ll know when it’s
completed.”  ‘Long Term’  At the White House news conference yesterday, Obama said
that, “In the long term, we will see fewer U.S. casualties and
coalition casualties by sticking to our transition plan and
making sure that we’ve got the most effective Afghan security
force possible. But we’ve got to do it in a way that doesn’t
leave our guys vulnerable.”  Attacks from inside the Afghan security forces against
coalition troops jumped to 10 this month, up from four in July,
and two in June, Lieutenant Colonel Hagen Messer, a spokesman
for the International Security Assistance Force Joint Command,
said in a phone interview from Kabul.  Insider attacks accounted for 13 percent of all coalition
deaths in Afghanistan this year and 11 percent of U.S. military
fatalities, based on numbers reported by the ISAF and
icasualties.org, a website that tracks war deaths. The
psychological impact shouldn’t be underestimated, said analyst
David Cortright.  ‘A Dagger’  “These insider attacks are a dagger in the heart of the
U.S. mission,” Cortright, director of policy studies at the
 University of Notre Dame ’s Kroc Institute for International
Peace Studies, said in a statement. “They strike at the core
strategy of training Afghan forces to replace our troops. If we
cannot trust the troops we are recruiting, how can the mission
succeed?”  Representative  Peter King , chairman of the House Committee
on  Homeland Security , sent a letter today to  James Clapper , the
director of national intelligence, requesting a
“counterintelligence survey” of Afghan security forces to
address the likelihood of “serious vetting problems” including
Taliban penetration.  Reports ‘Suppressed’  “I am reliably informed that reporting on
counterintelligence problems in Afghan units advised and trained
by U.S. forces has been suppressed, out of a misplaced fear of
reflecting badly upon those units’ American advisers and
trainers,” said King, a  New York  Republican. “Such concerns
must now plainly come second to addressing a growing crisis for
our mission in Afghanistan, posed by green-on-blue shootings.”  NATO’s decision in November 2010 to withdraw international
combat troops by the end of 2014 has required a swift buildup of
Afghan security forces.  Afghan National Security Forces grew to 344,108 personnel
as of March, up from 284,952 a year earlier, according to U.S.
Army Major Adam Wojack, a spokesman for the International
Security Assistance Force Joint Command in Kabul. The Afghan
National Army and the Afghan National Police are both ahead of
schedule to reach their projected combined force of 352,000 by
October, he said.  Screening Procedures  ISAF and Afghan commanders have defended their screening
procedures for new recruits. Some attacks have been by people
who never were vetted by coalition forces, including a teenage
tea server who was reportedly recommended by a local mullah to
assist an Afghan police commander and had access to a base with
U.S. forces, Katzman said.  Even with improved vetting, “it’s not always possible to
read the minds of other people,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters yesterday.  Afghan Taliban leader Mullah Omar has taken credit for the
attacks, claiming that his militants have infiltrated the ranks
of the Afghan forces.  The Pentagon disputed that yesterday. The “vast majority”
of the 32 insider attacks this year were perpetrated by
“disgruntled individuals” and not Taliban insurgents, Little
said.  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington who has advised a number
of U.S. administrations, said it’s a meaningless distinction.  ‘Insurgent Complaints’  “Most of the young men in Afghanistan are caught up in a
climate where inevitably they’re going to hear insurgent
complaints about the U.S. presence, calls for jihad,” Cordesman
said in a phone interview.  While insider attacks remain at a “relatively low level”
for a guerrilla war, at 40 deaths out of 130,000 coalition
troops, they garner press attention and shape public opinion,
Cordesman said. “If all you have to do is create a green-on-
blue incident, you achieve political impact out of any
proportion,” he said.  The U.S. has taken new steps to guard against the attacks,
including a greater “intelligence presence” in the field to
gather information on potential threats, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in an Aug. 14 Pentagon briefing.  The Pentagon also created a “guardian angel” program that
designates one individual “who stands to the side so that he
can watch people’s backs and hopefully identify people that
would be involved in those attacks,” Panetta said.  Afghan security ministries have adopted more rigorous
vetting procedures for Afghans seeking to join the security
forces, Little said.  ‘Better Progress’  “Hopefully, over the next several weeks we’ll start seeing
better progress on this front,” Obama said.  Said Jawad, a former longtime Afghan ambassador to
Washington, said he believes the attacks are the result of
Taliban infiltration and jihadist influence, and don’t reflect
the views of ordinary Afghans.  “The most effective tactic by the Taliban is to create a
rift between Afghan security forces and NATO forces,” he said.  Jawad, who has been mentioned as a possible next Afghan
defense minister, said the rapid pace of expansion of the Afghan
police and army means “there’s limited recruitment criteria,”
making it easier for anti-American insurgents to “place their
agents.”  ‘Culture of Corruption’  Reaction against the insider attacks may create pressure on
the administration to outline a more concrete transition plan,
Cordesman said.  From the start of the U.S. involvement, President  George W. Bush ’s administration “set impossible goals. They flooded money
in, creating a vast culture of corruption and privilege at the
top, and almost none trickled down,” he said.  Since then, there’s been “constant turbulence in the
military and constant turbulence in every other aspect -- aid,
anti-corruption efforts, efforts to create rule of law,”
Cordesman said. “What you haven’t had is any coherent progress
or stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  