-- Alaska Sues U.S. Challenging Voting Rights Law Oversight
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-21T22:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/alaska-sues-u-s-challenging-voting-rights-law-oversight.html
Alaska  sued the U.S. claiming the
Voting Rights Act is unconstitutional because it creates
“significant, ongoing administrative burdens” and isn’t
warranted based on the state’s voting rights history.  Alaska said the law’s preclearance requirement creates
uncertainty and delay and “places Alaska’s elections at the
mercy of  Department of Justice  attorneys,” according to a
complaint filed today in federal court in  Washington . The law
intrudes on the state’s sovereignty without evidence Alaska
discriminates against minority voters, the complaint alleges.  “Section 5’s preclearance requirement denies Alaska the
flexibility and autonomy necessary to run its elections in a
manner that best accounts for local conditions and
circumstances,” the state said in the lawsuit.  Alaska is among at least six states or jurisdictions
challenging continued enforcement of the 1965 law meant to
prevent voting discrimination based on race or color. Alaska
became one of 16 states or jurisdictions covered by the law when
it was extended in 1975 to include language minorities.  The U.S. Supreme Court may decide in October whether to
hear a challenge to Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act brought
by Shelby County,  Alabama .  Native Population  Alaska was a covered jurisdiction based on the Alaska
Native population of the state and the fact that voting
materials used in 1972 were only in English. The state has a
104,871 American Indians and Alaska Natives, according to the
2010 Census.  Alaska says Congress lacked sufficient evidence of voting
discrimination when it decided to keep Alaska within the law’s
jurisdiction in 2006. At least 20 distinct Alaskan native
languages are spoken in the state, according research cited in
the complaint.  “The record before Congress showed that the Department of
Justice had objected to only one of Alaska’s preclearance
submissions in more than 30 years,” the state said in its
complaint.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Alaska v. Holder, 12-cv-01376, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 