-- Alcatel-Lucent, Qualcomm Must Face TruePosition Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-21T21:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/alcatel-lucent-qualcomm-must-face-trueposition-lawsuit.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ,  Qualcomm (QCOM)  Inc. and
 Ericsson (ERICB)  AB must defend against claims by Liberty Media Corp.’s
TruePosition unit that the companies tried to deny it access to
the next generation of phone-locator technology, a court ruled.  TruePosition plausibly stated a claim against the companies
for a violation of U.S. antitrust laws, U.S. District Judge
Robert Kelly in Philadelphia said today. He denied a motion to
dismiss the case.  TruePosition, based in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, helps police,
fire and ambulance services locate more than 55 million callers
in the U.S. every year, the company said in its complaint. The
company sued in July 2011 alleging that its rivals conspired to
exclude its positioning technology from the standard for 4G
mobile networks.  “The allegations of an illegal conspiracy between the
corporate defendants are plausible when viewed in context and as
a whole,” Kelly said in a 50-page opinion.  Mary Ward , a U.S. spokeswoman for Paris-based Alcatel-
Lucent, declined to comment on the ruling. Christie Thoene, a
spokeswoman for San Diego-based Qualcomm, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  “Ericsson is in the process of reviewing the judge’s
opinion,” Kathy Egan, a spokeswoman for Stockholm-based
Ericsson, said in a phone interview. She declined to comment
further.  Alcatel-Lucent’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, dropped 1 cent to $1.19 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Ericsson’s ADRs fell 11 cents to $9.83 and Qualcomm declined 72
cents to $62.08 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The case is TruePosition v. LM Ericsson, 11-cv-4574, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  