-- Talking-Cars in Yearlong Vehicle-Safety Study in Michigan
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-21T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/talking-cars-in-yearlong-vehicle-safety-study-in-michigan.html
A real-world test of almost 3,000
vehicles in a  Michigan  university town will help determine
whether the U.S. next year mandates equipment that lets cars
“talk” to each other.  The Ann Arbor, Michigan, pilot will test connected vehicles
in traffic so the government can study how drivers use the
technologies and how much safer they make driving. Information
collected will help the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration decide by next year whether to require such
devices.  The test includes vehicles with wireless devices that,
coupled with global positioning systems, let them communicate
with cars and with roadside equipment to help prevent accidents
and minimize congestion. Information on the location and speed
of other vehicles would warn drivers about potential collisions
as well as traffic jams, disabled vehicles and lane closures.  “Cars talking to other cars is the future of motor
safety,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told
reporters today. The  Ann Arbor  pilot, he said, is the largest of
its kind. “It gives drivers the information to make safe
decisions while on the road. This experience can’t be duplicated
in a lab,” he said.  The U.S. Transportation Department awarded the  University
of Michigan  $14.9 million to  conduct the test . The university
equipped more than 73 lane miles of roadway as well as 2,850
vehicles, including cars, buses and commercial trucks.  Department’s Timetable  Any decisions in rule making won’t come for at least a
year, LaHood said.  “Until we see data, until the study is complete, we won’t
know with certainty what promise this really has,” LaHood said.
“Will it save injuries? Will it save lives? And there’s always
the cost factor. Safety always has a price.”  Automaker participants include  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Honda Motor Co., Hyundai Motor Co.,  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
Nissan Motor Co.,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   While no one involved with the test would say what form the
technology may take until after data is collected, consumers can
expect to see the equipment on vehicles at some point, Bill
Konstantacos, vice president of Honda’s research and development
unit in the Americas, said in an interview.  “We do think this is inevitable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 