-- Allianz Cuts Pimco-Driven Asset Management Target
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-08-22T08:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/allianz-profit-beats-estimates-on-life-health-unit.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , owner of the world’s
second-biggest asset management business after BlackRock Inc.,
is trimming targets for that unit as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimps
investment returns.  The company is targeting annual asset growth of 5 percent
to 10 percent “over a full market cycle,” Jay Ralph, Allianz
management board member responsible for asset management, said
in an interview in Munich. The previous target of 10 percent,
derived equally from market gains and client inflows, is no
longer achievable, he said.  “Today’s market environment won’t allow the same level of
market performance as in the past,” said Ralph, who headed the
insurer’s business in  North America  before taking over from
Joachim Faber this year.  Asset management’s contribution to the operating profit of
Europe’s biggest insurer almost tripled to 27 percent over the
past five years. Growth was driven by Pacific Investment
Management Co., the Mohamed El-Erian and Bill Gross-led business
that Allianz  acquired  more than a decade ago. Pimco, which
gained assets in the second quarter while those at BlackRock
declined, is seeking to attract more European clients after
Allianz granted the division more independence last year.  “Pimco is an impressive success story for Allianz,
especially as many other asset managers seem to face
difficulties,” said  Philipp Haessler , an analyst at Equinet AG
in Frankfurt. “Asset management has been a good hedge for
Allianz when its insurance operations are burdened by low
investment returns.”  ‘Good Growth’  Total assets at Allianz Asset Management climbed 16 percent
to 1.75 trillion euros ($2.16 trillion) in the second quarter
from a year earlier. Pimco, which accounted for almost 82
percent of those assets and an even bigger share of operating
profit, was separated from the insurer’s other managers last
September to give the  Newport Beach , California-based unit more
independence as it expands into equities.  “We have not lost a single client as a result of the new
setup of our asset management unit, which is better than we
anticipated,” said Ralph.  Asset gains at Pimco contrast with a 3 percent drop in
BlackRock’s assets to $3.56 trillion in the second quarter after
market losses totaling $76.2 billion and client redemptions of
$29.4 billion.  Highest Marks  Gross’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest bond fund,
attracted $2.1 billion last month. The seventh straight month of
net deposits into the mutual fund contributed to $8 billion in
new cash for the year through July 31, Chicago-based Morningstar
Inc. said Aug. 1.  Clients have pulled more than $130 billion over the past
two-and-a-half years from AllianceBernstein Holding LP, the New
York-based fund-management unit of Axa SA, Europe’s second-biggest insurer. That included outflows of 5.2 billion euros in
the first half, Paris-based Axa said on Aug. 3.  Pimco, manager of the world’s largest bond mutual fund, was
the highest ranked of 23 rivals in an institutional investor
brand-loyalty survey in February by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Cogent Research. AllianceBernstein came last.  “While fixed-income-heavy Pimco clearly benefits from the
declining interest rates that we’ve seen over the last years, it
remains to be seen how they will do once this trend reverses,”
said Equinet’s Haessler, who has an accumulate rating on Munich-based Allianz.  Inflation Issue  Inflation, which may accelerate as European leaders seek to
resolve the region’s debt crisis, is not a concern for Pimco’s
business, Ralph said.  “Pimco has been particularly good in taking their clients
from core fixed-income products to various non-core products
such as inflation-protected or real-return oriented strategies
that protect clients from inflation,” he said.  Money managers such as Pimco and BlackRock, which earn fees
based on the assets that they manage for clients, traditionally
benefit from rising stock markets and investor deposits into
higher-fee active stock and bond funds. Treasuries made
investors 9 percent over the past two years, according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Allianz Global Investors, the remainder of the insurer’s
asset management business led by Elizabeth Corley, has announced
plans to cut costs as it integrates international business units
and creates three European hubs in London, Paris and  Frankfurt .
AGI, with 291 billion euros in assets under management, had a
cost-income ratio, a measure of efficiency, of 69.3 percent at
the end of June compared with Pimco’s 52.9 percent.  Cost Control  “AGI has already done a lot of good work on the cost
side,” Ralph said. “While quarters may move around a bit, it’s
absolutely clear that the cost-income ratio will be trending
down.”  Pimco already has an “outstanding” cost-income ratio and
therefore will focus on further growth, Ralph said.  “Pimco’s strong, yet improving, cost-income ratio will
help it preserve its competitive advantage too and suggests it
is successfully leveraging its scale,” said Andrew Broadfield,
an analyst with Barclays Plc in  London . “For Allianz, owning
such a successful asset manager is a good business hedge, should
life insurers lose share of the savings market to asset
managers, as they have in many of the mature markets.”  Allianz Commitment  Ralph said Gross and El-Erian remain committed to their
parent.  “Pimco feels very comfortable within the Allianz group, as
do Bill and Mohamed, therefore I don’t foresee any changes to
our two asset manager strategy or their commitment to the
current setup,” he said.  While Allianz’s asset management business thrives, other
financial firms, including Deutsche Bank AG, have been trying to
sell their fund managers to free up capital amid Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Germany ’s biggest bank shelved a plan in
May to sell its asset management operations to Guggenheim
Partners.  Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  also scrapped the sale of its Pioneer
Global Asset Management unit last year, while Robeco Groep NV is
“working closely” with its owner, Rabobank Groep, on a
strategic review of its business, the money manager said Aug.
14.  Societe Generale SA earlier this month sold Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., the $131 billion asset manager founded by
 Robert Day  in 1971, to Carlyle Group LP in a deal that ended 11
years under the French bank’s ownership.  Allianz isn’t interested in asset management acquisitions,
Ralph said.  “Why would you buy other asset managers?” he said “We
already have a global distribution and would rather try to
attract talented people with investment expertise than pay for
additional legal entities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  