-- Ambiga Ignores Threats in Fight for Fairer Malaysian Vote
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-08-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/ambiga-ignores-threats-in-fight-for-fairer-malaysian-vote.html
Ambiga Sreenevasan got anonymous
death threats for her work on the rights of women whose husbands
convert to Islam in Muslim-majority  Malaysia  four years ago.
After leading a rally calling for electoral reforms in April,
she was accused of treason by a ruling party lawmaker.  The 55-year-old former  Malaysian Bar Council  president, who
received the International Women of Courage Award from U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in 2009, hasn’t stopped
challenging the government’s human rights policies.  “They underestimate right-thinking Malaysians,” she said 
in an interview. “We don’t like bullying.”  While Prime Minister Najib Razak, who must call elections
by early 2013, has agreed to some of the demands of Ambiga’s
Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections, or Bersih, for fairer
voting procedures such as the use of indelible ink, his
government has declared the civil society group illegal and she
has become the focus of personal attacks. Opposition leaders
have championed Bersih’s campaign and called the attacks racist.  “She is seen as somebody who’s a professional, has the
aspirations of the middle class, believes in things like human
rights and good governance,” said James Chin, a professor of
political science at the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash
University  outside Kuala Lumpur. “She symbolizes that: Somebody
who holds the Malaysian authorities accountable for their
actions.”  Triple Minority  The mother of two believes her “demonization” has
intensified because government supporters want to undermine the
credibility of the non-partisan campaign for free and fair
elections.  As an Indian, Hindu and woman, “I’m a minority in every
sense of the word and I think they thought it would be easy to
do,” she said.  In the 2008 elections, Najib’s multiparty, multiethnic
National Front coalition had its worst showing in five decades
of unbroken rule as urban Malays as well as Chinese and Indian
minorities supported opposition parties pledging policies that
don’t discriminate in favor of the Malay-Muslim majority.  Harassment of Ambiga since the April demonstration has
included traders setting up outside her home and serving free
beef burgers and Malay army veterans stretching and shaking
their buttocks near her house.  Ruling party lawmaker Mohamad Aziz withdrew his June 26
comment about Ambiga’s possible treason - a crime which carries
the death penalty - two days later following complaints from the
ruling coalition’s ethnic Indian party leaders.  Electoral Impact  “Her rather calm and methodical responses to many of the
different challenges and the personal attacks,” have given a
sense of pride to the Indian Malaysian community, according to
Bridget Welsh, Associate Professor of Political Science at the
 Singapore Management University . “By allowing the people who
attacked her to go without prosecution or condemnation -- this
has actually had an electoral impact.”  Indians account for about 7 percent of Malaysia’s
population of 29 million. Najib’s approval ratings dropped to 69
percent in June from 72 percent in May among the ethnic Indian
community, possibly due to dissatisfaction over statements
toward Ambiga, according to a Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research survey released July 26.  Mohamad Aziz’s comments were personal and didn’t reflect
the National Front’s stand, the coalition said June 27. Najib
said two days later that statements that hurt the feelings of
other races shouldn’t be made.  Overseas Voting  Besides the use of indelible ink, the next election will
allow Malaysians living overseas to vote as part of
“unprecedented measures” to strengthen the electoral process,
a government spokesman said.  Former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said in an interview
that Ambiga led “unreasonable” attacks against the government
when she was heading the bar council.  “She seems to have some grudge against the government,”
said Mahathir, who resigned in 2003 after 22 years in power. “I
think this country has done much better than any other
developing country and yet to her it’s wrong, it’s all wrong.”  Ambiga insists she is non-partisan and will not enter
politics “so when you say something, it’s not because of
politics and not because of which party I belong to, but because
it is right, because it’s the law.”  Bersih , which last month won a court order overturning the
government’s declaration it is an illegal organization, will
continue to push for greater transparency in the voting system,
saying the changes announced by the government aren’t
substantial enough or haven’t yet been implemented.  Positive Change  After receiving death threats including a detailed one by
e-mail on June 30, Ambiga now travels with bodyguards, but she
doesn’t believe that Malaysia, which saw racial clashes and the
suspension of parliament when the ruling party lost support in
1969 elections, will experience political violence.  “If enough people want change, there’s very little anyone
can do to stop it,” she said. “Malaysians are generally peace-
loving -- we are nowhere near what was happening in the  Middle
East , Tunisia and  Egypt . We are at the right point in time for
positive change, and if we are going to bring change, we only
want to do it by clean and fair elections.”  The lawyer intends to step down from Bersih after
Malaysia’s next election to focus on her work at her firm
specializing in commercial, intellectual property and industrial
law. Personal interests like cricket and the arts have also been
set aside, she said.  Stage, Courts  “My claim to fame was sharing the stage with Jit Murad
about 37 years ago,” she said, referring to the comedian and
actor who co-founded Malaysia’s  Instant Cafe Theatre Company .  Ambiga also has some unfinished work from her previous
campaign which first brought her death threats: Women’s rights.  Malaysia has a civil court system inherited from its former
British colonial rulers as well as separate Islamic courts
governing marriage, inheritance and other family matters for
Muslims.  “The courts have abdicated their responsibility over a lot
of family law issues in these situations involving both the
Shariah courts and civil courts,” she said, citing cases where
husbands have converted to Islam and unilaterally converted
their children too, leaving wives in limbo.  While the government in 2008 proposed legislation requiring
individuals wishing to convert to first inform family members
and address custody issues, the process stalled at Malaysia’s
council of Malay rulers, who have constitutional responsibility
for Islamic affairs.  “This should be first in line for resolution,” Ambiga
said. “The ordinary Malaysian is beginning to realize that it
is not acceptable to play up religion and race in politics.
There is a real maturing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  