-- Americans Disapprove of Ryan’s Medicare Plan, Poll Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-21T21:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/americans-disapprove-of-ryan-s-medicare-plan-poll-says-1-.html
More than seven in 10 Americans have
heard of Republican vice president-designate  Paul Ryan ’s
proposal to eliminate traditional Medicare, and among them those
who oppose the idea outnumber supporters, according to a poll
released today.  The  survey  by the Pew Research Center found 72 percent of
respondents aware of Ryan’s plan to provide vouchers for the
purchase of private health insurance, which the Wisconsin
congressman has since revised. Of those who have heard of the
proposal, 49 percent oppose it and 34 percent support it.  The poll also shows more respondents disapproved than
approved of Ryan as the Republican vice presidential candidate.
And they gave low grades to Democrat  Joe Biden , the office’s
current occupant.  House Republicans  twice have approved legislation sponsored
by Ryan to convert Medicare to a voucher program. The plan would
rely on competition among private insurers to hold down health-care costs. The measure would cut  government spending  by more
than $5 trillion, reduce taxes for high earners and balance the
budget in 2040.  Original Proposal  Ryan’s original plan did away with the traditional Medicare
program entirely; he later agreed to continue a public option,
albeit with limits on how much the government would spend. The
current Medicare system would remain for everyone now
participating, and everyone at least 55 years old now would
receive the traditional fee-for-service program with no caps on
expenditures when they turn 65.  Presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
who chose Ryan as his running mate, has said he would sign the
plan as redrawn into law if it passed Congress.  Ryan’s ascension to the national Republican ticket has
increased the focus on Medicare, the government health-care
program for the elderly. “We want this debate, we need this
debate and we are going to win this debate,” Ryan said earlier
this week in  Florida .  Republicans have criticized President  Barack Obama  for
reducing future Medicare payments by more than $700 billion in
his health-care law. The savings come from reduced payments to
hospitals and private insurance companies offering more
expensive Medicare Advantage plans, not from cutting benefits.
Ryan would reduce Medicare spending by the same amount in his
budget bill.  Current Recipients  While current Medicare recipients wouldn’t be affected by
the change to a voucher system, senior citizens were the
strongest opponents of the Ryan proposal, according to the Pew
poll. Among respondents 65 years of age and older, 55 percent
opposed ending traditional Medicare, while 24 percent favored
it. Those between 50 and 64 disapproved of it, 49 percent to 35
percent, and those between 18 and 49 were against it, 46 percent
to 38 percent.  By 51 percent to 33 percent, respondents said it is more
important to leave  Social Security  and Medicare unchanged than
to reduce the  budget deficit . Independent voters agreed with
that position by 48 percent to 35 percent.  Ryan was termed a fair or poor selection for Romney’s
ticket by 46 percent, while 28 percent called the pick excellent
or good.  As for Biden, 56 percent said he has done a fair or poor
job as vice president, while 27 percent rated his performance as
excellent or good.  The poll of 1,005 adults was taken Aug. 16-19 and has a
margin of error for its entire sample of plus or minus 3.6
percentage points. Of those interviewed, 32 percent were
Democrats and 24 percent Republicans; in 2008, exit polls showed
that 39 percent of voters were Democrats and 32 percent were
Republicans. The rest identified as independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 