-- Man Group Debt Downgraded by Moody’s After Assets Decline
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-08-21T09:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/man-group-debt-downgraded-by-moody-s-after-assets-decline-1-.html
Man Group Plc’s (EMG)  credit rating was
cut by Moody’s Investors Service after assets of the world’s
biggest publicly traded hedge fund firm fell by almost a third.  Man Group’s senior debt was lowered one step to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, Moody’s said in a statement today. The
ratings company cited the decline in assets,  investment
performance  that lagged the firm’s historical returns and a
decrease in management fees in its decision.  “The rating downgrades reflect continuing challenges in
the company’s core business,” New York-based Moody’s said in
the statement. The ratings company predicted “there will be
little if any retained  earnings  given Man’s dividend policy and
ongoing earnings pressure.”  Man Group  shares  have fallen 57 percent in the past year in
 London  after analysts cut earnings estimates and its biggest
hedge fund, the $19.5 billion AHL computerized trading system,
underperformed rivals. Man Group has responded by announcing job
cuts and overhauling its sales strategy to reduce costs.  “Man has made considerable progress in addressing its cost
base and expanding its investment management capabilities,” the
London-based company said in a statement today. “Man remains
financially robust and enjoys a strong position in the market.”  Assets Decline  The shares rose 0.6 pence to 81.50 pence at 10:35 a.m. in
London, giving Man Group a market value of 1.48 billion pounds
($2.33 billion).  Man Group assets under management declined to $52.7 billion
at the end of June from $71 billion a year earlier as the
European sovereign debt crisis hurt sales and prompted clients
to pull money from the company’s hedge funds. Man Group has
since completed an acquisition of hedge fund investment firm FRM
Holdings Ltd. to add about $8 billion of assets.  AHL, which follows trends of asset prices ranging from
currencies to bonds, has declined 3.3 percent this year after
falling 5.5 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Before plunging 17 percent in 2009, AHL had produced
an average annual gain of  18 percent  since the end of 1996.  Man Group announced last month that it had a pretax loss of
$164 million for the first six months of the year. Man Group
pays an annual dividend of 22 cents a share, which JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst Rae Maile called “generous” last month in
light of the company’s weakening capital base.  Man Group plans to reduce costs by $100 million by cutting
jobs, scaling back its business in certain countries and moving
away from so-called guaranteed products that require the company
to pay high sales commissions, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in July. The cost cuts added to $95 million of
reductions the company announced in March.  Moody’s began reviewing Man Group’s debt for a possible
downgrade in April. Moody’s said today it had cut all its debt
and preferred stock ratings on the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  