-- Hang Up the Phone on Congo’s Warlords
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-21T22:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/hang-up-the-phone-on-congo-s-warlords.html
You’ve heard of  blood diamonds . Now
get ready for the debate over blood smartphones.  On Wednesday the Securities and Exchange Commission is
expected to vote on an obscure section of the  Dodd-Frank
financial reform law  requiring manufacturers to disclose whether
they buy certain metals -- tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold --
that have fueled years of war in Congo. The metals are used in
consumer electronics including computer chips, digital cameras,
video-game consoles and mobile phones.  Although the measure is not the slam-dunk it might seem at
first glance -- some criticisms of it are reasonable -- the SEC
should vote to adopt it. Doing so would help consumers make
informed choices and strengthen a voluntary effort by high-tech
companies to rid their supply chains of these “conflict
minerals.”  Since the fall of President Mobutu Sese Seko in the late
1990s, civil conflict in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo has
claimed more than 3 million lives. The eastern part of the
country remains in disarray despite the presence of the world’s
largest  United Nations  peacekeeping contingent and repeated
efforts by the Congolese Army under President Joseph Kabila and
Rwandan military forces to stamp out rebellious militias.  Mine Control  Mineral wealth has been a  driving force in the conflict .
The Congolese military and the rebel forces such as the ethnic
Tutsi M23 movement have taken over the mines and transportation
networks and raked in hundreds of millions of dollars.
Villagers, including children, are rounded up and put to work,
often in virtual slavery. More than 60 workers were killed in a
mine collapse just last week. Rape is widespread, and women and
girls are forced into brothels in the mining areas.  Given the scope of the problem, the SEC measure is
relatively weak. It would not forbid manufacturers from using
minerals from any source; instead it would simply require about
6,000 companies to let consumers know where the minerals
originated. The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  objects that the
sourcing would be prohibitively expensive, but the actions of
many companies involved in the trade belie that claim.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  deserves particular credit. It has committed to
making “conflict-free” microchips by next year, and has led a
global effort to audit the smelting plants in the high-tech
supply chain that process the minerals (most are in Asia) to
discover where the raw materials originate.  General Electric
Co. (GE) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , among
others, have joined in the auditing program and helped create
the  Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade ,
which works with nongovernmental groups and the U.S. government
to promote a Congolese  mining industry  free of military and
rebel control.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was the first corporation to provide a
list of the 175 smelters in its supply chain and require
suppliers to use audited, conflict-free smelters when possible.
(Shame, however, on Mario and Luigi: Nintendo Co. has made no
effort toward responsible sourcing, according to the  Enough
Project , a nongovernmental group that tracks crimes against
humanity in  Africa .)  These measures have had real success. According to the
Enough Project, armed groups’ revenue from tin, tantalum and
tungsten is down by 65 percent over two years. Still, much of
the material is making its way illegally out of the country.
Rwandan mineral exports increased by 62 percent in 2010,
although domestic mining production only rose by 22 percent.  Some criticisms of the SEC rule are reasonable. One is that
it might  hurt  the hundreds of thousands of small-scale
“artisanal” miners in Congo whose families and communities
depend on meager income they can scavenge from the earth. Yet
the idea behind the rule and the industry efforts is to clean up
the Congolese industry and improve the welfare of workers, not
to force manufacturers to look elsewhere. It need not lead to a
boycott if companies use due diligence.  Brutal Conditions  Other critics say that companies may look to mines in  Asia 
where conditions are often as bad as in Congo. This seems more
like a reason to improve the situation at, say, tin mines in
Indonesia than to look the other way at what is happening in
Africa. (As of 2009, Congo produced 17 percent of global
tantalum and far smaller percentages of the other minerals.)  Some skeptics  argue  that the rule is no longer relevant
because many rebels have switched sides to the Congo military.
Huh? It seems an atrocity is an atrocity, no matter what uniform
you are wearing.  In the end, the criticisms simply aren’t persuasive. The
SEC should do its small part and support the corporations trying
to clean the blood off our electronic gadgets.   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on eliminating the  wind-energy
tax credit ; Clive Crook on how badly the  EU would botch  a euro
breakup;  Edward Glaeser  on getting the  Army Corps  of Engineers
 out of your neighborhood ;  Michael Kinsley  on how  Ayn Rand  would
make  Paul Ryan   a better vice president ; Laurence Kotlikoff on
economists who  become political hacks ; William L. Silber on  Paul
Volcker ’s  goldless gold standard .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 