-- AngloGold, Gold Fields, Harmony Face Lawsuit Over Silicosis
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-21T18:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/anglogold-gold-fields-harmony-face-lawsuit-over-silicosis-2-.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) ,  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  and  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,  Africa ’s largest producers of
the metal, need to answer a claim for damages after Abrahams
Kiewitz Attorneys filed a suit on behalf of about 3,000 miners.  The law firm today submitted a class-action suit in  South
Africa ’s South Gauteng court as workers seek compensation for
health complaints contracted after working in the nation’s gold
mines, said Kelvin Vollenhoven, an Abrahams Kiewitz spokesman.  South Africa’s highest court in March 2011 cleared the way
for damages to be sought from gold companies by ruling that
former miner Thembekile Mankayi could pursue a claim against
AngloGold. The court rejected the company’s argument that
Mankayi, who died a week before the ruling, wasn’t entitled to
seek damages because he had already received a state payout.  South African public-interest lawyer Richard Spoor plans to
separately file on behalf of about 14,000 claimants in the same
court next month, he told Bloomberg News today by mobile phone.
He said earlier he plans to register 30,000 potential claimants
suffering from silicosis, a lung disease, by the year-end.  It’s estimated there are 350,000 to 500,000 former mine
workers who may suffer from occupational lung diseases in
southern Africa, in countries such as Lesotho, Mozambique,
Botswana, Malawi and Swaziland, Abrahams Kiewitz said in a
statement yesterday, without giving a source of the estimates.  Staking Billions  “It could run into billions of rand,” Vollenhoven said
today by phone from  Cape Town , where the firm is based. “The
court needs to first consider whether there is merit in the
case” before the amount of damages can be determined, he said.  Silicosis is caused by prolonged exposure to dust in mines,
leaving irreversible scar tissue in lungs and making it hard to
breathe. It also heightens the risk of contracting tuberculosis.  “ AngloGold Ashanti  is currently reviewing the claim
instituted by Charles Abrahams in South Africa’s South Gauteng
court today and will respond through the appropriate court
procedures,” Johannesburg-based AngloGold’s spokesman, Stewart
Bailey, said in an e-mailed response to a query. Sven Lunsche, a
spokesman for Gold Fields, couldn’t immediately comment. Harmony
spokeswoman Henrika Basterfield said the company hasn’t been
notified of the suit and couldn’t comment.  “In the case of common law they breached their duty of
care to maintain a healthy and safe environment within” their
mines, Abrahams, the instructing attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Worker Sign-up  Jubilee South Africa, a civil-rights group, helped sign up
miners with occupational lung disease, Abrahams Kiewitz said
Aug. 20. “Due to their conditions, most these miners no longer
work and live in abject poverty,” it said. “The majority of
them are dependent on social grants from government and
handouts.”  AngloGold has “been working to improve the management of
dust underground and to reduce exposure so as to prevent
incidences of silicosis,” Bailey said. “While progress has
been made, we recognize that silicosis-related compensation must
be reviewed to address inadequacies in the system as previously
identified by the  Constitutional Court ,” he said.  Abrahams Kiewitz said today it’s also the instructing law
firm in apartheid reparation cases that started 10 years ago.
The cases are still pending before the second Circuit Court of
Appeal in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  