-- Anti-Putin Opposition Backs Highway Activist for Khimki Mayor
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-08-21T15:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/anti-putin-opposition-backs-highway-activist-for-khimki-mayor.html
Russian opposition figures voiced
support for Yevgeniya Chirikova, an environmental activist who
led protests against a state-backed highway through the Moscow
region town of Khimki, where she plans to run for mayor.  Billionaire newspaper owner  Alexander Lebedev , opposition
leader Alexey Navalny and celebrity Ksenia Sobchak all backed
Chirikova’s candidacy at the Oct. 14 election. She needs to
gather 1,000 signatures to be eligible to run, according to a
statement on the Moscow regional government’s  website .  Chirikova is in talks with the opposition Yabloko party and
called the vote a chance to present “a concept for the
development of the region and then the country,” according to
posts today and yesterday on her Twitter Inc. account.  The Khimki mayoral contest is one of several regional and
municipal elections set for autumn and the town borders Moscow,
where tens of thousands took to the streets this year to
challenge President  Vladimir Putin ’s rule. While Chirikova
helped suspend the Khimki branch of the Moscow-St. Petersburg
highway project, which environmentalists said would irreparably
damage a local forest, construction later resumed.  Vladimir Strelchenko, mayor of the town of 200,000,
resigned last week. Oleg Shakhov, a former Transport Ministry
official who worked on the highway and later headed the company
that designed the project, was appointed as his replaced him on
an acting basis. He may run for mayor, according to a Moscow
regional government  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  