-- Arizona Immigration Law Foes Seek Halt Status Checks
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n
-- 2012-08-21T19:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/arizona-immigration-law-foes-seek-halt-status-checks.html
Opponents of  Arizona ’s immigration
law asked a federal judge to block a section of the statute that
survived the U.S. Supreme Court’s review requiring police
officers to verify the immigration status of anyone they stop.  U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in Phoenix heard
arguments today on the request by the  American Civil Liberties
Union , the National Immigration Law Center and the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund to stop Arizona from
putting the provision into effect while its constitutionality is
being litigated.  Bolton said she will rule on the motion later.  The Supreme Court in June struck down much of Arizona’s
2010 immigration law on the ground that states must defer to the
federal government in immigration policy. The court allowed
police checks on immigration status to take effect while leaving
open the possibility of new legal challenges to the provision.  “The  Supreme Court  stated that if police extend detentions
for status verification or other immigration purposes,” it will
raise “constitutional concerns,” lawyers for the civil rights
groups said in their July 23 filing.  The groups asked the judge to impose a preliminary
injunction against that section of the law at least until the
Arizona Supreme Court interprets it in a way that would allow
enforcement that doesn’t violate the U.S. Constitution.  ‘Discriminatory Intent’  At today’s hearing, Karen Tumlin, a lawyer with the
National Immigration Law Center, said legislators who passed the
original state law were acting, in part, “with discriminatory
intent.”  Arizona Governor Janice Brewer opposed the injunction
request in an Aug. 10 filing, saying that the civil rights
groups’ argument is “based on what a handful of Arizona law
enforcement agencies may do, which cannot provide a basis to
enjoin all law enforcement officers in the state from
enforcing” the provision.  John Bouma, a lawyer representing the state, said it was
unfair to claim race was a motivating factor in passage of the
law.  “This law is about illegal immigration and there is good
reason to be concerned about illegal immigration,” Bouma said
at today’s hearing.  Racial Motivation  He called the suggestion of racial motivation “offensive”
to state lawmakers when “a significant portion of their staff
is of Hispanic background.”  The Obama administration sued to challenge S.B. 1070, as
the Arizona law is known, saying it encroached on the exclusive
federal right to set immigration policy. Arizona’s law was the
first of its kind when enacted in 2010. Since then,  Alabama ,
 South Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and  Indiana  have passed measures
aimed at illegal immigration.  Arizona has argued it has the right to act because the U.S.
government hasn’t done enough and it doesn’t have to defer to
federal priorities. The state’s 370-mile border with  Mexico  is
the crossing point for half the nation’s illegal immigrants,
Arizona said.  The case is Valle del Sol v. Whiting, 10-01061, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  