-- Asia-Pacific Oil Drillers in U.S. Gulf Seen With BP Sale
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-21T14:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/asia-pacific-oil-drillers-in-u-s-gulf-seen-with-bp-sale.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s plans to sell almost $8
billion of deep-water oilfields in the  Gulf of Mexico  is paving
the way for the biggest influx of Asian-Pacific cash into
offshore U.S. energy exploration.  Energy companies eager to hone their skills in advanced
drilling techniques such as  China Petrochemical Corp. (1314)  and the
Australian minerals supplier  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are prime
candidates as they have deeper pockets than many competitors in
North America, according to analysts  Lyndon Fagan  of JP Morgan
Chase & Co. in Sydney and Adrian Loh at Daiwa Capital Markets.  Asian bids for BP wells that extend miles beneath the sea
surface could preempt the handful of U.S. and European explorers
that have dominated Gulf drilling for almost a century. In
similar fields, U.S. prospectors  McMoran Exploration Corp. (MMR)  and
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. are coping with exploding costs and mounting
geological challenges, like violent natural gas surges and drill
bits melting as they plunge miles into the ocean floor.  “The Gulf of Mexico ticks a lot of boxes for  oil
companies ” from Asia, according to Loh, who follows Chinese
companies for Daiwa in Singapore. “The size of the resource is
certainly an attraction as well,” he said in an interview.  The U.S. section of the Gulf, while producing 17.8 billion
barrels of crude in the past six decades, is a more difficult
and expensive place to search for oil as explorers push farther
off the coast and into more hostile geological formations.  ATP Bankruptcy  Spiraling costs pushed ATP into filing for  bankruptcy
protection  last week. The Houston-based company was one of the
first explorers to resume drilling in deep waters of the Gulf
after London-based BP’s Macondo oil spill, which was caused by
an uncontrolled burst of natural gas.  McMoran spent $906 million in the past three years on a
field called Davy Jones that has yet to produce commercial
quantities of oil.  Even so, Gulf oil production is expected to jump 31 percent
by the end of the decade to 1.83 million barrels a day, the U.S.
Energy Department said in a June report.  That’s three times the rate at which Africa and Russia are
expected to raise oil production during the same period, and
more than twice the forecast increase from Saudi Arabia,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. It forecast U.S. Gulf
crude prices to climb 34 percent by the end of 2020.  Lv Dapeng, a spokesman in Beijing for China Petrochemical,
also known as Sinopec Group, did not answer two calls to his
office line seeking comment yesterday. The company had the
equivalent of $6.68 billion in  free cash flow  at the end of
2010, the most recent year reported, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Limited Pool’  Kelly Quirke, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP,
declined to comment.  “The potential buyers have to have the technical knowledge
needed to operate in deep water, and there’s only a limited pool
of such companies,”  Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based
Brookshire Advisory & Research, said in an interview. “It boils
down to who has the expertise and who has the deep pockets.”  One attraction of Gulf assets for Chinese companies is the
transparency of U.S. regulations and taxation relative to other
nations, Loh said. “If you want to drill and develop an oil
field it’s easier than, say, in Africa,” he said.  Fewer Barriers  Foreign explorers in the U.S. Gulf also face fewer barriers
to entry such as requirements to obtain prescribed amounts of
equipment and employees locally, said Lauren Payne, a researcher
on the deep-water Gulf of Mexico team at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in
Houston.  “There are no local-content rules and it’s very easy to
establish local subsidiaries” to oversee drilling projects,
Payne said in a telephone interview. “The deep-water Gulf is
very attractive in terms of oil production and what’s still left
there to be discovered.”  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the publicly traded unit of China’s offshore
oil explorer, is poised to become the first Chinese operator of
deep-water U.S. oil assets, pending government approval of its
$15.1 billion takeover of Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  Cnooc has pledged
to retain Calgary-based Nexen’s drilling experts as part of the
transaction announced on July 23.  “Chinese oil companies do not have a good track record in
developing deep-water projects themselves,”  Gordon Kwan  of
Mirae Asset Securities, said in an interview. “That’s the
reason why Cnooc promised to retain all of Nexen’s operational
staff in the Gulf of Mexico and not try to send Chinese
engineers over.”  Expected Proceeds  BP said in May it plans to divest Gulf fields including
Horn Mountain and its minority stake in Ram Powell, about two
years after a blowout at its Macondo well in the Gulf killed 11
workers and triggered the worst-ever U.S. marine oil spill. The
company expects maximum proceeds of $5 billion to $6 billion
after taxes payable by the purchaser, a person familiar with the
sale process said last week.  The fields hold proven reserves of about 120 million
barrels of oil and produced about 58,000 barrels a day in the
first quarter, the person said. In addition to Sinopec Group and
BHP, other potential suitors include  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-largest oil company, and China National
Petroleum Corp. or its unit  PetroChina Co. (857) , analysts said.  U.S. Clearance  Chinese companies may wait to pursue deals in the Gulf
until Cnooc’s Nexen purchase clears regulatory hurdles,
including the  Committee on Foreign Investment  in the United
States, Kwan said. U.S. political resistance in 2005 prompted
Cnooc to abandon a bid for California-based Unocal Corp., now
part of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   “If the Cnooc-Nexen deal could be cleared, there should be
no problem for Chinese companies bidding for BP assets,” Kwan
said. Because any deals with BP would involve individual assets
rather than an entire corporation, “I don’t think this would be
subject to the same level of vigilance Cnooc-Nexen deal would
get from the U.S.”  BHP, Australia’s largest oil and natural-gas producer,
already operates the Shenzi and Neptune fields about 120 miles
(193 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast. The company also is a
partner with BP in the nearby Mad Dog and Atlantis projects.  The BP fields for sale “are attractive tier-one assets
that fit within BHP’s strategy that rarely come up for sale,”
said Fagan, the JPMorgan analyst.  Worth Looking  Woodside began exploring in the Gulf of Mexico in 1999 and
has 20 percent stakes in the Neptune and Power Play oilfields,
according to the company’s website.  “I think Woodside and BHP would definitely take a look”
at adding Gulf of Mexico assets, said  Andrew Williams , a
Melbourne-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  For Woodside “at some point you’ve got to make the
decision, do we get bigger or get out?” Williams said by phone.
“If they want to get bigger, they have to look at it.”  Woodside, operator of the A$15 billion Pluto natural-gas
project in Western Australia, said in February it’s considering
expansion outside the country through new partnerships.  Laura Lunt, a spokeswoman for Woodside in Perth, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  One person familiar BP’s plans said bidders may include
U.S. companies such as Chevron Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp., and
that it’s unlikely that all the fields will go to one buyer.  ‘Rock Star’  Other U.S. producers tested by the vagaries of Gulf
drilling have included McMoran and  Cobalt International Energy
Inc. (CIE)  Despite the setbacks at the Davy Jones project, McMoran
Chairman and Co-Founder James “Jim Bob” Moffett retains “rock
star” status within the oil industry, Brookshire’s Bern said.  On the sidelines of a Denver energy conference last week,
Moffett’s informal question-and-answer session with investors
and geologists drew a standing-room only crowd.  Cobalt, controlled by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Riverstone Holdings, lost $99 million on its Ligurian field in
the Gulf during the second quarter. The Houston-based company,
which also explores off the coasts of Angola and Gabon, plans to
continue deep-water Gulf exploration with its North Platte 1
well and the Anadarko Petroleum Corp.-operated Shenandoah field,
according to a July 31 company statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  