-- Asian Stocks Advance as China Moves to Ease Cash Crunch
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-08-21T10:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/asian-stocks-gain-before-u-s-housing-durable-goods-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for a three-month high, as  China  moved
to alleviate a cash crunch and ahead of U.S. reports that are
expected to show the world’s biggest economy is improving.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s biggest
contract manufacturer of computer chips, gained 1.5 percent in
Taipei. Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. jumped 4.8 percent in
 Singapore  after Heineken NV raised its offer for a controlling
stake in the maker of Tiger beer. PICC Property & Casualty Co.
advanced 7.3 percent in Hong Kong after China’s biggest non-life
insurer posted higher first-half earnings.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.4 percent to 121.20 as
of 7:36 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its highest close since May
8. About 10 shares rose for every seven that fell in the gauge.
The measure advanced in the past three weeks on expectations
China will ease monetary policy and amid signs the  U.S. economy 
is strengthening.  “U.S. economic data has been better, with the housing
sector turning around,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion in assets. “Eventually, Asian exports will
rebound. Asian equities aren’t overvalued after recent gains and
Chinese equities are dirt cheap. China’s economic slowdown
remains a key concern.”  Cash Injection  China’s central bank stepped up reverse-repurchase
operations today to ease a cash crunch, injecting 150 billion
yuan ($24 billion) using seven-day contracts and a further 70
billion yuan via 14-day agreements, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. That’s the
biggest injection since July 3.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 1 percent and China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index
was little changed while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
of mainland companies listed in the city rose 0.3 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent. The
nation’s central bank signaled confidence domestic growth would
weather a “fragile” global economy in its decision to maintain
the highest borrowing costs in the developed world, according to
minutes of the Aug. 7 policy meeting released today.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and  South Korea ’s Kospi
Index both dropped 0.2 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index
gained 0.1 percent.  U.S. Reports  Reports in the U.S. this week will show that combined
purchases of new and existing houses increased to a 4.89 million
annual rate in July from 4.72 million in June, according to the
median forecast in surveys of economists before releases from
the National Association of Realtors tomorrow and the Commerce
Department the next day. Bookings for long-lasting goods may
have climbed the most this year, a release will show Aug. 24,
according to economist estimates.  Asian exporters gained. TSMC, as the chip maker is known,
gained 1.5 percent to NT$83.60 in Taipei. Toyota Motor Corp.,
the world’s biggest carmaker, added 0.5 percent to 3,260 yen in
Tokyo. Nintendo Co., the maker of Wii game consoles, increased
1.3 percent to 8,880 yen.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. The underlying gauge yesterday closed little changed at
1,418.13. Trading volume and volatility have dropped this month
as traders await policy clues from the  Federal Reserve ’s summit
at the end of the month and a European Central Bank meeting in
September.  ‘Significant Risks’  Government bond purchases “entail significant stability
risks,”  Germany ’s Bundesbank said in its monthly report
yesterday. The ECB’s governing council may decide at its next
gathering to set yield limits on each country’s debt, Germany’s
Spiegel magazine reported Aug. 19, without saying where it got
the information. The ECB council hasn’t discussed any plan to
target the bond yields, a central bank spokesman said in an e-
mailed statement.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  gained 1.3 percent to
NT$85.90 and Foxconn Technology Co. added 1 percent to NT$114.50
in Taipei. Both companies are assemblers for Apple Inc., which
set a U.S. record for market value yesterday on optimism the
next version of the iPhone will meet high demand.  Asia Pacific Breweries climbed 4.8 percent to S$53 in
Singapore after Heineken boosted its bid for Fraser & Neave
Ltd.’s stake in the Southeast Asian brewer to S$5.6 billion
($4.5 billion). Trading in the shares was halted on Aug. 17
before announcements on the bid, and the city’s stock market was
closed yesterday.  Company Profits  AU Optronics Corp. increased 4.4 percent to NT$9.41 in
Taipei. Sony Corp. is giving part of its television orders to  a
unit of the Taiwanese maker of liquid-crystal displays, the
Economic Daily reported, citing market speculation. AU Optronics
spokeswoman Yawen Hsiao said the company doesn’t comment on
client orders  PICC Property & Casualty jumped 7.3 percent to HK$9.44.
First-half net income climbed 24 percent from a year earlier to
6.53 billion  yuan  ($1 billion), the Beijing-based insurer said
in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Of the 446 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported  quarterly earnings  since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, about 55 percent have failed to meet
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc Ltd. declined 3 percent to HK$15.10. China’s biggest
offshore oil and gas explorer reported first-half profit dropped
19 percent from a year earlier to 31.87 billion yuan after
output was curbed by the closure of its largest domestic
oilfield.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 6.4 percent from a
Feb. 29 high through yesterday amid concern  China’s economy  is
slowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening. Stocks on the
measure were  valued  at 12.6 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  