-- Last Man Standing Means Europe Investment Banks Resist Cuts
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-08-22T13:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/last-man-standing-means-europe-investment-banks-resist-shrinking.html
Europe’s failure to resolve its
sovereign-debt crisis will force investment-banking chiefs in
the region to consider shuttering entire businesses rather than
rely on piecemeal job reductions to revive profit.  Dealmaking fees may drop 25 percent this year from 2009,
when the crisis began in Greece, research firm Freeman & Co.
estimates. European banks, including UBS AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
have cut about 172,000 positions since then, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, the same strategy they used after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  The game plan won’t work again as rising capital
requirements and declining business alter the investment-banking
landscape, investors and analysts say. New rules will reduce
return on equity by 6 percentage points from about 14 percent in
the first half of 2011, according to consulting firm Bain & Co.
Banks that relied on record low interest rates and a flood of
cheap funding from the European Central Bank to delay deciding
which units to close will be compelled to make choices.  “Investment banks have to shrink and do more than cut a
little bit here and there,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps
oversee 10 billion euros ($12.5 billion) at Landesbank Berlin
Investment in Berlin. “There’s too much politics and too little
economics going on. They want to keep certain businesses for as
long as possible.”  UBS Cuts  Some firms are cutting deeper. UBS, Switzerland’s largest
lender, is reducing its fixed-income operations to focus on
wealth management because of stricter capital requirements
imposed by regulators and a weak revenue outlook linked to the
continuing debt crisis. Still, even for all the job cuts, most
European investment banks haven’t made significant changes since
the upheaval that accompanied the collapse of Lehman Brothers,
said Joao Soares, a partner at Bain in London.  “Banks often play the last-man-standing strategy of
maintaining capabilities until others are forced to leave,”
Soares said. “They need to reinvent their core.”  The Bloomberg Industries  European Investment Banks Index (BIIBNKE) ,
which tracks  UBS (UBSN) , Barclays,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and  Credit Suisse (CSGN) 
Group AG, has dropped 4.7 percent this year compared with a 13
percent gain in the 329-member  MSCI World Financials Index. (MXWOOFN) 
European banks that have investment-banking businesses trade at
an average of 62 percent of book value, while European financial
firms trade at about 90 percent.  The five U.S. lenders with investment-banking and trading
units --  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- reported
their lowest first-half revenue since 2008 and have stock prices
that value the firms at a lower percentage of book value than
banks without capital-markets units.  ‘Inflection Point’  “We’re at an inflection point,” said Steve Hussey, a
London-based financial-institutions analyst at AllianceBernstein
Ltd., which oversees about $400 billion. “Some banks need to
come out and say we need 30 percent to 50 percent fewer people.
The hit has to be more severe than 1,000 people here and there.
Second- or third-tier players have to get out of certain
businesses and focus on niches -- either products or
geographies.”  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, and Barclays,
Britain’s second-biggest by assets, are among those best-placed
to benefit because they can exploit their dominant fixed-income,
currencies and commodities operations, traditionally the
heftiest revenue generators for firms, said  Kian Abouhossein , a
bank analyst at JPMorgan in London.  The U.S. investment-banking industry is “more
consolidated,” resulting in higher fee levels for the top
firms, Abouhossein wrote in a March report. Those companies that
have a presence in the region, including Citigroup, stand to
gain if European banks exit or shrink businesses, he said.  Gaining Share  Deutsche Bank has the biggest share of the U.S. fixed-
income trading market this year, taking the top spot from
JPMorgan, consulting firm  Greenwich Associates  said last month.
Fixed-income revenue at the 10 largest global investment banks
dropped at least 25 percent in each of the past two years to $73
billion in 2011, according to Coalition Ltd., a London analytics
firm. Deutsche Bank also boosted its share of a shrinking
European equity-underwriting market to about 12 percent this
year from 9.3 percent in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, even the Frankfurt-based lender is shrinking its
investment bank. The company said July 31 it will cut about
1,500 jobs at the unit and at related infrastructure functions
by the end of the year after reporting a 63 percent drop in
second-quarter investment-bank profit. It will announce further
details about changes to its business model, including scaling
back in some regions, at a presentation next month, co-Chief
Executive Officer Anshu Jain, 49, said on a call with investors.  ‘Grim Scenario’  “The European crisis has developed closer toward our more
grim scenario than our better-case scenario over the course of
the past two years,” Jain said. “Our prospects and our future
view on profitability is different today than it was in 2010.”  While revenue at Barclays’s fixed-income, currencies and
commodities unit rose 11 percent in the first half to 4.4
billion pounds ($6.9 billion), making it the biggest source of
income for the investment bank, the lender is under pressure
from regulators and politicians to shrink its securities unit.  The government-backed Independent Commission on Banking
recommended in September that lenders partially separate their
consumer and investment banks. Barclays has come under greater
pressure to curtail its securities unit after being fined a
record 290 million pounds in June for manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, the benchmark interest rate
for about $300 trillion of securities worldwide.  Barclays Strategy  CEO  Robert Diamond  resigned following the fine, as did
Chairman Marcus Agius. Diamond had overseen Barclays’s purchase
of Lehman’s U.S. business and subsequent expansion beyond fixed-
income into equities and merger advisory. The securities unit
employed about 24,000 people at the end of December, more than
three times as many as when Diamond took over.  “We expect Barclays to adopt a more conservative strategy
than it has in the past, which could see the aggressive
expansion story that has been pursued by the investment bank
being de-emphasized,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool with a hold rating on the shares, said in a
Aug. 10 note. “Investment banking is likely to be a low-return
industry over the long run, given planned regulatory change.”  Swiss Squeeze  UBS and Credit Suisse, the country’s second-biggest bank,
may have to shrink their investment banks more than competitors
because Swiss regulators set capital requirements higher than
international levels. The two lenders will have to hold total
capital, including common equity and contingent capital, equal
to about 19 percent of risk-weighted assets starting in 2019.  Under Basel III rules, banks worldwide must have capital
ratios of 10.5 percent, while stricter rules can be imposed by
national regulators, and firms deemed systemically important
will need more.  Both Swiss banks will have to reconsider their positions in
sub-scale or money-losing businesses, where costs can be reduced
and capital released, according to Huw Van Steenis, a banking
analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.  UBS’s investment-banking business posted a pretax loss of
130 million Swiss francs ($134.9 million) in the three months
ended June 30 compared with a pretax profit of 383 million
francs in the same period a year earlier as revenue fell 32
percent on reduced client business and a loss related to
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering.  The bank, based in Zurich, said in November it would exit
macro-directional trading, asset securitization and complex
structured products within its fixed-income business, as well as
proprietary trading in stocks. It is cutting risk-weighted
assets at its securities unit by more than half under Basel III
rules from the level at the end of September. The division
already has reached its 2013 headcount-reduction target.  ‘Pessimistic Outlook’  “If you remember back in November of last year, I don’t
think that even a pessimistic outlook for the next 12 months
would tell you what we are living in right now,” CEO  Sergio Ermotti , 52, said July 31. “The environment has completely
changed. We have been very proactive in accelerating taking down
cost as we saw the new environment developing, and we will not
be shy to continue to do so as we see the market changing, as I
do believe that many of our competitors will have to do.”  Investment banking will look more like it did in the
mid-1990s than in the past decade, Ermotti said.  “The people who have succeeded in this business are the
ones who took risks at the right time,” said  Peter Hahn , a
finance professor at London’s Cass Business School and a former
managing director at Citigroup. “The growth lasted too long.
Now the biggest business segment for investment banks, the
financial industry, is under pressure to shrink. The realization
that the biggest client has gone probably hasn’t hit some.”  Dougan Downsizing  Credit Suisse said in November it will cut risk-weighted
assets at its investment bank by 37 percent from levels at the
end of September to boost returns. The bank said it would end
origination of commercial mortgage-backed securities and
downscale or exit long-dated unsecured trades in rates,  emerging
markets  and commodities and less capital-efficient businesses in
securitized products. The company also has reduced headcount at
the unit by 1,500.  The Zurich-based lender, led by CEO Brady Dougan, 52, said
last month it plans to cut costs at the investment bank by an
additional 550 million francs, declining to specify whether that
would result in job cuts. It said it would “rationalize” the
securities unit’s advisory and underwriting businesses to bring
them “in line with market environment,” get rid of
duplications between country, product and industry teams, and
consolidate execution into hubs in the U.K. and Hong Kong.  ‘Shrink Further’  The bank, which last month also announced plans to boost
capital by 15.3 billion francs to appease regulators, should
have made bigger cuts in fixed-income instead of raising
capital, JPMorgan’s Abouhossein said in a July 18 note. “We see
potential for Credit Suisse to shrink further,” he wrote.  Spokesmen for Credit Suisse, UBS, Deutsche Bank and
Barclays declined to comment.  “There is more to come as regulators make it a more
capital-intensive business, including in fixed income,” said
Philippe Bodereau, the London-based head of research for
financial firms at Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s largest bond investor. “For the smaller guys, some of
these businesses are becoming very debatable.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which employs about 8,900 people in
corporate and investment banking, exited the European equity-
brokerage business. The bank, the largest in Italy by assets, is
now studying a partnership with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s
third-largest by market value, for managing stock offerings.  Credit Agricole is in talks to sell its European equity-
brokerage business to Kepler Capital Markets SA and sold Hong
Kong-based CLSA last month to China’s Citic Securities Co.  RBS, BNP  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
taxpayer-assisted lender, said in January it would eliminate
about 3,500 jobs at its investment-banking division and sell or
close the unprofitable cash-equities, mergers-advisory and
equity-capital-markets divisions.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s
largest bank, is cutting 79 billion euros of risk-weighted
assets, mostly within the corporate and investment bank.  “As investment banks strip their businesses in the face of
a poor economy, poor revenue and higher regulatory capital, it’s
the survival of the very, very fittest,” said Kevin Burrowes,
U.K. head of financial services at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
“We could see just three to five global investment banks.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  