-- Astex Climbs on Expected European Approval: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-08-21T21:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/astex-climbs-on-expected-european-approval-san-francisco-mover.html
Astex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ASTX)  rose the
most in almost seven months on expectations that the developer
of experimental cancer drugs will receive regulatory approval
this quarter from  Europe  for its leukemia treatment.  Astex surged 15.4 percent to $2.77 at the close in  New
York , the most since Jan. 27. The shares of the Dublin,
California-based company have risen 47 percent this year.  “They’ve had a good run, really a great run since the
middle of May,” George Zavoico, an analyst with McNicoll Lewis
& Vlak LLC in New York, said in an interview. He has a buy
rating on Astex, with a target price of $3.50.  Last month, Astex said Janssen-Cilag International NV,
which licenses its treatment outside the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Mexico , was notified that the Committee for Medical Products for
Human Use of the European Medicines Agency backed recommending
approval. The drug, called Dacogen for Injection, is used to
treat older adults suffering from acute myeloid leukemia.  The final regulatory decision is expected in the end of the
third quarter, Astex said in a statement July 20. If approved,
Dacogen would receive 10 years of market exclusivity in the
European Union and Astex would earn “a milestone payment” of
$5 million, the company said in an  earnings  statement July 30.  Astex also reported Dacogen second-quarter royalty revenue
increased 25 percent to $14.4 million from $11.5 million a year
earlier.  “Since their pipeline is still early stage, investors tend
to focus on Dacogen royalties, and they did have a good
quarter,” Zavoico said.  The stock gain “is a combination of continued strength in
Dacogen sales, royalty revenue rising in second-quarter year
over year even though it was down from the first quarter as
expected due to the annual rest, and anticipated approval from
the EU this quarter,” he said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  