-- Astra to Hering Earnings Growth Spurs Consumer Stock Rebound
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i ,   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-08-22T15:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/astra-to-hering-earnings-growth-spurring-consumer-stock-rebound.html
Auto companies, clothing retailers
and appliance makers are posting the fastest profit growth in
 emerging markets , fueling a rally in developing-nation consumer
shares after they fell to the cheapest level in three years.  Second-quarter earnings in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Consumer Discretionary Index (MXEF0CD)  climbed an average 27 percent,
leading gains for the first time since 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  PT Astra International (ASII) , Indonesia’s biggest car
seller, reported a 17 percent advance while  Arcelik AS (ARCLK) , Turkey’s
largest maker of washing machines, said profit rose 22 percent.
 Cia. Hering (HGTX3) , Brazil’s second-largest apparel chain, and  Zee
Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (Z) , India’s biggest listed
broadcaster, beat analysts’ estimates.  The results signal interest-rate cuts in developing nations
are spurring shoppers to buy non-essential items, which policy
makers from Brazil to China are counting on to boost economic
growth from the weakest pace since 2009, according to Prudential
International Investments Advisers and GLG Partners. Profit
gains are accelerating at emerging-market consumer companies
even as growth for advanced-market  peers  slows.  “Earnings should be resilient” for developing-nation
consumer discretionary companies, Bart Turtelboom, the London-
based co-head of emerging markets at GLG Partners, which
oversees about $26 billion, said in e-mailed comments Aug. 14.
“Valuations are at the lowest we have seen in a while, which
makes the sector very attractive at current levels.”  Relative Valuations  Emerging-market investors have their biggest overweight
position in consumer discretionary  companies , meaning they own
more of the stocks than are represented in benchmark indexes,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch survey of money
managers who oversee about $277 billion this month.  Arcelik climbed 1.6 percent to a record in Istanbul trading
today, while Hering slipped 0.2 percent at 12:12 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . Astra dropped 0.7 percent and Zee Entertainment retreated
1 percent.  The MSCI index  fell  to 11.5 times profit on July 23, the
lowest level since March 2009. The gauge’s price-earnings ratio
dropped to a record in June  versus  the MSCI Emerging Markets
Consumer Staples Index, a measure of household-products makers,
beverage companies and food producers such as  Want Want China
Holdings Ltd. (151)  and  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , whose earnings are less
tied to economic growth.  ‘Big Theme’  The discretionary measure was valued at 12.8 times profits
yesterday, a 19 percent discount to its five-year average. That
compares with 17.8 times for the  MSCI World Consumer
Discretionary Index. (MXWO0CD)  The developing-market gauge has rallied 8.2
percent during the past month, topping the 4.5 percent gain for
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   The discretionary index remains 4.7 percent below its level
when emerging-market central banks, led by Brazil, began
lowering  interest rates  in August 2011. The index surged 136
percent in 12 months after borrowing costs started falling four
years ago.  The average  policy rate  in 15 developing nations tracked by
Bloomberg has dropped by 44 basis points, or 0.44 percentage
point, during the past year to 5.4 percent. That compares with
benchmark borrowing costs near zero in the U.S. and 0.75 percent
in the euro area.  Food Inflation  “One of our big themes is lower interest rates in the
emerging markets in the second half of the year and that really
points towards improving performance by consumer discretionary
names,” Geoffrey Dennis, a New York-based emerging-market
equity strategist at Citigroup, said in an Aug. 8 interview with
Bloomberg TV India.  Slower economic growth may curb discretionary spending in
emerging markets during the next 12 months, according to Arjuna Mahendran, the head of Asia investment strategy at  HSBC Private
Bank .  China’s  expansion  has decelerated for six straight
quarters, while  retail sales  slowed for five consecutive months
through July amid a government crackdown on property speculation
that reduced home prices.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.75 percent in
first quarter, the weakest pace since September 2009. The
nation’s consumer  default rate  hit a 30-month high of 7.9
percent in May, while consumer debt in Brazil increased 16
percent in the year through June to a record 546 billion reais
($270 billion), according to the central bank.  Profit Growth  Brazilian consumers are “over-leveraged and under
pressure,”  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, said at the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit in  Rio
de Janeiro  on Aug. 14. “The banking system is clearly trying to
walk away from the consumer.”  Higher food prices may fuel inflation and reduce the scope
for further interest-rate cuts, said  Michael Ganske , the head of
emerging-market research at Commerzbank AG in London.  Corn rose to a record on Aug. 10 after droughts from the
U.S. to Europe and Australia damaged crops. The S&P GSCI
Agriculture Index has jumped 30 percent during the past two
months as wheat and soybeans also surged. Food prices account
for about 27 percent of consumer price indexes in emerging
markets, compared with 16 percent in developed nations,
according to Bank of America.  “It’s difficult to justify discretionary really catching
up in the short term,” said Mahendran, who helps oversee about
$500 billion from Singapore.  Analyst Upgrades  While consumer purchases in emerging markets have slowed
this year, they’re still increasing at a faster rate than GDP.
China’s retail sales growth of 13.1 percent in July compares
with a 7.6 percent gain in second-quarter GDP. Brazilian  retail
sales  are climbing more than 10 times faster than the nation’s
economy, while Indonesian purchases are advancing twice as fast.  The 27 percent average profit gain for companies in the
MSCI emerging discretionary index that reported second-quarter
results so far compares with an 8.3 percent increase the
previous quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings growth in the MSCI World discretionary gauge has slowed
to 13 percent from 23 percent, the data show.  Astra’s second-quarter  revenue  advanced 32 percent,
compared with an average gain of 11 percent for global peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least four
 brokerages , including Sydney-based Macquarie Group Ltd.,
upgraded the stock this month after the results.  Bollywood  The Jakarta-based automotive retailer, which sells  Toyota
Motor Corp. (TM)  cars and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  motorcycles in Indonesia,
is benefiting from record low benchmark interest rates and GDP
 growth  that unexpectedly accelerated last quarter to 6.37
percent. The stock is  valued  at 16 times earnings, down from 18
times at the start of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Arcelik, which makes household appliances from vacuum
cleaners to refrigerators, recorded the fastest profit growth
since 2010 last quarter. The Istanbul-based company’s revenue
jumped 37 percent, triple the 12 percent average pace for global
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The demand for big-ticket items like cars and white goods
is likely to pick up,”  John Praveen , the chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers, a
unit of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc.,
which manages about $960 billion, wrote in an e-mailed response
to questions. Praveen has an overweight position in emerging-
market consumer discretionary shares.  Rate Cuts  Zee Entertainment, the Mumbai-based broadcaster of
Bollywood movies and TV shows including “Dance India Dance,”
reported a 28 percent earnings gain, beating the average of
analysts’ estimates by 11 percent. The company, which gets
revenue from subscriptions and advertising, will probably boost
profit by 19 percent this year and next, according to 29
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Hering, based in Blumenau, Brazil, is valued at 23 times
profit, a 20 percent discount to its average during the past two
years. The seller of Hering and PUC brand  clothing  posted a
second-quarter earnings gain of 10 percent, and analysts predict
annual growth will average more than 15 percent the next three
years.  The percentage of delinquent consumer loans in Brazil fell
in June for the first time in three months. Retail sales
unexpectedly rose 1.5 percent from a month earlier, the most
since January. The central bank cut interest rates eight times
since last August.  “We still like the consumption theme because of the rising
income for most of the emerging markets,” said  Daphne Roth , who
helps oversee about $200 billion as the Singapore-based head of
Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking. “Some of the
consumer discretionary stocks are still quite cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  