-- Tata Steel Said to Plan $4.7 Billion Bank Loan: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-22T11:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/tata-steel-said-to-plan-4-7-billion-bank-loan-corporate-india.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , India’s biggest
producer of the alloy, plans to raise about 260 billion rupees
($4.7 billion) in loans to fund its first new mill in a century,
two people with direct knowledge of the deal said.  The company may pay an  interest rate  of about 11.25
percent, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private. The syndicated project-finance loan may
be for a period of more than 8 years and will be disbursed in
phases, the people said.  Tata Steel, led by  Ratan Tata , is tapping credit at home
amid a deepening debt crisis in  Europe , where it has 66 percent
of its capacity. Average borrowing costs on dollar bonds of
Indian companies are 5.2 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes
show. The expense rises to about 12 percent after firms hedge
against currency fluctuations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Tata Steel may find that the domestic market is giving
them more value for a loan of this size and tenor,” Paritosh Kashyap, executive vice president at  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  in
Mumbai said in a phone interview yesterday. “The domestic
market is deep enough to help absorb this borrowing.”  The cost to buy six-month forward dollar contracts to guard
against  currency risk  rose 11 basis points to 6.86 percent
today, data show. India’s rupee has dropped 18 percent in the
past year making it the worst performing among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It rose 0.1 percent to 55.5250
to a dollar today.  Charudatta Deshpande, spokesman at Tata Steel, declined to
comment on the fundraising plan.  Europe Rating Cut  Moody’s Investors Service cut the  credit rating  for Tata
Steel’s European operations deeper into junk this month, while
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook to negative. Crisil, the
Indian unit of S&P,  rates  the parent’s rupee-denominated debt
AA, the third-highest investment grade rating.  The company’s shares, which have risen 17 percent this
year,  rose  0.1 percent to 392.55 rupees at the close in Mumbai.
The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.2 percent.  Yields on Tata Steel’s 2 percent rupee-denominated notes
maturing in April 2022 fell to 10.21 percent from 10.24 percent
yesterday, according to prices from the Fixed Income Money
Market & Derivatives Association of India, or Fimmda.  Hindalco (HNDL) 
Industries Ltd.’s 9.55 percent similar-maturity rupee notes
yield 9.7 percent, Fimmda prices show.  Mumbai-based Hindalco, India’s second-largest aluminum
producer, plans to sign an agreement to borrow 100 billion
rupees as early as next month, according to two people familiar
with the matter. The  interest rate  for the 12 1/2-year term
facility, which will finance its green field project in Odisha
state, is about 11.25 percent, one of the people had said.  Tata Group Founder  Tata Steel formerly known as the Tata Iron & Steel Co. was
conceived by Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, founder of the group,
and began production in February 1912 in Jamshedpur. The company
is expanding capacity at its existing plant in the city by 43
percent to 9.7 million metric tons, according to Tata Steel’s
 annual report .  The company, based in Mumbai, has started construction of
the factory in Kalinganagar in the eastern state of Odisha and
has not raised any debt for the project yet, Koushik Chatterjee,
group chief financial officer said in an analyst conference call
on Aug. 14. The plant will be built in phases and will have a
capacity of 6 million tons, he said.  The company’s Indian unit is among the most profitable in
the world so “capacity addition in  India  will improve
earnings,” said Ravindra Deshpande, an analyst at Elara
Securities Ltd. The debt they take to expand will “probably put
short-term pressure on the company’s finances.”  Net Debt  The company had a  net debt  of $9.71 billion as of June 30,
according to a company release on Aug. 13. Tata Steel has cash
and equivalents of 122 billion rupees, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company yesterday said it will pay
convertible bond holders $471.2 million on Sept. 5.  The final loan amount will depend on Tata Steel’s decision
on the second phase of the Kalinganagar expansion, one person
said. The first phase of 3 million tons is scheduled to start in
2014 and Tata will add another unit of similar size once the
first phase is ready, according to the annual report.  Steel consumption in India, the world’s third-largest
producer of the alloy, will increase at least an average 9
percent annually in the five years ending March 2017, based on
an estimated 8 percent rate of economic growth, according to a
November report prepared by the steel ministry. India’s gross
domestic product expanded 5.3 percent in the three months
through March, the least since 2003.  Steel Demand  The nation’s consumption of the alloy rose 7.7 percent in
the four months ending July 31, according to initial  data  from
the ministry’s joint plant committee.  In contrast, falling prices of the alloy prompted
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker to shutter or idle
plants in Europe. Demand for steel may worsen in the region as
 government spending  slows,  Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E Davy
Holdings Ltd. in Dublin said on July 30.  The European Union produced 14.73 million tons of steel in
June, the lowest for that month since 2009. Moody’s on Aug. 8,
cut its rating of Tata’s European unit saying further signs of
weakness in the region’s steel industry will lead to slower
recovery in Tata’s operating and financial profile.  At home, demand for steel may surge as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  seeks to invest $1 trillion in five years to
build  power plants , roads, ports and bridges in a nation where
the state of infrastructure is ranked below Kazakhstan and
 Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  “The expansion by Tata Steel is perfectly right,” said
Elara’s Deshpande. “It would be a short-term view not to invest
because of the current market scenario.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  