-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Advance as Fed Ready With Stimulus
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-22T21:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/aussie-n-z-dollars-fail-to-extend-gains-before-pmi-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s latest
policy meeting showed officials remain supportive of more
stimulus unless the economy shows signs of expansion.  The South Pacific nations’ currencies fell earlier versus
most of their major peers as Asian stocks declined ahead of
manufacturing gauges due today in Europe and  China . Australia’s
dollar earlier touched a one-month low against the euro before
discussions this week between Europe’s leaders amid speculation
they can agree on ways to contain their debt crisis.  The U.S. dollar’s decline on the Fed was “very broad based
-- we’ve seen it both in the yen and the higher-yielding
crosses,” said  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency
research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York . “It’s pretty much
across the board.” Higher-yielding currencies include the
Australian and New Zealand dollars.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0505 yesterday in
New York after climbing 0.4 percent to $1.0487 the day before.
The Aussie fell 0.7 percent to 82.55 yen.  The New Zealand dollar rose 0.4 percent to 81.40 U.S.
cents, following a 0.3 percent gain the day before. The kiwi
fell 0.5 percent to 64.96 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks slid 0.5 percent.  The purchasing managers reports are forecast to show
continued contraction in German and French manufacturing, with
the measure for the euro area as a whole forecast to indicate a
shrinkage for a 13th-straight month, according to surveys
conducted by  Bloomberg News . A report on Chinese manufacturing
from HSBC Holdings Plc is also due.  Many Federal Reserve policy makers said additional stimulus
probably will be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes of their most recent
meeting. Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  