-- Bank of New York Mellon Sues WMC Mortgage Over Loans
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-21T22:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/bank-of-new-york-mellon-sues-wmc-mortgage-over-loans.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,
acting as a trustee for a pool of home loans, sued a former
General Electric Co. unit seeking the repurchase of as much as
$680 million in residential mortgages.  Bank of  New York  Mellon filed the suit as trustee of GE-WMC
Mortgage Securities Trust 2006-1, which was formed as part of a
$680 million mortgage securitization sponsored by WMC and
affiliates, according to documents filed today in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan . The suit, which also names
GE Mortgage Holding LLC as a defendant, seeks more than
$260.2 million in damages.  WMC, which was sold by Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General
Electric (GE)  in 2007, sold all of its right, title and interest to
the pool of loans to GE Mortgage, which then sold its right,
title and interest to a depositor that transferred and assigned
them to the trustee.  A holder of more than 25 percent of the  voting rights  to
the pool in May identified more than 2,600 loans that breached
representations and warranties made by WMC concerning their
“nature, characteristics, history and quality,” according to
the court documents filed today.  Repurchase Letter  The trustee later that month asked that WMC and GE Mortgage
cure the breaches or repurchase the loans, and the two companies
refused to do so until further information was provided,
according to the court documents.  “Defendants have not repurchased or cured a single loan in
response to the repurchase demand letter,” the trustee said in
today’s filing. “Moreover, WMC’s response letter indicates that
WMC and GE Mortgage do not intend to comply with their
repurchase obligations.”  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for General Electric Capital
Corp., declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. WMC Mortgage LLC,
652928/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  