-- Barclays, Absa in Talks to Combine African Banking Assets
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-08-21T15:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/barclays-says-it-s-in-talks-to-sell-african-units-to-absa-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
biggest lender by assets, and South Africa’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) 
said they’re in talks to combine their African units and
complete a plan started seven years ago.  There’s no certainty the talks will lead to any deal, which
wouldn’t be completed until 2013, the banks said in a statement.
The combination would affect assets in  Kenya , Botswana, Zambia,
Tanzania and  Ghana . Barclays, based in London, bought 54 percent
of Absa in 2005 for $4.5 billion to expand in  emerging markets .  Barclays shares  rose. The British bank’s African operations
may be worth as much as 20 billion rand ($2.41 billion),
according to Patrice Rassou, an Absa investor who helps oversee
about $41 billion as head of equities at Sanlam Investment
Management in  Cape Town . The continent has 1 billion people,
faster growth rates than developed nations and as much as 80
percent of its adult population don’t yet have bank accounts.  “These are well-run, profitable operations with little
overlap with Absa except for Tanzania,” Rassou said by phone.
Strategically, it’s the right move for Absa given the potential
for African growth, he said.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as Barclays chief executive
officer last month after the lender was fined for manipulating
global  interest rates , sought to boost the British bank’s profit
by combining Absa and Barclays’s products and customer bases
across more than 10 African countries. Together the banks have
almost 60,000 staff on the continent.  ‘Single Entry Point’  Absa dropped its original plan to buy the Barclays assets
in 2008 after commodity-driven economic growth in Africa sent
their earnings surging, making the businesses too expensive to
acquire. Barclays revived the plan in April 2011, aiming to
consolidate operations at Absa headquarters in Johannesburg and
move other work to Dubai.  The South African bank’s shareholders will get “a single
entry point into Africa” from a deal, “giving shareholders in
both businesses the benefit of African growth,” CEO  Maria Ramos 
said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg today.  It’s not clear how the ownership structure will work or
whether Barclays will take a larger stake in Absa, as “there’s
lots of work to be done and it’s very early days,” Ramos said.  The announcement of the potential combination has “nothing
to do with Bob leaving last month” and the operational
integration has been underway for more than a year, Ramos said,
referring to Diamond.  Cost Cutting  Barclays’s listed subsidiaries in Kenya and Botswana will
be maintained, according to the U.K. bank. Kenya is Barclays’
largest African unit, Ramos said.  Barclays’s pretax  profit  from Africa, including the bank’s
holding in Absa, rose 13 percent to 910 million pounds ($1.4
billion) in 2011. The unit contributed 15 percent of the bank’s
5.97 billion-pound pretax profit. Together, Barclays and Absa
operate in 12 countries and have over 14 million customers,
according to Absa’s  annual report .  “They’ll have a single base and a single entity and be
able to take a lot of costs out of it,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London. “It would be a
net positive and will mean they can compete with the likes of
 Standard Chartered (STAN)  in those markets.”  ‘Transformational’  Since Barclays bought into Absa in 2005, the lender has
gone from being South Africa’s best-performing bank stock to its
worst after an exodus of executives, slowing income, and rising
bad debts caused profit to slump. Rivals  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK)  and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  have boosted lending and expanded in
Africa while Absa’s growth on the continent stalled.  “ This could prove to be a transformational transaction
for Absa,” said Greg Saffy, a banks analyst at RMB Morgan
Stanley in Johannesburg. “The key issue now is relative
price.”  Barclays shares  rose  3.2 percent to 197.05 pence by the
close in London, giving the bank a market value of about 24.1
billion pounds. The stock has risen 12 percent this year,
compared with the FTSE 350 Banks Index’s 14 percent advance in
the period.  Absa slipped 0.9 percent to 141.01 rand in Johannesburg. It
is the worst-performing stock on the six-member FTSE/JSE  Africa 
Banks Index, little changed this year compared with the average
return of 19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  