-- Barnes & Noble Falls After Second Straight Nook Sales Drop
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-21T20:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/barnes-noble-falls-after-second-consecutive-nook-sales-drop.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the U.S.
bookstore chain working to navigate a shift to digital content,
fell after posting a second straight quarterly sales decline in
Nook devices.  The shares  declined  3.9 percent to $11.87 at the close in
 New York . Barnes & Noble has dropped 18 percent this year.  The company has been  losing money  as it develops and
markets its Nook tablet computers and e-books to take advantage
of a growing preference for digital books. Sales in the Nook
unit, including tablets, e-books and applications, were little
changed at $192 million in the fiscal first-quarter, hurt by a
drop in demand for devices, after a 34 percent gain last year.  “This is supposed to be their growth business and growth
is decelerating,”  Michael Souers , an analyst for  Standard &
Poor’s  in New York, said in an interview.  Barnes & Noble provided sales of the Nook for the first
time with its fiscal fourth-quarter results, when the division’s
revenue fell 10 percent amid declining device sales.  A 23 percent drop in average selling prices and production
delays with the Nook Simple Touch with Glowlight, a version of
its black-and-white e-reader, hurt device sales last quarter.
Sales of digital content, including e-books and applications,
rose 46 percent after a gain of 65 percent in the previous
quarter, New York-based Barnes & Noble said today in a
statement.  Loss Narrows  The net loss in quarter ended July 28 narrowed to $41
million, or 78 cents a share, from a loss of $56.6 million, or
99 cents, a year earlier, Barnes & Noble said today. Analysts
projected a loss of 90 cents a share, the average of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  While revenue from what it considers its growth unit were
little changed, so-called same-store sales, a key measure of a
retailer’s growth because new stores are excluded, rose 4.6
percent. That marked a third straight gain.  Excluding revenue from Nook products, sales at bookstores
rose 7.6 percent, helped by continuing to gain customers from
the liquidation of rival Borders Group Inc. last year.  “The retail was very solid,”  John Tinker , an analyst for
Maxim Group LLC in New York who recommends buying Barnes & Noble
shares, said in an interview. “It suggests the book business
isn’t dead.”  Another boost came from the “Fifty Shades of Grey”
trilogy of erotic romance novels by E.J. James that has held the
top three spots on the New York Times fiction  bestsellers list 
for at least 19 weeks.  Outside U.S.  Total  revenue , which includes the college bookstore unit,
rose 2.5 percent to $1.45 billion. Analysts projected $1.49
billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomerg.  The company is working to boost sales in the Nook unit by
expanding outside the U.S. The bookseller said yesterday that it
would open a website in the U.K. in the next few months to sell
digital books and Nook devices would soon appear in retailers
there.  Barnes & Noble will also look to grow overseas through a
proposed partnership with Microsoft Corp. that was announced in
April. Under the deal that is expected to close in the next few
months, Microsoft will invest $300 million for an 18 percent
stake in a Nook subsidiary that may be spun off into a
standalone company. It has also agreed to spend $305 million
over five years on revenue sharing and  capital expenditures .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  