-- Best Buy Suspends Profit Forecast as Net Income Falls
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-21T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/best-buy-suspends-profit-forecast-as-net-income-falls.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the retailer resisting
a takeover attempt by its founder, reported second-quarter
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates and suspended providing
an earnings forecast as sales of computers and televisions
dropped.  Net income fell 91 percent to $12 million, or 4 cents a
share, from $128 million, or 34 cents, a year earlier, the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding restructuring charges and other items, profit was 20
cents a share. Analysts’ average estimate was 31 cents.  Best Buy yesterday named Hubert Joly as its new chief
executive officer to oversee a turnaround plan that entails
shifting to smaller locations in a bid to fend off  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The results, which included a 3.2
percent same-store sales decline as shoppers bought fewer
televisions and notebook computers, may bolster founder Richard Schulze’s case that the company needs urgent change.  “The new strategic plan that they’re trying to execute
does not seem to be gaining material traction,”  John Tomlinson ,
an analyst at ITG Investment Research in  New York , said today by
telephone. His firm doesn’t rate shares. “The struggle between
the former chairman and current management isn’t something that
is going to go away any time soon.”  Best Buy sank 1.4 percent to $17.91 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have tumbled 23 percent this year.  Forecast Suspended  Best Buy said it won’t forecast profit for the second half
of the fiscal year because of the new CEO, lowered expectations
for industrywide sales and uncertainty associated with several
expected product introductions. The company, which also
suspended share repurchases for the year, said it still expects
to generate free  cash flow  of $1.25 billion to $1.5 billion.
Best Buy defines free  cash flow  as cash provided by operating
activities minus additions to property and equipment.  Second-quarter sales fell 2.8 percent to $10.5 billion. The
average  estimate  of 19 analysts was $10.6 billion.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after
deducting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 24.3 percent from
25.4 percent a year earlier after the retailer used more
discounts to spur sales.  “This is really a bad signal about the business, implying
much more promotion than in the past,”  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles , said today in an
e-mail. He rates Best Buy neutral. “The factors leading to the
decline don’t look like they’re going to decline any time
soon.”  Recruiting Executives  Schulze, 71, has been recruiting executives and seeking the
support of private-equity firms after resigning in June. He left
after the board found he failed to relay allegations that then-
CEO  Brian Dunn  was having an inappropriate relationship with a
female employee.  Last month, Schulze offered to take the retailer private
for $24 to $26 a share and said he would contribute $1 billion
in equity from his approximately 20 percent stake in the
company.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , his financial adviser, said at
the time it was highly confident it could obtain financing for
the bid.  Schulze declined an offer from the  board  to give him access
to confidential financial information, which would have required
him to wait until January to take his bid directly to
shareholders, Best Buy said Aug. 19. Schulze said in a statement
that he will continue pushing his proposal and was disappointed
by Best Buy’s “abrupt public termination” of talks. Best Buy
interim CEO  Mike Mikan  said today on a conference call that the
due diligence offer to Schulze stands.  Schulze’s ‘Leverage’  Today’s results give Schulze “leverage in his negotiations
with the company’s board of directors in his quest to
potentially take Best Buy private,”  Anthony Chukumba , an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in New York, wrote today in a
note. He rates Best Buy hold.  Joly, CEO of hotel operator Carlson Cos., will take over in
September, replacing Mikan, Best Buy said yesterday. The company
said in March that it would close 50 big box stores to reduce
costs and that it would add more smaller-format Best Buy Mobile
locations to spur growth.  “Joly needs to quickly formulate a bold turnaround plan
and sell it to stockholders,”  Erik Gordon , a  University of
Michigan  business professor, said today in an e-mail. “If they
don’t buy his plan, they will sell their shares to Schulze, with
or without board approval.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  