-- Biggest BRIC Buybacks Driven by Earnings Miss: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-08-21T15:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/biggest-bric-buybacks-driven-by-earnings-miss-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian companies from  JBS SA (JBSS3)  to
 Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  are planning to buy back 2.4 billion reais
($1.2 billion) of stock, the most among the world’s four largest
emerging economies, after shares faltered and earnings
disappointed investors.  Of the 430 companies that trade in Sao Paulo, at least 12
have announced repurchases since the end of the second quarter,
compared with three in  India , one in  Russia  and none in  China ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A year earlier, 10
Brazilian companies bought back shares in the period.  Thirty-six companies out of the 58 listed on the Bovespa
index that are  tracked  by Bloomberg reported earnings that
missed forecasts in the second quarter, while sales trailed
estimates by the most since 2009. The index has  plunged  13
percent from its 2012 intraday high on March 14.  “The perception is that the stocks are cheap,” Marcelo Mello, who helps manage 22.8 billion reais at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“Valuations have fairly recovered, but they are still far from
their peak.”  Companies on the Bovespa are trading at 11.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next year, down from a peak
of 17.4 times in December 2009, Bloomberg data show. Companies
on Russia’s Micex index trade at 3.7 times estimated earnings,
compared with 9.5 in China and 14 in India.  Banco do Brasil  Banco do Brasil announced on July 13 it would buy back as
many as 50 million shares, valued at 940 million reais based on
the previous day’s closing price, the biggest repurchase program
in Brazil this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares
fell the following day by the most in 11 weeks after Chief
Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine said the bank’s loan growth
may be faster than previous forecasts.  At least six other companies have announced buybacks this
month, including  Magnesita Refratarios SA (MAGG3) ,  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  and
 Localiza Rent a Car SA. (RENT3)  JBS, the world’s biggest beef producer,
this month said it would repurchase as many as 64 million
shares, worth 359.7 million reais, after reporting second-
quarter net income that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  “These companies have the cash and lack better uses for
the capital,” Saulo Sabba, who helps manage 500 million reais
as a director at Banco Maxima SA, said in a telephone interview
from  Rio de Janeiro . “Economic growth is not promising, so
companies are investing in themselves rather than pushing
investments in plants and equipment.”  ‘Fair Value’  Brazil’s capital goods output, a barometer of investment,
dropped 12.5 percent in the first half of the year, the national
statistics agency said Aug 1. Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
cut their 2012 growth forecast for a third consecutive week to
1.75 percent in a weekly survey the central bank released
yesterday.  Companies are likely seeking to bolster their share values
with the buybacks after the Bovespa plunged in the second
quarter, according to Flavio Sznajder, who helps manage about
300 million reais at Rio de Janeiro-based Bogari Capital.  “Buybacks are about what these companies consider is the
fair value,” Sznajder said in a telephone interview. “If they
can boost returns to investors by increasing the dividends per
share, why not?”  Banco do Brasil has gained 21 percent this quarter. QGEP,
which announced a 22.5 million-real share buyback on July 9, has
rallied 43 percent, while MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA has
climbed 28 percent. Of the 12 companies that have announced
buybacks this quarter, six are trailing the Bovespa’s 10 percent
gain in the period, including  Trevisa Investimentos SA (LUXM4)  and
 OdontoPrev SA. (ODPV3)   “Most of the time, the buybacks are positive,”  Daniela Bretthauer , head of Latin American Research at  Raymond James ,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “But sometimes
the companies create a buzz and then don’t end up executing the
repurchase at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  