-- Billionaire Mikhelson Becomes Russia’s Second-Richest Man
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-08-21T22:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/billionaire-mikhelson-becomes-russia-s-second-richest-man.html
Leonid Mikhelson, the billionaire
who controls  OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s largest private gas producer,
is poised to bump  Alisher Usmanov  from his perch as the
country’s richest person.  Mikhelson has been closing the net-worth gap with Usmanov
in the past three months, and is now $400 million behind the
mining magnate, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.
The former engineer, who has a net worth of $16.8 billion,
became the country’s second-richest man after buying a majority
stake in a Russian chemical company for a fraction of its current
value.  The 57-year-old paid less than $4 billion for a 57.5
percent stake in OAO Sibur Holding, eastern  Europe ’s largest
petrochemical producer, in a series of transactions from
December 2010 to the end of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. His stake is worth about $7 billion today, according
to the index.  A decade ago, Moscow-based Sibur was a debt-laden unit of
OAO Gazprom, the Russian gas exporter now half-owned by the
state. Today, the closely held maker of more than 2,000
products, including gases and plastics, is preparing for an
initial public offering that could add billions of dollars to
Mikhelson’s fortune.  “Given the company’s monopolistic position in the Russian
petrochemical industry and a planned production increase, I
value Sibur at $12 billion,” Alexander Osin, chief economist at
Moscow-based investment company Finam Management, said in an e-
mail last week. “In the next five years, Sibur’s capitalization
may double or triple.”  Staged Buying  Mikhelson is $1.8 billion ahead of  Vladimir Lisin , Russia’s
third-richest person. Lisin, who was the country’s wealthiest
man in 2010, has seen his net worth sag after his publicly
traded steelmaker  OAO Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  lost more than a quarter
of its market value in the past year. The price for hot-rolled
steel exported from Russia fell to its lowest level since 2010,
according to Metal Bulletin.  Mikhelson acquired 25 percent of Sibur from Gazprom’s
former lending arm, Gazprombank, in December 2010. He bought the
shares through investment company ZAO Miracle, which was then a
subsidiary of his Cyprus-based Dellawood Holdings Ltd.  Miracle paid $1.3 billion for the stake, according to
Gazprombank’s  2010 financial report . Sibur’s total value at the
time was 225 billion rubles ($7.3 billion), excluding debt, the 
bank  said  in a statement in December 2010. Within a year, 
Mikhelson had acquired the rest of Sibur and sold minority 
interests to fellow billionaire and Novatek shareholder Gennady 
Timchenko, and a group of Sibur executives.  Ownership Structure  According to an October 2011 Dellawood financial report,
Mikhelson now owns 57.5 percent of the company. His estimated
cost for the additional stake in the company is based on
Gazprombank’s valuation reported in December 2010, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The total price Mikhelson paid to Gazprombank wasn’t
disclosed. Rashid Nureev, a spokesman at Sibur, declined to
comment. Mikhelson declined to comment through a Novatek
spokesman.  Timchenko now owns 37.5 percent of Sibur, and company
managers Dmitry Konov, Mikhail Karisalov and Mikhail Mikhailov,
and deputy board chairman Alexander Dyukov, split 5 percent,
according to the Dellawood report.  The Sibur financial report also explained how the company
itself had helped finance the transaction by lending Miracle 34
billion rubles in September and October of 2011. Miracle used
the proceeds to repay outstanding bank loans. One month later,
Sibur acquired the Dellawood subsidiary and assumed all of its
debt, repaying it in December.  Dellawood has since been renamed Sibur Ltd.  Valuing Sibur  In 2011, Sibur generated $1.9 billion in net income on $7.7
billion in revenue, according to the company’s financial  report .
It also reported $2.7 billion in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, and net debt of $2.1 billion.  Sibur is worth more than $12 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The valuation applied the company’s 2011
financial results to the average enterprise value-to-Ebitda,
enterprise value-to-sales and price-to-earnings multiples of
five publicly traded peers,  OMV AG (OMV) ,  Lanxess AG (LXS) ,  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB) ,  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and  Petronas
Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  A 13 percent liquidity discount and 2
percent country risk discount was applied, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Finam Management’s Osin said the company’s profitability
could slide if the Russian government decides to regulate the
profit margins at the country’s monopoly businesses to support
“weaker” industries, such as power generation and machinery.  Sibur is betting that demand for the company’s products
will increase as developing economies grow. Next month, the
company plans to start testing a facility that will produce
500,000 tons of polypropylene a year, with commercial output to
start next year, Mikhelson said in June.  Building Novatek  “Sibur is a very good company, which managed to exit the
crisis in a short period of time,” Mikhelson said in an
interview with Bloomberg News at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , in January 2011, while speaking about his
interest in the petrochemical business. “I think Sibur has a
very big potential for growth.”  Sibur may hold an IPO within 18 months to 3 years,
Mikhelson told reporters in June 2011. While now isn’t a good
time for the IPO, Sibur will be ready “to quickly list the
shares should the situation change in spring,” Mikhelson said
in June 2012.  Mikhelson got his start as an engineer. He sold his Lada
car to buy a stake in a gas pipeline construction company when
it was privatized after the fall of the  Soviet Union . He later
set up an oil and gas producer that he built into Novatek.  Sold Shares  In 2005, Novatek sold 19 percent of its shares on the
London Stock Exchange, raising $966 million. Mikhelson sold a 7
percent stake in the company in the IPO, which earned him more
than $350 million. A year later, Gazprom bought 19.4 percent of
Novatek from Mikhelson and his partners for more than $2.3
billion. Today, Mikhelson owns more than 25 percent of Novatek,
worth $8.9 billion.  Novatek’s market value has more than doubled since 2006.
Shares of state-run Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company by market
value, have dropped more than 50 percent in the same period, as
the gas exporter suffered lower demand in Europe and invested in
cost-intensive pipelines.  “I have focused on business over the last 10 years and
tried not to spread myself too thin,” Mikhelson said in the
2011 interview with Bloomberg News. “Even after buying Sibur,
there is normal management there. I will dedicate most of my
time to Novatek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  