-- BMW Revives Scooter Ambitions as Audi Revs Up Ducati
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-08-21T22:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/bmw-revives-scooter-ambitions-as-audi-revs-up-ducati.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  has long
made powerful motorcycles such as the 193-horsepower S 1000 RR
that can be seen screaming down the autobahn. Now, as archrival
Audi roars into the bike market after buying  Italy ’s Ducati, BMW
is looking to update its two-wheeler image with scooters
designed to appeal to a more urbane rider.  BMW is reviving its scooter ambitions nine years after it
discontinued the C1, a model with a roof to keep riders dry in
rainy weather. The new line is a far cry from underpowered
scooters of yore, featuring speed, power, and creature comforts
such as heated seats and grips.  “The new scooters offer us a massive sales opportunity,”
said Heiner Faust, sales chief for BMW motorcycle. The idea is
to attract what the company calls “sleepers” -- car owners who
rode motorbikes in their youth. “The maxi scooters are the
ideal products to activate them,” Faust said.  The expansion into scooters maneuvers BMW -- which began
building motorcycles in 1923, five years before its first car --
away from Ducati. The Italian brand, which enthusiasts consider
to be the two-wheel equivalent of Lamborghini, competes at the
top end of the market with models such as the 28,690-euro
($35,500) 1199 Panigale S Tricolore.  Since Audi bought Ducati in July,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s luxury
nameplate has pushed its association with the Italian cycle
maker to boost its sporty appeal. This summer, it tied a
promotion to the Pikes Peak International Hill Climb in  Colorado 
and it’s sponsoring a contest in which the winner will get a
free trip to  California  to drive a souped-up Audi and ride a
Ducati bike.  ‘Grandfather’s Generation’  Sales of powered two-wheelers in  Europe  tumbled 38 percent
over the past five years to 1.72 million motorcycles and mopeds
in 2011, according to data from the region’s motorcycle
manufacturers association ACEM. Deliveries in the first half
dropped 13 percent for the industry.  BMW hasn’t been immune to the slump. Its motorcycle sales,
including the Husqvarna brand, fell 4.2 percent in the second
quarter. Still, the unit managed an operating profit margin of
11.7 percent of sales, edging ahead of the auto operation's 11.6
percent return.  “Young people associate motorcycles with their
grandfather’s generation,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the
Center of Automotive Management at the University of Applied
Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach ,  Germany . “The manufacturers have
to move away from the old motorcycle image and offer innovative
two-wheelers to make riding fashionable again. This is a
Herculean task.”  Faster Than 3-Series  To counter the decline and reach its target of surpassing
its 2011 sales, BMW is rolling out the C600 Sport and C650 GT
scooters, which went on sale in Europe in July. The 60-
horsepower machines have automatic transmissions and a top speed
of 175 kilometers (109 miles) per hour.  The lighter and cheaper of the two, the C600 Sport, can
accelerate to 100 kilometers per hour in 7.1 seconds -- faster
than a BMW 3-series sedan -- and starts at 11,100 euros in
Germany, 1,250 euros more than the base price for the VW Up!
compact car. BMW plans to deliver at least 10,000 scooters next
year -- equivalent to about 9 percent of the company’s
motorcycle sales in 2011.  In 2014, BMW is planning a further step away from the high-
powered image of its highway bikes with an electric scooter. The
model, called the C evolution, will use the same lithium-ion
battery cells expected to power the German company’s i3 city
car, which is due to go on sale next year.  Electric Scooters  In that market, BMW will face competition from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
urban Smart brand, which will introduce an electric version of
the fortwo car later this year. The company makes an electric-
powered bicycle that costs 2,849 euros ($3,507) in Germany and
will go on sale in the U.S. next year. In 2014, Smart plans to
add an e-scooter to its lineup.  “E-scooters are an opportunity to test the technology on a
large scale,” said Richard Viereckl, a partner with consulting
company Management Engineers in Dusseldorf. To lower the average
fuel consumption of their fleets and meet tighter environmental
standards, manufacturers “will need e-mobility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  