-- Bond Buyers Extract Concessions on New U.S. Debt as Haven Wanes
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-21T18:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/bond-buyers-extract-concessions-on-new-u-s-debt-as-haven-wanes.html
Investors are extracting concessions
on new corporate bonds in the U.S. for the first time since June
as an improving economy gives them less cause to seek a haven in
the debt.  Companies from  Rio Tinto  Group to  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  that issued $24 billion of investment-grade
debentures last week paid an average of 1 basis point more in
relative yield than investors accepted for their outstanding
bonds with similar maturities, according to Barclays Plc data.
Sales in the prior five weeks priced at levels that on average
either matched existing spreads or were tighter by as much as 4
basis points.  Issuers were “running into a buyers’ strike,” Rob Crimmins, a money manager in  New York  at RS Investments, which
oversees $30 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Investors
just didn’t want to be investing in the long end at those
absolute levels. So you start to get some push back.”  Dollar-denominated investment-grade corporate bond sales
fell 10 percent last week as demand cooled with data showing the
worldwide economy is stronger than investors anticipated. Even
with the drop, August sales of $54.6 billion already exceed the
total in the same month last year by $2.6 billion as companies
have sought to lock in borrowing costs near record lows,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors ‘Pausing’  “People are pausing a bit,”  William Larkin , a fixed-
income money manager who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot
Money Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview. “When markets start to indicate a change,
it’s better to be cautious because you might be stepping in
front of a train.”  Average concessions compare with -4 basis points last week,
the lowest level since the week ended Feb. 10, Barclays data
show. Concessions were last positive in the five days ended June
28, when the figure reached 11 basis points.  Employment increased by 163,000 last month, helped by a
pickup at automakers and health-care providers, after a revised
64,000 June advance, Labor Department data showed. The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise of 100,000.  Retail sales by auto dealers to department stores rose 0.8
percent in July, the biggest gain since February and the first
increase in four months, according to Commerce Department
figures released on Aug. 14.  Rio Tinto  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company,
sold $3 billion of debt on Aug. 16, including $1 billion of
2.875 percent, 10-year debt, Bloomberg data show. The securities
priced at a relative yield of 120 basis points, compared with an
88 basis-point spread from an Aug. 15 trade on its March 2022
bonds, or a 32 basis-point concession, according to Bloomberg
data and Trace.  Philip Morris , the largest publicly traded tobacco company,
raised $2.25 billion in a three-part offering on Aug. 14,
Bloomberg data show. The New York-based company’s $750 million
of 1.125 percent, five-year securities priced at a spread of 60
basis points, or a 14 basis-point concession to its March 2017
debt, which traded on Aug. 10 with a 46 basis-point spread,
according to Bloomberg and Trace data.  Yields on investment-grade bonds reached 3.145 percent
yesterday, 11 basis points above a record-low 3.032 percent on
Aug. 2, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master index.  “Demand is still significant,” said Jon Duensing, the
Colorado-based head of corporate credit at  money manager  Smith
Breeden Associates. The increase in concessions “is not an
indication of inability for companies to still access attractive
all-in financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  