-- Canada's Canola Output Seen by Oil World Topping Record
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-21T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/canada-s-canola-output-seen-by-oil-world-topping-record.html
Canada , the world’s largest grower
of rapeseed and canola, may harvest a record crop this year
while world demand for the oilseed climbs, Oil World said.  Canada may harvest 16.2 million metric tons of canola, a
low-acid variety of rapeseed, in the 2012-13 season that began
Aug. 1, the Hamburg-based researcher said today in a report. The
country’s exports may climb to 8.8 million tons, more than the
8.65 million shipped a year earlier. Shipments to  China , the
largest importer of Canadian canola, may rise to 3 million tons
this year, up from 2.53 million a year earlier.  “For 2012-13 we expect usage of Canadian canola to remain
unusually high,” Oil World said. “The global tightness in
soybeans and sunflower seed, and the resulting lower production
and export supplies of the respective oils and meals, will raise
world demand for rapeseed and canola.”  Most of the increase in Canadian shipments to China
probably will occur in the first six to eight months of the
season while soybean supplies remain tight before the South
American harvest, Oil World said.  World production of sunflower seed may drop to 37.32
million tons in the 2012-13 season, down 5.3 percent from a year
earlier, as output shrinks in  Europe  and the former  Soviet
Union , Oil World said.  The sunflower-seed harvest in  Ukraine , the world’s biggest
producer, is progressing one to two weeks ahead of normal
because of drought, Oil World said. About 25.3 million tons of
all the country’s grains had been collected as of Aug. 14, with
yields averaging about 2.6 tons per hectare (2.47 acres), below
last year’s 3 tons per hectare and “steeply down” from normal,
according to the report.  While recent rains may have eased some stress on Ukraine’s
sunflower seed and later-maturing corn crops, “it remains
questionable to what extent these rains could reverse effects of
dryness,” Oil World said. Farmers in the country are beginning
to plant winter rapeseed crops, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  