-- Cat Bonds Beating Corporates Most Since November: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-08-21T11:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/cat-bonds-beating-corporates-most-since-november-credit-markets.html
Returns on catastrophe bonds are
exceeding those on corporate debt by the most in nine months as
investors facing record-low  yields  chase returns detached from
economic performance.  The bonds, designed to protect insurers from payouts on
natural disasters such as hurricanes, have gained 1 percent this
month, compared with a loss of 0.9 percent for company debt,
according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Total Return  index  and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. Returns on dollar-denominated cat
bonds were half those of corporates in 2011 as an earthquake and
nuclear accident in Japan sparked record losses.  Issuance in the $15 billion market for catastrophe bonds is
growing at the fastest pace in five years as investors seek
securities that don’t depend on payrolls growth in the U.S. or a
solution to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. An average yield of
about 9 percentage points more than short-term lending rates
compares with 5.89 percentage points on  junk bonds  in the U.S.  “It’s not related to how the  U.S. economy  is doing, to how
the global economy is doing, the concerns about growth,
currencies or deficits,” Shiv Kumar, a managing director and
head of financial institution structured finance at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in a telephone interview from New York.
“The sector itself has proven to be a diversifying, objective,
clean play compared with debt and equity markets.”  Hurricane Season  While insurers are boosting yields on cat bonds by selling
riskier debt as the U.S.  hurricane season  progresses, chances of
a major storm lasts every year through November, according to
the  National Hurricane Center . That means higher coupons and
investor demand is accounting for accelerating returns,
according to Fermat Capital Management LLC’s John Seo.  “The proven track record, especially through recent
broader market volatility, has also helped establish the
credibility of cat bonds,” Seo, managing principal at the
Westport, Connecticut-based firm overseeing $3 billion of the
debt, said in an e-mail.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
European company debt from default fell for a second day,
reaching the lowest in five months.  Banco Santander  SA,  Spain ’s
biggest bank, and  France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  raised money as
issuance in Europe’s corporate bond market continued to defy the
usual summer slowdown.  Europe Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of credit-default swaps
tied to 50 mostly junk-rated European companies fell five basis
points to 563, the lowest since March 20, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index dropped 1.2 basis point yesterday to a mid-price of 98.5,
the lowest since May 3.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Banco Santander (SAN)  is selling 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion)
of two-year senior, unsecured bonds in the first public offering
from a Spanish bank in more than five months, according to a
banker familiar with the matter. Paris-based SocGen, France’s
second-biggest bank, offered a benchmark-sized note in euros due
in February 2018, said another banker, who asked not to be named
because he’s not authorized to discuss the transaction.  Most Traded  Bonds of Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, with 79 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The Burlington, North
Carolina-based provider of medical testing services sold $1
billion of debt in its first offering in almost two years.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.25 basis point to 21 basis points.
The measure narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities .  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose for the 11th time in 12 days, increasing 0.02 cent to 94.94
cents on the dollar, the highest since June 3, 2011. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has climbed from 91.8 on June 5, the
lowest since Jan. 6.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at S&P.  Higher Returns  Cat bonds have returned 5.3 percent since the end of March,
following a 0.45 percent gain in the first quarter, according to
the Swiss Re  index .  Company debentures from the most creditworthy to the
riskiest have returned 4 percent since March 31, following a 3
percent gain in the first three months of the year, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Master index.  The outperformance this month is the most since cat bonds
lost 0.03 percent in November while company debt plummeted 1.94
percent, according to Swiss Re and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  While issuers of U.S. corporate bonds are obtaining record-
low borrowing costs, reaching an unprecedented 3.9 percent on
Aug. 2, cat bonds are enticing investors with higher yields.  Sales Rise  Cat bonds issued in dollars in 2012 paid an average 915
basis points more than short-term benchmarks, up from 899 basis
points last year and 881 in 2010, Bloomberg data show. High-
yield  bonds  in the U.S. pay a spread of 589 basis points, down
from an average 607 in 2011 and 630 the prior year.  “The yields on cat bonds are actually relatively normal,
which relative to everything else means attractive,” said John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at hedge fund Armored
Wolf LLC, which oversees $735 million and owns cat bonds.  That’s helped boost issuance of the debt, which insurers
sell to reduce the risk of claims from hurricanes and floods to
pandemics, to $3.6 billion through the first six months of the
year, the most since 2007, according to Swiss Re data. Companies
have sold $887 billion of dollar debt this year.  “When you’re seeing a growing asset class that’s still
offering yield, that’s what attracts folks,” said Cory Anger, a
managing director at broker-dealer GC Securities. “When you’re
looking at the absolute return you’re getting in other asset
classes, people are concerned about the level of income that
they’re able to generate.”  Investor Appeal  Citizens Property Insurance Corp.,  Florida ’s state-owned
insurer, more than tripled its target amount in a debut sale of
obligations designed to protect against losses from hurricanes
to $750 million in April, the biggest offering on record of cat
bonds. Goldman Sachs managed the sale.  “We absolutely did not know that we would have the
opportunity to upsize this thing three times,” Sharon Binnun,
chief financial officer of the state’s largest property insurer,
said in a telephone interview. “In the interest-rate
environment that we’re in now, investors are looking for another
vehicle through which to park at least a portion of their
investment portfolios.”  The debt, effective for two years, priced to yield 17.75
percentage points more than a money-market fund of Treasuries in
which the proceeds will be stored.  Payrolls, Retail  If insurance losses in the 2012 and 2013 hurricane seasons
pass a threshold, principal will be transferred to Citizens
Property Insurance and bondholders will lose that portion of
their principal and the future interest payments allocated to
it, according to an April 20 document posted on the insurer’s
 website .  Payments linked to natural disasters help insulate the debt
from the risk that a fragile U.S. economic recovery will hinder
companies’ abilities to boost sales or generate the cash
required to pay off obligations.  Employment increased by 163,000 last month, helped by a
pickup at automakers and health-care providers, after a revised
64,000 June advance, Labor Department data showed. The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise of 100,000.  The jobless rate, based on a separate survey of households,
climbed to 8.3 percent in July, marking the 42nd straight month
above 8 percent.  Retail sales  by auto dealers to department
stores rose 0.8 percent more in July, the biggest since February
and first gain in four months, according to Commerce Department
figures released on Aug. 14.  Portfolio ‘Diversifier’  Cat bonds, which gained 3.3 percent last year even after a
4 percent drop in the weeks following  Japan ’s 8.9-magnitude
temblor on March 11, have posted positive gains every year since
at least 2002.  The debt returned 2.3 percent in 2008, when the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. contributed to a 37 percent tumble
in the S&P 500 index of U.S. stocks and an 11 percent loss for
corporate debt.  “It’s a diversifier to almost any other asset class out
there,” Judy Klugman, a managing director at Swiss Re Capital
Markets, which issues and underwrites the securities, said in a
telephone interview. The bonds “provide real value for issuers
and investors, so that can only mean it has real legs for the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  