-- China’s Swaps Climb as Central Bank Adds Funds at Higher Yield
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-21T09:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/china-swaps-drop-from-three-month-high-as-pboc-adds-record-cash.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  climbed
to a three-month high as the central bank boosted borrowing
costs in money-market operations that injected a record 220
billion  yuan  ($34.6 billion) into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 150 billion yuan of
seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements at 3.4 percent, up from
3.35 percent on Aug. 16, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. It also issued 70
billion yuan of 14-day contracts at 3.6 percent. Swaps rose as
the increased usage of reverse repos tempered speculation China
will lower banks’ reserve requirements.  “Although the amount of reverse repos is larger, the
central bank hiked the repo rate, spooking sentiment,” said
Chen Qi, co-head of fixed-income research at UBS Securities Co.
in  Shanghai . The fund injection will push back expectations for
reserve-requirement ratios to be cut, she said.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, rose eight basis points to 3.12
percent as of 4:20 p.m. in Shanghai, the highest level since May
14, data compiled by Bloomberg. The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge
of interbank funding availability, increased 12 basis points to
3.75 percent, a weighted average shows.  The central bank last lowered banks’ reserve requirements
in May and cut benchmark  interest rates  in June and July to
support the economy.  Gross domestic product  increased 7.6
percent from a year earlier in the second quarter, the least
since the first quarter of 2009, official figures show. Growth
will decline to a 13-year low of 8.2 percent in 2012, based on
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Elevated Rates’  The “unusually large volume” of reverse-repo issuance
“points to the central bank’s concern about the elevated level
of money-market rates,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to clients
today. “We still expect a reserve-requirement cut.”  The government may introduce new policies to boost
consumers’ borrowing and spending this year, the Economic
Information Daily reported today, citing an unidentified person.  The yield on the government’s 3.14 percent bonds due
February 2017 climbed two basis points to 3.03 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  