-- China Entering Demographic Danger Zone, BOJ Official Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-08-21T08:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/china-entering-demographic-danger-zone-boj-official-says-2-.html
China  is entering a “danger zone”
where a financial crisis may become more likely because of
increases in  loans  and property prices coinciding with an aging
of the population, a  Bank of Japan (8301)  official said.  “If a demographic change, a property-price bubble, and a
steep increase in loans coincide, then a financial crisis seems
more likely,” BOJ Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said in a
speech for a conference in Sydney, posted on the central bank’s
website today. “And China is now entering the danger zone.”  China is at risk of emulating crises in  Japan  in the 1990s
and the U.S. in the 2000s, according to Nishimura, who cited a
Chinese working-age population that is “close” to peaking as a
proportion of the total. Demographic changes can provide fertile
ground for “malign property bubbles” because of the effect on
demand for real estate, he said.  Asia’s manufacturing powerhouses -- Japan,  South Korea  and
China -- are among the fastest-aging countries in the world,
while developing nations in  Southeast Asia  are among the
youngest in the region.  Increasing evidence from a range of nations shows that
changes in population composition have “a significant effect on
property prices, especially the land component,” Nishimura said.
At the same time, “not every country experiencing this sort of
demographic change has a malign property bubble and a financial
crisis,” he said.  China’s Demographics  Nishimura said that peaks in the working-age population in
Japan were accompanied by property-market highs, and a
“similar” picture emerged in the U.S.  Cai Fang, a demographics adviser to the Chinese leadership,
said yesterday that the nation’s potential economic growth rate
may be about 1 percentage lower in the second half of this
decade after the  labor force  peaked.  Cai said last year that the “age structure of the
population is a driving force of economic growth” and the
nation may move away from its one-child policy in coming years.  Implemented to alleviate poverty, the restriction on family
size will cut the number of 15- to 24-year-olds, the mainstay of
factories that drove growth for two decades, by 27 percent to
164 million by 2025, according to United Nations estimates.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is maintaining curbs on China’s housing
market even as the nation’s economy slows because the government
wants to rein in prices inflated by the stimulus spending that
countered the global financial crisis.  Economic Slowdown  The world’s second-biggest economy grew 7.6 percent in the
second quarter of this year, the least since 2009. The Shanghai
Composite Index fell about 4 percent this year on concern that
weaker growth will erode corporate profits.  China’s new home prices climbed in July from a month
earlier in 49 of the 70 cities tracked by the Chinese government,
the most since May last year. Evidence the housing market is
picking up follows interest-rate cuts in June and July by the
People’s Bank of China.  Within  Asia , factories, jobs and investment may flow south
to nations such as the  Philippines  as a result of demographic
changes.  “The demographic dividend is over for Japan and  Korea , and
it will be over for China soon,”  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief
economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001) , Japan’s third-largest trading company,
said in an interview earlier this year.  China’s latest census showed that people age 60 and older
accounted for 13.3 percent of the population in 2010, 2.9
percentage points higher than in 2000. Children age 14 and under
were 16.6 percent of the total, down 6.3 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  