-- China Trusts Hill & Knowlton for Cnooc Advice
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-08-21T20:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/china-trusts-hill-knowlton-for-cnooc-advice-corporate-canada.html
Hill & Knowlton Strategies is the
busiest lobbying firm in Ottawa for foreign takeovers, using
lessons learned from the country’s biggest failed takeover bid
to advise  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  on its $15.1 billion offer for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   The Canadian division of the New York-based public
relations company has lobbied on five foreign purchases of
Canadian firms valued at $30 billion since it worked with  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  on its unsuccessful 2010 bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
company filings and records kept by the country’s lobbying
commissioner. That’s almost double the amount of any other firm
among transactions of more than $1 billion.  “The big difference since Potash is the fact that politics
could play an important role,” said  Richard Wagner , a senior
partner at law firm  Norton Rose  in Ottawa, who specializes in
federal regulatory law. The company can add value “from the
lessons learned point of view,” he said.  Investors increasingly are relying on public relations
companies to navigate a government approval process that is
becoming more political with the emergence of  China  as a buyer
of resource assets, lobbying records show. Firms such as Hill &
Knowlton are joining investment bankers and lawyers as standard
players in takeovers.  Cnooc, China’s largest offshore energy explorer, has hired
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and Citigroup Inc. as its financial advisers on
the Nexen bid, the biggest proposed takeover by a Chinese
company. It also hired Stikeman Elliott and Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP as legal advisers.  Earnscliffe Strategy Group, which advised Alcan Inc. in
2007 on  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s purchase of the Canadian aluminum maker,
is lobbying for Nexen on the Cnooc bid.  Growing Demand  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government rejected BHP’s
$40 billion hostile bid for Potash, the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, amid opposition spearheaded by Saskatchewan
Premier Brad Wall. It was only the second rejection of a foreign
takeover in Canada in 25 years.  Hill & Knowlton isn’t the only beneficiary of growing
demand for lobbyists. About 40 percent of all foreign takeovers
worth more than $1 billion have included registered lobbying
work since the Potash rejection, up from less than 20 percent
the previous three years, the records show.  “We’re getting a lot more calls,” said John Capobianco,
senior vice president at Fleishman-Hillard, which lobbied on
behalf of Potash during the hostile takeover. “Some companies
don’t know the political landscape, don’t know the media
landscape in the country where they’re trying to buy a company.
If they don’t know how to handle that, that’s where they get
into trouble.”  ‘Highly Subjective’  Canada ’s system for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” Toronto-based research group
C.D. Howe Institute said in  a study  released in December. The
rules may have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share of
global foreign-direct investment, it said.  Historically, Canada’s resources were “controlled by the
British, then controlled by the U.S., because that’s where the
capital came from, and now the concern is being controlled by
China,” Wagner said.  Getting policy makers on their side early is a lesson Hill
& Knowlton learned while advising on BHP-Potash, Canada’s
largest-ever failed takeover. The day before Cnooc Ltd.
announced its plans to acquire Nexen Inc., the Chinese oil
producer’s lobbyists in Ottawa were contacting Canadian policy
makers.  Hill & Knowlton Strategies Canada have lobbied Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , as well as  Simon Kennedy , associate
minister at  Industry Canada  and Chris Woodcock, director of
issues management in Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s office,
according to records.  Laying Groundwork  Concerns the Cnooc bid may not get government approval have
kept  Nexen’s stock  below Cnooc’s $27.50 per-share offer. The
shares rose 12 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $25.82 at the close of
 New York  trading. Cnooc today announced it is cutting its
dividend to conserve capital for the Nexen takeover.  Late last year, Hill & Knowlton began laying the groundwork
for the Nexen bid in Ottawa by lobbying on the Chinese company’s
purchase of Opti Canada Inc., a smaller  oil company  that was
working with Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in an Albertan oil sands
project.  Hill & Knowlton’s ability to offer both government
relations and communications services, as well as its
international scope, has helped it land work on foreign
takeovers, said Steven MacKinnon, director of the firm’s
transactions practice in Canada.  “There is wide recognition in companies who do large
transactions that the requirement to communicate with a broad
set of interested parties has become a mandatory component,”
MacKinnon said by phone.  Political Risks  Hill & Knowlton, a unit of Dublin-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , has
offices in 46 countries, including Brazil, Germany, Kenya, China
and Australia. It is led in Canada by Chief Executive Officer
Michael Coates, who helped Harper prepare for televised debates
in three election campaigns.  Coates says the experience of the BHP rejection shows
business leaders must consider political risks that may threaten
acquisitions.  “The BHP Billiton-Potash case makes it clear that
political risk is no longer limited to the developing world,”
Coates said in an  article  co-written by Hill and Knowlton
general counsel Terra Rebick. “Political pressure and tactics
do not just come from the left of the political spectrum.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  