-- China Stocks Rise Most in Week; Consumer, Chongqing Shares Jump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-21T07:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/china-s-stock-index-futures-swing-between-gains-and-losses.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest gains in more than a week, after the
central bank injected record funds into the financial system and
on speculation more cities will roll out stimulus plans.  Port operator Chongqing Ganjiu Co. surged 10 percent and
 Chongqing Road & Bridge Co. (600106)  jumped 6.1 percent after the Xinhua
News Agency said Chongqing municipality plans to boost
industrial investment. Liquor maker Kweichow Moutai Co. led a
rally for consumer companies after the Economic Information
Daily reported China may issue new policies to boost
consumption. China Vanke Co.’s B shares climbed after the
developer confirmed a  Securities Times  report it will consider
listing in Hong Kong by converting its B shares to H shares.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.5 percent to 2,118.27
at the close, the biggest advance since Aug. 9. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.5 percent to 2,313.70. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong rose
0.2 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.6 percent in
 New York .  “There are still hopes for rate cuts and stimulus
measures,” said Wu Kan, Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Still, this
rebound may be short-lived as there are still concerns about
earnings.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
worsening. The gauge is  valued  at 9.5 times estimated profit,
compared with the 17.5 average since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 2006.  Cash Injection  The Shanghai Composite fell yesterday to the lowest level
this month on concern the government will hold off from easing
monetary policy after real-estate prices rose in the largest
number of cities in 14 months. Policy makers cut  interest rates 
in June and July after two reductions in reserve-requirement
ratios for lenders this year as the economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009.  The nation’s  interest-rate swaps  fell from a three-month
high as the central bank injected record funds into the
financial system to ease a cash crunch.  The central bank stepped up reverse-repurchase operations
today, injecting 150 billion yuan using seven-day contracts and
a further 70 billion yuan via 14-day agreements, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.
That’s the biggest one-day injection since the current round of
reverse repos started in late June.  The People’s Bank of China has no intention of further
lowering  reserve requirements  in the short term and will instead
favor money-market operations to meet funding needs, according
to an Aug. 18 commentary in the Financial News, a newspaper
controlled by the monetary authority.  Consumer Companies  A gauge of  consumer-staples producers  in the CSI 300 jumped
1.6 percent. Kweichow Moutai, the biggest producer of baijiu
liquor, climbed 1.4 percent to 235.79  yuan . Wuliangye Yibin Co.,
the second-largest baijiu producer, jumped for a second day,
rising 1.3 percent to 35.30 yuan. Wuliangye reported a 50
percent jump in first-half profit on Aug. 19.  China may issue new policies to boost consumption this
year, the Economic Information Daily reported today, citing an
unidentified person as saying. The government is seeking to
transform its economy into one driven by consumption rather than
exports and investment.  The Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  are assessing the feasibility and effects
of the possible stimulus plans, the newspaper said.  Chongqing Stocks  Chongqing plans to boost industrial investment to 1.5
trillion yuan ($235.9 billion) in the five years through 2015,
Xinhua said today, citing the local government. The investment
will help Chongqing expand its total industrial output beyond 3
trillion yuan, the report said.  Chongqing’s industrial investment plan will focus on
building seven “big manufacturing industries,” including
electronic information, automotive, equipment and parts
manufacturing, oil refining, material and energy industries,
according to Xinhua.  “Chongqing is not the first city to announce investment
plans,” Zhang Zhiwei,  China  economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said in a note. “Ningbo, Nanjing, Guangzhou and Changsha have
all announced plans to promote investment and growth. We
continue to expect these city-level initiatives to help the
economy to rebound in the second half.”  Vanke B  Chongqing Gangjiu jumped by the daily limit of 10 percent
to 7.26 yuan, the most since April 6. Chongqing Road surged 6.1
percent to 4.53 yuan.  Chongqing is the city where Bo Xilai was party secretary
until he was suspended from the Politburo in April on
allegations of violating party discipline. A court in Hefei city
gave his wife, Gu Kailai, the death penalty with a two-year
reprieve yesterday for the murder of British businessmen Neil
Heywood, a punishment that is commonly reduced to  life
imprisonment  in China.  China Vanke’s B shares jumped 1.6 percent to HK$9.65. The
biggest-listed Chinese property developer confirmed a Securities
Times report that it will consider listing in  Hong Kong  by
converting its B shares traded in Shenzhen to H shares.  “Converting B shares to H shares would be positive for the
company as it will give them better conditions for financing
from overseas capital,” said Jinsong Du, a Credit Suisse Group
AG property analyst. Vanke has no detailed plans, the developer
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  