-- China Economy’s Harsh Winter to Hurt Cotton, Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T09:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/china-cotton-demand-seen-falling-11-on-economy-s-harsh-winter.html
Cotton consumption in China, the
world’s largest user, may shrink 11 percent this year as a
deteriorating economy hurts demand and causes a buildup in
commodities, according to  Weiqiao Textile Co. (2698)  Futures fell.  “The Chinese economy is only at the beginning of a harsh
winter,” Zhang Hongxia, chairman of China’s largest cotton-
textile maker, said in an interview in  Hong Kong  on Aug. 20.
“China now is facing a situation where everything from coal to
steel inventories are piling up.”  Zhang’s outlook runs counter to forecasts from banks such
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. that forecast a second-half rebound
as the government expands stimulus.  China’s economy  grew at the
slowest pace in three years in the second quarter as  Europe ’s
debt crisis hurt exports and a government drive to cool consumer
and property prices damped domestic demand. Cotton for December
delivery declined as much as 1.6 percent on ICE Futures U.S.  “The slowdown in China is due to overall industrial
overcapacity accumulated in recent years,” said Lou Zhi, head
of the trading department at Hunter Capital Ltd., a Dalian-based
commodity hedge fund. “Overseas demand is unlikely to revive
soon as the  European debt crisis  looks set to drag on. Despite a
recovery in the U.S., growth there seems anemic.”  Cotton usage may drop to 8 million metric tons this year,
compared with consumption of about 9 million tons in 2011,
according to Zhang, who had forecast in March that 2012 demand
may increase to as much as 9.5 million tons. China accounts for
about 40 percent of global cotton consumption.  Cotton’s Tumble  Cotton lost as much 1.25 cents to 76.05 cents a pound, and
was at 76.27 cents at 4:38 p.m. in  Shanghai , with most-active
prices 28 percent lower over the past year. Weiqiao shares,
unchanged at HK$2.74, have lost 34 percent in the past 12 months
as the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 2.1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of raw materials climbed 4.5 percent in the past
year, rallying over 20 percent from the year’s low on June 21.  China’s  export growth  collapsed in July and industrial
output fell short of projections, according to separate reports
this month, after data showed the second-largest economy grew
7.6 percent between April and June. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last
week that easing inflation allowed more room to adjust monetary
policy. The country has cut  interest rates  twice since June and
the reserve requirement ratio three times since November.  ‘In Contrast’  “My view might be in contrast to what many economists out
there are saying,” said Zhang, daughter of Zhang Shiping, whose
family hold 744.94 million shares in Weiqiao, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There may be a so-called turning point
for the economy if the government introduces “very good”
policies later this year, she said, without elaborating.  Goldman Sachs economists including Hong Kong-based Cui Li
said in an Aug. 2 report on China’s economy that “we expect
growth to accelerate in the rest of the year and 2013 as
supportive policies are gradually rolled out and implemented.”
The bank forecast a full-year expansion of 7.9 percent for 2012,
down from an earlier estimate of 8.1 percent.  Economic growth may accelerate to 7.9 percent in the third
quarter and 8.3 percent in the final three months, according to
the median forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists
taken from Aug. 14 to Aug. 21. The country is the world’s
largest consumer of base metals and second-largest crude user.  Steel Stockpiles  Coal inventories at Qinhuangdao port rose to 9.33 million
tons on June 17, the highest since 2008, data from the China
Coal Transport and Distribution Association showed. Stockpiles
were at 6.69 million tons as of Aug. 19. While steel-product
stockpiles at the nation’s 26 major markets have dropped for
five months as the end of July, they’re still 19 percent higher
this year, according to the China Iron & Steel Association.  Commodity-related companies have flagged their concern.
 Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s biggest listed commodity supplier,
expects a tough environment for the next 12 to 24 months, Chief
Executive Officer Yusuf Alireza said yesterday.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the
world’s largest iron-ore producer, said this month that China’s
so-called  golden years  are gone as economic growth slows.  “We are in a worse situation now, compared with 2008-
2009,” said Zhang, referring to the country’s textile industry.
“The prospect for an economic recovery looks set to drag on,
with too many uncertainties in the short term, and the European
debt crisis seems to be endless.”  Weiqiao, which normally consumes about 600,000 tons of
cotton a year, used 204,000 tons in the first half as capacity
usage was reduced to cope with weaker demand and high inventory,
Zhang said.  Net income  at the Zouping county, Shandong-based
company fell about 90 percent in the first half.  Supply Deficit  Cotton production in  China  doesn’t meet demand and the
government distributes import quotas. Output may be 31 million,
480-pound bales (6.7 million tons) in 2012-2013, compared with
demand of 39 million bales, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Imports may decline to 13 million bales in 2012-
2013, from 24.3 million bales previous year, the USDA says.  Through an industry association, the company has urged the
government either to release additional import quotas, enabling
textile makers to benefit from cheaper shipments, or to sell off
state stockpiles at a discount, Zhang said. The government has
more than 4 million tons held in reserves, she said.  Global cotton stockpiles will increase 10 percent to 74.67
million 480-pound bales in the 2012-2013 season, according to a
forecast from the USDA. Holdings in China will advance 17
percent to 34.18 million bales.  --Feiwen Rong. With assistance from  Michael Wei , Helen  Yuan  and
Yang Jing in Shanghai. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith, Ovais Subhani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  