-- Citigroup Becomes First U.S. Bank to Issue Own Card in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/citigroup-issues-sole-brand-china-credit-card-as-rules-ease-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  became the first
Western bank to issue credit cards in  China  without co-branding
from a local financial institution as the government relaxes
restrictions in the world’s second-largest economy.  The cards will be denominated in  yuan  or dollars and
accepted worldwide, the third-largest U.S. lender by assets said
today in an e-mailed statement.  China UnionPay , the nation’s
largest electronic-payment network, will process payments within
China, while  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and Visa Inc. will handle cards
internationally, the bank said.  Citigroup is expanding its ability to reach Chinese
consumers with the cards, opening its 50th retail branch this
month and confirming plans to double that within three years.
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , grappling with a revenue
slump in trading and  investment banking , is seeking growth by
pushing deeper into  emerging markets .  “China’s credit card market is far from saturated, it’s
just a matter of finding the right customer group and minimizing
costs,” said Tang Yayun, a Shanghai-based analyst at Northeast
Securities Co. “Citigroup has its advantage in its IT system,
product innovation and brand awareness, especially among high-
end customers, while the disadvantage is its lack of
distribution channels in China.”  Foreign banks’ branch networks are dwarfed by those of
local lenders including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , which has 16,227 outlets, according to its website. HSBC
Holdings Plc has the biggest network of any overseas bank, with
130 locations, and Standard Chartered Plc has 90.  Charges, Restrictions  Because of interbank charges and restrictions on fees,
issuers need at least 20 million cards to be profitable in
China, according to a survey of executives and branch managers
at 41 foreign banks published by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP last
month.  Citigroup’s shares  have risen 14 percent this year to
$29.98, compared with a 13 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The bank this month started an investment banking joint
venture with Orient Securities Co., gaining access to the
world’s second biggest market for share sales. The lender in
March sold its entire stake in  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000) 
Co., nine years after the purchase, for an after-tax gain of
about $349 million. It also owns 20 percent of China Guangfa
Bank Co.  WTO Claim  China will probably overtake the U.S. as the largest market
for cards by 2020, with about 900 million, according to a
MasterCard forecast from September 2010. Payment processors such
as MasterCard and Visa won partial support last month from World
Trade Organization judges in a claim that China unfairly
restrains their operations.  China requires all yuan-denominated credit card
transactions to go through China UnionPay, which was established
by more than 80 banks and other state-owned companies. Citigroup
won authorization to issue its credit cards in February.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. ,  Hong Kong ’s third-largest lender,
became the first non-mainland issuer of credit cards in 2008.
Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  