-- Cnooc First-Half Profit Drops After Output Losses at Penglai
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-08-21T07:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/cnooc-first-half-profit-drops-19-after-output-losses-at-penglai.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
oil and gas explorer, posted a 19 percent decline in first-half
profit that was worse than analysts estimated after a spill
closed its largest local field. The shares slumped.  Net income dropped to 31.87 billion  yuan  ($5 billion), or
0.71 yuan a share, from 39.34 billion yuan, or 0.88 yuan, a year
earlier, Cnooc said in a statement today. That compared with the
35.07 billion yuan median estimate of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Cnooc shares fell as much as 5.5 percent, the most since
October 2011, after the company cut its dividend citing the need
to conserve capital for the $15.1 billion takeover of  Canada ’s
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  The state-owned company aims to bolster output
through the acquisition, which has yet to gain approval from
regulators in  North America , after being forced to close its
Penglai 19-3 field.  “Poor production growth and softer crude prices certainly
won’t help lift Cnooc’s profit much,” said Simon Powell, the
Hong Kong-based head of Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd.
“Cnooc may still struggle to maintain production growth for the
second half, depending on when the Penglai production may
resume, but its 2013 production will improve considerably if the
Nexen deal goes through.”  The Beijing-based company plunged to HK$14.70 and traded at
HK$14.92 as of 2:33 p.m. in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng 
index dropped 0.4 percent. Cnooc decided to reduce midyear
dividend by 40 percent to 15 Hong Kong cents a share from a year
earlier, citing capital requirements of the  Nexen (NXY)  transaction
and support for the company’s long-term growth.  Oil Prices  “Our net production decreased 4.6 percent year over year
mainly due to the Penglai 19-3 oilfield,” Chief Executive
Officer Li Fanrong said in the statement. The company will focus
on cost control, starting new projects and carrying out the
follow-up work on the Nexen transaction in the second half, he
said.  Revenue was 118.3 billion yuan in the first six months
compared with 124.6 billion yuan a year earlier, while output
dropped to the equivalent of 160.9 million barrels of oil
equivalent, according to the statement.  Oil production in the Penglai oilfields in Bohai Bay
dropped 4 million barrels to 72 million barrels from a year
earlier due to the shutdown of Penglai 19-3, according to a
presentation posted on the company’s website today. Overseas
output increased by 3 million barrels in the first half.  The Penglai 19-3 field produced 62,000 barrels of oil a day
before being ordered closed in the second half of last year
after the  oil spill . The loss is equivalent to about 7 percent
of Cnooc’s targeted daily oil and gas production, according to
calculations by Bloomberg.  Nexen Assets  The price of  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half
of the world’s crude oil, declined 13 percent from the beginning
of the year to the end of June as Europe’s debt crisis and a
slowdown in  China’s economy  limited demand.  Cnooc’s agreement last month to buy Canada’s Nexen would be
the biggest overseas takeover by a Chinese company. The deal
needs approval from regulators in Canada, and the U.S., where
the Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States 
examines whether foreign purchases of U.S. assets raise security
risks.  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the  North Sea , the  Gulf of Mexico  and in Nigeria, as well as
oil-sands reserves at Long Lake, Alberta, where it already
produces crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.  Those assets produced 207,000 barrels a day in the second
quarter, which would boost the Chinese company’s output by about
20 percent. About 28 percent of Nexen’s current production is in
Canada.  Cnooc expects to achieve its production target of 330 to
340 million barrels of oil equivalent for the year, CEO Li said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  