-- Coast Guard Sees Northbound Mississippi Traffic Opening
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-08-21T19:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/coast-guard-sees-northbound-mississippi-traffic-opening.html
The U.S.  Coast Guard  expects to open
to traffic a section of the  Mississippi River  near Greenville,
 Mississippi , that was shut because of shallow water.  The Coast Guard is “looking to start northbound traffic
today,” Petty Officer 3rd Class Ryan Tippets, a New Orleans-
based public affairs officer for the guard, said in a telephone
interview. Southbound traffic will follow, he said.  There were 45 vessels waiting to move north and 50
southbound at the safety zone between mile markers 530 and 535,
Tippets said.  The  drought  across the Midwest has left the Mississippi
River system, which includes the Ohio and Missouri rivers, with
low water levels that have impeded and delayed barge traffic.  The river near Greenville has been shut a few times since
July, said Bob Anderson, a spokesman for the  U.S. Army Corp. of
Engineers . The area was opened to one-way traffic late yesterday
until a ship grounded, he said.  Inland waterways carry 60 percent of the nation’s grain
exports, 22 percent of domestic petroleum and 20 percent of coal
used to generate electricity, Ann McCulloch, a spokeswoman for
the  National Waterways Foundation  in Arlington,  Virginia , said
in a telephone interview. The majority of that moves over the
Mississippi and Ohio rivers, she said.  The key to resuming traffic is dredging low-water areas,
McCulloch said. The buildup of vessels could take between three
and five days to clear up once the river section is open.  Each of the vessels, or towboats, may be moving 25 to 35
barges under low-water conditions, compared with 35 to 45 barges
during normal conditions, said Anderson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  