-- Coca-Cola Hellenic Profit Drops 15% on Austerity, Currencies
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-08-21T10:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/coca-cola-hellenic-profit-drops-15-on-austerity-currencies-1-.html
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA (EEEK) ,
the world’s second-largest bottler of Coke drinks, posted a 15
percent decline in second-quarter profit as poor weather and
austerity measures in European markets slowed demand.  Net income fell to 119.6 million euros ($148 million) in
the three months to June 30 from 141.4 million euros a year
earlier, Athens-based Coca-Cola HBC said today in a statement on
its website. Revenue in the quarter rose to 1.99 billion euros
from 1.97 billion euros.  “Strong currency headwinds and higher input costs also
adversely affected profit in the quarter,” Dimitris Lois, chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview today.
“Despite this we grew revenue ahead of volume for the fourth
consecutive quarter.”  The euro declined 5.1 percent against the dollar in the
second quarter as the region’s debt crisis intensified and
economic growth slowed. Coca-Cola HBC pays in dollars for raw
materials such as PET, used to make plastic bottles, and for
aluminium to make cans.  Lower prices for PET are now easing input costs “and we
expect these to show a mid-single digit increase for 2012
compared with a previous forecast for a high single digit
rise,” Lois said.  This benefit will be offset by unfavorable foreign currency
movements, reflecting the decline in the euro against the dollar
and the impact of the euro area’s debt crisis on currencies in
emerging and developing markets, he said.  Challenging Trade  The company expects “challenging trading conditions” to
persist across most of its markets with a further deterioration
in disposable income and weak  consumer confidence  in markets
such as  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland,  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic ,
according to the statement.  “Given a macroeconomic environment which is getting
tougher and the negative currency impact, we will accelerate
restructuring initiatives planned for 2013 and bring the
majority of them into the fourth quarter this year,” Michalis Imellos, chief financial officer, said today in a telephone
interview.  Savings this year from these changes and others already
made in 2011, will now rise by 10 million euros to 50 million
euros while from 2013 onwards savings will reach 70 million
euros, up from 35 million euros, Imellos said.  Cases of drinks sold in  emerging markets , which include
Ukraine and  Romania , rose 2 percent to 292.2 million in the
second quarter boosted by higher sales in  Russia . “We see the
economic and trading environment in Russia improving and we
expect the country to continue to drive volume growth in the
emerging market segment,” Lois said.  Coca-Cola HBC reiterated capital spending guidance for
2012-14 of 1.45 billion euros and the same amount in free cash
flow generation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  