-- Conoco Said to Work With JPMorgan on Sale of LNG Project Stake
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-21T01:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/conoco-said-to-work-with-jpmorgan-on-sale-of-lng-project-stake.html
ConocoPhillips and  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG)  are working with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to help sell a stake
in their $20 billion natural gas project in Australia, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The energy companies are seeking to sell 15 percent of the
liquefied natural gas venture, which may draw interest from
Asian buyers, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified as the details are private. The stake may be worth as
much as $3 billion, another person said.  ConocoPhillips and Origin last month approved the second
phase of the Australia Pacific LNG project in Queensland state
which is scheduled to start exports to Asia in mid-2015. Sydney-
based Origin said July 4 it plans to cut its stake to 30 percent
from 37.5 percent. Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  also holds 37.5
percent and is selling down to 30 percent, the person said.  The project is among about A$200 billion in LNG
developments under construction in Australia to tap Asian demand
for cleaner-burning fuel, according to data from the Australian
Petroleum Production & Exploration Association. It is one of
three coal-seam gas-to-LNG projects being built in Queensland
alongside developments led by Reading, England-based  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  A fourth is being proposed by  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and PetroChina Co.  Origin and ConocoPhillips are close to hiring an investment
bank and are in the final stages of discussions, Anneliis Allen,
a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Origin, said by phone today.
ConocoPhillips spokesman  John McLemore  declined to comment, as
did Noelle Waugh, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan.  Sinopec Payment  China Petrochemical Corp., or Sinopec Group, will pay a
total of $2.1 billion, including its share of  capital spending 
for the LNG project, to raise its stake in the venture to 25
percent from 15 percent, Origin said in a July 12 statement.
In May Origin and ConocoPhillips obtained $8.5 billion in loans
from banks and export credit agencies.  ConocoPhillips reiterated the $20 billion cost estimate in
a July 4 statement.  Origin’s remaining funding requirements for its share of
the project through first production of both units is about
A$3.6 billion, the company said July 4. Managing Director Grant King said earlier this year said that options to pay for the
second phase of the project included selling shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  