-- Container Lines Losing Price Battle as Costs Overwhelm: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-21T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/container-lines-losing-price-battle-as-costs-overwhelm-freight.html
The world’s container lines can’t
raise freight rates fast enough to cover soaring fuel prices as
persistent overcapacity works against the industry.  Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Europe ’s fourth-biggest container company,
said Aug. 14 that further increases are “crucial” if it’s to
offset rising bunker costs -- the price of fuel used on ships --
and generate an operating profit this year. Still, a lack of
demand forced the Hamburg-based carrier to delay a  rate increase 
this month on routes between east Asia and northern Europe and
cut a planned peak-season charge by more than half.  Bunker fuel prices  have jumped 19 percent to $673 a ton
from this year’s low on June 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the same time, the Shanghai Containerized Freight
Index -- a measure of prices for cargo leaving the world’s
busiest port -- has dropped 6.2 percent since June 29 as
Europe’s debt crisis drags down the global economy and stunts
trade. Bunker prices will remain between $600 and $700 a ton
this year, according to a forecast by ICAP Plc.  Chinese export growth collapsed in July, and the world’s
second-largest economy expanded at the  slowest pace  in three
years in the quarter through June.  “Weak fundamentals are making successful rate-restoration
programs harder to implement,” Richard Ward, an analyst with
ICAP, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Carriers are
facing a struggling battle, as cargo volumes will drop off and
capacity won’t be adjusted quickly enough.”  Falling Demand  Maersk Line, the world’s largest carrier, cut its forecast
on Aug. 14 for global seaborne-container demand to a 4 percent
rise from 4 percent to 6 percent previously. The company, a unit
of Copenhagen-based  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , also said inbound
European volumes will fall as the debt crisis drags on.  Container lines had relied on a recovery in demand to
restore profits after excess vessels, high fuel prices and a
price war on routes between  Asia  and Europe last year led to
losses at some of the world’s biggest carriers, including
Maersk, CMA CGM SA of Marseille,  France , and Hapag-Lloyd.  Hapag-Lloyd “is striving to post positive operating
earnings again for the current financial year, provided that
there is no fundamental escalation of the risks and assuming it
proves possible to implement further rate increases in the
course of 2012,” the company said this month. Such increases
“are crucial to compensate for these elevated external costs.
The cargo on board our vessels has to cover the cost of
transportation.”  Rising Expenses  A 14 percent jump in average fuel prices last quarter sent
Hapag-Lloyd’s transport expenses up by 26 percent, or 330
million euros ($411 million), from the second quarter of 2011,
according to the company’s Aug. 14 statement. The weighted
average freight rate in the period increased 7.4 percent to
$1,594 from the first quarter and 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, Hapag-Lloyd said. The company reported a net loss of
7.3 million euros for the period.  The Hamburg-based company cut its planned peak season
surcharge between east Asia and northern Europe to $150 per
standard container on Aug. 2 from an original $350 in response
to flagging demand. The surcharge applies between Aug. 1 and
Sept. 30. It also postponed a planned $250 per-container general
rate increase on the route to Sept. 1 from Aug. 15.  The industry may be digging its own price hole, according
to Paris-based industry consultant Alphaliner. Companies still
are adding new vessels on the Asia to Europe route, where
capacity has exceeded demand every month since at least January
2010, Alphaliner said in an e-mail distributed Aug. 14.  Net Loss  China Cosco Holdings Company Ltd. (601919) , the country’s largest
listed shipping company, reported a preliminary net loss for the
first half of this year that widened by more than 50 percent
from a deficit of 2.8 billion  yuan  ($441 million) a year
earlier.  South Korea ’s  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930)  reported a net loss
on Aug. 2 of 1.27 billion won ($1.1 million) in the second
quarter.  “Even though there’s more discipline in the container
market, we expect volatility to continue because the fundamental
problem with overcapacity is still there,” said Per Kronborg Jensen, a senior portfolio manager at Sparinvest A/S, which owns
about 0.5 percent of Maersk’s B shares.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk stock is up  10 percent  this year in
Copenhagen, compared with about  11 percent  for the Europe Stoxx
600 Index. China Cosco has lost  10 percent  in  Hong Kong , while
Hanjin Shipping gained  29 percent  in  Seoul  after falling 68
percent in 2011.  Lower Estimates  At least five banks cut their price estimates on Maersk
after last week’s earnings report. The 12-month target as of
yesterday was  47,445 kroner , the lowest since March 15,
according to the consensus of 15 analysts.  Size may prove the best protection against the corrosive
effect of overcapacity and rising bunker costs. Maersk said Aug.
14 its container line returned to profit in the second quarter,
reporting net income of $227 million compared with a loss of $95
million a year earlier.  “It looks like current rate levels are OK for them, maybe
due to efficiencies of vessels, exposure to routes and cost
efficiencies,” ICAP’s Ward said.  Maersk’s average freight rate in the second quarter was
$3,014 per 40-foot container, a rise of 4.2 percent, while the
average bunker cost jumped 10 percent, the carrier said in its
earnings report. Still, the company raised its earnings
forecast, saying it now projects a “modest” 2012 profit after
earlier seeing a “negative to neutral” result.  Jensen said Sparinvest has no plans to increase its Maersk
stake. The fund isn’t planning to reduce it either, because
Maersk’s other units, which include an oil explorer and a port-
terminal operator, make up for the container business.  “We wouldn’t be surprised if  Maersk Line  should fall back
into losses at some point because the volatility may be there to
stay, more or less,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  