-- Coventry Signals Health Net, WellCare Takeovers: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-08-21T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/coventry-signals-health-net-wellcare-takeovers-real-m-a.html
With takeovers of managed care
providers exceeding $14 billion in less than a year,  Health Net
Inc. (HNT)  and WellCare Health Plans Inc. are among the last remaining
targets as aging baby boomers and the new health-care law boost
demand.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  said yesterday it will expand further into plans
administering Medicare and Medicaid with a $5.6 billion purchase
of  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , the biggest takeover of a U.S.
health maintenance organization since 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The announcement follows  Cigna Corp. (CI) ’s
agreement in October to buy Healthspring Inc., and the  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP)  disclosure last month that it will acquire  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)   Demand for Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the elderly
and disabled, is on the rise with 8.6 million more Americans
projected to enroll by 2016 as the first wave of  baby boomers 
turns 65. At the same time, the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act upheld by the  Supreme Court  in June will add
more patients to Medicaid, which provides coverage for the poor.
Stifel Financial Corp. says the next takeover targets may
include WellCare, both a Medicare and Medicaid insurer, or
Health Net, which like Coventry offers commercial insurance in
addition to the U.S. government-sponsored plans.  “You still could see more consolidation,” Maria Mendelsberg, a Denver-based fund manager at Cambiar Investors
LLC, which oversees $7 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“Obviously the list is getting shorter and shorter just because
you’ve had a lot of transactions, but I think a lot of these
bigger companies want to boost their Medicaid and Medicare
businesses because those are the areas that are growing.”  Acquiring Medicare  Cambiar’s Small Cap Fund, which owns Health Net  shares , has
outperformed 95 percent of rival funds in the last three years.  Crystal Warwell Walker, a spokeswoman for Tampa, Florida-
based  WellCare (WCG) , and Brad Kieffer, a spokesman for  Woodland
Hills , California-based Health Net, said it’s the companies’
policies not to comment on market speculation.  Today, shares of WellCare rose 1.6 percent to $55.47 for
the second-biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s Midcap Health
Care Index. Health Net fell 1.7 percent to $21.60.  Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health plan, said yesterday
that its acquisition of Bethesda, Maryland-based Coventry will
add more than 5 million more customers to its existing 18
million people in medical plans. The additions include 253,000
people on Medicare health plans as of June 30, 932,000 on
Medicaid, and almost 1.5 million more Medicare enrollees who get
prescription drug coverage.  Aging Boomers  The government currently pays about half of the total
medical bill for the U.S. through programs such as Medicare and
Medicaid. Starting in 2014, the new health-care law orders
states to open Medicaid to people making as much as 133 percent
of the federal poverty level. The law, backed by President
 Barack Obama , may add as many as 17 million patients under the
Medicaid program.  Medicare enrollment will rise to  57.3 million  people in
2016, an increase of 8.6 million from 2011, according to the
2012 annual report from the government program’s trustees. The
program is experiencing an influx as the first baby boomers --
people born between 1946 and 1964 -- started turning 65 last
year.  Commercial insurers such as Health Net and WellCare offer
the government program through Medicare Advantage plans,
covering medical costs including physician fees and hospital
charges.  Targeting WellCare  “Anything with government exposure -- Medicare Advantage
and Medicaid -- are viewed as more attractive growth
opportunities,” Robert Kang, a San Francisco-based health care
analyst and  fund manager  at Highmark Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees about $17.5 billion, said in a phone interview.
“The Medicare Advantage program is a very attractive insurance
product for seniors. With the aging of the population, there is
a secular trend that favors that particular line of business.”  WellCare may draw takeover interest after almost  60 percent 
of its $6.11 billion in  sales  last year came from offering
Medicaid policies, and the rest from Medicare, in states such as
 New York  and  Florida , said Thomas Carroll, an analyst at Stifel
in Baltimore. Like other Medicaid specialists, the $2.35 billion
company may seek the safety of a larger owner as it faces the
challenges of bringing on expensive new patients and fighting
for state contracts, he said.  If a buyer “wants to really strengthen its Medicaid and
Medicare footprints, they could do it in one fell swoop with
WellCare,” he said. “It seems to me like a very well-packaged
asset that would fit nicely in a big company.”  Low Valuation  WellCare had 1.5 million Medicaid members and 1.04 million
in Medicare as of June 30, according to its quarterly earnings
statement.  Susquehanna International Group LLP also said in an
interview last month that WellCare is an attractive target
because of its valuation. The company’s  price-earnings ratio 
fell to a more than three-year low in June. At almost 8 times
profit as of yesterday, it was trading at about a 37 percent
discount to the median ratio among U.S. managed-care providers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Health Net may also lure buyers because it primarily
focused on Medicare and Medicaid in  California  and it secured a
$16.7 billion Pentagon contract in 2010 to provide benefits to
military members and their families in the northeast U.S.,
Stifel’s Carroll said. It had 1.06 million Medicaid customers in
California and 228,000 Medicare Advantage members across three
states as of June 30, according to a regulatory filing.  “All that together, to me, is a fairly attractive regional
package that a larger company could do a lot with,” he said.  ‘Very Cheap’  The  stock  has declined 28 percent this year, reducing its
market value to $1.79 billion yesterday, as the company lowered
its earnings  forecast  in each of the last two quarters because
of problems with medical costs and claims processing. The stock
drop compares with a  21 percent  gain in the S&P Midcap Health
Care Index.  With an  enterprise value  yesterday that was 0.46 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Health Net is the cheapest U.S. managed-care company for which
Ebitda multiples are available, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Health Net “has been talked about within the marketplace
as a target,” said Highmark’s Kang. The stock has traded “at a
very, very cheap valuation, making it -- by virtue of that alone
-- quite attractive for a company that was looking to add
membership.”  ‘Less Compelling’  While WellCare is attractive for its fast-growing
enrollment and a stock that’s cheap relative to peers, Health
Net may give buyers more pause, said Michael Meyers, chief
executive officer at Arcoda Capital Management LP, a  New York- 
based hedge fund with about $100 million invested across the
health-care industry.  Health Net has a history of missing earnings estimates and
underestimating medical costs that may make it “a less
compelling opportunity,” Meyers said. “The flip side of that
is that a disciplined insurer-underwriter” can find a way to
boost profits, he said.  WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health plan by
enrollment, said last month it would buy Medicaid insurer
Amerigroup for about $4.9 billion. Cigna, the fifth-biggest,
bought Medicare specialist Healthspring for $3.8 billion in
January after announcing the deal in October.  That brings the total for takeovers of U.S. providers of
health-care benefits to $14.3 billion in the last 10 months. Had
the deals been announced in the same calendar year, the total
volume would be the highest on an annual basis for the industry
since 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Window ‘Closing’  Now that Aetna, WellPoint and Cigna have purchased three of
the large Medicaid and Medicare providers, the number of
remaining suitors is dwindling, according to David Windley, a
Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst for Jefferies Group Inc. The
three acquirers are the biggest managed-care providers in the
 S&P 500 (S5MANH)  by market value after  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   WellCare shares dropped 3.3 percent yesterday, and Health
Net’s stock slipped 0.1 percent. The S&P Midcap Health Care
Index declined 0.2 percent.  “There are still potential sellers,” Windley said in a
phone interview. But “the list of targets is longer than the
list of buyers.”  While there may be fewer big managed care deals now, Health
Net and WellCare are still “the most logical targets over the
next 12 months,” Carl McDonald, an analyst with Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Smaller companies may need to find a home soon, Aetna CEO
Mark Bertolini said in a phone interview yesterday, after the
Coventry acquisition was announced. Buyers will want to have a
clear view of a targets’ costs and profitability heading into
2014, when major health-law provisions kick in, he said. That
means getting a deal done by mid-2013, when health plans
typically set their prices for the next year.  “The window may be closing,” Bertolini said. “If you
don’t have control of the business you’re buying, you are taking
a big risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 