-- Credit Swaps in U.S. at About Three-Month Low on Greek Prospect
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-21T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/credit-swaps-in-u-s-at-about-three-month-low-on-greek-prospect.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
held near the lowest in more than three months as speculation
mounted that leaders will make progress on  Greece ’s debt crisis
at meetings this week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 98.6
basis points at 5:26 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit swaps on Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fell.  International creditors may adjust the interest on Greek
bailout loans,  Norbert Barthle , a senior German lawmaker, was
quoted as saying by the Passauer Neue Presse. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head of the euro group of
finance ministers, visits Greece tomorrow. The so-called troika
of international creditors -- the  International Monetary Fund ,
the European Commission and the  European Central Bank  -- returns
to Athens early next month.  “It has been a great run, and while I do believe the ECB
will launch some new programs, we have priced a lot in,” Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based macro strategy firm TF Market
Advisors, wrote in an email.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet in Berlin on Aug. 23, before holding
separate talks with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras later
in the week.  Bank Swaps  The swaps index, which is at about the lowest level since
May 3, has dropped 4.6 basis points since Aug. 15. Credit swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Credit swaps tied to Bank of America fell to the least
since March 27, declining 10.5 basis points to 216, and those
linked to unit Merrill Lynch & Co., which the Charlotte-based
bank bought in 2008, eased 17.3 basis points to 218.9, Bloomberg
prices show.  Swaps on Goldman Sachs, based in New York, declined 7.4
basis points to 242.4.  Contracts tied to the debt of  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  jumped after the
retailer resisting a takeover attempt by its founder reported
second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, and
suspended its earnings forecast as sales of computers and
televisions dropped.  New CEO  Swaps protecting against the company’s default for five
years climbed 1.6 percentage points to 13.6 percent upfront, CMA
data show. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $1.36 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy’s
debt.  Excluding restructuring charges and other items, profit was
20 cents a share, the company said today. Analysts’ average
estimate was 31 cents.  Best Buy yesterday named Hubert Joly as its new chief
executive officer to oversee a turnaround plan that entails
shifting to smaller locations in a bid to fend off  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The results, which included a 3.2
percent same-store sales decline as shoppers bought fewer
televisions and notebook computers, may bolster founder Richard Schulze’s case that the company needs urgent change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  