-- Insurers May Have $5 Billion U.S. Drought Cost
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-21T18:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/crop-insurer-losses-may-exceed-5-billion-from-drought-s-p-says.html
Private crop insurers, a group led
by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ace Ltd. (ACE) , may face losses that exceed
$5 billion if this year’s U.S. drought is worse than one in
1988,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  Hot, dry weather across much of the Midwest has damaged
crops, led to a rally in corn and soybean futures, and boosted
insurance loss estimates. The U.S. subsidizes farmers’ premiums
for so-called multiperil coverage, which protects against a loss
of revenue or production as a result of drought, hail, wind,
frost or other natural causes. Private insurers sell and
administer the coverage in the U.S. In return, the federal
government backstops the firms with payments and reinsurance.  “Insurers with higher concentrations of premiums in the
most-affected states, such as  Kansas ,  Illinois ,  Kentucky ,
 Indiana , Missouri and  Tennessee , will see a larger share of the
losses,” S&P analysts led by Jason Porter said today in a
report. “Farmers in the most affected states are expecting one
of their worst harvests since the drought in 1988.”  Losses among crop insurers will vary depending on how much
government and private reinsurance they use, S&P said. The
companies can withstand the losses because of  capital levels  and
revenue from other businesses, according to the ratings firm.  “Underwriting losses will be a drag on earnings, but by
themselves, will not affect the capital of most insurers that we
rate,” S&P said. “We do not expect to take any rating actions
solely because of crop insurance losses.”  Reinsurance Coverage  Wells Fargo has reinsurance, in which other companies
agreed to absorb losses on policies sold by the firm, said Katie
Ellis, a company spokeswoman. She said San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, the fourth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, has spread its
 risks  to limit liabilities from a single event.  “It’s a diversified, nationally based business so we’re
not concentrated in any one area,” Ellis said. “It’s really too
early to know how this is going to play out.”  Evan Greenberg, chairman and chief executive officer of
Ace, said in July that the dry conditions would affect second-
half earnings. Projected third-quarter crop losses prompted the
company to include a deduction of 19 cents a share in its full-
year earnings forecast. Stephen Wasdick, a spokesman for Ace,
declined to comment further.  Wells Fargo advanced 1 percent to $34.40 at 2:18 p.m. in
New York and has climbed 25 percent since Dec. 31. Ace slipped 2
cents to $74.07, trimming its gain this year to 5.6 percent.  Ace, QBE  Wells Fargo’s Rural Community Insurance Co. was the largest
approved provider of crop insurance in 2011 with $1.79 billion
in policy sales, according to National Association of Insurance
Commissioners data compiled by S&P. Zurich-based Ace was No. 2
with $1.67 billion in sales, followed by  QBE Insurance Group
Ltd. (QBE) ’s NAU Country Insurance Co.  American Financial Group Inc., which sells crop insurance
along with property, casualty and supplemental health
protection, last month reduced its earnings projection for the
year, saying the drought will weigh on results.  Soybeans climbed to an all-time high today, and corn
reached a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The Department of Agriculture has slashed its corn
harvest forecast by 27 percent since June, after declaring more
than half of U.S. counties as disaster areas amid drought
conditions that stretched from  California  to New York.  Losses this year may rival costs from the 1988 drought and
a 1993 flood, Tom Zacharias, the president of National Crop
Insurance Services, an industry group, said last month.  Federal crop insurance dates to the Dust Bowl droughts of
the 1930s. The program and subsidies were boosted in 2000 as
lawmakers sought to use it as a way to avoid what by the 1980s
had become near-annual disaster payouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  