-- Czechs Need Bold Action to Avoid Deflationary Trap, Danske Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-21T08:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/czechs-need-bold-action-to-avoid-deflationary-trap-danske-says.html
The Czech central bank needs to take
bold monetary-policy easing steps and weaken the koruna to avoid
a Japanese-style deflationary trap,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said.  Policy makers were split at their last meeting on Aug. 2 in
assessing the effect of government tax increases on inflation
and risks stemming from the euro-area debt crisis. Two rate
setters sought a quarter-point reduction after the bank cut its
two-week  benchmark  to a record-low 0.5 percent in June, while
four voted for no change even as the bank’s forecast saw lower
rates amid a worsening economic outlook.  The central bank should move beyond rate cuts and apply
non-standard measures, such as buying assets like  government
bonds  or selling the koruna on the foreign-exchange market, Lars
Christensen, Danske’s chief emerging-markets analyst in
Copenhagen, said in a report dated Aug. 20. The Czech economy
has shrunk for three consecutive quarters and the central bank
sees a full-year 0.9 percent contraction this year.  Weakening the koruna “is probably easier for the central
bank to implement and it wouldn’t dramatically change the day-
to-day operational framework of Czech monetary policy,”
Christensen said in the report. “A devaluation of at least 20
percent to around 30 koruna per euro from the present levels is
likely to be needed” to curb disinflationary pressures by
increasing money supply, he added.  Inflation is fueled by tax changes, following an increase
in the value-added levy at the start of 2012, the impact of past
koruna depreciation and commodity costs, while consumer demand
isn’t pushing prices up, central bank Vice-Governor Vladimir
Tomsik said in an Aug. 15 interview.  The  inflation  rate has exceeded 3 percent every month this
year, dropping to a seven-month low of 3.1 percent in July.
Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price growth
adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes,
was 1.8 percent in July, below the central bank’s 2 percent
target. It forecast policy inflation to decline below its goal
at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  