-- Czech Austerity Revolt Threatens Cabinet as Slump Bites
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-22T12:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/czech-austerity-revolt-threatens-cabinet-as-slump-bites.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas is battling
to save his government as a revolt mounts against an austerity
drive that threatens to deepen the nation’s recession.  The 47-year-old lost his parliamentary majority in April
when his coalition crumbled after budget and personnel rows. He
must secure enough lower-house support to overturn last week’s
Senate rejection of tax increases to cut the fiscal  deficit 
below the European Union’s limit next year. The vote is likely
to take place after parliament reconvenes in  Prague  on Sept. 4.  Governments across  Europe  are struggling to hold on as
austerity measures enacted to combat the euro-area debt crisis
plunge their economies back into recession, four years after the
start of the global financial crisis. The Czech economy has
 contracted  for three quarters as Necas’s previous budget cuts
curbed domestic demand and the debt crisis hurt exports.  The lower house’s repeat vote “on this package will be, in
a way, a vote about the government’s existence,” Jiri Pehe, a
former adviser to late President  Vaclav Havel  and director of
 New York  University in Prague, said by phone on Aug. 17. “It’s
possible that Necas will link it to a confidence motion, or
threaten early elections if the proposal isn’t approved, tactics
he used before and that worked for him.”  Maintaining Confidence  Necas, who credits previous austerity measures with helping
reduce borrowing costs, says his latest plan will maintain
investor confidence by cutting the deficit below 3 percent of
gross domestic product next year through an increase in the
 sales tax  and a levy on the highest incomes.  Budget cuts are “an absolute priority” as the country
risks higher borrowing costs if the fiscal strategy “loses
credibility,” he said in an Aug. 18 interview with newspaper
 Lidove Noviny . Scrapping the tax increases would only be done by
“a different government with a different premier,” he said.  The yield on the two-year Czech bond fell to a record low
of 0.513 percent today, about one-fifth what  Italy  pays to
borrow for two years, according to generic data compiled by
Bloomberg. The koruna slid 0.8 percent, the most among major
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to 24.967 per
euro by 2:10 p.m. in Prague.  Deficit Cutting  The two-year-old Cabinet has cut investment, raised the
sales tax and curbed spending on public wages, helping to push
the budget shortfall to 3.1 percent of GDP last year, from 4.8
percent in 2010.  The $215 billion  economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the third consecutive
 contraction , as households curbed spending in response to
Europe’s worsening economy. The  Czech Republic , which isn’t part
of the 17-country euro region, relies on the 27-nation EU to buy
80 percent of exports, including from companies such as carmaker
Skoda Auto AS.  “The Czech economy is fundamentally healthier than most
European economies, but it’s still lagging behind in
performance,” Vaclav France, an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in
Prague, said. “The government should be very cautious about
austerity measures.”  The Czech Republic, which joined the EU in 2004,  expanded 
more than 5 percent for 13 quarters on an annual basis through
2007. Even with a spike in deficits following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Czech public debt at 41
percent of GDP last year was about half of the EU average.  Belgium , a euro-area member with about the same population
and an economy more than twice as large, had debt of 98 percent
of GDP and a deficit of 3.7 percent of GDP in 2011. Its two-year
yield was 0.437 percent today.  The Czech Republic has benefited from positive investor
sentiment and a “solid track record of fiscal prudence”
underpins its policy credibility, which keeps funding costs low,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a note yesterday.  ‘Credit Negative’  While the Cabinet is committed to cutting the deficit,
“the unsupportive macroeconomic environment continues to hinder
consolidation efforts and could jeopardize the stabilization of
debt ratios, which would be credit negative,” said Moody’s,
which rates the Czech Republic at A1.  Apart from the opposition  Social Democrats , the plan to
raise taxes has also been criticized by President Vaclav Klaus,
an economist who founded Necas’s Civic  Democratic Party , or ODS,
after the collapse of communism two decades ago, as well as the
premier’s own lawmakers.  Tax increases during a recession would further curtail
economic growth and “border on economic suicide,” Klaus told
newspaper Mlada Fronta Dnes in an interview published Aug. 18.
Necas shouldn’t “force deputies to vote in a way that would
violate the long-standing program of the ODS,” which
traditionally eschews tax increases, lawmaker Petr Tluchor said
Aug. 17, according the CTK newswire.  ‘Real Test’  Rejection of the proposed package “could result in a
coalition breakup,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Prague, said by phone. The vote in the lower house will
be a “real test of the coalition’s integrity,” Sindel said,
expecting lawmakers to eventually approve the bill.  Opposition to austerity measures has upended governments
across Europe. The region’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis
has resulted in the ouster of leaders in Ireland,  Portugal ,
 Greece , Italy, the Netherlands,  Romania ,  Spain , Slovenia,
Slovakia and  Finland .  Private consumption will fall this year because of weak
real disposable-income growth and negative  sentiment , with full-
year GDP to shrink 0.9 percent in 2012, the central bank
forecasts.  Retail sales  declined in every month in the second
quarter, while  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level in
almost 13 years in May, according to the statistics-office data.  Weak Demand  “We’ve been registering very weak household consumption in
several recent quarters, and its growth rate seems to be the
weakest in the modern history of the independent Czech
Republic,”  Vladimir Tomsik , a central bank vice-governor, said
in an Aug. 15 interview.  Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, stepping up efforts to
push through the austerity plan, last week evoked “nasty Wall
Street imperialists” that will “dictate” policy to nations
with irresponsible finances. “A country that loses access to
the markets and to credit lines stops being sovereign and
free,” he said during the Senate debate on the legislation.  Number Crunching  The Social Democrats have a majority in the Senate, with
the ruling coalition holding 100 mandates in the 200-seat lower
house. That’s one vote short of the majority needed to override
Senate motions.  While Necas doesn’t have clear backing from all his
lawmakers for the tax increase, declining public support for the
three ruling parties in opinion polls is adding to pressure on
deputies to back his policies, according to Pehe.  “There’s a number of politicians who know that if the
government falls, their political existence is over,” Pehe
said. “The likelihood of the government surviving is greater
than that of it falling.”  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Alan Crosby  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Balazs Penz at  bpenz@bloomberg.net  