-- Danish Central Bank Says Cibor Banks May Have Breached Rules
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-08-21T08:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/danish-central-bank-says-cibor-banks-may-have-breached-rules-1-.html
Danish lenders providing quotes for
the  Copenhagen interbank offered rate  may have breached
competition rules, pushing the rate higher, the  central bank 
said in a review of its role since the rate’s creation in 1988.  The central bank said that talks with the Danish Bankers
Association had failed to clear up why Cibor was higher than
similar rates in  Europe  after the financial crisis hit in 2007,
and that it informed competition authorities in March last year
that it would stop distributing Cibor. The bank said it told the
authorities there “could be a breach of competition rules.”  The Copenhagen-based Nationalbank last year stopped
administering the rate after finding it could no longer “assess
the quality.” The bank released a five-page document yesterday
detailing its role, as well as supplementary documents, amid a
government investigation.  The bankers association declined to comment today on the
report and said it will complete its own review this month.  “We’re continuing with our investigation and will answer
questions when our investigation is published,” Mikael Winkler,
a spokesman for the industry group, said by phone.  Government Review  Business Minister Ole Sohn is reviewing whether a full
investigation of Cibor is needed after analysts at Stockholm-
based  SEB AB (SEBA)  said Cibor had been fixed too high. Sohn said Aug.
3 in an e-mailed response to questions that he was taking action
after industry efforts to improve transparency and adopt a
second rate had stalled.  Cibor serves as a benchmark rate for about 20 percent, or
$70 billion, of all Danish residential and commercial property
loans.  Replacing Cibor is “not realistic” because of the large
amount of outstanding contracts based on the rate, central bank
spokesman Karsten Biltoft said Aug. 3 in an e-mailed response to
questions. The bank has urged the industry to adopt a
supplementary rate, a recommendation echoed in a report last
year by a working group investigating alternatives.  Barclays Plc, fined a record 290 million pounds ($457
million) in June for attempting to rig the London interbank
offered rate, will cease to provide bids for Cibor, reducing the
number of quoting banks to seven, the Danish Bankers Association
said Aug. 2.  Cibor shows what banks say they are willing to lend at, in
contrast with Libor, which shows the rate at which banks say
they can borrow. Three-month Cibor was fixed yesterday at a
record low 0.3050 percent in Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  