-- David Silva Holding Out for Bigger Pay Deal at City: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-21T10:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/david-silva-holding-out-for-bigger-pay-deal-at-city-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Silva’s Waiting Game  Manchester City ’s  David Silva  has yet to agree on a new pay
deal with his club, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Talks between City and the midfielder’s representatives
have been going on since June. Silva, who signed a 130,000
pounds ($205,000) a week pay deal when he joined, may be holding
out for a pay check comparable to that of clubmate  Carlos Tevez ,
who earns about 200,000 pounds a week, the newspaper said.  QPR Target  Queens Park Rangers may move to sign Tottenham defender
 Michael Dawson  amid doubts over his future at White Hart Lane,
 the Daily Mail  reported.  QPR manager  Mark Hughes  is keen to bring in a center-back,
and he’s also watched Barcelona’s Andreu Fontas and St.
Etienne’s Kurt Zouma, the newspaper added. QPR lost 5-0 at home
to Swansea at the weekend.  Adebayor Spurs-Bound?  Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor is close to
completing a 5 million-pound move to Tottenham Hotspur by the
end of this week, the  Sun  reported.  The player, who moved to City from Arsenal in a 25 million-
pound deal for weekly wages of 170,000 pounds three years ago,
has agreed to take a “significant pay cut” at Spurs, where
he’s played on loan, the paper said.  Sunderland Chasing Dempsey  Sunderland is interested in Fulham’s U.S. forward  Clint Dempsey , a target for Liverpool, the  Mail  reported. The Black
Cats are also monitoring Crystal Palace’s Wilfried Zaha and
Dnipro defender Ivan Strinic, the paper said.  Douglas Decision  FC Twente defender Douglas will decide whether to join
Newcastle or Fulham after both teams offered 4.5 million pounds
for him,  the Mail  reported.  The Brazilian center-back has a year left on his contract,
the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  