-- Dell Said to Hire Former HP Executive Haas for Enterprise Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-21T18:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/dell-said-to-hire-former-hp-executive-haas-for-enterprise-unit.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  hired Marius Haas, a KKR &
Co. adviser and former executive at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , to run
its enterprise-computing group, replacing president Brad
Anderson, a person briefed on the matter said.  The move was announced to senior executives at  Round Rock ,
Texas-based Dell today, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been disclosed publicly.
Haas, who joined private equity firm KKR last year, had spent a
decade at Hewlett-Packard running the computer-networking group
and scouting for acquisitions.  Dell has been trying to recruit executives to help expand
beyond its roots as a maker of low-margin personal computers
into a supplier of software, data center equipment and
technology services for businesses. The turnaround effort has
been uneven, and fiscal second-quarter results scheduled for
later today will show falling  sales  and a third consecutive
decline in profit excluding certain costs, according to the
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Anderson, who is departing, had oversight of engineering,
design, development and marketing of such business-focused
products as servers, storage gear and networking equipment.
While those are performing better than the consumer division,
they too are under pressure amid rising competition and demand
that’s been crimped by global economic malaise. Sales to large
businesses  declined  3 percent in the first quarter.  Haas Background  Haas spent a  decade  at Hewlett-Packard, most recently as a
senior vice president in charge of corporate development and
enterprise computing products at a time when the company was
expanding in networking to challenge Cisco Systems Inc. He
departed last year to join KKR as an industry adviser in Silicon
Valley working on technology deals.  He had previously worked at Compaq Computer, which Hewlett-
Packard bought in 2002.  Haas didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  David
Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Dell earlier this year hired John Swainson, former CEO of
CA Inc., to expand its software group.  Technology blog AllThingsD previously reported that Dell
was in talks to hire Haas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  