-- Dell Forecast Misses Estimates as PC Sales Continue Slump
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-22T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/dell-forecast-misses-estimates-as-pc-sales-continue-slump.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  declined the most in three
months after cutting this year’s profit forecast as revenue from
corporate customers fails to counter shrinking personal computer
sales.  The company yesterday forecast third-quarter revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates and cut its profit outlook by 20
percent, as competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and an anemic
global economic recovery drags down PC demand.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell ’s strategy of using
 acquisitions  to add software, storage and networking equipment
has been slow to offset declining sales of desktops and laptops,
which account for  half  of revenue. Consumers and businesses
increasingly favor the iPad and other tablet computers over
traditional machines.  “It’s a half-decade journey or more for Dell to transition
from where they have been to more enterprise sales,” said  Frank Gillett , an analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  “It’s a long
transformation project.”  Since Dell is so reliant on business sales -- just 18
percent of revenue was from consumers last quarter -- it’s
subject to long upgrade cycles for PCs running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
operating system, Gillett said. The next version, Windows 8, is
due out in October.  “In general companies tend to be slow to do upgrades and
they’re being even more conservative this time,” Gillett said.  Dell fell 5.4 percent to $11.68 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since May 23. The stock  has lost  20 percent
this year.  Lower Outlook  Business customers are taking “a wait-and-see approach”
on forthcoming tablets based on Windows 8, Chief Financial
Officer Brian Gladden said on a call with analysts yesterday.  Revenue in the current quarter that ends in October will
decline 2 percent to 5 percent from the prior three-month
period, the  Round Rock , Texas company said in a statement
yesterday. That’s the equivalent of $13.8 billion to $14.2
billion in sales, less than the $14.9 billion average analyst
 estimate , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fiscal 2013 earnings excluding some items will be at least
$1.70 a share, including a 2- to 3-cent dilutive impact from the
pending acquisition of  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT)  That’s less than the
company’s February projection of at least $2.13 a share, and
also missed the average $1.90 estimate.  The computer industry’s transition to Windows-based tablet
PCs is also causing retailers and commercial resellers to reduce
stock, overshadowing Dell’s gains in sales to companies.  Changing Sales  “Enterprise demand obviously in the second quarter was
solid,” CEO Dell said on the conference call. “Increasingly
we’re changing the sale to be a complete data center sale.”  Dell is hiring Marius Haas, a former adviser at KKR & Co.
and executive at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , who’ll join the company as
president of enterprise solutions. Brad Anderson, who had held
the position, is leaving Dell.  Haas “inherits a business that is growing and in great
shape,” Gladden told analysts. Last month, Dell agreed to
acquire Quest, a maker of programs to manage corporate computer
systems, for about $2.4 billion. In May, Dell bought closely
held Wyse Technology Inc. to gain desktop devices used by cloud-
computing customers.  Yet even past growth engines such as Dell’s own storage
products and enterprise services are slowing, ISI Group Inc.
analyst  Brian Marshall  said in a note to clients yesterday.  Dell-owned  storage devices , not counting those it resells
on behalf of  EMC Corp. (EMC) , rose 6 percent in the second quarter
after three straight quarters of 20 percent growth, he said.  Tough Environment  Second-quarter net income fell to $732 million, or 42 cents
a share, from $890 million, or 48 cents, a year earlier.
Earnings excluding some items were 50 cents a share, compared
with an average analyst estimate of 45 cents.  Sales in the second quarter, ended in July, declined 7.5
percent to $14.5 billion, missing analysts’ $14.6 billion
average estimate. Consumer revenue tumbled 22 percent to $2.6
billion in the quarter on waning demand for PCs. Sales of
enterprise services and solutions, which includes data-center
products, climbed 6 percent to $4.9 billion.  “Part of the problem Dell is having is the macro
environment,” said Maynard Um, an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities in  New York . “The end markets are not buying,”
though the company has done a good job controlling expenses,’’
said Um, who has a  market perform  rating on the stock.  ‘More Challenging’  While enterprise revenue growth will persist, declining PC
sales prompted Dell to cut its full-year forecast, Gladden said
in an interview. “The second half is a little bit more
challenging” as retailers and distributors waiting for the
release of Windows 8 hold off on orders, he said.  The Microsoft operating system, designed to run on tablets
as well as traditional PCs, may give PC makers a counterweight
to Apple’s iPad in the touch-screen device market.  Dell is one of four PC makers Microsoft said would offer
tablets using Windows RT, a version of the software tailored for
chips from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)  Gaining a presence in tablets is
important for Dell, which has said desktop and laptop sales will
be little changed over the next three years.  Global PC sales stalled in the second quarter, a seventh
straight period of anemic growth, market researcher Gartner Inc.
said last month.  -- Editors: Lisa Rapaport, Ben Livesey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  