-- Diamond Sales in Holiday Season Vital After Slow Year, Gem Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-08-21T08:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/diamond-sales-in-holiday-season-vital-after-slow-year-gem-says.html
The Thanksgiving and Christmas
holidays will be make or break for the diamond industry after a
slow year, according to  Gem Diamonds Ltd. (GEMD)   Holiday sales are “going to be extremely important,”
Chief Executive Officer Clifford Elphick said today in a phone
interview. “If it turns out to be reasonable I think all of us
in the industry will give a collective sigh of relief. If it
doesn’t go well it’s going to extend this period of
twitchiness.”  Rough diamond prices fell 13 percent in the second quarter
as Asian purchases slowed and the euro zone debt crisis eroded
demand, according to data compiled by WWW International Diamond
Consultants Ltd. Prices have risen by more than 20 percent in
each of the past three years as producers struggled to keep pace
with consumption.  Growth in global diamond demand may slow this year to about
3 percent to 5 percent from a record 10 percent in 2011,  De
Beers , the world’s biggest producer by value, said last week.
Chinese demand growth may slow to 5 percent to 10 percent
compared with as much as 30 percent last year. The U.S. is the
biggest consumer of diamonds and accounted for about 37 percent
of demand last year, according to BMO Capital Markets.  “Our two main markets are America and  China  and that is
really where we look all the time for a lead as to where diamond
prices are likely to go,” Elphick said. “Unfortunately as of
today there are no clear trends. It’s too difficult to
forecast.”  Gem, which operates the Letseng mine in  Lesotho , earlier
said that first-half profit fell 50 percent to $14.3 million.
The shares dropped 2.2 percent to 185.9 pence as of 8:33 a.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  