-- DreamWorks Animation Rises on Fox Film Accord: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-21T15:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/dreamworks-animation-rises-on-fox-film-accord-los-angeles-mover.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
maker of the computer-generated “Shrek” movies, rose as much
as 4.6 percent after the company signed an agreement with
Twentieth Century Fox to distribute its films.  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale,  California ,
 advanced  2.3 percent to $18.12 at 11:26 a.m. in  New York  after
reaching $18.53, the biggest intraday gain since June 27. The
stock had declined 6.5 percent in the past year prior to
yesterday’s agreement.  The deal advances Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg ’s goal of slicing costs to counter shrinking DVD
sales while he pursues new initiatives. DreamWorks Animation
will pay News Corp.’s Fox the same 8 percent fee received by its
former partner,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures . The company
will spend less -- 6 percent -- on formats such video-on-demand
and keep revenue from domestic television such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Katzenberg, pitting Fox against  Sony Corp. (6758)  in negotiations,
pushed to lower costs at the studio, which is also battling
tougher competition for family audiences. He said he’s
considering Fox as a partner in cable-television channels he
plans in the U.S. and elsewhere.  “It is a topic of interest and one that we will pursue,”
Katzenberg said of his TV ambitions on a conference call.
“Certainly we’ll be pursuing it with our partners at Fox.”  This year, DreamWorks Animation has announced plans for a
New Jersey theme park, as well as an animation studio and live
entertainment venture in  China . Last month, Katzenberg announced
a deal to  acquire  Classic Media, owner of characters including
Casper the ghost.  Distribution Fees  Lower distribution fees will further improve the company’s
financial situation, he said.  “Our new agreement with Fox presents more favorable
economics overall,” Katzenberg said in a statement.  DreamWorks Animation will pay 8 percent to Fox for home-
video and international television sales, in addition to
theatrical distribution of its movies, according to Katzenberg.  Altogether, the Fox agreement amounts to about a 1 percent
fee reduction for DreamWorks Animation,  Barton Crockett , an
analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in New York, wrote in a
research note. Lazard had expected a reduction of about 1.5
percent in DreamWorks Animation’s costs, he said.  “The main advantage is that DreamWorks has a solid partner
in Fox,” he wrote.  Katzenberg has said he plans to use the characters from
Classic Media to help create a cable-television channel for both
the U.S. and international markets. While the company is
discussing a venture with Fox, it is free to look elsewhere for
a partner, Katzenberg said.  Share Decline  “This remains both an ambition and an opportunity for
us,” Katzenberg said. “They have enormous expertise and
experience in this area,” he said of Fox, citing the company’s
350 international channels.  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in New York, rose 2 percent to $23.51.
The Class A stock had gained 29 percent in 2012 as of yesterday.  DreamWorks Animation’s net income is  projected  to drop to
$71 million this year, the average of five analysts’ estimates,
from $218.4 million in 2007. The shares have lost about 60
percent from a high of $44 in March 2010.  Paramount will distribute “Rise of the Guardians,” its
last film for DreamWorks Animation, in November. Fox will start
with “The Croods” in March, Katzenberg said.  Fox already produces and distributes animated films. Its
July 13 release, “Ice Age: Continental Drift,” has collected
almost $800 million in worldwide sales, the most of any animated
feature this year, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” DreamWorks
Animation’s one release so far this year, has collected $565
million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  DreamWorks Animation has three releases scheduled for 2013,
including “The Croods,” “Turbo” in July and “Mr. Peabody &
Sherman,” in December, according to Box Office Mojo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  