-- Economists Risk Labeling as Political Hacks
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 2012-08-21T22:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/economists-risk-labeling-as-political-hacks.html
Some 500 of my colleagues in
economics, almost all academics, have signed a  statement 
applauding former Governor  Mitt Romney ’s economic plan and
condemning President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy. The
statement amounts to an endorsement of Romney’s presidential
candidacy. As such, it represents a disservice to the economics
profession as well as to the statement’s signatories, five of
whom are Nobel laureates.  Economics holds itself out as a  science , yet here we have
supposedly impartial scientists declaring that all of Romney’s
proposed economic policies are good and that everything the
president has done on the economics front has been misguided and
flawed.  No impartial economist would make such blanket assertions.
By their very nature, such statements represent political, not
scientific, opinion. Yet the signatories not only identified
themselves as professional economists; they also specified their
university or other institutional affiliations, thereby
implicating places such as the  University of Chicago  in their
political pronouncements.  Having run for president on the Americans Elect platform
before it was disbanded in May, I may be questioned about my own
impartiality in objecting to the politicization of economics.
But in my short campaign, I limited my public statements and Web
postings to the policies I favor, and I almost entirely avoided
any criticisms of either the president’s or former governor’s
positions. I did this because I was running as an economist, not
as a politician.  Professional Rot  The decision of the 500 U.S. economists, many from the
leading ranks of the profession, to trade in their credentials
as economists for that of campaign workers is just the latest
sign that something’s rotten in economics. The documentary
“Inside Job,” demonstrated how prominent economists failed to
disclose, as standard ethics require, when they are being paid
for their professional opinions.  Then there is the increasingly nasty op-ed war pursued by
political economists, such as  Paul Krugman  and  Glenn Hubbard ,
who have so closely aligned themselves with one of the two
parties that it’s impossible to know where their politics stop
and their economic analyses begin.  The worst part of all this is that the new political
economics routinely diverges so far from economic theory and
fact.  Take the very first statement in the Romney endorsement,
namely that the Republican candidate’s economic policy would
“reduce marginal tax rates on businesses and wage incomes and
broaden the tax base to increase investment, jobs, and living
standards.”  Any well-trained economist -- and the Romney 500 are
certainly very well-trained -- knows that tax cuts produce both
incentive and redistribution effects. We call these substitution
and income effects. The Romney tax plan has relatively minor
incentive effects and the income effects of its base broadening
go in the wrong direction.  Here’s the point, absent the jargon. To invest more, we
need to save more. But to save more, we need to consume less. In
the 1950s, the U.S. saved 15 percent of national income. The net
domestic investment rate was equally high. Today, America saves
1 percent of national income and invests only 5 percent of
national income, with the four percentage-point difference being
made up by the current account deficit -- by Chinese and other
foreign investment.  Consumption Spree  The U.S. didn’t go on a six-decade spending spree because
of changes in the share of national income consumed by federal,
state and local government. Nor did the consumption spree
reflect worsening incentives to save. Marginal effective tax
rates on saving have dropped enormously during the postwar
period. Most American households have long faced zero effective
marginal tax rates on saving because they can set money aside
within their 401(k) and other retirement accounts.  So if government isn’t consuming more and if people have
much better incentives to save, why does the U.S. save and
invest next to nothing? The answer is the income effect. Every
administration starting with Dwight Eisenhower’s has expanded
America’s Ponzi scheme, which takes resources from young savers
(including those not yet born whose current spending is zero)
and gives them to old spenders. This huge intergenerational
redistribution has produced an enormous increase in the absolute
and relative consumption of the elderly.  This is just what the life-cycle model of saving predicts.
If you take money from the young and tell them they will get it
back in spades when old, and then give this money to retirees,
the following will, as a matter of theory and practice, happen:
The elderly will go shopping, the young won’t bother saving,
national consumption will rise, and domestic investment will
fall.  Expanding  Social Security , Medicare and Medicaid benefits,
shifting the structure of the tax system to lower the burden on
retirees relative to workers, and cutting taxes have all saddled
the U.S. with unsupportable obligations. Running two futile and
incredibly expensive wars over the past decade have further
contributed to the bills that America’s children face.  None of this, of course, is mentioned in the economists’
endorsement of Romney. Instead, the statement indicates that
today’s elderly, including the likes of  Warren Buffett , should
experience no reduction in their Social Security or Medicare
benefits. That is, the statement endorses leaving future
generations to cover what now amounts to a $222 trillion fiscal
gap between future expenditure and taxes.  Economic theory isn’t up for grabs. Economic facts aren’t a
matter of choice. And the integrity of the economics profession
isn’t free for disposal. The 500 economists owe our profession a
sincere apology.  (Laurence Kotlikoff is an economist at  Boston University 
and the co-author, with  Scott Burns , of “The Clash of
Generations.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on eliminating the  wind-energy
tax credit  and on  Congo’s bloody trade  in minerals; Clive Crook
on how badly the  EU would botch  a euro breakup;  Edward Glaeser 
on getting the  Army Corps  of Engineers  out of your neighborhood ;
 Michael Kinsley  on how  Ayn Rand  would make  Paul Ryan   a better
vice president ; William L. Silber on  Paul Volcker ’s  goldless
gold standard .  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  