-- Edison to Cut Staff by a Third at Shut San Onofre Nuclear Plant
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-08-21T02:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/edison-to-cut-staff-by-a-third-at-shut-san-onofre-nuclear-plant.html
Edison International (EIX) , owner of
California’s second-largest electric utility, will reduce staff
at its shuttered San Onofre nuclear plant by a third, saying one
of the units may be out of service for “some time.”  Southern California Edison will cut 730 positions at San
Onofre by the fourth quarter, the Rosemead, California-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Staffing and costs at the
site are significantly higher than comparable nuclear plants,
the utility said.  San Onofre has been shut since January after federal
regulators found unusual wear in steam generator tubes that
carry radioactive water. The plant’s Unit 3 reactor, which had a
tube leak in January, had more damage than Unit 2, and may need
extensive repairs before restarting, the company said in a July
31 regulatory filing. Unit 2 was also shut in January for
refueling and maintenance.  The utility must “be prudent with its future spending
while Southern  California  Edison and regulators review the long-
term viability of the nuclear power plant,” Edison said in the
statement. “The reality is that the Unit 3 reactor will not be
operating for some time.”  The shutdown has cost $165 million in inspection, repair
and replacement power costs as of June 30, Edison said in a July
31 presentation to investors. The remaining workforce at San
Onofre will be about 1,500, Edison said yesterday.  The effort to reduce costs at San Onofre started two years
ago, the company said, adding that it had testified before
California regulators about the anticipated job cuts.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said last month that
the tube wear at San Onofre was the result of faulty computer
modeling and manufacturing issues. Edison must get the agency’s
approval to restart either unit.  The nuclear plant is located about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of  Los Angeles  and can produce 2,150 megawatts, or enough
power for 1.4 million homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  