-- Medtronic’s Drug Pump Failure Prompts FDA Meeting Request
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-21T20:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/medtronic-s-profit-rises-on-demand-for-drug-coated-stents.html
Implanted pumps made by  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT)  to deliver painkillers and drugs may corrode and fail, said
U.S. regulators who requested a meeting to discuss the issue.  The  Food and Drug Administration  letter stems from an
inspection at the neuromodulation unit for Minneapolis-based
Medtronic that concluded May 9 and found corrosion in the
SynchroMed II pump can cause the motor to stall or seize.  While the failure was identified in October 2007,
Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices,
doesn’t yet have a plan to prevent future recurrences, the
agency said in its letter. There have been 567 complaints from
corrosion, according to the FDA.  “There is no one else in the market with this product, and
it has considerable benefit to patients,” Chief Executive
Officer Omar Ishrak said by telephone. “The FDA is interested
in understanding the details and what our plans are, and the
opportunity to present this information to them is a good one.”  Medtronic fell less than 1 percent to $41.14 at the close
in  New York . The company reported first-quarter earnings of 85
cents a share today that matched analyst estimates and
reiterated its fiscal 2013 profit  forecast  of $3.62 to $3.70 a
share.  The plan Medtronic proposed to monitor and evaluate
complaints with its products in the future is adequate, the
agency said in the July 17 letter.  Independent Review  The regulator requested an independent outside review to
confirm the company is handling reports of device malfunction
properly after its earlier efforts failed to document withdrawal
symptoms, increasing pain levels and other problems with the
devices, the agency said.  Last year, Medtronic recalled the SynchroMed II and warned
doctors the pump batteries may fail. A failure can lead to
sudden loss of therapy, the return of symptoms or drug
withdrawal, which in some cases can be fatal, the company said.
The company has since received approval for a new battery and
the device continues to be sold.  Medtronic confirmed the potential for corrosion in the pump
motor and is working to resolve the issue, Donna Marquard, a
company spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. The device
remains reliable and is performing as well or better than
expected, she said.  “We remain confident in the SynchroMed II pump and its
ability to delivery safe and effective therapy for people who
need it,” Marquard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  