-- Meles, Ethiopian Leader Behind Economic Growth, Dies at 57
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-08-21T06:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/meles-zenawi-ethiopia-leader-behind-economic-growth-dies-at-57.html
Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian prime
minister praised for overseeing one of  Africa ’s fastest-growing
economies and criticized by human rights advocates, has died
from an infection after being sick for weeks. He was 57.  Meles had been recuperating at a hospital overseas from an
undisclosed ailment when he died late yesterday, government
spokesman Bereket Simon said in a phone interview today from the
capital,  Addis Ababa . Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn
is now serving as acting prime minister, Bereket said.  “He was recovering from an illness and then suddenly got
an infection while abroad,” Bereket said without giving further
details.  Meles, was head of the ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front , or EPRDF, and led Africa’s
second-most  populous  country for more than two decades after
building a coalition of rebel groups to overthrow Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Marxist military junta in 1991.  His economic policies, which mixed a large state role with
private investment, helped the country achieve  economic growth 
rates of as much as 12.6 percent. The economy expanded an
average of 11 percent annually from 2004 through 2011, according
to International Monetary Fund data.  ‘Right Policies’  “Meles showed that, with the right policies in place, even
a poor African country could experience sustained economic
growth,”  Joseph E. Stiglitz , a Nobel laureate in economics,
wrote in “Globalization and Its Discontents,” his 2002 book.
“No one doubted his honesty and there were few accusations of
corruption within his government.”  Infrastructure was one of the biggest beneficiaries of
increased  government spending , foreign investment and
remittances sent home by Ethiopians living abroad, including the
flagship 80 billion-birr ($4.5 billion), 6,000-megawatt
hydropower dam intended to help the country boost electricity
exports to countries in the region including Kenya and  Sudan .  Meles took a leave of absence from his official duties to
recover from an unspecified illness after he failed to attend
the African Union summit last month, the government said.  Ethiopia  ranked 174th out of 187 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s 2011  Human Development Index ,
which measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .
Four of every 10 people lived on a $1.25 a day or less as of
2011, World Bank  data  show. In 2011, the country was Africa’s
biggest recipient of foreign aid, totaling $3.53 billion,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  U.S. Ally  Under Meles, Ethiopia’s government was a U.S. ally in the
fight against insurgencies in the Horn of Africa, especially in
 Somalia , where the military helped remove an Islamist group from
power in 2006. The U.S. government provided $6.23 billion in
assistance, including food aid and military training funds
between 2000 and 2011, according to the U.S. State Department.  The UN and advocacy groups including  Human Rights Watch ,
based in  New York , have criticized Meles’s government for
cracking down on civil liberties and introducing anti-terrorism
laws in 2009 that have been used to jail opposition politicians,
reporters and aid workers.  On July 13, 2012, an Ethiopian court jailed writer Eskinder
Nega for 18 years and sentenced opposition activist Andualem
Arage to life in prison for plotting against the government. In
2011, two Swedish journalists were sentenced to 11 years each by
an Ethiopian court for supporting terrorism after being captured
with a banned rebel group.  Election Violence  Elections in Ethiopia have been marred by violence and
reports of intimidation of opposition supporters, according to
the U.S. State Department. In 2005, Ethiopian security forces
shot dead almost 200 people protesting the results of a disputed
parliamentary vote. In 2010, Meles’s ruling party and its allies
won all but two of the 547 seats in parliament in a vote that
the European Union said was “heavily” balanced in favor of
EPRDF.  While Meles championed deeper African cooperation, hosting
the African Union headquarters in Ethiopia’s capital, Addis
Ababa, and raising the continent’s profile on the world stage in
different forums including through his appointment to Commission
on Africa by former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair , he also
faced foreign policy challenges from neighboring countries.  The country fought a war with Eritrea over a disputed
border region between 1998 and 2000 that killed 70,000 people
and the issue unresolved.  Eritrean Mother  Meles was born as Legesse Zenawi on May 8, 1955, in Adwa in
northern Ethiopia, to an Ethiopian father and Eritrean mother.
Adwa was the site of a major Ethiopian victory against invading
Italian forces in 1896. He quit medical school at age 19 to take
up arms with the Tigrayan People’s Liberation Front against
Mengistu in 1975. He changed his name to Meles in honor of a
revolutionary executed by the government that year.  He received a master’s of business administration from the
Open University in  Milton Keynes , U.K., in 1995 and a master’s
in economics from Erasmus University in Rotterdam in 2004.  He and his wife, Azeb Mesfin, had three children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  