-- Elpida to Get 280 Billion Yen in Support From Micron, Asahi Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-21T01:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/elpida-to-get-280-billion-yen-in-support-from-micron-asahi-says.html
Elpida Memory Inc., the bankrupt
Japanese chipmaker being bought by  Micron (MU)  Technology Inc., will
get 280 billion yen ($3.5 billion) in support from the U.S.
company, the Asahi newspaper said.  Micron will buy Elpida shares for 60 billion yen to make it
wholly owned in the first half of 2013, according to a revival
plan to be submitted in Tokyo District Court today, the Asahi
reported without saying where it got the information. Micron, a
Boise, Idaho-based maker of computer memory, will provide 80
billion yen in loans and debt guarantees and help Elpida
generate 140 billion yen in profit by buying its chips during a
seven-year period, the report said.  The revival plan is critical for Elpida President Yukio Sakamoto, one of the court-appointed trustees, to convince
bondholders Micron can turn around his company. Combining with
Elpida would double Micron’s share of the global market for
dynamic random access memory -- the most widely used memory
chips in personal computers -- and help it compete with market
leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Micron agreed last month to buy Elpida for 200 billion yen,
though creditors told the court they believe Elpida is worth 300
billion yen. Micron will pay 60 billion yen in cash at the
closing of the deal, and 140 billion yen in future annual
installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow  generated by
Micron’s payments for chips made by Elpida, according to a July
2 statement by the two companies. The companies said they plan
to complete the transaction in the first half of 2013.  Bondholders’ Proposal  “Micron believes its proposal offers the best and most
certain alternative for various stakeholders of Elpida,
including the creditors, the employees, Elpida customers and the
Japanese semiconductor industry,” Dan Francisco, a Micron
spokesman, said in a e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
further.  Elpida declined to comment on the Asahi report.  Elpida bondholders, representing 20 institutional
investors, submitted their version of a revival plan that
includes offering 30 billion yen in credit, the group said Aug.
14. The group is seeking investors other than Micron, it said.  The group will ask the court to present its revival plan in
a creditor vote that may be held in October, according to the
statement.  Elpida, an Apple Inc. supplier,  sought  protection from
creditors in February with 448 billion yen of liabilities after
lower prices for DRAM chips and a stronger yen, which erodes the
value of repatriated earnings from overseas, led the company to
report a fifth straight quarter of losses.  Micron, the largest U.S. maker of computer memory, won
approval from the Tokyo District Court in May to negotiate to
buy Elpida’s entire business after the Japanese company held two
rounds of bidding. The agreement announced July 2 is subject to
approval by the court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  