-- Temasek Holdings Said to Sell APB Brewer Stake to Heineken
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 2012-08-21T14:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/temasek-holdings-said-to-sell-apb-brewer-stake-to-heineken-1-.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, sold its stake in  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB)  to  Heineken NV (HEIA) , according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Temasek sold its stake of about 1.4 percent to Amsterdam-
based brewer Heineken for S$53 a share, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the transaction hasn’t
been publicly announced.  Heineken, which already owns 42 percent of Singapore-based
APB, offered to buy Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s 40 percent stake in
the company for S$53 a share to prevent a company connected to a
Thai billionaire from disrupting the Dutch brewer’s control.
F&N’s board advised shareholders to accept the offer, which
values the stake at about S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion), it said
in a statement Aug. 18. Heineken had previously offered S$50 a
share for the brewer of Tiger beer.  Heineken’s shares rose as much as 1.8 percent to 44.64
euros and were up 1.1 percent at 4:22 p.m. in Amsterdam. Reuters
reported the stake sale earlier today.  Heineken wants  full ownership  of APB, which it has
controlled via a joint venture with F&N since 1931, to protect
its sales and distribution network in the  emerging markets  of
southeast  Asia . It made an offer after Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi and a company controlled by his son-in-law
bought stakes in both APB and F&N.  Heineken’s offer for F&N’s stake is subject to approval of
shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting, after which it
will make a mandatory general offer for the remaining shares,
which would have included Temasek’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  