-- Ethiopian Succession Battle May Test Stability of Key U.S. Ally
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-08-21T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/ethiopian-succession-battle-may-test-stability-of-key-u-s-ally.html
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s death may cause a succession battle that could test the
stability of one of  Africa ’s fastest-growing economies and a key
ally in the U.S.’s war against al-Qaeda.  The 57-year-old premier died Aug. 20 from an infection
after recuperating at a hospital in an undisclosed location from
an unspecified illness. Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn is serving as acting prime minister.  Competition to succeed Meles may fracture the unity of the
ruling Ethiopian Peoples’ Revolutionary Democratic Front and
embolden opposition groups frustrated by years of government
suppression, said analysts including Jennifer Cooke, director of
the Africa Program at the Washington-based Center for Strategic
and International Studies. That may jeopardize a state-driven
program that generated average economic growth of 11 percent
over the past seven years, while placing at risk  Ethiopia ’s role
as a peacekeeper in the Horn of Africa region.  “Meles has played such an outsized role in the country’s
leadership that there’s no obvious successor or power broker
within the EPRDF who will now take firm charge,” Cooke said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Meles’s administration mixed government spending on
infrastructure like roads and hydropower plants with investment
by companies including Amsterdam-based  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s
third-biggest brewer, and those owned by Saudi billionaire
Mohamed al-Amoudi to spur the economy. Growth in Africa’s
biggest coffee-producing nation may slow to 6.5 percent in 2013
from 7 percent this year amid the global economic slowdown,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Western Ally  Ethiopia under Meles also benefited economically from its
partnership with Western allies on security issues. It’s helped
fight insurgencies in  Somalia , where Meles sent troops for the
second time in December to help drive out al-Qaeda-linked
militants, and its forces patrol Abyei, which is claimed by both
 Sudan  and  South Sudan . In 2011, the country was Africa’s biggest
recipient of foreign aid, totaling $3.53 billion, according to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Meles came to power after building a coalition of rebel
groups to overthrow Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Marxist military
junta in 1991. Since then he has consolidated power by purging
potential rivals and promoting those loyal to him. He also
strengthened the authority of the ruling party by cracking down
on opposition parties and using counter-terrorism legislation to
jail reporters and dissenters.  ‘Significant Tensions’  “The current government’s suppression of any kind of
democratic process or debate means that there are significant
tensions and resentments within the country that have had no
outlet or expression,” Cooke said. “If the ruling coalition is
distracted or weakened by infighting, opposition parties will
see an opportunity to press their case.”  Potential successors in addition to Hailemariam include the
State Minister for Foreign Affairs Berhane Gebrekristos from
Meles’s Tigray People’s Liberation Front, or TPLF; Amhara
Regional State President Ayalew Gobeze; and Health Minister
Tewodros Adhanom Gebreyesus, who is a TPLF executive committee
member, said Terrence Lyons, associate professor of conflict
resolution at  George Mason University  in Virginia.  The TPLF forms the core of the EPRDF coalition, which in
1994 ushered in a constitution that divided Ethiopia into nine
ethnically based federal regions and two autonomous cities.
Besides the TPLF, the Oromo and Amhara communities and a
grouping of smaller ethnic communities from the country’s south
each have parties in the coalition. The Oromo make up 35 percent
of Ethiopia’s population, the Amhara 27 percent and the Tigray 6
percent, according to the  U.S. State Department .  Chosen One  Hailemariam was Meles’s chosen successor, Seeye Abraha, a
former executive committee member of the TPLF, turned political
opponent, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Hailemariam
is deputy chairman of the EPRDF that along with its allies
controls all but two of the seats in the nation’s 547-seat
parliament. He is a Wolayta, one of three main ethnic groups in
the politically fragmented southern region.  Hailemariam may not “wield much power” because officials
from the TPLF will retain control of the security services and
key ministries, said Michael Woldemariam, an assistant professor
in the Department of International Relations at  Boston
University  in  Massachusetts .  Seeye, who served as defense minister from 1991 to 1995,
was one of 12 individuals purged from the TPLF leadership in
2001 after criticizing Meles for perceived weaknesses in his
handling of a two-year border war with Eritrea that ended in
2000 and cost 70,000 lives.  ‘Smart Politics’  The next leader will “have to come from outside the TPLF”
because of Tigrayans’ minority status, former U.S. Ambassador to
Ethiopia  David Shinn  said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“It is simply smart politics for the EPRDF to share the top
spot.”  “Instability may occur if new splits emerge within the
TPLF,” Woldemariam said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “If the TPLF can retain its unity and integrity,
then I think a slide into instability is unlikely. A split in
its upper echelons would likely infect the EPRDF’s other
coalition partners as TPLF factions vie for support.”  A rupture in the Tigrayan group may also cause unrest in
the security services it controls, he said.  Several insurgent groups operate in Ethiopia, including the
banned Oromo Liberation Front, which withdrew from the
government in 1993, and the Ogaden National Liberation Front
that fights for more autonomy for the ethnic-Somali Ogadeni
people.  Muslim Protests  Over the past 10 months, the government has also faced
demonstrations by Muslims against government interference in
their community in  Addis Ababa  and other towns. About a third of
Ethiopia’s 94 million people are Muslim, according to the CIA
World Factbook.  The regional importance of Ethiopia, Africa’s second-most
populous nation, in fighting al-Qaeda makes the U.S. “deeply
concerned at the prospect of a destabilizing or uncertain
transition in Ethiopia,” Cooke said.  Ethiopia received $6.23 billion in assistance from the U.S.
between 2000 and 2011, according to the State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 