-- Dollar Declines as Fed Signals It’s Prepared to Stimulate
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-22T21:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/euro-near-6-week-high-on-europe-debt-crisis-optimism.html
The dollar weakened to a six-week
low against the euro after minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s
latest policy meeting showed officials remain supportive of more
stimulus unless the economy shows signs of expansion.  The greenback strengthened earlier with the yen after Japan
reported a wider-than-estimated trade deficit in July. The euro
advanced as Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said in  Athens 
his government was determined to meet all bailout targets and
exit the sovereign-debt crisis. The dollar weakened below $1.25
per euro and reversed a gain against the majority of its most-
traded counterparts on concern additional stimulus would debase
the currency.  “The text was reasonably clear in suggesting that more
stimulus is potentially coming and coming quite soon,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency research and global head
of foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. Expectations for “the
quantitative-easing idea had been pushed out in the future. That
was a little bit of a surprise and that’s the reaction you’re
seeing in the dollar.”  The U.S. currency fell 0.5 percent to $1.2529 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after touching $1.2538, the weakest level
since July 5. It declined 0.9 percent to 78.58 yen. Japan’s
currency rose 0.4 percent to 98.45 per euro.  “Many members judged that additional monetary
accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon unless
incoming information pointed to a substantial and sustainable
strengthening in the pace of the economic recovery,” according
to the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July 31-
Aug. 1 gathering released today in  Washington .  Record Stimulus  Policy makers said after the meeting that they will step up
record stimulus if needed to spur growth and cut a jobless rate
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will have an opportunity to clarify his views in an
Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , where he signaled a second round of bond buying by the
Fed in 2010. Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt between 2008 and 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have
held the Fed’s  key rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
2008 and plan to keep it there at least through late 2014.  ‘Stale’ Minutes  The minutes were more “stale” than usual, said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in New York, since
better than expected economic data in the U.S. has emerged since
the meeting and optimism has grown that the  European Central
Bank  will take steps to address the EU’s debt crisis.  “The trajectory of U.S. economic data has improved quite a
bit,” Cox said by Bloomberg instant message. “Further, the
perception of euro-zone specific systemic risk has eased
substantially.”  Payrolls in the U.S. increased 163,000 in July following a
revised 64,000 rise the previous month that was less than
initially reported, Labor Department figures showed Aug. 3 in
Washington, even as unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.  Purchases of  previously owned houses , tabulated when a
contract closes, increased 2.3 percent to a 4.47 million annual
rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in Washington. The data were posted on the group’s website
ahead of the usual 10 a.m. release time. The median forecast of
73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise to a 4.51
million rate.  Housing ‘Bottom’  “There are still some people with hope, with the
perception, that we’ve hit the bottom of the housing of the
market,”  Brian Taylor , chief currency trader at Manufacturers &
Traders Trust in Buffalo, New York, said in a telephone
interview.  The  Dollar Index , which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.5 percent to 81.509 after climbing as high as
82.121.  The dollar has advanced 6.6 percent in the past 12 months,
the best performance after the Australian dollar of the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen gained 2.2 percent, and the euro
weakened 8 percent.  Trade Deficit  The yen strengthened against all of its major peers as
Japan’s trade deficit was 517.4 billion yen last month,
following a revised 60.3 billion yen surplus in June, the
 Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo . The median forecast in a
 Bloomberg News  survey of economists was for a shortfall of 270
billion yen. Exports fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with an estimated 2.9 percent decline.  Purchasing managers reports tomorrow are forecast to show
contraction in German and French manufacturing, with the measure
for the euro-area as a whole also predicted to shrink, according
to surveys conducted by Bloomberg News.  The shared currency gained against the majority of its
most-traded counterparts as Samaras told Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro group of finance
ministers, that  Greece  is speeding up reforms.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  earlier signaled that she’s
willing to discuss a Greek request for more time to meet the
terms of its international rescue, leaving the door open to
potential concessions. Merkel spoke in the Moldovan capital
Chisinau before meeting with Samaras in Berlin on Aug. 24.  Euro, Aussie  The euro may be poised to strengthen against the Aussie if
it breaches the 50-day moving average of A$1.1962, according to
Sebastien Galy, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York.  The shared currency rose 0.3 percent to A$1.1927 today
after falling from A$1.3031 on May 18.  “It’s definitely one to look for a turnaround,” Galy said
in a telephone interview. “It’s partly technical, just based on
the positioning. It’s also that Aussie has been massively bought
in the past weeks, so there’s natural tendency for it to come
down.”  Societe Generale  also forecasts the Aussie declining
against the dollar, to 98 U.S. cents at the end of the third
quarter and 95 U.S. cents by Dec. 31.  Australia’s currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.0505, and
dropped 0.7 percent to 82.55 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  