-- Everything Everywhere Wins Permission for Faster Network
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-08-21T12:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/everything-everywhere-wins-permission-for-faster-network.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s U.K. mobile-phone venture gained permission to run
faster data services on its current airwaves, removing a hurdle
to its plan to begin operating a so-called 4G network this year.  Everything Everywhere, the country’s largest wireless
operator, can use licenses in the 1,800 megahertz spectrum to
deliver the faster connections, U.K. regulator Ofcom said in a
statement. The venture, which uses the Orange and T-Mobile
brands, said it plans to deploy the high-speed technology by the
end of this year and unveil a third brand.  The decision lets Everything Everywhere get a head start on
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which are waiting for more
frequencies to become available at an auction before starting
their own faster services. The auction of 800 MHz and 2,600 MHz
frequencies is set to begin later this year, allowing a general
rollout of faster data services in 2013, Ofcom said.  Allowing Everything Everywhere to use the frequencies will
deliver significant benefits to consumers, and “there is no
material risk that those benefits will be outweighed by a
distortion of competition,” Ofcom said. “Delaying doing so
would therefore be to the detriment of consumers.”  Vodafone Response  Vodafone said today it was “shocked” by Ofcom’s decision.
The regulator didn’t “properly regard the competitive
distortion created by allowing one operator to run services
before the ground has been laid for a fully competitive 4G
market,” the carrier said in a statement.  Everything Everywhere will operate a third brand alongside
Orange and T-Mobile, the company said today. The venture is also
in advanced talks with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three over a
sale of part of its spectrum holding to meet demands of European
Union competition authorities, according to two people familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are confidential.  The spectrum, which won’t be handed over until September
2013, will be used for 4G services, one of the people said.
Officials for Everything Everywhere and Three declined to
comment on the talks, which were reported earlier by the
Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  