-- Mexico Bank Regulator Says Loans to Grow 15% This Year
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-08-21T20:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/mexico-bank-regulator-says-loans-to-grow-15-this-year-1-.html
Mexican banks’ outstanding loans are
likely to grow by at least 15 percent this year, according to
the head of the nation’s banking and securities regulatory
agency.  “We expect a relatively good year,” Guillermo Babatz,
president of the National Banking and Securities Commission,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Mexico  City office.
“They’re going to be growing all across the board.”  Mexican banks’ total outstanding loans rose 15 percent in
nominal terms in June from the same month a year ago to 2.58
trillion pesos ($196 billion), according to CNBV, as the banking
and securities regulator is known.  Outstanding consumer loans rose 24 percent in June,
compared with the same period in 2011, according to the agency.
Babatz said bank loan growth this year will include expansion in
lending for housing, businesses, government and consumers.  The forecasted loan growth would be more than four times
the 3.7 percent that economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
Mexico’s economy to expand this year.  Grupo Financiero Santander SAB, the Mexican unit of  Spain ’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and fourth-largest bank by outstanding credit
in the Latin American nation, said second-quarter outstanding
loans rose 17 percent to 339 billion pesos.  ‘Keep Expanding’  “We are going to keep expanding at this pace,” Marcos Martinez Gavica, the chief executive officer of the bank, said
at an event in Mexico City on July 26. “We have demand for
loans, therefore we are having good results and we are beating
the market.”  Grupo Financiero Banamex SA, Citigroup Inc.’s Mexican unit,
the country’s second-biggest bank by outstanding credit, sees
outstanding loans rising 15 percent this year, Chief Executive
Officer Javier Arrigunaga said in Mexico City while reporting
second-quarter results July 26.  Babatz, who plans to leave his post when President  Felipe Calderon ’s administration concludes at the end of November, said
regulators need more autonomy and an increased ability to make
sanctions public.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said last month
its Mexican unit paid a $27.5 million fine to the nation’s
regulators for non-compliance with money-laundering systems and
controls. Babatz said Mexican rules prevented regulators from
going public with the case until the bank decided to drop the
case in court.  “It was actually quite unfortunate that the timing of
disclosure of this sanction was chosen by the bank, not by us,”
he said. “The most important thing that we need to do is to be
able to go out with the findings that we have and to publicize
the sanctions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  