-- Mexican Peso Bonds Fall as European Optimism Pares Safety Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-08-21T21:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/mexican-peso-bonds-fall-as-european-optimism-pares-safety-demand.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds dropped, pushing
yields to their highest level in eight weeks, as optimism
European leaders will make progress in tackling  Greece ’s debt
crisis damped refuge demand for the securities.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.62 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell
0.28 centavo to 138.91 centavos per peso. It was the highest
closing yield for the bonds since June 25. The peso fell 0.3
percent to 13.1444 per dollar.  Mexico’s local-currency, fixed-rate bonds slid along with
U.S. Treasuries on speculation European leaders will make
progress on the region’s debt crisis in a series of bilateral
meetings between the leaders of euro-area countries this week.
Investors have been treating peso debt “like a refuge,”
according to Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB.  “Now that there’s a little more appetite for risk, we’re
seeing assets that have been refuges like Treasuries, Mexican
bonds and the dollar losing some of their dynamism,” Padilla
said in a phone interview from Mexico City. “The expectation
that these talks could be positive helps the market.”  Concessions are possible for Greece as long as Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras shows a willingness to meet the main
targets set out in his country’s bailout program,  Norbert Barthle , a senior lawmaker in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party, said today in a phone interview.  Samaras, whose ruling coalition favors an extension of its
fiscal adjustment program by two years, is due to meet with
Merkel in Berlin on Aug. 24 before traveling to Paris the next
day for talks with President  Francois Hollande .  Mexico sold all 6 billion pesos ($456 million) of 28-day
Cetes and 7 billion pesos of the 91-day securities offered
today, the central bank said on its website. Mexico also sold
all 9 billion pesos of 182-day bills it auctioned and 9.5
billion pesos of 336-day notes, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  