-- Extend Wind-Power Tax Credit Now, So It Can Die Later
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-21T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/extend-wind-power-tax-credit-now-so-it-can-die-later.html
Since U.S. President  Barack Obama 
brought it up, repeatedly, last week during his campaign swing
through  Iowa , wind power has emerged as one of the most clear-
cut issues of the political season.  Obama wants to renew the technology’s soon-to-expire
federal production tax credit.  Mitt Romney , his Republican
opponent, wants to let the credit lapse.  Yet the best way to handle this is to find an option other
than all or nothing. Yes, clean wind energy should receive
continued federal support, as Obama says -- especially at a time
when the industry’s tens of thousands of jobs are helping the
 U.S. economy . But wind power should also be expected to make it
in the marketplace on its own one day, as Romney would have it.  Onshore wind power has improved to the point where it is
now the most competitive of all renewable energy sources except
hydropower. According to recent estimates from  Bloomberg New
Energy Finance , it is on a path to reach “grid parity” -- the
point where its cost is equal to the baseline price of power on
the grid -- starting in 2016. In the long run, in other words,
wind can be expected to thrive without the tax credit.  A clear plan to phase out the credit over the coming four
years could actually be a gift to the  wind industry , which has
suffered from the federal program’s unpredictability, even as it
has benefited from its support. The  2.2-cent tax credit , paid to
 wind-energy  companies for every kilowatt-hour of power they
produce, has brought the industry more than $1 billion a year,
according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. Yet over the two
decades it has existed, Congress has allowed the credit to
expire three times, and each time progress in building wind
capacity has fallen precipitously.  With companies rushing to finish before another expiration
on Dec. 31, building this year has reached a record high. About
11,800 megawatts worth of projects are expected to be completed
this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Next year,
construction is expected to plummet to 1,500 megawatts if the
tax credit is not renewed. Even if Congress decides after the
presidential election to extend it a year, the amount of
building would be well under half what is anticipated for 2012,
as it would take some time for the industry to ramp up its
plans.  Renewing the tax credit would at least enable the wind
industry to return to growth,  adding 54,000 jobs  over the next
four years, according to the  American Wind Energy Association ,
an industry trade group. Letting the credit expire, on the other
hand, would mean losing 37,000 jobs in the sector.  The job market is not the main reason wind power is worth
supporting. It’s a clean energy source, with a promising
economic future as the cost per turbine continues to fall. Its
prospects will become even brighter if natural  gas prices , now
extraordinarily low, rise in the coming years with increasing
demand.  If Congress takes the easy route and simply extends the
credits for a year or two, it would only perpetuate the wind
industry’s boom-and-bust cycle. A smarter solution is to apply
the longer-term planning that is critical to good  energy policy .  Let the wind industry know the production tax credit will
eventually die out, but over four years -- so companies are able
to plan their operations without the need to guess what tax
support they will have.  Even smarter would be to ultimately replace the tax credit
with market-based support for wind as well as other forms of
clean energy. Many states now have so-called renewable portfolio
standards, which require utilities to use a certain percentage
of electricity generated by wind and other kinds of renewable
power. These states set a target, in other words, and the market
figures out the most efficient way to reach it.  One very good suggestion for a federal program along these
lines has been proposed by Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a Democrat
from  New Mexico . This year, he introduced a bill that would
establish a “ clean energy standard ,” requiring large U.S.
utilities to derive an increasing share of their energy from
cleaner energy sources -- not only renewables such as wind and
solar but also natural gas and even coal with carbon capture and
storage. No federal expenditure would be required.  Politicians in both parties should find that a virtue.
Republicans from the Great Plains and other areas where the wind
industry is growing substantially already seem disposed to
extend the production tax credit. They could do far more for the
U.S.’s energy future if they considered longer-lasting ways to
help the wind business succeed.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Congo’s bloody trade  in
minerals; Clive Crook on how badly the  EU would botch  a euro
breakup;  Edward Glaeser  on getting the  Army Corps  of Engineers
 out of your neighborhood ;  Michael Kinsley  on how  Ayn Rand  would
make  Paul Ryan   a better vice president ; Laurence Kotlikoff on
economists who  become political hacks ; William L. Silber on  Paul
Volcker ’s  goldless gold standard .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 