-- Federated’s Donahue Brings Passion to Money-Fund Battle
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/federated-s-donahue-brings-passion-to-money-fund-battle.html
Christopher Donahue, chief executive
officer of  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , is sticking up for the
family business when he defends money-market funds.  Donahue, whose family-controlled firm has three-fourths of
its  assets  in the cash-like products, is the most outspoken
opponent of an effort to impose new regulations on the $2.6
trillion industry. Donahue, who refers to the funds as “the
eighth wonder of the world,” called one of the proposals
“totally brain dead” in an interview.  “How can I defend them with anything but passion,”
Donahue, 63, said in the interview at Federated’s Pittsburgh
headquarters from his office overlooking the Allegheny River.
“I’ve got passion for the beauty of money funds.”  Donahue’s lobbying campaign, aided by allies in the mutual-
fund business and in Congress, may defeat a lineup of regulators
pushing for change in the wake of a 2008 fund collapse that sent
clients fleeing from the industry. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who along with Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and former  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Paul Volcker  has championed rules to make funds safer,
can count on only one backer as her five-member agency prepares
to vote on the proposals as early as this month.  The fact that Schapiro has yet to bring the matter to a
showdown is telling, said John Hawke, a Washington lawyer who
represents Federated.  “The measure of Chris’s success is that the chairman has
been talking about this since early in the year and nothing has
happened,” Hawke said in a telephone interview.  ‘Shortsighted’ Industry  Should Donahue prevail, the U.S. financial system will be
more vulnerable to instability, Douglas W. Diamond, a finance
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business,
said in a telephone interview.  “The industry is being shortsighted about risk,” Diamond
said.  John Donahue, Christopher’s father, started Federated in
1955 to sell mutual funds. The senior Donahue previously sold
funds from other companies door-to-door in the Pittsburgh area.  Christopher Donahue  joined the company in 1972, a year
after the first money-market fund was introduced. The product
gave investors access to a liquid account that also earned a
market rate of interest.  By 1975, he was selling Federated money funds to bank trust
departments in  New Jersey  and Georgia. Because the concept was
so new, he didn’t always get a warm reception.  “I was thrown out of plenty of trust departments,”
Donahue said.  Asset Growth  Federated’s money-fund assets rose along with the
industry’s, the result of both organic growth and acquisitions.
The firm ranked second in money-fund assets at the end of July,
behind only Boston-based  Fidelity Investments  and New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to research firm  Crane Data LLC 
in Westborough, Massachusetts.  Money-market assets in funds and separate accounts, at
$265.5 billion, accounted for 75 percent of  Federated’s $355.9
billion in assets  and 47 percent of  revenue  in the second
quarter, the company reported in July. At Fidelity, money funds
made up 27 percent of assets as of July 31. At JPMorgan, they
were 35 percent as of June 30.  Federated remains a family affair. Donahue’s father, 88, is
still the chairman, and his brother Thomas is the chief
financial officer. John Donahue has 13 children and 84
grandchildren, and a handful of other relatives have worked at
the company, Christopher Donahue said. The family owns a
separate class of stock that allows it to maintain control.  Shadow Banking  The Federated sign on top of the firm’s building is one of
the most visible in the city skyline. Donahue, fit and trim,
brought a marked-up, inches-thick copy of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act to the interview. Dodd-Frank established, among other
things, the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a multi-
regulator panel that could impose restrictions on money funds
should the SEC fail to pass Schapiro’s proposal.  Money-market mutual funds, which hold short-term debt and
are used by clients for liquidity, are the biggest source of
short-term credit in the U.S. They’re part of the so-called
shadow banking system, along with  hedge funds  and other
institutions that provide cash globally and are not subject to
banking regulation.  The business has drawn scrutiny since the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which held
debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Its shutdown a day
after Lehman’s bankruptcy triggered an industry run on funds
eligible to buy corporate debt, helping to freeze global credit
markets.  Investor Run  The run abated only after the  U.S. Treasury  guaranteed
money-fund shareholders against losses on more than $3 trillion
in securities for a year and the Fed began financing the
purchase of fund holdings at face value to help them make
redemptions. Congress has since prohibited the Treasury from
acting in the same way.  The SEC passed rule changes in 2010 designed to strengthen
the funds. Schapiro has said more action is needed. Her proposal
would force funds to abandon their fixed $1 share price or
introduce withdrawal limits and capital buffers.  Without the changes, money funds remain susceptible to
runs, Schapiro told the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs in June.  “It is essential we address this risk now rather than
waiting until the middle of the next crisis,” she said.  Schapiro has received public backing from Boston Federal
Reserve Bank President  Eric Rosengren  and  New York  Fed President
 William Dudley .  Death Choice  The Boston Fed this month released a report showing that at
least 21 money-market funds got support from their sponsoring
companies to prevent shares from falling below the fixed $1
price during the financial crisis. “The status quo is not
acceptable,” Rosengren said in an April speech.  “Reforms are necessary to protect the economy from
financial instability in the future,” Dudley wrote in a
Bloomberg View column Aug. 15.  Donahue, on a conference call with investors in January,
said the SEC proposals would destroy the industry and likened
the two main ideas -- floating prices and capital buffers -- to
a choice between dying “by hanging or by bullet.” He
threatened legal action to block the rules from being
implemented.  In conference calls, congressional testimony and speeches,
he has offered a narrative of the role money funds played in the
2008 crisis that differs from the one conveyed by regulators.
The exodus the funds experienced was the result, not the cause,
of the broader meltdown, he said.  Lobbying Effort  The run on money funds was the only one in the industry’s
40-year history, according to Donahue. Shoring them up didn’t
cost the federal government any money, and the 2010 changes made
the funds resilient enough to handle the stresses they are
likely to face, he said.  Donahue’s conclusion -- that the SEC’s ideas threaten the
survival of the money-fund business -- has won support from
other mutual-fund firms. Fidelity Investments, in a March letter
to the SEC, said the proposed reforms “will ultimately destroy
the money-market fund industry.”  The 10 biggest money-fund managers and the  Investment
Company Institute , a Washington-based trade group, reported
combined lobbying spending of $16 million in the first half of
2012 in disclosures that reference money funds, according to a
review of documents by Bloomberg News. That compares with $16.7
million in all of 2010. Federated pitched in $230,000.  Wooing Treasurers  Donahue has wooed corporate treasurers and state officials,
two constituencies that issue securities purchased by money
funds.  “I will speak to anyone who will listen,” he said in the
interview. He has also found friends in Congress, including
Pennsylvania Republican Senator Patrick Toomey. Toomey, at the
June hearing, defended money funds with some of the same
language Donahue has employed.  Winning allies hasn’t been difficult because money funds
are popular, according to Donahue.  “There is still $2.6 trillion in these funds even though
there is no yield,” he said. “People love them.” Money funds
yielded an average of 0.06 percent as of Aug. 15, according to
Crane Data.  Interest rates  near a record-low have forced money fund
providers to waive fees on some funds to prevent yields from
turning negative, which has undermined profitability.  Making Acquisitions  Federated has risen 1.3 percent since the Federal Reserve
lowered its target rate to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in
December 2008, compared with the 26 percent average gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 20-member index of asset managers and custody
banks. The firm has continued to make acquisitions during that
time, including a pending deal announced in April to acquire $5
billion in money-fund assets from Cincinnati-based Fifth Third
Bancorp.  Donahue, at the June hearing, sparred with David
Scharfstein, a finance professor at  Harvard Business School  and
member of the Squam Lake Group of academics who have recommended
steps to strengthen the U.S. financial system.  When Scharfstein, in response to questioning, said money
funds should have to raise capital equal to 2 percent to 3
percent of their assets, Donahue said, “The math doesn’t
work.” In the interview, he said of the suggestion, “It’s
totally brain dead. It would be too expensive.”  On ‘Fringe’  Donahue is “on the fringe of the industry,” Scharfstein
said in an interview.  It’s up to academics and regulators to challenge vested
interests opposing change, according to Scharfstein.  “We need a safer system,” he said.  The SEC has yet to set a date to vote on Schapiro’s
proposals,  John Nester , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. Schapiro
has the support of Democrat Ellise B. Walter at the SEC, while
Republican commissioners Troy A. Paredes and Daniel M. Gallagher
have said they oppose the plan. Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar,
who was reappointed last year by President  Barack Obama , has
signaled his opposition without saying whether he would kill it
before inviting public comment.  Donahue sees the latest tangle over money funds as part of
a long-running war the industry has fought with the Fed and the
SEC.  “It was rather like they were standing outside the
delivery room when these things were born trying to club them,”
he said at an investor conference in June.  ‘POW Camp’  Volcker, in a September 2011 speech, spoke in favor of
tougher rules.  “The time has clearly come to harness money-market
funds,” he said. Volcker told the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission in 2010 that most of the cash in money funds “should
be with the banks” because they are more tightly regulated.  Donahue told his staff to prepare for more confrontations,
he said in the interview.  “We are in a POW camp behind enemy lines, trying to
survive,” Donahue said. “I assume the battle continues. We
will defend money funds come what may.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  