-- Fitch’s Riley Says Euro-Region Sovereign Ratings Are at Risk
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-08-21T08:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/fitch-s-riley-says-euro-region-sovereign-ratings-are-at-risk-1-.html
Fitch Ratings Managing Director
 David Riley  said euro-area countries may face renewed pressure
on their sovereign debt ratings if they don’t make headway on
resolving the debt crisis by year end.  Recessions in Spain and  Italy  “are eating away at
political support for austerity and political support for the
euro,” Riley told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” today. “If we don’t see progress by the end of
this year, we can see further rating downgrades.”  Easing the crisis depends on European governments
implementing the terms of their June agreement on creating a
regional banking supervisor and the  European Central Bank 
creating a framework to offer countries further support, Riley
said. Addressing the seniority of any ECB loans to cash-strapped
governments is a key issue that needs to be clarified, he said.  The ECB’s announcement that it’s ready to purchase
 government bonds  in tandem with Europe’s rescue funds along with
governments’ latest efforts mark “a big step in the resolution
of the crisis” if they can be implemented, Riley said. “But
that’s a big ‘if.’ They’ve built up a lot of expectations.”  For Italy, the political risk related to Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s departure from office next year now outweighs
economic threats, Riley said.  “The current Italian government has a lot of
credibility,” he said. Monti needs to advance as quickly as
possible to “create some kind of light at the end of the
tunnel” before he is replaced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  