-- Fletcher Slumps on Earnings Slide, Unit Review: Wellington Mover
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-22T05:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/fletcher-building-profit-tumbles-35-on-slow-housing-writedowns.html
Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) ,  New
Zealand ’s biggest construction-products maker, fell the most in
10 months after full-year profit tumbled 35 percent and the
company announced an internal review to boost efficiency.  Net income slumped to NZ$185 million ($150 million) in the
year ending June 30, from NZ$283 million a year earlier, the
Auckland-based company said in a statement. The stock fell 5.1
percent, the biggest drop since Oct. 18.  Profit declined amid weak housing markets in New Zealand
and Australia while the company incurred one-time costs from
closing plants, firing workers and adjusting the value of units
to recognize weaker future earnings. A review of operations
across all of its New Zealand operations will be conducted by
Mark Adamson, who replaces Jonathan Ling as chief executive
officer from Oct. 1.  “The whole portfolio is under examination,” Adamson said
on a conference call. “I think our capacity is reasonably in
balance. It’s more about driving efficiency from those business
units, and that could lead to more products, more services
rather than job cuts.”  Fletcher shares declined 34 cents to NZ$6.32 at the 5 p.m.
market close in Wellington.  The company didn’t provide an outlook for the 2012-13 year,
saying it would require a “marked improvement in residential
and commercial construction levels, particularly in New Zealand
and  Australia ” to achieve any significant increase in earnings.  New Zealand home building is forecast to increase, but
commercial construction is not expected to improve materially,
Adamson said. In Australia, there is a risk that home building
will slow further, he said.  Australian Acquisition  Sales rose 20 percent to NZ$8.87 billion after last year’s
acquisition of Australian company Crane Group Ltd. Excluding
that deal, sales declined.  Full-year earnings excluding one-time items dropped 12
percent to NZ$317 million, at the low end of a range provided by
the company in February and near the NZ$315 million average
forecast of 10 analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income included NZ$132 million of one-time costs
associated with the closure of Fletcher’s Formica plant in
 Spain , a review of its Laminex unit where 285 jobs were cut in
Australia, and a reduction in the value of the Australian
insulation business based on a weaker earnings outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  