-- French Drillers Fight Back in Defense of Shale Gas Fracking
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-21T16:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/french-drillers-fight-back-in-defense-of-shale-gas-fracking.html
Natural gas and oil can be safely
produced from shale rock in  France  without lasting consequences
for the environment, according to a lobby backing the energy
that has enraged opponents.  “The wind is changing” in France, Friends of Drillers, an
organization of oil industry workers, said in a letter published
yesterday on its  website . Environmentalists are “feeding
fears” against developing shale energies, it said.  The letter is the latest salvo in a war of words that
erupted this month between the lobby and Corinne Lepage, a
French member of the European Parliament and environmental
lawyer who favors maintaining France’s ban against hydraulic
fracturing, known as fracking, a technology needed to extract
gas and oil from shale.  French parliament passed a law last year outlawing the
process because of concern it can pollute drinking water,
effectively halting plans by companies including  Total SA (FP)  to
explore for shale gas in southern France. Fracking is widely
used in the U.S., including by Total, to produce gas.  A “web of lies” is how Lepage described in an Aug. 10
letter arguments by the drillers’ association that wells can be
safely bored into shale rock and fluids and chemicals needed for
fracking can be treated.  For her part, Lepage was responding to two letters sent by
the drillers the week before to Environment Minister Delphine Batho and Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  that called for a
reversal of the French ban as a way to improve the country’s
finances and unemployment rate. Production of oil and natural
gas in France would reduce the need for imports and provide
industry jobs, the drillers said.  Mixed Message  Debate over the future of shale energy in France has
resurfaced since the election of Socialist President  Francois Hollande  in May. Ministers Batho and Montebourg have made
comments on shale prospects that appear contradictory.  The government is “totally opposed” to fracking, Batho
said July 24. “As it stands now this technique is risky for the
environment and health and that is why France banned it.”  In contrast, Montebourg said July 20 that shale energy is
“not a banned subject” for debate and that “there is no
government position.”  Shale energy will be discussed at an environmental policy
conference organized by the government on Sept. 14 and Sept. 15,
Batho has said. A debate focused on the country’s energy policy
will come later.  Shale Boom  Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
rocks and release gas and oil. Following passage of the French
law in parliament, the previous government suspended the rights
of energy companies to explore for shale gas around Paris and in
southern France.  Oil companies  including Total, the nation’s largest, and
Toreador Resources Corp. had been awarded licenses for
exploration.  The shale gas boom helped the U.S. meet 81 percent of its
energy demand in 2011, the most since 1992, according to energy
department data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  