-- Generali Said to Seek $1 Billion for U.S. Life Business
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-08-21T14:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/generali-said-to-seek-u-s-life-reinsurance-sale-for-1-billion.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  plans to
seek a buyer for its U.S. life reinsurance business as Chief
Executive Officer  Mario Greco  works to restore the profitability
of Italy’s biggest insurer, people familiar with the process
said.  Generali has hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on a sale of
Generali USA Life Reassurance Co. and the unit may be worth $800
million to $1 billion, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. Sales documents are
being prepared and could be sent to potential buyers as early as
next month, they said.  Greco said this month that he is working on a business plan
to restore profitability and strengthen capital. In June,
Generali’s main investors ousted the company’s then CEO,
Giovanni Perissinotto, after the insurer’s profit fell for four
consecutive quarters. Last year, net income slumped 50 percent
to the lowest level since 2002, and the insurer’s stock sank to
an almost two-decade  low  on May 31.  “I would expect that major reinsurers, including  Munich Re 
and  Hannover Re (HNR1) , would take a look, if the portfolio focused on
biometric risks and excluded investment risks,” said  Roland
Pfaender , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank AG.  Officials at Generali, Citigroup, Munich Re and Hannover Re
declined to comment.  Pooling Risks  Life reinsurers help underwriters like  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  pool risks, such as the risk of
higher-than-expected death rates.  Generali USA Life Re rose to No. 2 in the U.S. ordinary
recurring reinsurance market in 2010 from No. 5 in 2009 as
competitors cut back on new business, according to a November
2011 report from Munich Re for the Society of Actuaries.  The Italian company had $78 billion in assumed business in
2010, or a 15.4 percent market share, trailing only the
 Reinsurance Group of America Inc ., which had 26.3 percent of the
market, according to the report.  Scor SE (SCR)  of France agreed last year to buy the mortality
risk reinsurance business of Aegon NV’s Transamerica unit for
$912.5 million.  Hannover Re , Germany’s second-biggest reinsurer,
agreed in 2009 to take over Scottish Re Group’s business of
reinsuring U.S. life-reinsurance policies written by  ING Groep
NV. (INGA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  