-- General Electric Said to Offer $563 Million of Asset-Backed Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-21T16:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/general-electric-said-to-offer-563-million-of-asset-backed-debt.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to sell
$563 million of bonds backed by credit-card payments as sales of
the debt rise.  The securities, including $500 million in top-ranked notes,
are set to be placed with investors this week, according to a
person familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t complete. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company last issued similar bonds in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of asset-backed securities linked to credit-card debt
in 2012 are at the highest level in two years, according to
Wells Fargo & Co. Companies issued $18.9 billion of the bonds
through Aug. 15, up from about $10 billion during the same
period of 2011, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based analysts
said in a report yesterday.  “Credit-card lenders have increased their use of
securitization compared with the previous two years to refinance
maturing bonds at lower yields and to meet strong demand from
investors seeking a safe haven,” according to the analysts led
by John McElravey.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, sold $2.68 billion of the bonds last week in the
largest asset-backed deal this year, Bloomberg data show. The
company issued top-ranked securities maturing in about three
years to yield 13 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, Bloomberg data show. The transaction was increased from
$1.72 billion.  Limited Growth  While issuance has climbed, it’s below the 2007 peak of $93
billion, Bloomberg data show. Wells Fargo forecasts as much as
$30 billion in 2012 sales.  Growth in the credit-card asset-backed segment will
probably be limited, according to Wells Fargo. Tighter relative
yields have drawn some issuers back to the market, though
lenders including Capital One Financial Corp., Bank of America
Corp. and Citigroup Inc. have not sold the debt in “several
years,” the analysts said. The sector contracted following 2010
regulations that scrapped capital relief banks had obtained for
asset-backed offerings.  Relative yields on top-ranked securities linked to credit-
card payments have dropped to 43 basis points more than
Treasuries from 83 basis points on Dec. 31, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch  index . A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  