-- German Banks Push for ECB to Become Region’s Sole Regulator
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-08-21T13:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/german-banks-push-for-ecb-to-become-central-banking-regulator.html
The BdB German Banking Association,
which represents  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , wants the
 European Central Bank  to have sole responsibility for regulatory
supervision of all euro-region banks.  “The supervisory tasks currently performed by national
banking regulators should be shifted completely to the ECB,”
the association said in a statement today. “A legally
independent unit should be created under the roof of the ECB and
overseen politically by the EU level.”  European Union leaders agreed on June 29 to give the ECB
new banking supervision powers as part of a commitment to a
“banking union” and called on the European Commission to make
such a proposal by September. According to a policy-planning
document previously obtained by Bloomberg, it is unclear how
much authority the ECB will get. One option would allow the ECB
to take major oversight decisions for all banks, while another
would be to give it a core set of central powers to oversee all
banks while delegating some tasks to individual countries.  “If calling for a strong  Europe , one has to be ready to
transfer certain competencies to the European level,” Andreas Schmitz, the association’s president, said in the statement.
“Without being willing to do that, the idea of a true banking
union in Europe will remain incomplete.”  The same rules should apply for all lenders as the Spanish
savings-bank crisis showed again it isn’t predictable which
banks pose a threat to stability, according to the release. The
German Banking Association’s proposal would mean the national
regulator Bafin and Bundesbank would be subordinated to the ECB,
serving as “country representatives” of the central bank, the
association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  