-- Germany Doesn’t Help Europe by Undermining the Euro
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-08-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/germany-doesn-t-help-europe-by-undermining-the-euro.html
Investors are bracing themselves for
yet another euro-area moment of truth. How many does that make?  The  European Central Bank ’s policy-making body meets Sept.
6 amid speculation that it will try to strengthen the euro
system by capping borrowing costs for Spain and other distressed
governments. Even as rumors, denials and clarifications swarm
around that question, Europe’s finance ministries are also
deciding whether to give  Greece  more time to mend its public
finances.  These two issues, Greece’s solvency and the integrity of
the euro system, are increasingly being muddled together. That’s
dangerous. It’s vital to keep them separate. Europe’s prospects
would improve at a stroke if one notion could be stamped out --
that the European Union will ease Greece and other possible
defaulters out of the euro system unless they try harder to
balance their books.  Greece is still insolvent and in the end another Greek
default is probably unavoidable. This needn’t -- and mustn’t --
mean that Greece exits the euro. Another default would be a far
smaller setback for Greece and the rest of the system than a
Greek exit, and the two outcomes are perfectly separable. Yet
ministers and officials keep talking as though one implies the
other.  Insolvent Thinking  This week, the BBC  reports , German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said, “The German government wants us to remain
together in the euro zone [but] the key to success lies in
 Athens .” Erkki Tuomioja,  Finland ’s foreign minister, asked about
a possible euro breakup, said, “This is something that everyone
… is looking into but it is not something that can or should be
discussed openly.”  Suppose  California  looked ready to default. Would that call
its membership in the U.S. monetary union into question? Who
would it help, exactly, to threaten California with expulsion
from the dollar area under such circumstances? It’s absurd. The
more debt restructuring and the future of the euro are linked,
the more thinkable a euro breakup becomes. The more thinkable a
breakup becomes, the greater the pressures on the system through
risk spreads and capital flight -- and the more likely is an
uncontrolled collapse.  The case would be different, of course, if a euro breakup
were bound to happen anyway and might even be a good thing, as
some argue. Neither is true. What’s missing from every claim
that the euro system should be dissolved is any acknowledgement
of what its breakup would entail: among other things, a shutdown
of the euro area’s payments system, resulting in a financial and
economic crisis worse than anything Europe has seen so far.
That’s a nightmare to be avoided at any cost, not a scenario you
advertise to put a bit more pressure on Greece.  There’s no “easing” Greece out of the system. A Greek exit
would demonstrate that the system is breakable. If Greece, why
not  Spain , why not  Italy ? Even if governments backed the system
unreservedly once Greece was gone -- finally doing what they
should have been doing for months -- stopping the contagion
would be difficult and perhaps impossible. As for an orderly
dismantling, planned in advance, I’ve yet to see a plausible
description of how it could be done.  Hang on, you might say, hasn’t it been done before?
Monetary unions have come and gone throughout history: Have the
results been so bad? Yes, actually, they have. Anders Aslund, a
veteran of the ruble-zone breakup, goes into this in a recent
essay for the  Peterson Institute for International Economics .
The results, he  explains , have usually been terrible. The ruble-
zone breakup is a prime example. And a  euro-zone  divorce would
be worse than any of these previous cases because Europe’s
financial system is so much more complex and integrated.  Fatal Divorce  “The big difference between the present time and the
previous currency zone breakups is that money flows today are so
much faster and larger,” Aslund writes. “Everything will happen
immediately. Little can be planned for a breakup in advance
because the risk of leaked information would be great, and
enormous amounts of money could be transferred in no time. The
whole financial system in the area involved would need to be
shut down.”  A particular fallacy of the let-Greece-exit school is to
imagine that European Union leaders would manage that process
well, rather than performing at their dismal standard of the
past several years. What sane man would bet on such a
transformation? To imagine what might happen, apply the EU’s
demonstrated level of purpose and competence to that vastly more
demanding test. A divorce as badly bungled as their efforts to
save the system simply doesn’t bear thinking about.  Despite everything, the easiest and most feasible course is
still to put the integrity of the euro system beyond question.
The ECB simply needs to do what it promised: “whatever it
takes.” Struggling governments must curb their borrowing as best
as they can, and default if they must. To restore
competitiveness, they’ll have to raise productivity and cut
wages (much as they would, by the way, if they were able to
devalue their currencies).  It’s hard, all right, but not as hard as the alternative.  The alternative is where  Europe  seems to be heading. Let’s
put this in the starkest terms. In an effort to press Greece and
others to mend their public finances,  Germany ’s government and
its allies are making the euro system more fragile. To do this
inadvertently would be scandalous enough, when you think of the
risks to Europe and the world. To do it deliberately is an
outrage.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on eliminating the  wind-energy
tax credit  and on  Congo’s bloody trade  in minerals;  Edward
Glaeser  on getting the  Army Corps  of Engineers  out of your
neighborhood ;  Michael Kinsley  on how  Ayn Rand  would make  Paul
Ryan   a better vice president ; Laurence Kotlikoff on economists
who  become political hacks ; William L. Silber on  Paul Volcker ’s
 goldless gold standard .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 