-- Germany ‘Ill-Advised’ to Let Euro Split Up, Posen Tells BBC
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-08-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/germany-ill-advised-to-let-euro-split-up-posen-tells-bbc.html
Germany would be “ill-advised” to
allow the  euro zone  to break up,  Adam Posen , a member of the
Monetary Policy Committee at the  Bank of England  said in an
interview with the  BBC .  It is in Germany’s commercial and economic interest to
restructure the debt of euro-zone countries in trouble, Posen
said, according to the transcript of an interview released by
the broadcaster yesterday. The debt crisis is the result of
decisions by the Germans who acted similarly to sub-prime
lenders in the US, he added in the interview.  “It was German government decisions and German banks who
lent the money to all these countries so they could buy German
exports,” said Posen. Germany has “been running a scheme and
so just as everywhere around the world you want to restructure
the debt, you can’t make it all on the borrower.” Lenders have
to “take a hit” as well, he said.  Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel , the leader of Europe’s
largest economy and the biggest single contributor to euro-
region bailouts, is facing calls from Italy and Spain to pool
debt to bring down bond yields, from Greece to back an easing of
its austerity timetable and from the  European Central Bank  for
politicians to take the lead in fighting the crisis. She also
faces domestic pressure from her coalition partners to refuse
any more aid for Greece.  In break-up scenario, Germany’s currency would “shoot
through the roof,” the country’s trade relations would be
disrupted and its banks have to be bailed out, Posen said. It
would also “overwhelm” the U.K. economy, leaving it with no
ways to counteract the development, the central banker said.  Debt Restructuring  While a debt restructuring would cause German banks some
losses, trade and exports would go on, as markets around it
would grow and “there would be political stability” and
“banks would actually be disciplined and would function
better,” he said.  The ECB also should intervene to help cut  interest rates  on
Italian and Spanish  government bonds , the BBC cited Posen as
saying.  Interest rates in Spain and Italy on government bonds, and
shutdowns in those bond markets are “completely unjustified by
the economics and are undermining the euro zone as well as the
world economy,” Posen told the BBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  