-- Gillard’s Labor Hits Six-Month High in Opinion Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-21T02:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/gillard-s-labor-hits-six-month-high-in-opinion-poll.html
Australia ’s governing  Labor party 
recorded its best polling performance in six months as Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  seeks to overcome public opposition to
her carbon tax and stave off a leadership challenge.  The Labor government was favored by 35 percent of voters in
a Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper today,
up 2 percentage points from two weeks earlier, compared with 45
percent for  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National opposition coalition.
Taking second-preference votes into account, Labor was 6 points
behind the opposition, compared with 8 points in the last poll.  Labor’s consistently poor performance in opinion polls had
sparked speculation that Gillard may face a leadership challenge
in the party ahead of elections that must be held by next year.
The uptick in her polling numbers, almost two months after she
enacted taxes on carbon emissions and mining, could ensure
Gillard leads Labor into the next election, said  Andrew Hughes ,
who conducts political-marketing research at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra.  “If Gillard is able to string together a couple more
improved poll performances like this, her job as Labor leader is
safe,” Hughes said. “Party members in marginal electorates
would be encouraged they may have a chance to keep their seats
in the next election.”  Better Leader  Gillard was level with Abbott at 38 percent when
respondents were asked who would make the better prime minister.
That marked an increase of two percentage points for the prime
minister from the previous poll. The survey of 1,129 people,
conducted Aug. 17-19, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points.  The poll results show Labor’s primary vote, which reached a
 record low  of 26 percent in September, has risen to 35 percent
for the first time since February, the month Gillard saw off a
leadership challenge from her predecessor  Kevin Rudd . It hasn’t
been above that level since March 2011.  Gillard’s popularity slid after she backtracked on a pre-
election pledge not to introduce carbon trading. When Labor lost
its parliamentary majority in the 2010 election, she proposed
the legislation to secure the support of the Greens party to
form a government.  Recent Australian data have shown stronger  consumer
spending , fueled by at least A$2 billion in government carbon
rebates and benefit checks paid out since May. Retail sales in
June matched the biggest advance since April 2011.  Budget Surplus  Gillard is attempting to return the budget to surplus next
year, a move that she says could help the central bank add to
its series of rate cuts, in a nation where almost 90 percent of
mortgages are at variable rates.  The passing of a law last week to reopen offshore detention
centers for refugees, an issue that had been damaging Gillard’s
government due to the rising number of asylum-seeker deaths, may
also have helped her, said Hughes.  At least 604 people, often from war-torn Middle Eastern and
South Asian nations paying smugglers to ferry them from
Indonesia and Australia, have drowned since October 2009,
according to a government-commissioned report.  “Gillard came out of the asylum-seeker issue looking a bit
harder and determined, which probably appealed to voters,” he
said. “She’s starting to clear away issues that were taking the
oxygen out of her message. She’s hoping she can now focus on
things like the economy and education, areas in which Labor has
done well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  