-- Glencore Sees Unprecedented Conditions in the Grain Markets
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-08-21T14:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/glencore-sees-unprecedented-situation-in-grain-in-2nd-half-1-.html
Grains and oilseeds are facing
unprecedented conditions as drought slashes U.S. crops,
according to  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the commodities trader
of everything from copper to zinc and coal.  The commodities may be “quite a bit tighter” than in
2008, said Chris Mahoney, director for agricultural products at
Zug, Switzerland-based Glencore. Wheat futures rose to a record
$13.495 in February that year, the middle of a three-year period
when the U.S. State Department estimates more than 60 food riots
occurred. While wheat is still 33 percent below its all-time
high, soybeans and corn rose to records in  Chicago  this month.  “It is an unprecedented situation, which will make the
second half of the year rather interesting,” Mahoney said on a
conference call today. “A company like ours will be required to
think out of the box a bit.”  Oilseeds and grains are the best-performing commodities
this year among 80 tracked by Bloomberg. Soybeans jumped 42
percent in 2012, the biggest increase on the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index, wheat rallied 39 percent and corn advanced 28
percent. Soybeans for November delivery rose 2.4 percent to
$17.2425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 3:12 p.m.
London time, after touching $17.25, an all-time high for the
most-active contract.  Corn Production  Corn production in the U.S. may be 260 million to 265
million metric tons because of the country’s worst drought in
half a century, Mahoney said. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimates the corn crop at 273.8 million tons and exports at 33
million tons. It’s “debatable” whether U.S. exports will meet
the USDA target, Mahoney said.  Corn for December delivery rose 0.6 percent to $8.285 a
bushel. The grain rose to a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10.
Wheat futures gained 0.6 percent to $9.08 a bushel in Chicago.  A ban on Russian grain exports is “not very likely for the
moment” and authorities may review plans if overseas
deliveries accelerate enough to use up exportable supplies, he
said. Glencore has a hedging strategy in place and there will
be no negative effect on earnings if Russia starts restrictions,
Mahoney said.  “If they start to eat through their exportable surplus and
they get most of the way through their exportable surplus by
November or December, they could possibly have to rethink”
plans for exports, Mahoney said. “People can see that
coming.”  Russia’s wheat output may fall to 39 million to 41 million
tons this year because of a drought, Moscow-based researcher
SovEcon said yesterday. That would be below 41.5 million tons in
2010, when the worst drought in at least half a century curbed
supplies and the government banned overseas sales for 10 months.
  “The environment is a good one: high prices, a lot of
volatility, a lot of dislocation, tightness, a lot of arbitrage
opportunities,” Mahoney said. “It should also be good for
Glencore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  