-- Glencore CEO to Abandon Xstrata Bid If Qatar Stymies Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-21T16:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/glencore-will-move-on-if-qatar-blocks-xstrata-deal-chief-says.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  said it’s
ready to walk away from a $31 billion deal to buy Xstrata Plc,
the year’s largest takeover, rather than give in to demands from
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund and overpay for the mine operator.  “If they vote against the deal, they will block the
deal,” Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in a phone
interview. “From my point of view, from Glencore’s point of
view so be it. It’s not the end of the world. We will move on.”  Glencore’s planned takeover of Xstrata, scheduled for an
investor vote on Sept. 7, has a 60 percent chance of being
rejected, UBS AG said yesterday. Glasenberg, 55, has repeatedly
rebuffed calls to raise the bid even as Qatar Holding LLC has
increased its stake to 12 percent and argued for a sweetened
offer. He declined today to say that the current bid was final.  “Glasenberg is playing a game of high-stakes poker,”
Rupert Nathan, head of U.K. fund management at Fat Prophets,
said in an interview with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.” “Given the way that the holdings are stacked,
they either sweeten the offer or walk away.”  Glencore rose 1.8 percent to close at 360 pence in London
trading. Xstrata rose 2.1 percent to 926.1 pence, resulting in a
ratio of 2.57 Glencore shares for each of Xstrata’s. Earlier
today, the discount to the offer of 2.8 shares was the widest
since it was announced on Feb. 7, signaling a heightened risk of
the bid failing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar’s Logic  “I don’t quite understand the Qataris’ reason and logic
because the Qataris have not been a big  shareholder  of Xstrata
previously,” Glasenberg said. “We can always look and if the
Qataris believe they got it right, then let’s talk in a year or
two years’ time, and we’ll see who got it right.”  The risk of Glencore’s takeover failing has increased as
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund continues to raise its holding in
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata. The fund has spent about $5
billion building its stake from about 3 percent in February.
Qatar, advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , pressed for improved terms in
June, saying a bid of 3.25 shares would be “more appropriate.”  A London-based spokeswoman for Qatar Holding declined to
comment today. A spokeswoman for Xstrata also wouldn’t comment.  “I’m not going to upset my shareholders and overpay,”
Glasenberg said. “We cannot say what our final offer is but
you’ve heard my discussion and draw your own conclusions.”  Revised Offer  Other Xstrata shareholders including Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC and  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  have also called for a
sweetened offer. Glencore may have to raise its bid to 3 shares
to strike a deal, Jefferies Group Inc. said today.  “It is not clear to us whether Glencore is talking down
the market’s expectations to soften  Xstrata (XTA) ’s oppositional
shareholders, ultimately surprising to the upside with a bump to
3 times,” analysts at Jefferies said in a report. “Or whether
Glencore is just being completely transparent about its true
intentions and does not plan to bump at all.”  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, said today that first-half profit dropped 26 percent
to $1.8 billion, beating analysts’ estimates, after prices for
commodities fell. It declared a dividend of 5.4 cents a share.  It owns mines, plants and warehouses, and ships raw
materials including coal, oil, wheat and nickel. The Baar,
Switzerland-based company generates income from an industrial
production unit, its trading operation and a 34 percent holding
in Xstrata, the biggest exporter of power-station coal.  Trading, Mining  This month, Xstrata reported a 33 percent decline in first-
half profit to $1.94 billion, blaming a “cyclical downturn” in
commodity prices. The Thompson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
raw materials averaged 13 percent lower in the period than a
year earlier as waning economic growth in  China  sapped demand.  The combination of Glencore and Xstrata, which would create
the world’s fourth-biggest mining company, can be blocked by
just 16.48 percent of Xstrata holders under U.K. takeover rules
because Glencore can’t vote its stake. Glasenberg insisted today
there’s no rush to complete the transaction.  “We’ve looked to do this deal for the last five years and
if we’ve got to wait longer to look at it again, it’s not a
major issue,” he told reporters on a call. “It’s not the only
deal that can be done. It’s something that can be looked at in
the future.”  Xstrata has also said its strength as a company isn’t
dependent on completing the deal.  Xstrata can still generate “significant value,” CEO  Mick Davis  said on an Aug. 7 call with analysts. “The inherent
capacity of Xstrata to generate value as a standalone company
remains very, very powerful indeed,” even if the business model
of the combined entity is “more powerful,” he said. Davis
would be CEO of the combined group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  