-- Glencore First-Half Profit Falls as Commodity Prices Drop
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-21T06:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/glencore-first-half-profit-declines-26-as-commodity-prices-drop.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , seeking
to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in a $30 billion deal, said first-half profit
slumped 26 percent after prices for commodities fell.  Net income excluding exceptional items shrank to $1.8
billion from $2.4 billion a year earlier, the Baar, Switzerland-
based company said today in a statement. That compares with the
$1.6 billion average  estimate  of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. It declared a dividend of 5.4 cents a share.  Glencore joins Xstrata and  Rio Tinto  Group in posting lower
earnings as commodity producers face the dual headwinds of
rising costs and lower prices. Glencore is seeking to create the
world’s fourth-biggest mining company with an all-share bid for
Xstrata. Investors are due to vote on the deal on Sept. 7.  “Looking forward, we neither anticipate nor assume any
material improvement in overall market or economic conditions in
the near term,” Ivan Glasenberg, the 55-year-old chief
executive officer and biggest shareholder, said in the
statement. “We will continue to diligently look to our own
growth pipeline and end markets to maximize performance for our
shareholders.”  The companies agreed in February on a ratio of 2.8 Glencore
shares for each of Xstrata’s, criticized by  Qatar  Holding LLC,
Xstrata’s second-biggest investor, as too low.  Share Performance  Glencore, owner of 34 percent of Xstrata, rose 0.5 percent
to close at 353.75 pence yesterday in London. Zug, Switzerland-
based Xstrata slid 3.4 percent to 907.5 pence, a ratio of 2.57
Glencore shares and a discount of 8.4 percent to the offer.  That’s the widest since the deal was announced on Feb. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, signaling a heightened
risk of the bid failing. Qatar has said an offer of 3.25 shares
would be “more appropriate.”  “Glencore so far has appeared adamant that current terms
are generous and it has other growth options,” Myles Allsop, an
analyst at UBS AG in  London , wrote in a note yesterday, citing a
60 percent chance the deal may be voted down. “Xstrata also
appeared defensive at its first-half results, reiterating its
standalone investment case.”  This month, Xstrata reported a 33 percent decline in first-
half profit to $1.94 billion after metals and coal prices fell,
while Rio Tinto said net income dropped 22 percent. The Thompson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials averaged 13 percent
lower in the period than a year earlier as waning economic
growth in  China  sapped demand.  Cyclical Downturn  The “golden years” of Chinese economic growth are gone,
Roberto Castello Branco, director of  investor relations  at Vale
SA, said Aug. 14. Vale is the world’s second-biggest mining
company. Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  said Aug. 7 the company’s first-
half result reflected a “cyclical downturn” in commodity
prices.  The risk of Glencore’s takeover failing has increased as
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund continues to raise its holding in
the mining company. The fund now owns almost 12 percent and
spent about $5 billion building its stake from about 3 percent
at the time the deal was agreed on in February.  Other shareholders including Knight Vinke Asset Management
LLC and Standard Life Plc have also called for an increase in
the bid. The transaction, which would create the world’s fourth-
biggest mining company, can be blocked by just 16.48 percent of
Xstrata holders under U.K. takeover rules because Glencore can’t
vote its stake.  Accretive Deal  “Xstrata shareholders need to keep Glencore merger-bump
expectations in check,”  Jeff Largey , an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., wrote in an Aug. 17 report. “Our analysis reveals a
meaningfully accretive deal for Xstrata shareholders, even at
2.8 times, and therefore dampens the bull-case argument for a
large merger sweetener.”  Any increase in the offer probably wouldn’t exceed 2.9 to 3
Glencore shares, Largey said. Jefferies Group Inc. analysts
Christopher Lafemina and Seth Rosenfeld said Aug. 1 that
Glencore may announce a 3-share bid on releasing earnings.  Should the deal fail to complete, Xstrata can still
generate “significant value,” CEO Davis said on an Aug. 7 call
with analysts.  “The inherent capacity of Xstrata to generate value as a
standalone company remains very, very powerful indeed,” even if
the business model of the combined entity is “more powerful,”
he said.  In backing Qatar’s push for a higher offer, New York-based
investor  Knight Vinke  said Xstrata assets including the
Antapaccay copper mine in  Peru , the Koniambo nickel project in
 New Caledonia  and the Collahuasi copper expansion in  Chile  are
“not yet reflected in the valuation of the company.”  “They’ve just done quite a lot of investing in new
production going forward,” Jane Coffey, head of equities at
Royal London Asset Management, said in an Aug. 17 Bloomberg
Television interview. “It was that production that’s coming on
in two-to-three years’ time that is the foundation behind our
belief that Glencore should pay more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  