-- Goldman Sachs Inmate Bet Fuels Social-Impact Bonds: Muni Credit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-21T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/goldman-sachs-inmate-bet-fuels-social-impact-bonds-muni-credit.html
New York City  and  Massachusetts  are
turning to a mixture of philanthropy and profit to fund projects
tackling homelessness and inmate recidivism, using a program
that can offer investors returns as high as 13 percent.  It’s the first embrace in the U.S. of a public-private
funding method known as social-impact bonds. Also called pay-
for-success contracts or social-innovation financing, the model
allows governments to transfer the risk of expanding prevention
programs to investors. Taxpayer money is spent only if the
results exceed a measurable goal set by both parties.  “This makes it possible to invest more in prevention,
which are often the first programs that get cut in fiscal
stress,” said George Overholser, chief executive officer of
Third Sector Capital Partners, a nonprofit financial-advisory
firm in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “It’s also a way to be sure that the programs that get
funding are also the programs that work,” he said. “And it’s a
way to align socially progressive goals with fiscally
conservative goals, which is a real political winner.”  Overholser, who was on the founding management team of
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , has been advocating innovations in
social financing since 2001. His company is advising the
nonprofits that will run Massachusetts’s programs.  Private Capital  State and local governments are seeking private capital to
fund projects after the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009. Local-government revenue has fallen for six straight
quarters, according to a report this month from the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in Albany,  New York . State
tax revenue was still 1.6 percent lower in the first quarter of
2012, when adjusted for inflation, than it was four years ago,
the group said.  Social-impact bonds don’t function like traditional debt.
They’re more like pooled equity vehicles in which investors
provide financing with no promise of a fixed return, according
to the  Rockefeller Foundation .  The New York-based philanthropy helped fund the first
social-impact bond program in 2010 at HM Prison Peterborough in
the U.K. and promotes those in the U.S. Officials in New York
state,  Connecticut ,  Los Angeles  and  Ohio ’s Cuyahoga County have
also expressed interest, said Justina Lai, a foundation
associate.  U.K. Pilot  The U.K. pilot program focuses on the rehabilitation of
3,000 short-term prisoners incarcerated at the correctional
facility north of  London . If recidivism drops by more than 7.5
percent, investors receive an annual return that can rise as
high as 13 percent, according to Social Finance U.K., which
developed the financing structure.  The original lenders, including the Rockefeller Foundation
and the London-based Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, were mostly
charitable trusts and nonprofits, though proponents want to
attract a broader range of investors.  “Early investors will have a high risk tolerance, and
their return expectations will range from principal repayment to
returns that keep pace with inflation,” according to a May
 report  by the consulting firm McKinsey & Co.  New York City is trying to reduce recidivism among young
male convicts housed in the Rikers Island lockup with a four-
year program run by nonprofits and financed by a $9.6 million
loan from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Cutting Recidivism  Recidivism must drop at least 10 percent for Goldman Sachs
to earn a profit. The most the New York-based bank can make is
$2.1 million if recidivism drops 20 percent and saves more than
$20 million in incarceration costs, according to city officials.  Failure would stick Goldman Sachs with a $2.4 million loss,
with the rest borne by  Bloomberg Philanthropies , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s private charity, which is backing some of the
Goldman Sachs loan. The mayor is the founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  By comparison, debt sold by New York state and its
municipalities, including New York City, has returned 10.6
percent in the 12 months through Aug. 17. That beat the 8.97
percent gain for the broader municipal-bond market, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows.  Both Democrats and Republicans have praised social-impact
bonds for their potential to cure social ills caused by poverty
and crime while allowing governments to remain fiscally prudent.  Bipartisan Support  In a January  opinion article  in the Washington Post, James Q. Wilson, the late Ronald Reagan professor of public policy at
 Pepperdine University  in  California , cited social-impact
financing as a better way to reduce  income inequality  than
taxing the wealthy. Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , a
Democrat, is also a proponent, and President  Barack Obama 
proposed $100 million in support in his last two budgets.  “Any time something’s run more efficiently, if it could be
done to relieve some of the operating burden and expenses on a
city or state budget, then you can’t help but look at it
favorably,” said Howard Cure, head of research at New York-
based Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $3.5
billion.  In Massachusetts, three quarters of males outgrowing the
juvenile justice system are convicted of a new crime within
seven years of release. Care for the chronically homeless, who
spend an average of five years on the street, costs the state an
annual $33,000 per person, for a projected total of $40 million
next year.  Societal Benefits  If those populations can “achieve more stable, positive,
and productive lifestyles and avoid all of these outcomes, it’s
much better for them and society as a whole, and it’s much
cheaper for us,” Massachusetts Secretary of Administration and
Finance Jay Gonzalez said.  Officials said they plan to announce investors and contract
terms in the next few weeks.  New York’s ability to attract Goldman Sachs shows the
potential for social-impact bonds to expand beyond the
philanthropic world, said Alicia Glen, the head of the bank’s
Urban Investment Group in New York.  “If the  capital markets  and financial institutions can get
comfortable with the return profile and the risks associated
with it, and also have a double bottom line as part of their
business, that’s really a game-changer,” she said.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY and WISCONSIN’S
PUBLIC FINANCE AUTHORITY plan to borrow $315 million of airport-
facilities revenue debt on behalf of Transportation
Infrastructure Properties LLC as soon as tomorrow, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will refinance debt sold in
2001 that helped finance two air-cargo facilities at  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  and refund debt sold to construct
and repair air-cargo facilities throughout the U.S., according
to bond documents. Another $111 million of debt will be sold
through private placement, bond documents show.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the bonds BBB-, its lowest investment grade. (Added
Aug. 21)  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY is
set to issue $448 million of sales-tax revenue bonds as soon as
tomorrow, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund
debt sold in 2003, according to bond documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the sale Aa2, its third-highest grade.
(Added Aug. 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  