-- Groupon Shares Extend Plunge After Barclays Downgrade
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-08-21T20:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/groupon-extends-plunge-after-barclays-downgrade-chicago-mover.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  fell to a record low
after Barclays Plc cut the price estimate and rating for the
shares, citing the potential for increasing marketing costs and
narrowing profit margins amid sales of discounted items.  Chicago-based Groupon dropped 2.4 percent to $4.54 at the
close in New York. The stock has  lost  77 percent since an
initial public offering in November. Barclays downgraded its
recommendation on the shares to the equivalent of a sell, and
lowered the price estimate to $4 from $15.  Groupon is one of several Internet stocks, including
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , to come under pressure after the lifting of lock-
up periods, which bar insiders from selling shortly after
initial public offerings. At Groupon, slowing customer growth is
leading to higher marketing costs, while an expansion beyond
daily-deals into sales of discounted merchandise is threatening
profit margins, according to Mark May, an analyst at Barclays.  “The majority of Groupon’s growth is coming from lower-
margin product sales, and as such, the company’s business model
could be undergoing a meaningful transition that persists and
creates uncertainty,” May said in a research report today.  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It then splits the revenue with the retailers. Groupon earlier
this month reported second-quarter revenue that missed estimates
due to economic weakness in  Europe .  Groupon Goods  A larger portion of sales in the quarter came from Groupon
Goods, an e-commerce site for marked-down products. The service
made up most of the company’s $65.4 million in direct revenue,
which more than tripled from $19.2 million in the first quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Jason Child said on a conference call
with analysts.  A lock-up for Groupon shares expired on June 1, the company
said in a May regulatory filing.  Groupon backers  Battery Ventures  and Andreessen Horowitz
have divested their stakes, joining a group of early investors
who have sold the stock, contributing to a continued slump.  Battery sold all of its 15.99 million shares earlier this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Andreessen
Horowitz sold its 5.1 million shares in June, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named because the
sale wasn’t publicly disclosed.  Other pre-IPO  investors  who have sold Groupon include
Fidelity Management & Research, which trimmed its stake by 6.2
million shares to 13.2 million in the quarter ended in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Maverick Capital
reduced its holdings by 4.35 million shares to 1.98 million over
that period, the data show. Kinnevik Investment AB said in June
that it divested its direct holding in Groupon of 8.4 million
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  