-- IAC Said to Bid More Than $300 Million for Times’ About.com
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-22T20:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/iac-is-said-to-bid-over-300-million-for-times-about-com-site.html
Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) 
offered more than $300 million to buy how-to site About.com from
 New York Times Co. (NYT) , topping a bid from Answers Corp., two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  IAC, which runs a similar website called Ask.com, outbid
the earlier $270 million offer from Answers. Times Co. can’t
consider any other offers until the end of an exclusive
negotiating period with Answers, during which Answers’ bid can
be adjusted, said one of the people, who both asked not to be
identified because the offer hasn’t been announced publicly.  About.com, which relies on freelancers to produce stories
and how-to videos on topics such as making a stir-fry or
preventing a tattoo from stretching, has struggled to attract
traffic and advertising dollars. By contrast, New York-based IAC
saw revenue from Ask.com and its other search-related sites
climb 46 percent to $348.8 million last quarter.  Times Co. has been unloading businesses and tightening
focus on its media brand. It sold its stake in Fenway Sports
Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for $93 million this year
and completed the sale of its regional newspaper division for
$143 million. The publisher still owns the Boston Globe and
Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers.  Times Co. purchased About.com for $410 million in 2005. Its
revenue fell 8.7 percent to $25.4 million last quarter, and it
posted an operating loss of $186.8 million as the publisher
wrote down the value of the business unit to $172.5 million.  Dating Sites  IAC, founded by billionaire Diller, 70, runs dating sites
Match.com and OKCupid and has a controlling stake in
Newsweek/Daily Beast Co.  Stacy Simpson, a spokeswoman for IAC, declined to comment.
Abbe Serphos, a spokeswoman for Times Co., said the company
doesn’t comment on potential divestitures.  Times Co. said Aug. 8 it was in negotiations to sell
About.com, without giving details. A person with knowledge of
the deal said then the company was trying to sell the property
to St. Louis-based Answers.  Answers, the closely held operator of instructional site
Answers.com, didn’t respond to a request for comment. The IAC
bid was  previously reported  by Reuters.  Times Co. fell less than a percent to $9.20 at the close in
 New York . The shares gained 19 percent this year. IAC slid less
than a percent to $51.69.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  