-- Tianjin Sets $236 Billion Investment Target as China Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T09:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/tianjin-sets-236-billion-investment-target-as-china-slows-1-.html
Tianjin announced a multi-year
target of 1.5 trillion  yuan  ($236 billion) for  industrial 
investment, joining a similar plan by Chongqing amid local
efforts that may help reverse  China ’s growth slowdown.  Tianjin, in northeast China, plans the investment over four
years in 10 industries including petrochemicals and aerospace,
according to a report today in the Communist Party’s Tianjin
Daily. Chongqing, in the southwest, will boost industrial
investment to 1.5 trillion yuan in the five years through 2015,
the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.  The spending builds on reports last month that Changsha
city will invest 829 billion yuan in projects including an
airport and subway lines while Nanjing and Ningbo will introduce
measures to boost consumption. The regional plans will help the
national economy rebound in the second half, after  expansion 
slowed to a three-year low last quarter, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “There are further signs that policy stimulus continues to
be focused on infrastructure spending and consumption
measures,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, economist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong , said in a note today after Chongqing’s
announcement. He said separately that while there is a risk of
overcapacity, the local industrial-investment plans are likely
to be “well coordinated” by national economic planners.  The Shanghai Securities News today reported that China may
give 5,000 yuan in subsidies for each purchase of a diesel car
under a government plan to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.  Investment Funding  The reports didn’t say how much of an increase the spending
would represent over previous plans. Tianjin had fixed-asset
investment of 751 billion yuan in 2011, while Chongqing’s
totaled 763 billion yuan. Investment nationwide rose 20.4
percent in the January-July period from a year earlier, while
industrial production grew 9.2 percent in July, below the median
economist estimate of 9.7 percent.  Bank lending and bond sales are likely to help fund the
spending, Kowalczyk said. Tianjin Daily said the city will give
preferential treatment to the industries through land and taxes.  Huang Qifan, Chongqing’s mayor, was quoted by the People’s
Daily website today as saying the city will develop a
“comprehensive, multi-channel, low-cost” financing system to
support the industrial-investment plans. Huang said he hopes
state money, private funds and foreign investors will join
forces to finance projects.  Shares Rise  Shares of some companies based in the cities rose after the
reports. Tianjin Global Magnetic Card Co. gained 5.2 percent to
2.42 yuan, while port-services provider Chongqing Gangjiu Co.
advanced 10 percent to 7.26 yuan.  A former central bank adviser indicated he’s optimistic for
a growth rebound in the second half. Li Daokui said in an
interview in Beijing that  China’s economy  will expand 8.1
percent for the full year and fourth-quarter expansion may
exceed 8.5 percent.  The People’s Bank of China injected record funds into the
banking system today by conducting 220 billion yuan of reverse-
repurchase operations, tempering speculation the country will
lower banks’ reserve requirements.  Chongqing’s industrial investment plan will focus on
building seven “big manufacturing industries,” including
electronic information, automotive, equipment and parts
manufacturing, oil refining, material and energy industries,
according to Xinhua.  The electronic-information industry, which includes
 notebook computers , will receive 300 billion yuan in investment,
while the car industry will get 200 billion yuan, Xinhua said.  Tianjin’s plan includes 500 billion yuan of investment in
petrochemicals, 370 billion yuan in heavy equipment and 70
billion yuan in aerospace, according to the Tianjin Daily report,
which was also posted on a government website. Other industries
targeted include cloud computing, green energy and biomedicine.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  