-- CVR Rises After Icahn Pulls Bid for Rest of Shares
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-08-22T20:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/icahn-withdraws-offer-for-cvr-energy-says-deal-isn-t-feasible-.html
CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , the oil refiner
that’s 82 percent owned by  Carl Icahn , rose after the
billionaire investor withdrew his $29-a-share offer to buy the
rest of the company.  Icahn, the chairman of CVR’s board, yesterday withdrew his
Aug. 6 offer to pay at least $29 and no more than $30 a share
for the  Sugar Land , Texas-based operator of refineries in Kansas
and  Oklahoma . Market conditions changed, including a widening
 margin  between the cost of oil and the price at which refiners
can sell fuel, and the deal is no longer “feasible,” Icahn
wrote in a letter to the board.  An increase in so-called crack spreads, a measure of
refining profitability, may have made Icahn’s offer appear low
to  investors  who held onto shares as he increased his stake,
said Neil Earnest, practice leader for mergers and acquisitions
at Dallas-based consulting company Muse, Stancil & Co. The
shares have traded above $29 every day since Icahn’s Aug. 6 bid
was announced.  “He put a fairly big bet down on short- and medium-term
refining margins, and whether or not he’s going to be happy as
an investor remains to be seen,” Earnest said in a phone
interview today.  CVR  increased  1 cent to $29.56 at the close in  New York .
The shares have risen 58 percent this year.  Gaining Control  “His offer was not going to cut it,” said  Louis Meyer , a
New York-based special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc. “Refiners are way up this year.”  Remaining shareholders may hold out for at least $35 a
share, Meyer said.  Icahn gained control of CVR in May after saying the company
would reap more value for shareholders if it put itself up for
sale. He prevailed in a proxy fight with management by offering
$30 a share and the right to an additional payment if he sold
the company. More than 30 potential bidders were contacted over
a 60-day sale process and no “credible” offers were received,
according to a July 26 company statement.  The crack spread for West Texas Intermediate crude widened
6.8 percent to $32.886 a barrel yesterday in New York from
$30.794 on Aug. 6.  CVR also owns the general partner of fertilizer maker  CVR
Partners LP (UAN) , which last week filed plans to sell as much as
$1.32 billion worth of units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  