-- Michelin Stars, Eiffel Views, Lobster Feasts: Paris Food
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-08-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/michelin-stars-eiffel-views-lobster-feasts-paris-food.html
Dining on an outdoor terrace in
Paris can be a rare pleasure when there’s a wet summer. I dashed
between the raindrops and gave three places a try.  La Table du Lancaster: Chef Michel Troisgros designed the
menu at this Michelin-starred restaurant with a cozy garden
terrace. Dishes are arranged according to themes, such as
radiance, spiciness and liveliness.  Puffy and light best describe a starter of ravioli (29
euros/$36) stuffed with hazelnuts, the tiniest girolles and
creamy mascarpone. Spider crab aspic (42 euros) was reminiscent
of a fresh crustacean at the seashore.  A glass of 2010 “Sans Papiers” from the Souch domaine (24
euros), a slightly sparkling white wine, was the perfect
accompaniment. It was like biting into a Granny Smith apple.
(“Sans Papiers” indicates the wine is without an appellation.)  Serving of the Wagyu prime rib (86 euros) is an interesting
ritual: The waiter presents it raw to the customer as if it were
a wine to examine. Once the meat is cooked, the waiter serves
the center first, followed by a second portion with the rest.
The meat was tender and full of flavor.  Sole prepared in a light, breaded crust with chives (62
euros) was golden and crunchy. It’s a Troisgros recipe dating
back to 1975 and I can see why it still is served today.  Desserts aren’t overly impressive, except for the
chocolate-mint souffle, a burst of freshness offsetting the
bitter creaminess of chocolate. The service was impeccable:
informative and attentive.  Rating: ***  Cost: Starts at 94 euros for three courses, plus wine.  Information:  http://www.hospes.com/fr/hotel-paris -
lancaster/?  Sparkling Tower  Maison Blanche: If you are looking for a place to watch the
Eiffel Tower sparkle as you dine, Maison Blanche, decked in
white linen on the rooftop of the Theatre des Champs-Elysees, is
a good choice. The ambience might be perfect if the tables
weren’t so close together. An arguing couple on one side and a
cigar smoker two tables away detracted from the magic.  The creativity of Chef Sylvain Ruffenach, under the
direction of twin brothers Jacques and Laurent Pourcel, is
evident in well-thought-out associations of ingredients. An
appetizer tart (26 euros) layered with tuna and sweet tomatoes
on a crunchy curcuma crust was a great mix of flavors and
textures.  The boneless pork rib main (32 euros) served with saffron
risotto, Bellota chorizo and calamari was more paella than
risotto. The smokiness of the meat and taste of the sea made a
good surf-and-turf combination.  Icy Cherries  Advice on dessert (16 euros): Avoid it. The rum baba showed
little evidence of rum. Pan-cooked cherries were ice cold,
served over a rubbery custard.  Maison Blanche has a selection of more than 380 wines,
including some unusual varieties such as the Cote Rotie Jamet
1995 (194 euros) that the sommelier, who was very knowledgeable,
recommended.  Rating: *  Cost: Starts at about 70 euros for three courses, plus
wine. There is a 69 euro three-course “gourmet menu” and 110
euro six-course tasting menu.  Information:  http://www.maison-blanche.fr/fr/index.html .  Romantic Chestnuts  Restaurant Laurent: Dining on the lush and spacious terrace
of this establishment, a former hunting lodge tucked away in the
Champs-Elysees gardens, is almost like being on one’s own
private patio. Under a canopy of chestnut trees, it’s the
perfect place for a romantic tete-a-tete.  Chef Alain Pegouret, who heads this Michelin one-starred
restaurant, works with traditional French produce and adds a
touch of creativity. His food is delicious -- and expensive.  To start, four large langoustines (87 euros), each in a
crisp crust and served with a basil sauce, were light and
tender. An appetizer of whole lobster (98 euros), prepared at
the table and served over salad greens, was cooked to
perfection, but the mustard-based vinaigrette was overpowering.  A juicy center cut of beef (88 euros) was served with
“pommes souffles,” paper-thin puffs of crisp potato, releasing
a burst of flavor with each bite. Desserts were fabulous,
especially the apricot-verbena souffle (30 euros). It was airy
and the verbena refreshing on a warm summer evening.  Although the restaurant offers a good selection of bottles,
wines available by the glass such as a Gamay 2010 (20 euros)
were ordinary. Servers were pleasant but we had to ask numerous
times for basics like water: a shame at a starred restaurant.  Rating: **  Cost: Starts at 143 euros for three courses, plus wine.
There is a 170 euro, six-course seasonal menu.  Information:  http://www.le-laurent.com/fr/   (Adria Cimino writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music and  Ryan Sutton 
on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 