-- India Considers $35 Billion Debt Revamp After Blackout
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-21T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/india-considers-35-billion-debt-revamp-after-biggest-blackout.html
India  plans to restructure about $35
billion of loans held by its utilities to boost their ability to
supply electricity and avert outages like the one that cut off
power to half the nation’s 1.2 billion people.  Half of the short-term borrowings of the state-owned
utilities, which generate or buy and distribute electricity,
will be transferred to the books of the regional governments,
according to a power ministry draft proposal obtained by
Bloomberg News. The rest will be rescheduled by the banks and
allowed a three-year moratorium on principal repayments.  Cash losses at utilities widened 15 times over three years
to 288 billion rupees ($5.2 billion) in the year ended March
2010, prompting them to seek short-term loans even as dues to
power producers and coal miners rose. The difference between the
average cost of supplying electricity and the average tariff has
almost doubled in the 11 years to March 2010, according to the
draft, leading banks to refuse loans.  “For some state utilities today, selling more power means
incurring more losses,” said Salil Garg, a New Delhi-based
director at  Fitch Ratings  India. “Restructuring their debt
seems to be the only solution. Utilities will look to turn
around, while banks will seek to minimize sacrifices.”  The proposal is expected to be circulated among cabinet
members in a week, Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar said on Aug.
13. There will be a separate arrangement for financing part of
the operational losses and interest payments for the first three
years, according to the plan.  Biggest Blackout  The utilities are “servicing the interest on existing
loans by fresh borrowings, which leads to a virtual debt trap in
the long run,” according to the draft report.  Almost 27 percent of India’s electricity is lost in
transmission because of dissipation through wires and theft,
causing a peak shortfall of 9 percent. Distribution utilities,
unable to retrieve their costs through tariffs,  accumulate debt
and losses  and cut purchases of electricity, leading to
blackouts. Grid collapses on two consecutive days in India last
month caused the world’s biggest blackout.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the country’s biggest power producer, was forced
to cut generation by 13 billion kilowatt hours, or 6 percent of
total production in the year ended March 31, as state government
utilities reduced purchases, Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said on
Aug. 7. The company may have to cut output by almost as much
this fiscal year.  Free Power  Most state utilities often adhere to political demands of
the local governments by providing free or cheap power to
people. Punjab and Haryana, two of India’s biggest producers of
food crops, provide subsidized power to farmers. Some utilities
don’t receive subsidies announced by governments in lieu of free
power they give to farmers, Garg of Fitch Ratings said.  States, including  Tamil Nadu ,  Andhra Pradesh , Punjab and
Karnataka, have increased tariffs since April to reduce the gap
between cost and sales. Tamil Nadu increased tariffs after
almost a decade.  “We are hoping to break even this year, thanks to the
increase in tariffs,” S.C. Arora, finance director at Punjab
State Power Corp. said by telephone. “Deficient rains have
forced us to buy more power for irrigation and we are appealing
to people to use electricity judiciously.”  Punjab State Power has 200 billion rupees of liabilities,
half of which is short-term and being considered for
restructuring, Arora said. The utility lost 0.07 rupees on every
kilowatt hour of electricity it sold last year, he said.  Higher Tariffs  “States have accepted the inevitability of increasing
tariffs, but there’s a limit to the increase,” Garg of Fitch
Ratings said. “Ultimately, the solution lies in improving
efficiencies.”  The burden of any increase in tariffs will be borne by
industrial users more than households. Industries pay more than
double the price households pay for their electricity, which
affects profitability.  “India has to have a tariff system that reflects the
change in costs,” said Debasish Misra, senior director at
consulting firm  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  in Mumbai.  Increasing losses at state utilities are also endangering
investment in generation projects in states, as concerns mount
that generation companies may find it difficult to recover their
dues from utilities.  Nervous Lenders  “The risks of offtake and fuel availability are two
biggest concerns in the minds of lenders today,” said Ashish Sethia, head of India research for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
“Banks will obviously be nervous in lending to a generation
project in a state that has a financially stressed distribution
company.”  Damodar Valley Corp. , a power producer in the eastern part
of the country, posted a loss of 1.2 billion rupees in the year
ended March 2011 after interest payments on short-term loans
increased.  “The biggest challenge in the power sector today is
getting the money for what you sell,” NTPC’s Roy Choudhury said
on Aug. 7. “If we are able to address that issue, this is the
most viable sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  