-- India Consumer Prices Rise at Slowest Pace in 4 Months
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-08-21T05:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/india-s-july-consumer-prices-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-four-months.html
Indian consumer prices increased at
the slowest pace in four months in July as the climb in energy
costs moderated.  The  consumer-price index  rose 9.86 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a revised 9.93 percent in June, the
 Central Statistical Office  said in New Delhi today.  The  Reserve Bank of India  left interest rates unchanged
last month to tackle inflation risks such as energy tariffs, a
drop in the rupee and the impact of a weak monsoon on crops. The
monetary authority faces a policy dilemma since economic growth
is the weakest in nearly a decade even as price pressures remain
a challenge, according to Morgan Stanley.  “Even if inflation moderates, it is near 10 percent and
that is high from the Reserve Bank’s perspective,” Sujan Hajra,
chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai,
said before the report. The central bank is unlikely to reduce
 interest rates  again this year, he said.  The rupee, which has tumbled about 18 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, strengthened 0.3 percent to 55.595
per dollar at 11:02 a.m. in Mumbai. The BSE India Sensitive
Index rose 0.4 percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent
government bond due June 2022 declined to 8.23 percent from 8.24
percent on Aug. 17.  Prices in the fuel and light category climbed 7.36 percent
last month from a year earlier, today’s statement showed,
compared with a previously reported 10.34 percent in June. Food
and beverage costs rose 11.53 percent, while clothing, bedding
and footwear advanced 11.02 percent.  ‘Dominant’ Threat  Indian consumer inflation is the fastest in the Group of 20
major economies after  Argentina , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Wholesale inflation eased to a 32-month low of 6.87
percent in July while remaining the highest among the largest
emerging nations, a report showed last week.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said
the pace of price gains is above a “threshold” level that may be
about 5 percent. Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said two days ago
that inflation is currently the “dominant” threat.  The Reserve Bank left borrowing costs at 8 percent on July
31 for a second meeting, breaking with a wave of cuts from  China 
to  Brazil . Economic expansion weakened to a nine-year low of 5.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  The consumer-price gauge was created last year and the
government started giving year-on-year data beginning in 2012.
Subbarao has said that while it is too new to be used as the
only headline measure of inflation, it can’t be ignored and
arguably “reflects the most updated economic structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 