-- Iran Barring Women From Atomic, Oil Fields Draws Rebuke
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-08-21T14:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/iran-barring-women-from-atomic-oil-fields-draws-rebuke.html
Iran ’s decision to forbid women from
studying dozens of subjects including nuclear physics and oil
engineering threatens to wipe out one of the last vestiges of
gender equality in the country, a Nobel Peace laureate said.  The Islamic Republic’s Ministry of Science, Research and
Technology has barred women in 36 universities from 77 fields of
study, according to state-run media including the Mehr news
agency. Female students learned of the curbs when they received
their registration letters in recent weeks.  The new rules “demonstrate that the Iranian authorities
cannot tolerate women’s presence in the public arena,” Nobel
Peace laureate Shirin Ebadi wrote in an open letter to the
 United Nations  dated Aug. 17. “They are trying to push women
back to the private sphere of their homes so they may abandon
their opposition and legitimate demands.”  The restrictions follow gender-segregation guidelines that
Science Minister Kamran Daneshjou tried -- unsuccessfully -- to
impose last year. While the government requires women to cover
their hair and bodies in line with religious values, they had
been eligible to study on equal terms with their male
counterparts. Improved female literacy and  gender equality  were
key elements in human  development gains  after the 1979 Iranian
Revolution.  Not Needed  About 52 percent of Iranian university students who
graduated in 2009 were women, according to the  latest data 
published by the UN Education Scientific and Cultural
Organization. Sixty-eight percent of science graduates were
women, Paris-based UNESCO said.  High unemployment among women graduating from science-based
degree programs is a justification for the ban, the chancellor
of the  University of Isfahan , Mohammad Hossein Ramesht, told
Mehr. About 98 percent of women who graduated from mine-
engineering programs are without jobs, he said, citing surveys.  “We do not need female students at all,” said Gholamrez
Rashed, head of the University of Petroleum Technology, Mehr
reported today. Difficult working conditions in Iran’s oil
industry is the main reason for not admitting women, he said.  Iran, the third-biggest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting, is pumping less crude than  Iraq  for the
first time in 20 years, OPEC said in an Aug. 9 report. The
country is under international sanctions over its atomic work.  Feminist Movement  The feminist movement “has witnessed significant growth in
the past two decades,”  wrote Ebadi , an Iranian human-rights
activist who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 and lives in
exile in the U.K. “The government is seeking to bar women’s
access to education and active presence in society.”  Iran’s leaders are “pushing them back to into the house in
the hope that they abandon their demands and leave the
government alone to pursue its wrong policies,” she said.  Other subjects restricted to male study when universities
open next month include English literature, hotel management,
computer science and accounting, according to local media.  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who opposed Daneshjou’s push
to segregate male and female students because it was
“unscientific,” hasn’t commented publicly on the decision to
ban women from coursework.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  