-- Iron Ore Price to Rebound as China Seeks Cheaper Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T17:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/iron-ore-to-rebound-as-china-seeks-cheaper-imports-commodities.html
A plunge in iron ore prices and
shipping costs means it’s cheaper for Chinese steel mills to buy
the material from  Brazil  more than 8,000 nautical miles away
than to buy the lower-grade ore being dug in their own backyard.  China ’s  iron ore output  had the steepest decline in July in
four years, signaling the world’s largest metals consumer is
poised to boost purchases from producers such as Brazil’s  Vale
SA (VALE)  and  Rio Tinto  Group. Stronger demand may push iron ore
higher, with the spot price set to gain as much as 41 percent in
the fourth quarter after touching a near-three-year low today,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re using almost all imported ore to feed our furnaces
now as prices have become more appealing,” Wang Liancheng, an
international trading manager of Hebei Tianzhu Iron & Steel
(Group) Co., said by phone from Tangshan. The company, which
used to buy a quarter of its needs domestically, has switched to
ore from  South Africa ,  Australia  and Brazil, he said.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao is overseeing $23 billion of
investment in new mills to stimulate auto-making and housing,
which will boost demand for  iron ore  and help revive the
nation’s flagging economy, which grew at the slowest pace since
2009 in the second quarter.  Ore prices may rebound as soon as next month because of
declining stockpiles in China and the nation’s rising demand for
construction, Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said
this month.  Shipping Costs  Australian ore for immediate delivery at Chinese ports
traded yesterday at about 780 yuan ($133) a dry ton, including
taxes and port storage fees, with ore from Brazil at 790 yuan,
according to researcher Mysteel.com. That compares to 1,030 yuan
a dry ton of ore concentrates asked by domestic miners,
according to Mysteel.  China’s ore contains about 20 percent iron, compared with
more than 55 percent iron in Australian ore, making it more
expensive to extract, Deutsche Bank AG estimates. Brazil is
three times as far from Asian markets as Australia, where Rio
Tinto,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  produce
the bulk of their metal.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company and third-biggest
ore shipper, today reported a 35 percent drop in earnings to
$15.4 billion in the year ended June 30 because of falling
commodity prices. The result beat the $14.6 billion average of
eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said it’s selling every cargo of iron produced.
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said he doesn’t see a
“dramatic” upside to its price.  The benchmark  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a broad measure of shipping
costs, has plunged 67 percent from October, the highest level in
the past year. It takes about 40 days to ship ore from Brazil to
Chinese ports and two weeks from Australia’s Pilbara region.  Building Stockpiles  The 62 percent iron ore arriving China’s Tianjin port, an
industry benchmark that touched a new annual low today of
$104.70 a ton, may increase to $148 a ton in the fourth quarter,
according to the median of seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Traders also build iron ore stockpiles in the fourth
quarter because freezing weather disrupts ports in the winter
months, according to Steve Rodley, London-based managing
director of Global Maritime Investments Ltd., which operates 64
ships.  Increasing exports to Chinese mills will help revive
earnings at Vale and Rio, the top exporters of the raw material,
who both reported in the past month a decline in profit. Rio’s
net income may almost double to $11.4 billion this year,
according to the average of 17 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Record Production  Monthly steel production in China rose to a record 61.7
million metric tons in July, according to government data.  “There is no obvious failure in the industrial activity of
 Asia ’s  steel industry ,”  UBS AG (UBSN)  analysts led by  Tom Price  said
in an Aug. 20 report. “We should therefore expect a typical
seasonal lift in ore prices in the fourth quarter, returning
spot fines to levels above $125.”  Iron ore prices have to stay under $130 for several weeks
before Chinese mines shut down, according to Carlos de Alba, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  New York . They declined below that
level on July 17. Production costs in China are about $140 a
ton, based on iron content, Credit Suisse Group AG said in July.  Iron ore output  dropped 8.1 percent in July to 115.5
million metric tons in China, according to the National Bureau
of Statistics. That’s the biggest decline in July since 2008,
according to seasonally adjusted data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, iron ore prices may fall further to around $100 a
ton in the near term, according to Mysteel.com. Chinese  steel
mills , overwhelmed by rising capacity and sluggish demand, have
struggled to remain profitable as prices for the alloy plunged
to an almost three-year low this month.  Price Forecast  “There’s still room for imported prices to fall, while
domestic mines are already struggling to stay profitable,”
Hebei Tianzhu’s Wang said.  China’s iron ore imports totaled 57.87 million tons in
July, 6.1 percent higher than a year earlier. Major Chinese
steelmakers including  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , posted a
combined 96 percent drop in first-half earnings, the China Iron
and Steel Association said July 31.  “Mines in China’s coastal regions and in the southwestern
areas are most hit by the falling prices,” said Mysteel’s
Shanghai-based analyst Shi Zhenglei. “Mills along the coast
stopped buying domestic ore, and falling ore prices also drained
demand for shipping the raw material from mines in the faraway
Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia.”  Chinese production could be curtailed by as much as 20
percent in August with up to 30 percent of mines losing money,
Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa said in an Aug. 20
report. They expect iron ore to trade at $120 to $130 a ton as
mills restock and as seaborne material purchases gain.  “Chinese mills are out of the market to preserve cash amid
tough market conditions in the steel industry, but the trend of
destocking is unsustainable,” the analysts said. “The return
of mills to the market should be supportive for prices.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  