-- Israeli Women Ahead in Science Poised to Lead in Biotech
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-08-21T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/israeli-women-ahead-in-science-poised-to-lead-in-biotech-health.html
Every week, Daniella Nistenpover
sits down in a lecture hall for one class in neurophysiology and
another in biological processes, and sees a sea of women.  That’s not the case when the 22-year-old takes courses in
the theory of electrical circuits or differential equations at
the predominantly male  Technion-Israel Institute of Technology .
She says it’s evidence that she’s picked the right career.  “It makes you feel that in the life-sciences field, a
woman can make a mark,” says Nistenpover, a bio-medical
engineering major at the university in Haifa who plans to work
in bio-mechanics or bio-materials research.  Women outnumber men in biology and related sciences in
higher education in  Israel . That could give women an advantage
as the government and private investors put increasing amounts
of money into the life-sciences industry, one of the country’s
fastest growing sectors, collecting the most  venture capital 
money in the first half of this year.  Hiring and promoting women could also give startups an edge
because women still have to work harder and be smarter than men
to succeed, says  Hagit Messer-Yaron , president of the Ra’anana-
based Open University and the Ministry of Science’s chief
scientist from 2000 to 2003.  “The women that make it to the top usually have to prove
themselves and overcome hurdles that are above and beyond what
men are required to do,” Messer-Yaron says. “When these women
make it as managers, they are over-achievers and can help these
companies succeed.”  Executive Positions  Israel got the nickname “startup nation” in a 2009 book
with that title. It has about 60 companies on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside  North America  after
 China . The high-tech industry accounts for 47 percent of
manufactured exports.  While most high-tech employees are male, women comprise 60
percent to 70 percent of the biotechnology workforce, according
to  Nisha Group , a recruiting firm based near  Tel Aviv .  Still, men dominate upper management. Women hold about 13
percent of chief executive officer positions in companies in the
Tel Aviv Biomed index and less than 5 percent in the  Tel Aviv
Technology index , according to data analyzed by Bloomberg.  That’s destined to change in biotech, says Ora Dar, head of
the life sciences sector at the Office of the Chief Scientist in
the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor.  “As this field matures, you are going to see women
increasingly taking executive positions,” says Dar, whose team
of about 100 evaluators, who decide what projects and incubators
to finance with taxpayer money, is more than 70 percent female.
“It’s a matter of experience.”  More Pressure  More women than men earn science degrees in Israel,
according to Lizi Shoov  London , partner and managing director of
the Biomedical and Cleantech division at Nisha Group outside Tel
Aviv. About 58 percent of biology doctorate degrees awarded in
2010 were to women, a study by  Israel’s Council for Higher
Education  found. That compares to women earning 44 percent of
equivalent degrees in the U.S., according to the National Center
for Education Statistics.  “Women traditionally are not the main breadwinners in the
family and can afford to pursue a PhD, whereas men have more
pressure to go out and make a high salary, says Anat Cohen- Dayag, president and CEO of  Compugen Ltd. (CGEN) , which was founded by
members of an Israeli army intelligence unit that designed
software to break codes. The Tel Aviv-based company uses
algorithms to trawl private and public databases to discover
proteins that may have the ability to treat diseases.  Working Mothers  The industry is a good fit for working mothers like
herself, she says. ‘‘Because of its academic characteristics,
the culture in the industry has traditionally been more
permissive, enabling more flexible hours, which has enabled
women to juggle career and family.’’  Cohen-Dayag is one of three female CEOs in the Tel Aviv
Biomed index. The others are Kinneret Livnat Savitsky of
 BioLineRx Ltd. (BLRX) , which develops clinical stage therapeutic
pharmaceutical drugs, and Pnina Fishman of  Can Fite Biopharma (CFBI) 
Ltd., which is focusing on treatments for autoimmune diseases
and cancer.  Most of the companies in the sector are very young, with
little or no revenue, according to Uri Geiger, managing partner
at Herzliya-based Accelmed, which invests in medical-device
makers. Of the more than 1,000 life-science companies in Israel,
57 percent are focused on medical devices, Geiger says, with the
remainder in biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, health information
technology and other small fields.  Venture Capital  The share of the government research and development budget
allocated to health-related companies almost doubled in the last
decade to 26 percent from 14 percent, according to Israel Chief
Scientist Avi Hasson, head of the Ministry of Industry, Trade
and Labor fund that invests as much as $500 million a year.  Biomedical companies attracted the most venture capital in
the first half of this year, according to IVC-KPMG, which tracks
the industry. The $240 million represented 26 percent of all the
venture capital invested in startups in the period, more than in
the previous year, a IVC-KPMG survey found.  Orbimed Healthcare Fund Management, a New York-based
investment management firm focused on health-care, started the
Orbimed Israel Partners $222 million fund in Israel in April
with partial  government investment , while the Tel Aviv venture
capital firm Pontifax Ltd. raised $88 million for bio-medical
investments last year.  Metallo-Therapy Ltd., which is developing a new method for
cancer diagnosis by delivering nano-liposomes to tumor cells,
recently received a $4 million investment from Moshe Arkin,
former CEO of Agis Industries Ltd. and  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) ’s vice
chairman. Amal Ayoub, Metallo-Therapy’s founder and CEO, says
she thinks one reason is that she’s female -- and Arab.  ‘Only Natural’  ‘‘Being an Arab woman was actually an advantage,” says
Ayoub, who has a doctorate in biomedical engineering form Ben
Gurion University. “It got Arkin’s attention.”  Galit Zuckerman, founder of  Medasense Biometrics Ltd. ,
which is working on an automated, non-invasive pain monitoring
diagnostic device, says women are taking life sciences jobs as
academic positions are increasingly hard to find.          ‘  ‘You have all these women with growing expertise in
biology,’’ she says. “It’s only natural that they increasingly
market that knowledge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar in  New York  at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  