-- Hitachi Metals, Zumbox, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-21T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/hitachi-metals-zumbox-apple-intellectual-property.html
Hitachi Metals Ltd. (5486) , a Japanese
maker of specialty metal products, filed a U.S. trade complaint
against more than two dozen companies, seeking to block imports
of competitors’ rare-earth magnets used in electronics, golf
ball markers and power tools.  The companies are infringing four patents related to the
manufacture of sintered rare-earth magnets, Hitachi Metals said
Aug. 17 in a complaint at the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. It’s asking the agency to block
products that are using rare-earth metals from China, where 95
percent of all such materials are mined and processed.  Hitachi Metals, based in Tokyo, said in the complaint it
has an agreement to make the magnets with  Molycorp Inc., (MCP)  the
owner of the only rare-earth mine in the U.S., and plans to
begin production in 2013. Rare earths are 17 chemically similar
elements used in batteries, magnets and computer hard drives.
Sintered rare-earth magnets are small, light and powerful.  The complaint names Chinese companies that mine or use the
metals, as well as firms that import or make products that use
them. They include audio-equipment makers  Skullcandy Inc. (SKUL) ,
 Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR) , and Bose Corp., and
athletic-gear makers  Callaway Golf Co. (ELY) , Taylor Made Golf Co.,
and  Adidas AG. (ADS)   Molycorp is working to reopen a rare-earth mine in Mountain
Pass, California, which closed in 2002 because Chinese exports
caused global prices to plunge, according to Hitachi Metals.
More recently, prices have risen and the U.S. Congress has been
calling for an increase in domestic production.  Hitachi Metals said it and other suppliers would be able to
make up the difference were the rare-earth magnets from China
halted at the U.S. border.  It said the commission has twice limited imports of
certain rare-earth magnets based on patent-infringement
complaints, in 1996 and 1999.  The new case is In the Matter of Sintered Rare Earth
Magnets, 2908, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Samsung Sought to Beat IPhone With Galaxy Nexus, Apple Says  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said its largest smartphone competitor,  Samsung
Electronics Co., (005930)  set out to steal market share by selling a
Galaxy Nexus phone that copies its features, including one that
makes the iPhone’s Siri virtual personal assistant so
compelling.  “This was the beat-Apple strategy,” Apple lawyer  Mark
Perry  of Gibson Dunn in Washington, told a U.S. appeals court
yesterday. “This was the top of the line, Cadillac phone they
trotted out to compete with the iPhone.”  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of smartphones, is
seeking to overturn an order to stop selling the Galaxy Nexus in
the U.S. until a patent-infringement case brought by Apple can
be held. The case, which involves different patents than those
at the heart of a trial under way in San Jose, California, is
scheduled for trial in March 2014.  Samsung lawyer  John Quinn  said Apple, which has the biggest
share of the U.S. market, wasn’t harmed by the “minuscule”
sales of the Galaxy Nexus, so there’s no threat if the phone
remains on the market. Samsung also is appealing U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh’s finding that Apple is likely to win the case,
and is challenging the validity of the patent.  A key issue in the arguments made yesterday before the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington is
whether Apple must prove it lost market share to the Galaxy
Nexus to obtain a pre-trial ban on sales, and whether the
patented feature drove sales of either product.  Apple’s patent 8,086,604 is for a unified search feature
that captures results from multiple sources, such as the
Internet and e-mail contacts. Perry said that ability forms the
heart of Siri, because consumers like the comprehensive results
they get when they ask a question.  Quinn said many consumers didn’t even know the feature was
on the Samsung phones. It is  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system that customers chose, he said.  The Galaxy Nexus has remained on the market as Samsung
appeals the order to the Federal Circuit, which specializes in
U.S. patent law. The panel gave no indication yesterday when it
would rule.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1507,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia Post Office Suit of Digital Mailbox Company Dismissed  Australia’s national postal service’s trademark challenge
against a company planning to begin a competing digital mailbox
service was dismissed by an Australian federal court, PC World
 reported .  The competitor,  Digital Post Australia  -- created by Zumbox
Software Inc.,  Computershare Ltd. (CPU)  and  Salmat Ltd. (SLM)  -- was accused
of using a name too similar to Australia Post, the official
postal service, according to PC World.  David Hynes, who heads Digital Post Australia, told PC
World his company had no intention of trying to trick customers
into believing it was the official postal service, PC World
reported.  Australia Post  said it seeks to prevent third parties
“from using an Australian-owned, trusted brand for their
commercial gain” and is considering whether to appeal the
judgment, according to PC World.  Ryan Lochte Seeks ‘Jeah’ Trademark; Rapper Says He May Oppose  Ryan Lochte , a member of the U.S. Olympic swim team who
said he was quitting swimming after failing to win gold medals
in two events in London last month, filed an application to
register “Jeah” as a trademark, according to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Lochte’s application, filed Aug. 1, suggests he plans to
use the mark for a wide range of merchandise, including gift
cards, baseball caps, swim goggles, drinking classes, trading
cards and clothing.  There is one existing “Jeah” trademark, registered in
2002 for Web hosting, belonging to Jeah Communications LLC of
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.  M.C. Ehit, a 1990s rap performer,  told the TMZ website  that
he’s been using it since 1988 and that he plans to send the
athlete a cease-and-desist letter.  IPhone Ice Cream Big Hit in China, Not Connected to Apple Inc.  Although Apple Inc.’s iPhone 5 mobile phone is still
several months away from release, Chinese customers are buying
an iPhone 5 ice cream product in that country’s Liaoning
Province, China Daily  reported .  The ice cream product is shaped like the Cupertino,
California-based company’s logo and has become a best-seller,
according to China Daily.  China has 45 trademark classes, and the computer company
registered in only 27, with Chinese companies going after the
remaining ones, China Daily reported.  The newspaper reported that a Chinese trademark lawyer
suggested that while the action of the other companies isn’t
illegal, “it should not be encouraged” because of the
trademark-management burden it imposes.  Leaked Vuitton Ads May Bring Olympian Phelps Fines, Medal Loss  Olympic swimmer  Michael Phelps  may be in danger of losing
his hoard of medals, depending on whether  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  deliberately leaked two ads containing photos
of the athlete with a bag bearing the luxury brand’s trademark
monogram, the U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  The ads appeared on several websites on Aug. 13, within the
time Olympics rules bar athletes from appearing in non-Olympic
marketing, according to the newspaper.  Both Vuitton and Phelps’s manager have denied leaking the
photos, which were by celebrity photographer Annie Liebowitz,
according to the newspaper.  Phelps’s agent Peter Carlisle said the photos hadn’t been
reviewed or approved by the athlete and that it would be unfair
to punish him for unauthorized actions by some unknown person,
according to the Daily Mail.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Merchant Ivory Sues Janus Films Over Movie Distribution  Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. , the maker of films such as
“A Room With a View,” accused movie distributor Janus Films
LLC of infringing copyrights by distributing films after their
licensing deals expired.  Janus, which handles the so-called  Criterion Collection ,
initially was granted rights to 26 Merchant Ivory films in 1999,
according to a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. The agreements for all of the films except “Howards
End” expired by Dec. 31, and Merchant Ivory later learned Janus
was still distributing them, according to the complaint.  “Plaintiffs therefore bring this action to protect their
copyrights in and to the films being exploited by Janus without
plaintiffs’ permission,” Merchant Ivory said in the complaint
filed by attorneys Zeynel Karcioglu and Stephen Nakamura.  “Janus denies any unlawful distribution of any Merchant
Ivory title,” Jeffrey Ullman, a lawyer for Janus, said in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further, saying the
company hadn’t been served with the suit.  The lawsuit followed Janus’s efforts to negotiate a new
license agreement, which were complicated by an arbitration
proceeding between London-based Merchant Ivory and an entity
called ACKMA Recovery LLC and discussions over a proposed deal
with  HanWay Films , according to the complaint. Either deal
required approval from ACKMA, according to the filing.  Janus entered a side arrangement with HanWay, which had
discussed a possible distribution agreement with Merchant Ivory,
the company alleged.  The closely held company asked the court to stop Janus from
reproducing the films or otherwise using the copyrighted
materials and seeks damages including all profit related to the
alleged infringement.  The case is Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. v. Janus Films
LLC, 1:12-cv-06325, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Google Ordered Anew to Disclose Commentators in Oracle Case  Google Inc. was ordered by a judge for a second time to
disclose the names of commentators and authors who wrote about
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s copyright case against it and received money from
the search engine company.  Google failed to comply with an Aug. 7 order requiring it
and Oracle to disclose the information, U.S. District Judge
William Alsup said yesterday in a court filing. Alsup presided
over a trial in the case in federal court in  San Francisco .  “Public commentary that purports to be independent may
have an influence on the courts and/or their staff if only in
subtle ways,” Alsup said. “If a treatise author or blogger is
paid by a litigant, should not that relationship be known?”  Google said in court filings Aug. 17 that it didn’t pay
people to write about the lawsuit, although nonprofit
organizations, universities and trade groups receiving money
from the owner of the world’s largest search engine have
commented on the case. The company said it may be impossible to
name all the people who wrote about the case and asked if Alsup
wanted a more comprehensive list.  “We’ll comply with the order,” Jim Prosser, a spokesman
for the  Mountain View , California-based company, said in an e-
mail.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 