-- J&J Said to Pay $600,000 to Settle First Suits Over Hips
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-21T22:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/j-j-said-to-pay-600-000-to-settle-first-suits-over-depuy-hips.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which faces about
8,000 lawsuits over hip implants it recalled in 2010, agreed to
pay about $600,000 to resolve three cases in the first
settlements of the litigation, people familiar with the accords
said.  Officials of J&J’s DePuy unit agreed earlier this month to
settle  Nevada  residents’ suits over the company’s ASR hip
implants, two people familiar with the agreement said. The
company will pay about $200,000 a case to resolve the suits
before they were scheduled to go to trial later this year, the
people said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the accords.  J&J officials were able to negotiate settlements “at the
low end of what the company should have expected” to pay, Eric
Gordon, a business professor at the University of Michigan who
follows the pharmaceutical industry, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “J&J should have expected to pay in the
$200,000-to-$500,000 range per case.”  J&J’s DePuy unit recalled its 93,000 ASR hips worldwide in
2010, including 37,000 in the U.S., saying more than 12 percent
of the devices failed within five years. Lawsuits in federal and
state courts describe patients in pain and immobilized by joint
dislocations, infections and bone fractures.  Metal Debris  Patients suing J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
claim metal debris from the hips, made from a cobalt and
chromium alloy, causes tissue death around the joint and may
increase metal ions in the bloodstream to harmful levels.  Bill Price, a spokesman for J&J, declined in a phone
interview yesterday to comment on the settlements.  J&J faces more than 8,000 cases alleging the ASR hips are
defective, according to court filings. U.S. District Judge David Katz in Toledo,  Ohio , is overseeing about 6,000 federal suits
that have been consolidated for pretrial evidence gathering. The
drugmaker also is defending itself in more than 2,000 cases
filed in courts in  California , Maryland, Nevada and other
states.  The first settlements involve cases filed in state court in
Las Vegas, the people familiar with the accords said. Claims by
Annelise Rundle, Martha Bender and Katherine Guy had been
consolidated and set for trial Dec. 3, according to court
documents.  Three Women  Rundle, 74, Bender, 69, and Guy, 60, all had ASR hip
replacements done by the same surgeon during the past six years,
court filings in Las Vegas show. All three later had the
artificial hips removed after experiencing pain and other side
effects, according to the filings.  Tests on Rundle showed she had health problems associated
with metal filings from her hip, her lawyers said in the
filings. In Bender’s case, doctors discovered evidence of bone
damage from the device, lawyers said.  “Each of these plaintiffs has incurred a painful and
debilitating hip-revision surgery as a result of the failure of
their DePuy ASR Hip,” their lawyers said in a December filing.  J&J lawyer’s countered in court filings that the hips
didn’t cause Rundle and the other women to develop life-threatening illnesses.  Medical records turned over by Rundle’s doctors, for
example, showed she was “generally healthy with no major
medical problems,” the company’s lawyers said in a Jan. 17
court filing in Las Vegas challenging the women’s request for an
early trial date.  Brian Franciskato, a Kansas City, Missouri-based lawyer for
the three women, declined in a telephone interview today to
comment on the settlement.  $800 Million  The company said in January that it spent about $800
million on the recall during the past two years. It wouldn’t
estimate its product-liability costs.  J&J faces a state-court trial in Prince George’s County,
 Maryland , in January involving three hip-replacement recipients,
according to court filings. Those cases would be the first to go
to trial if they aren’t settled.  The first federal trial of claims over the devices is
expected in March or April, lawyers involved in the consolidated
cases said earlier this year.  The University of Michigan’s Gordon contends it may cost
the drugmaker as much as $2 billion to resolve all litigation
over DePuy’s ASR hips.  ‘Giant Number’  “They’re looking at a giant number before it’s done
because there are a giant number of cases,” Gordon said. The
biggest benefit to J&J out the Nevada settlements is that the
drugmaker has “anchored settlement expectations at the low end
of the range,” he said.  J&J’s rose 8 cents to $67.78 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. The company’s 4.95 percent bonds, due to
mature in May 2033, fell $1.23, or 1 percent, to $121 after news
of the hip settlements was announced.  The consolidated Nevada cases are Rundle v. DePuy
Orthopaedics Inc., A-11-636272, Clark County District Court (Las
Vegas).  The federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR Hip
Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  