-- Jailed Pussy Riot Trio Gets Fundraiser, Show in Chelsea
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-08-22T21:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/jailed-russia-trio-gets-fundraiser-show-in-chelsea.html
The three Pussy Riot members who
were sentenced to two years in prison last week will become the
centerpiece of a Sept. 10 pop-up exhibition and fundraiser in
New York backed by  Amnesty International .  Five videos of the group -- which comprises not only those
arrested but other performance artists -- will be shown at
 Lombard-Freid Projects  in Chelsea in a show called “Pussy
Riot.”  Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 22, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 30, and
Maria Alekhina, 24, were convicted of inciting religious hatred
and hooliganism with their Feb. 21 “punk prayer,” “Holy
Mother, Blessed Virgin, Drive Putin Away.” In that action, five
women (two weren’t brought to trial) in neon tights and
balaclavas danced by the altar of Moscow’s Cathedral of Christ
the Savior. Tolokonnikova and Alekhina have young children.  “This is not about raising awareness or protesting
anymore,” said Lea Freid, a partner at Lombard-Freid. “This is
about raising money for the women, their families and defense.”  The trial sparked international protests. Supporters of the
trio have included  Paul McCartney , Sting and Madonna. On the eve
of the verdict, actress  Chloe Sevigny  joined other performers to
read translations of the women’s writings in a packed basement
of  Manhattan ’s hip  Ace Hotel .  Petition Tossed  Lombard-Freid has partnered with Amnesty International for
the show and fundraiser. The nonprofit organization attempted to
deliver a petition with 70,000 signatures calling for the
women’s release to the Russian Embassy in  Washington  on Aug. 14.
An embassy official dumped the papers on the sidewalk.  “We consider Pussy Riot prisoners of conscience and
continue calling for their immediate and unconditional
release,” said Ilona Kelly, interim director of the
individuals-at-risk program at Amnesty International of the USA
Inc. “We are very excited about the exhibition.”  The idea for the exhibition originated with Victoria
Dushkina, 28, the general manager of Moscow’s Gary Tatintsian
gallery, who said she came to  New York  two weeks ago hoping to
organize a show of the art collective’s work. The project is
unrelated to her work at the gallery, she said.  “I want to support them,” Dushkina said. “I share their
spirit of opposition. I feel like I could have participated in
one of their performances. I could have been in their place.”
In their performance art, the collective tends to pursue actions
that are unauthorized.  People Afraid  Dushkina got no response from the major Moscow galleries
she approached with her campaign. “People are afraid,” she
said. “I decided to come to New York because here no one is
afraid.”  The five video performances to be screened at Lombard-Freid
show the women -- in groups ranging from three to eight --
spouting out slogans such as “Feminist whip is good for
 Russia !”  and “Death to prisons, freedom to protests!” -- to
deafening electric-guitar accompaniment.  “The videos will be looped non-stop,” Dushkina said.
“I’d like to create the atmosphere of absurdity and hysteria
that characterized the Pussy Riot trial.”  In April, a brief exhibition called “Toasting to the
Revolution” at Chelsea’s  Family Business Gallery  starred one
member of the art collective as a diva with half her blue hair
shaved off and a cigarette hanging from her pink lips.  Printed on paper and glued to the wall, the 2012 piece
“Free Pussy Riot!” by David Ter-Oganyan and Alexandra Galkina
was priced at $5,000.  On Sept. 7, New York rock bands, including Black Lolita and
Interzona, will play at a benefit concert in support of Pussy
Riot. The event will take place at  Saint Vitus Bar  in  Brooklyn 
and raise money for the three women’s families and lawyers.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining, Patrick Cole
on  music .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  