-- Jailed Oil Tycoon Khodorkovsky May Face New Charges, Lawyer Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-21T15:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/jailed-oil-tycoon-khodorkovsky-may-face-new-charges-lawyer-says.html
Russian prosecutors may be laying
the legal ground for bringing new charges against former Yukos
Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  by trying cases against
former company officials in absentia, his lawyer said.  “One after another, they are starting proceedings in
absentia against employees and shareholders of Yukos that have
gone into hiding,” Vadim Klyuvgant, a member of the jailed
tycoon’s defense team, said in a phone interview today. “The
third case, or rather continuation of the same old case, may
appear at any moment if there’s will to do it.”  Khodorkovsky, once  Russia ’s richest man and chief executive
officer of Yukos, was arrested at gunpoint at a Siberian airport
in 2003 and is due for release in September 2016. About 10 court
rulings have been made against people linked to Yukos without
the defendant being present, with two such trials under way now,
according to Klyuvgant.  Khodorkovsky and his business partner,  Platon Lebedev , were
sentenced to eight-year terms for fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005
and convicted again on related charges in December 2010. Their
sentences were extended to 13 years from their arrest in 2003.
Khodorkovsky says he was targeted by President  Vladimir Putin 
for financing opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin
denies.  20 Years  Recent charges made in absentia against a lawyer linked to
Yukos accuse Khodorkovsky of running an “organized criminal
association,”  a legal formulation that carries a stiffer
sentence of as much as 20 years in prison, Klyuvgant said. The
Russian Prosecutor General’s Office declined to comment when
contacted by phone today.  Investors have cited the Khodorkovsky case as an example of
the failure to respect the rule of law in Russia. Yukos was
dismantled and sold at auction, mostly to state-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) ,
to cover billions of dollars in back taxes after Khodorkovsky’s
arrest. Putin has said that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands
and “thieves should sit in jail.”  Even so, legal challenges against the prosecution and
dismemberment of Yukos have won lenient rulings in recent weeks.
A Russian court shortened the 12-year prison term of Vladimir Malakhovsky, a businessman implicated in the Yukos case, by more
than four years last week and Lebedev’s prison term was cut by
three years and four months by another court earlier this month.
Russia’s  Supreme Court  ordered a review of Khodorkovsky’s second
conviction in July.  A Yukos manager, Alexei Kurtsin, was freed early from his
15 1/2-year sentence at the beginning of this month, according
to state news service RIA Novosti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  