-- Jain Irrigation Bets on Lending Unit to Reduce Risk
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-08-21T11:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/jain-irrigation-bets-on-lending-unit-to-reduce-risk.html
Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. (JI) ,  Asia ’s
biggest irrigation-equipment maker, is banking on its new
lending unit to attract cash-strapped farmers to its products
and revive sales growth that has slowed for seven years.  The non-banking financial company, scheduled to start
operations in October, will help cut the parent’s  interest 
burden, Managing Director Anil Jain said in a phone interview
from Mumbai. Government subsidies used to fund the purchase of
pipes and sprinklers may take as long as 18 months to collect,
forcing Jain to resort to short-term loans at about 14 percent,
he said. The unit will be able to borrow at a lower rate.  “We found that this way, it won’t be sustainable for us to
continue,” Jain said. “It is difficult for me and my balance
sheet to finance for more than six months. With an NBFC, funds
are cheaper, I get all the money upfront and I don’t have to pay
for working capital.”  Reviving sales growth will help boost cash flows and cut
finance costs, said Ronald Siyoni, an analyst at K.R. Choksey
Shares and Securities Pvt. Rising interest payments have eroded
profit, causing the company to report its first quarterly loss
since 2004 in the three months through June. Shares of the Janus
Investments LLC-backed company have declined 15 percent this
year, while the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has gained 16 percent.  Raising Funds  “One can see sales growth starting next quarter,” said
Siyoni at K.R. Choksey, a Mumbai-based brokerage that rates the
stock a buy. “With receivables coming down, more of the cash
flow will be used to repay debt.”  The Jalgaon, Maharashtra-based company is also close to
raising $200 million from a combination of private equity
investment, debt and convertible bonds to revamp its debt and
lower finance costs, Jain told analysts in a conference call on
Aug. 16.  Jain Irrigation fell 2.7 percent to 73.50 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. The shares last week fell 9.5 percent after the
company reported a loss of 169 million rupees ($3 million) for
last quarter because of a 32 percent reduction in its micro-
irrigation business and held-up subsidy payments. Sales fell 9.5
percent to 8.43 billion rupees.  “We expect the year-on-year decline in earnings to
continue for the next two quarters,” Abhijit R. Akella, an
analyst at Mumbai-based IIFL Ltd. wrote in a note to clients
today. “It is difficult to estimate the extent to which it
could further weigh on revenue growth and margins,” he said,
referring to the lending unit.  Twelve of the 18 analysts who cover the stock recommend
buying it, while four favor selling. Janus  owns  6.9 percent of
the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology Switch  Starting in 1963 as kerosene vendors, the Jain family has
diversified into trading, manufacturing and  food processing  in
subsequent decades. The company will probably post a decline in
sales in the current quarter because of continued delay in
payment of subsidies, Jain said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is encouraging
the use of drip irrigation in a country where 55 percent of the
farmlands are rain fed. A switch to the technology helps more
efficient use of water, and improves yields of fruits,
vegetables, sugar cane and cotton.  Farmers that opt for drip irrigation equipment get
subsidies from state governments, with the amount differing from
state to state. The government of Maharashtra state subsidizes
half the value of the equipment. Jain Irrigation sells equipment
to farmers and then collects subsidies from the governments.  Interest costs more than doubled to 3.47 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31 from 1.61 billion rupees in fiscal year
ended March 31, 2010. Its net income margin fell to 7.2 percent
from 10 percent in the same period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  IFC Partnership  While Jain Irrigation does not have access to cheaper funds
marked for agriculture, the lending arm will be able to borrow
at about 10 percent, Jain said. In the first two years, the unit
expects to extend 10 billion rupees of loans, he said.  “By improving the irrigation business, which is higher
margin business and by reducing the interest cost, earnings will
increase,” said Jain.  Jain Irrigation will own less than half of the lending unit
and the rest will be owned by investors including International
Finance Corp., Jain said. Last month, the company won regulatory
approval for the non-banking lending venture with IFC.  The company will take help from its equipment retailers to
get business for its lending company, he said.  IFC will play a role in helping raise the $200 million,
Jain told analysts, adding the funds will be used to replace
short-term borrowings with long-term loans. The average cost of
servicing its debt is 11 percent, Jain said.  The company, which had 11 billion rupees of pending subsidy
receivables at the end of the last fiscal year, plans to cut the
amount by 5 billion rupees by March 31, 2013, he said.  “Financing is a critical input in agriculture, which
farmers don’t have access to at the right price and at the right
time,” said Jain. “And once that becomes available it can help
anybody sell agricultural equipment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  