-- Most Japanese Stocks Advance Ahead of U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-21T06:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/japan-stocks-swing-from-gains-losses-on-europe-concern.html
Most Japanese  stocks  advanced, ahead
of U.S. housing and durable goods data expected to show signs of
recovery. Gains were limited as German criticism of the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan tempered hopes for stimulus.  Funai Electric Co., an audio-visual equipment company that
counts  North America  as its biggest market, climbed 2.4 percent.
 Brother Industries Ltd. (6448) , a maker of  office equipment  that relies
on Europe for almost 30 percent of its sales, sank 1.5 percent.
 Softbank Corp. (9984) , a provider of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, contributed
the most to communications stocks’ advance on the  Topix (TPX)  Index
after Apple set a U.S. record for market value.  The Topix rose 0.1 percent to 765.26 at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo, with about three shares rising for every two that fell.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.2 percent to 9,156.92, after
rising as much as 0.3 percent earlier. Volume was 30 percent
below the 30-day average ahead of data this week expected to
show improvement in U.S. housing and durable goods.  “Concerns about the economic slowdown in the U.S. are
easing,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in  Tokyo  at Resona
Bank Ltd., which oversees about $76 billion. “The markets are
moving like a seesaw, swayed by whatever European officials say.
With no catalysts to be found in the markets, investors are
looking for anything. Short-term individual investors may look
to Apple” and buy related shares.  The Topix has rebounded 10 percent from this year’s low on
June 4 as central banks around the world ease policy to support
growth. The price of shares on the gauge stood at 0.9 times book
value, compared with 2.2 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 1.4 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number
less than one means that companies can be bought for less than
the value of their assets.  Apple Record  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.1 percent today. The gauge
closed little changed yesterday in  New York , finishing within
one point of a four-year high reached in April. Tech shares
rallied after Apple’s market value reached a record $623.5
billion, but gains were offset by concern over Europe’s debt
crisis.  Companies linked to Apple gained. Softbank jumped 1.4
percent to 3,190 yen. Foster Electric Co., which makes parts for
Apple’s iPod digital music player, rose 1.7 percent to 1,273 yen.  Exporters to the U.S. advanced on expectations the nation’s
home sales and durable goods orders rose in July, signaling the
world’s biggest economy is starting to strengthen after a
second-quarter slowdown, analysts said.  Funai Electric, which gets half its revenue from North
America, rose 2.4 percent to 1,134 yen.  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7270) , the manufacturer of Subaru cars that gets 46 percent of
its sales in the region, climbed 1.1 percent to 669 yen.  ‘Significant Risks’  Euro-zone government bond purchases “entail significant
stability risks,” the Bundesbank said in its monthly report
yesterday. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the
bank is working on a plan to intervene in the secondary market
to lower yields in countries that ask Europe’s bailout fund to
buy its bonds in the primary market. The central bank’s
governing council may decide at its next gathering to set yield
limits on each country’s debt, Germany’s Spiegel magazine
reported Aug. 19, without saying where it got the information.  The ECB said the council has not discussed any plan to
target bond yields and that “it is absolutely misleading to
report on decisions,” a bank spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement.  Brother Industries, which counts Europe as its biggest
market, slumped 1.5 percent to 834 yen. Roland Corp., a maker of
electronic musical instruments that gets a third of its sales
from  Europe , sank 2.1 percent to 642 yen.  Shipping Slump  Shipping lines  led declines among the Topix’s 33 industry
groups after the target prices for Japan’s top three shipping
companies was cut by Citigroup Inc. Cargo rates aren’t expected
to rebound on expectations  China  will cut steel production,
deepening a slump in iron-ore demand, according to a Japanese-
language report from the investment bank yesterday.  Nippon Yusen K.K., the nation’s top shipping line by sales,
slid 1.1 percent to 175 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. lost 1.8
percent to 111 yen. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. fell 2.7 percent to
220 yen after its equity rating was trimmed to neutral from buy
by Citigroup.  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  gained the most in the Nikkei 225, climbing
3.7 percent to 335 yen. The computer-service provider’s equity
rating was raised to buy from neutral by Citigroup, which said
the company’s sluggish European business and other factors were
already priced into the shares.  -- With assistance from Adam Haigh in Sydney. Editor:  Jim Powell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  