-- Japan Stock Futures Little Changed Before Europe Meeting
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-21T23:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-before-europe-meeting.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures were little changed as investors await developments from
euro-area finance ministers meeting this week to discuss a
bailout package for debt-ridden Greece.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets a third of its sales in Europe, slid 0.3
percent.  CSL Ltd. (CSL)  may be active in Sydney after the world’s
second-biggest maker of blood-derived therapies reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates. Wistron Corp. may be active among
Asian suppliers to  Dell Inc. (DELL)  after the U.S. computer maker cut
its full-year profit forecast.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,155 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,150 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,150 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index declined less than 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index retreated 0.9 percent in Wellington.  “Markets should be pausing for breath until we see some
more central-bank action,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head
of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. The
firm manages about $100 billion. “We’ve had a very strong rally
in the last few weeks based on the verbal signs of intervention
from the  European Central Bank . Authorities are on the right
track. It appears they are more united now.”  Almost three years after the European debt crisis came to
light in Greece, the country remains at the heart of the turmoil
as contagion spreads to Italy and Spain, prompting ECB chief
 Mario Draghi  to announce proposals to re-enter the bond market
to help lower government borrowing costs.  French President  Francois Hollande  is due in Berlin on Aug.
23 to discuss the crisis with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as
the ECB fleshes out its plans.  Concessions Possible  Concessions are possible for Greece if its Prime Minister,
Antonis Samaras, shows a willingness to meet the main targets
set out in his country’s bailout program, a senior lawmaker with
Merkel’s government said yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1
percent today. The gauge fell 0.4 percent yesterday to 1,413.17
after climbing as high as 1,426.68 as a slump in technology
shares overshadowed optimism euro-area leaders will make
progress in resolving the region’s crisis.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index retreated 6 percent from a Feb.
29 high through yesterday amid concern China’s economy is
slowing and Europe’s debt crisis is deepening. Still, investor
optimism that global central banks will take action to stimulate
growth has pushed the gauge up 11 percent from its June low.
Stocks on the measure were  valued  at 12.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.7 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 11.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 0.9 percent yesterday. The London Metal Exchange Index
of six primary metals gained 1.8 percent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. lost 1 percent, the most in three
weeks, to 89.75 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  