-- Davis Polk, Wachtell, Jones Day, Cleary: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-21T20:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/jones-day-wachtell-davis-polk-cleary-business-of-law.html
(Corrects first item to show that  Skadden Arps  only
represented Goldman Sachs in Aetna-Coventry deal.)  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health plan, agreed to buy  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  for about
$5.6 billion to increase its share of government business
following President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul. Eight
law firms worked on the deal.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and  Jones Day  represented Aetna,
and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, Bass Berry Sims Plc and
Crowell & Moring LLP represented Coventry. Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP represented Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of
Aetna’s financial advisers, while Shearman & Sterling LLP
represented Coventry’s financial adviser Greenhill & Co. Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing the non-management
directors of Aetna.  From  Davis Polk  are partners David L. Caplan and H. Oliver Smith, and counsel Ajay B. Lele. Partner Edmond T. FitzGerald
provided employee benefits advice while partner Harry Ballan
provided tax advice. From Jones Day providing antitrust advice
are partners Phillip Proger and Peggy Ward.  The attorneys from Wachtell Lipton are corporate partner
David A. Katz, antitrust partner Ilene Knable Gotts, executive
compensation and benefits partner Jeremy L. Goldstein,
restructuring and finance partner Eric M. Rosof and tax partner
Deborah L. Paul. From Crowell & Moring providing antitrust
advice is Arthur N. Lerner.  Bass Berry began representing Coventry when it was based in
Nashville. From that firm are corporate partners Bob Thompson,
Angela Humphreys and J. James Jenkins, Jr., antitrust partner R.
Dale Grimes and tax partner R. Todd Ervin.  From Simpson representing Aetna’s non-management directors
are partners Charles Cogut and Gary Horowitz.  From Skadden representing Goldman are partners Paul Schnell
and Jeremy  London . From Shearman & Sterling representing
Greenhill is partner John Marzulli.  The companies yesterday said in a statement that Aetna will
pay $42.08 a share for Bethesda, Maryland-based Coventry,
including $27.30 in cash and 0.3885 Aetna share. Including debt,
the deal is valued at $7.3 billion.  The purchase will increase Aetna’s share of business from
government health plans including Medicare and Medicaid to more
than 30 percent from 23 percent, the companies said. Coventry
will add more than 5 million customers to Hartford, Connecticut-
based Aetna’s 36.7 million members, including 1.5 million people
on the drug plans of Medicare, the program for the elderly and
disabled.  Sovereign Debt  Cleary Gottlieb Representing Belize in Country’s Debt Crisis  Lee Buchheit, a partner at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP , is representing Belize in that country’s debt crisis.
Belize neared default yesterday after the Central American
country missed a payment on about $544 million of bonds. Finance
Secretary Joseph Waight said the government is unlikely to pay
during a 30-day grace period.  Prime Minister Dean Barrow, who won re-election in March,
said a restructuring was needed after the coupon on the
country’s so-called superbond climbed to 8.5 percent this year
from 6 percent as part of an accord reached with investors in
2007.  Barrow projected that Belize’s fiscal deficit will climb to
2.5 percent of gross domestic product this year from 1.1 percent
after growth in the $1.4 billion economy slowed and the
government took over the telecommunications and electricity
distribution companies.  The majority of the country’s bond holders have rejected
three debt renegotiation scenarios published by the central bank
on Aug. 8. Those scenarios include reduction of the 8.5 percent
coupon to 2 percent with a 15-year principal grace period and a
maturity date extension to 2062 from 2029. Other scenarios call
for a 45 percent principal reduction with incremental coupon
adjustments, or a five-year principal grace period with a 3.5
percent coupon.  Buchheit specializes in sovereign debt restructurings. He
aided  Argentina  in its debt restructuring following the
country’s default on $95 billion of bonds in 2001 and
represented Belize in its last debt restructuring as well.
Additionally, he as well as others at Cleary have advised
 Greece , Iceland and Iraq on debt matters.  Argentina Sovereign-Immunity Argument Rejected by U.S. Court  A federal appeals court in  New York  has held that a lower-
court ruling compelling compliance with subpoenas doesn’t affect
Argentina’s sovereign immunity.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  yesterday upheld a September 2011
ruling by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan ,
ordering nonparties  Bank of America Corp.  and state-owned Banco
de la Nacion Argentina to comply with the subpoenas sought by
NML Capital Ltd. for collection of five money judgments.  The judgment stems from Argentina’s 2001 default on $80
billion owed to foreign creditors. Beginning in 2003, NML filed
11 actions in federal court in New York seeking to collect on
its defaulted Argentine bonds. NML has won five money judgments
in its favor totaling about $1.6 billion. Griesa has also
granted summary judgment to NML in six other actions in which
NML claims total more than $900 million, the appeals court said
yesterday.  NML, an Elliott Management Corp. affiliate, has sought
discovery or evidence about Argentina’s property and served
subpoenas on Bank of America and BNA, seeking to gain an
understanding of how Argentina moves its assets. After Griesa
granted the request, Argentina appealed, saying that by
compelling disclosure about Argentinian assets abroad, the order
violates the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer representing Argentina who is
also a partner at Cleary Gottlieb, didn’t return a telephone
call seeking comment about the ruling.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management, declined
to comment on the decision.  “Whatever hurdles NML faces before ultimately attaching
Argentina’s property abroad (and we have no doubt there will be
some), it need not satisfy the stringent requirements for
attachment in order to simply receive information about
Argentina’s assets,” the appeals court said.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 11-
CV-4065, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  In the Courts  Merchant Ivory Sues Janus Films Over Movie Distribution  Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. , the maker of films such as
“A Room With a View,” accused movie distributor Janus Films
LLC OF infringing copyrights by distributing films after their
licensing deals expired.  Janus, which handles the so-called  Criterion Collection ,
initially was granted rights to 26 Merchant Ivory films in 1999,
according to a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. The agreements for all of the films except “Howards
End” expired by Dec. 31, and Merchant Ivory later learned Janus
was still distributing them, according to the complaint.  “Plaintiffs therefore bring this action to protect their
copyrights in and to the films being exploited by Janus without
plaintiffs’ permission,” Merchant Ivory said in the complaint
filed by attorneys  Zeynel Karcioglu , of counsel to Jacobs &
Burleigh LLP in New York and  Stephen Nakamura , a partner at
Merle, Brown & Nakamura, P.C. in New York.  “Janus denies any unlawful distribution of any Merchant
Ivory title,” Jeffrey Ullman, a lawyer for Janus, said in a
phone interview. Ullman, a partner at Ullman, Furhman & Platt,
P.C. in Morristown,  New Jersey , declined to comment further,
saying the company hadn’t been served with the suit.  The lawsuit followed Janus’s efforts to negotiate a new
license agreement, which were complicated by an arbitration
proceeding between London-based Merchant Ivory and an entity
called ACKMA Recovery LLC and discussions over a proposed deal
with  HanWay Films , according to the complaint. Either deal
required approval from ACKMA, the filing said.  Janus entered a side arrangement with HanWay, which had
discussed a possible distribution agreement with Merchant Ivory,
the complaint alleged.  The closely held company asked the court to stop Janus from
reproducing the films or otherwise using the copyrighted
materials and seeks damages including all profit related to the
alleged infringement.  The case is Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. v. Janus Films
LLC, 1:12-cv-06325, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Moves  Shasky Calvery to Head U.S. Treasury’s Law Enforcement Unit  The U.S. Treasury Department selected Jennifer Shasky
Calvery as the new director of its Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network, which maintains financial transactions data and
analyzes information for  law-enforcement  purposes.  The department said Shasky Calvery is expected to begin her
new job in September and will replace outgoing director Jim
Freis, who has led the network, known as FinCEN, for more than
five years. The director of FinCEN is appointed by the
department’s secretary and reports to the undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence.  Shasky Calvery joins FinCEN from the  Justice Department ,
where she has served since 2010 as chief of the asset forfeiture
and money laundering section.  “Her proven record of leadership and strong working
relationships with Treasury, law enforcement and the federal
bank regulatory agencies will be enormous assets to us as we
work together to chart a course for FinCEN’s future,”  David
Cohen , the Treasury undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, said in a news release.  Former Department of Energy Lawyer Joins Gardere Wynne  Erika D. Benson has joined Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP as a
partner in the firm’s Austin office, where she will represent
clients in matters involving government affairs.  A former senior adviser for the Americas in the Office of
Policy and International Affairs at the U.S. Department of
Energy, Benson has experience in energy, government relations,
and Latin America law.  Benson has been involved in cross-border electricity
transmission development and policy issues between the U.S. and
 Mexico , as well as cross-border transmission development,
according to a statement from the firm. She is well-versed in
developing best practices and policies to maximize electricity
regulatory framework development in Latin American nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  