-- Netherlands House Prices Dropped the Most on Record Last Month
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-08-21T09:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/netherlands-house-prices-dropped-the-most-on-record-last-month.html
House prices  in the Netherlands, the
fifth-biggest economy in the euro area, dropped in July by the
most since the index started in 1995.  Prices declined 8 percent from the same month a year
earlier, after falling 4.4 percent in June, national statistics
agency CBS in The Hague said on its website today. Values have
fallen 15 percent from a peak in 2008 and are back to about the
same level as eight years ago, CBS said. Prices had already
dropped 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier.  The Dutch Central Bank forecast in March that house prices
will continue to drop through 2014 because of stricter mortgage
lending rules and a reduction of a homeowner tax break that
spurred the lending boom. Values may fall another 5 percent next
year, ING Groep NV economists said in a note Aug. 9.  Most political parties, gearing up for elections Sept. 12,
want to cut back the homeowner tax break further in some form.
The Socialist Party, leading in two out of three major polls, is
seeking to abolish it for houses that cost more than 350,000
euros ($434,000). As of next year, the interest payments on new
mortgages can only be deducted from taxable income if the loan
is fully paid back within 30 years, under an agreement reached
between the caretaker government of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte 
and the opposition in April.  Mortgage Debt  The Netherlands’ mortgage debt is among the world’s
highest, amounting to 110 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the central bank. A 500 billion-euro difference
between outstanding loans and retail savings at banks makes
lenders reliant on market funding, it said.  Earlier this month, ING reported pretax profit excluding
one-time items in its Dutch banking unit fell 28 percent to 233
million euros in the second quarter after higher loan loss
provisions and pressure on savings margins. The bank, the
second-biggest Dutch mortgage lender after Rabobank Groep, set
aside 161 million euros for doubtful loans, up from 90 million
euros a year earlier. The mortgage portfolio was affected by
lower house prices, driving up risk costs, ING said on Aug. 8.  A “further decline in Dutch house prices and increase in
unemployment would lead to higher risk costs on mortgages, but
we do not expect a dramatic increase,” Chief Executive Officer
Jan Hommen said in a presentation to analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  