-- Ninth Tropical Depression Forms in Atlantic Ocean
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2012-08-21T18:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/ninth-tropical-depression-forms-in-atlantic-ocean.html
The ninth tropical depression of the
 Atlantic hurricane season  developed east of the Lesser Antilles
and may grow into a tropical storm later today, the National
Hurricane Center said.  The system was 550 miles (885 kilometers) east of
Guadeloupe with maximum sustained winds of 35 miles per hour,
moving west at 18 mph, the Miami-based center said  in an
advisory  at 2 p.m. local time.  It’s expected to move through the central Lesser Antilles
tomorrow and emerge over the eastern  Caribbean Sea  the next day,
the NHC said. The system may grow to hurricane strength within
48 hours, according to the agency. An Air Force Reserve
“hurricane hunter” plane was sent to investigate.  A system becomes a tropical storm when sustained winds
reach 39 mph, and is classified a hurricane when the winds hit
74 mph.  The center’s current tracking map  shows the system crossing
Haiti as a hurricane on Aug. 25 and striking Cuba the next day.
While it’s too soon to say where it will go after that, two
computer models are suggesting a landfall in Florida, and that
may affect the Republican National Convention,  Jeff Masters , co-
founder of Weather Underground in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said on
his blog.  GOP Convention  The convention, at which the party will officially nominate
 Mitt Romney  as its candidate for president, is Aug. 27 to Aug.
30 in Tampa, Florida.  “It would take a ‘perfect storm’ sort of conditions to all
fall in place” for the system to reach Tampa as a hurricane
during the  convention , “but that is one of the possibilities
the models have been suggesting could happen,” he wrote.  Tropical storm warnings have been issued for islands
including Dominica, Guadeloupe, St. Kitts, Nevis, Antigua and
Barbuda. Storm watches were posted for  Puerto Rico  and the  U.S.
Virgin Islands , among others.  A warning means storm conditions are expected within 36
hours, while a watch means tropical storm impact is possible
within 48 hours.  Four to 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters) of rain may fall
over the Leeward Islands and the northern Windward Islands, the
center said.  Two other Atlantic systems are being tracked by the
hurricane center. A low-pressure area over the far western  Gulf
of Mexico  has a 20 percent chance of becoming a tropical system
in the next two days, the NHC said. Another, 550 miles southwest
of the Cape Verde Islands, has a 60 percent probability of
becoming tropical.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlotte  Porter in New York at 
 Cporter11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  