-- Noble Will Target U.S. Agriculture Assets to Supply China
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-08-21T08:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/noble-will-target-u-s-agriculture-assets-to-tap-china-demand.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s biggest
publicly traded commodity supplier, will target agricultural
assets in the U.S. as it seeks to meet demand from  China  and
sees potential for deals across its units.  “It’s hard to be the supplier and partner of choice for
China in the grain space, and especially in the corn space,
without having significant origination assets in the U.S.,” CEO
Yusuf Alireza said today in an interview with Susan Li on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” program. “Over the medium
term, that’s an investment we’re looking to make.”  Noble announced at least $2 billion of deals in the past
three years as it built its sugar operations in  Brazil  and
energy assets in the U.S. and  Australia . The Hong Kong-based
company last month said it was time to build the agriculture
unit after shelving plans to sell shares in the business.  “We’re seeing a consolidation process in the  agriculture
sector  and that’s going to arise very significant
opportunities,” Alireza said today. Noble is considering
different options including acquisitions and potential
partnerships with U.S. companies, he said.  Profit Jump  Noble’s second-quarter  profit  rose 39 percent to $194.8
million as it posted record sales in its energy and metals
units, the company said Aug. 13. Operating income from supply
chain at its agriculture unit slumped 69 percent in the quarter
as heavy rains delayed the sugar harvest in Brazil and on weak
crushing margins for grains and oilseeds.  Agriculture, Noble’s second-biggest business by revenue,
accounted for 17 percent of sales in the six months ended June
30, according to Bloomberg calculations. Energy is its biggest
business, comprising nearly 70 percent of its sales.  Singapore-traded Noble declined 0.8 percent to S$1.255 as
of 3:26 p.m. local time, while the benchmark  Straits Times  index
was little changed. The stock is the  best-performer  in the index
in the past month with a 15 percent gain.  “China is going to be the largest importer of corn over
the next few years and we want to be in the position to help
supply that,” Alireza said. The Asian nation was the world’s
sixth-largest buyer of corn in 2011-12, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . The U.S. was the top corn producer,
according to the USDA.  Tough Environment  There have been 293 announced agriculture deals in the past
year, with a combined value $13.4 billion, including  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s bid for grain handler  Viterra Inc. (VT)  for C$6.1
billion ($6.2 billion).  Noble will receive $800 million from asset sales in the
next five months and will look at “interesting asset
opportunities,” Alireza said.  “The environment is going to be a tough environment for
the next 12 to 24 months,” he said. “One of things we’re
making sure of is our balance sheet is strong and we’re in the
position to build businesses in down markets and we see
opportunities across all three of our platforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  