-- Nokia’s $39 Phone Rebound Wins More Time for Comeback Bid
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-22T09:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/nokia-s-39-phone-rebound-wins-more-time-for-comeback-bid.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , burning cash as it
struggles to revive its smartphone business, is winning time for
the recovery effort by gaining more customers for another
product: basic mobile phones it sells for $39.  By adding features such as quicker Web and online games to
its Asha handsets popular in faster-growing economies including
India and  China , Nokia boosted its share of the basic-phone
market to 35 percent last quarter -- the highest in two years.
Unlike the smartphone division, the basic-phone business is
profitable and unit sales are increasing.  The more than 70 million cheaper handsets Nokia sells each
quarter is providing relief for Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop as he tries to stem revenue declines and recover from five
quarters of  losses . The basic-phone division is also winning
over first-time users who may stick with Nokia when upgrading to
a more expensive device.  “Nokia’s Asha models are selling quite well and that is
good news for them since it gives the company a bit more time to
get its smartphone business on track,” said Teemu Peraelae, who
helps manage $1.5 billion including Nokia shares at Alfred Berg
Asset Management in Helsinki.  Nokia’s cheaper phones outsold its smartphones 7-to-1 last
quarter and, at 2.29 billion euros ($2.86 billion), brought in
49 percent more  revenue  for the Espoo, Finland-based company.  Asha Demand  Shares of Nokia  have advanced  66 percent since it reported
second-quarter results July 19 and rose 2 percent to 2.32 euros
at 12:18 p.m. Helsinki time, gaining for a sixth day. They are
still down 89 percent since  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced the iPhone in
2007, a debut that started Nokia’s decline in smartphones.  If Nokia’s smartphone strategy fails, the basic-phone unit
may become the company’s most attractive asset for an acquirer
because it remains profitable and has a dominant market position
in many  emerging markets , said Sami Sarkamies, a  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) 
analyst in Helsinki. A buyer would also benefit from Nokia’s
strong relationship with carriers in growth economies, he said.  Nokia’s Asha phones are gaining users in the developing
markets because they resemble smartphones, yet cost a fraction
of the price, Anshul Gupta, an analyst at research firm Gartner
Inc. in Mumbai, said in an interview. Some Ashas have full-
length touch screens similar to Nokia’s higher-end models and
Apple’s iPhone. The underlying operating system is less
sophisticated, making them cheaper to build.  India Shoppers  “They have almost all the features a smartphone should
have like an application portal to download apps, a touch
interface, social-networking integration -- so these devices are
completely like a smartphone,” Gupta said.  Nokia added touch-screen handsets to the Asha line in June
to meet the surging demand for smartphone features. The Asha
305, retailing at 65 euros, is Nokia’s cheapest full-length
touch-screen phone. The Asha 311, featuring a faster touch
screen and a 1-gigahertz processor, costs 95 euros.  The company on average sells basic phones for 31 euros
each, compared with 151 euros per smartphone.  The 305 and 311 are seeing “fantastic traction” among
customers, said Sathish Babu, who owns handset retailer
Univercell with about 500 outlets across southern  India .  “The new Nokia phones are doing very well,” Babu said in
an interview, adding today’s younger shoppers demand slimmer
phones with vibrant colors and full touch screens. “The more
stock that comes in the more my sales go up and it’s even
cannibalizing into other brands. With the touch screen, the
balance is tilting toward Nokia now.”  ‘Myopic Focus’  Nokia CEO Elop, commenting in an e-mail, attributed rising
sales to its devices’ “bold design” and new colors. Nokia’s
basic-phone  sales  climbed 2 percent to 73.5 million units in the
second quarter from a year earlier, even as the global market
for such devices fell 15 percent to 211 million units, according
to research firm  Strategy Analytics .  Nokia’s share of the basic-phone market rose to 35 percent
last quarter from 29 percent a year earlier. In smartphones, the
fastest-growing and most valuable market segment, Nokia, the
former leader, has slumped to less than 10 percent.  “People forget how significant it is that we’re selling a
million phones a day,” Peter Skillman, head of mobile-phone
design at Nokia, said in an interview. “There’s almost a myopic
focus on smartphones.”  Samsung Competition  Features helping Nokia’s basic-phone sales include browser
data-compression technology, which lowers the cost of Web
surfing, Skillman said. Nokia is also benefiting from demand for
phones that let users insert two SIM cards, a feature many
consumers in  developing countries  need to make it easier to
switch service between carriers as they travel, he said. This
month, Nokia said Asha users get  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s “Draw Something”
and “Zynga Poker” games for free.  Such features are important for a company whose biggest
markets last year were China, which made up almost 16 percent of
revenue, and India with 7.6 percent.  Nokia’s success in basic phones isn’t guaranteed, as  ZTE
Corp. (000063) , Huawei Technologies Co. and other manufacturers are
entering the cheaper market segments with phones using  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Samsung Electronics Co., which passed Nokia as the biggest
handset maker overall this year helped by smartphone sales, also
pushes basic touch-screen phones under the Star and Champ names.  The intensifying competition caused Nokia to reduce the
average selling price of its basic phones 14 percent last
quarter, dragging down revenue even as unit sales rose. Profit
margins on Nokia’s cheaper phones also narrowed.  “It’s been a slippery slope for Nokia’s feature phones,
but they did see an improvement in volumes in the second quarter
unlike their smartphone business,” said  Janardan Menon , a
Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst in  London . “Competing more
effectively with low-end smartphones will be key to any
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  