-- Obama Hits Romney in Ohio on Aid for College Tuition Costs
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-08-22T00:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/obama-hits-romney-on-college-tuition-costs-on-swing-state-trip.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  wants to cut aid
to college students while keeping tax breaks for the wealthy and
for corporations.  Targeting a key constituency in the swing states of Ohio
and  Nevada , Obama today told college audiences that Romney would
pull support from students struggling to pay for higher
education.  Honing his populist pitch, Obama cited a statement by
Romney, the son of an automobile company executive, that
students should borrow money from their parents to get a higher
education and to shop around to select an affordable school.  “Not everybody has parents that have the money to lend,”
he said at his first speech, on the campus of Capital University
near Columbus,  Ohio . “That may be news to some folks.”  Obama said Romney’s budget plan would cut aid to 10 million
students while giving tax breaks “weighted toward the
wealthiest Americans” and protecting “corporate tax
loopholes.”  Obama was driving home his education message in a state
that has voted for the winner in every presidential election
since 1964. Polls show the competition for Ohio’s 18 electoral
votes is up for grabs, with Obama leading Romney by less than 2
percentage points in the average of four surveys compiled by the
website Real Clear Politics.  Romney Response  A Romney spokeswoman said the Republican’s economic
proposals would help students by delivering greater job growth.
Romney has vowed to create 12 million new jobs during the first
term of his presidency.  “Under this president, too many young Americans are
suffering from higher college costs, more debt, and a lack of
good jobs when they graduate,” the spokeswoman, Amanda
Henneberg, said in an e-mailed statement. “Today’s policies are
just more of the same from a president who hasn’t fixed the
economy or kept his promises to the young people who supported
him four years ago.”  Voters ages 18 to 29 were a key constituency for Obama in
the 2008 election, with a national exit poll showing he received
66 percent of their vote.  Before his speech at Capital University, a private
institution, he stopped by the student union at  Ohio State
University  to talk with students.  Young Voters  “Young people especially, I am going to need your help,”
Obama told the crowd in Columbus, adding that the campaign had
staff and volunteers available to help them register to vote
“before you leave today.”  College costs have soared faster than the rate of inflation
over the past four decades and student-loan debt has reached the
$1 trillion mark. Obama has made expanding access to higher
education one of his main re-election themes.  In January, at the  University of Michigan , Obama proposed
rewarding schools that control costs with access to more loans
and grants. In June, at the  University of Nevada ,  Las Vegas , he
touted an executive order that eases the application process for
a loan program that lets students make lower payments tied to
their incomes, stretching them over decades.  In the education plan he released in May, Romney said
Obama’s financial-aid initiatives encourage students to take on
more debt, “claiming to help them today and then sending them
the bill tomorrow.”  Romney advocates cutting education regulation and
encouraging colleges to become more efficient, lowering costs
partly through the use of online instruction.  Swing States  The rally in Ohio was the first stop in a three-state trip.
After Ohio, Obama headed west to Nevada before returning east to
 New York  City for a rally and a fundraiser with NBA basketball
stars.  In Nevada, another swing state, Obama told students that
“he speaks from experience” when he considers the cost of
education. “I don’t think it’s any news to you that higher
education is getting harder and harder to afford.” Obama said
at Truckee Meadows  Community College  in Reno.  Obama will again address education at a community college
tonight in Reno and then a high school outside of Las Vegas
tomorrow, where he’ll first pose for pictures with teachers.  Obama has sought to focus attention on the effects of
budget cuts on education at the state and local level.
Republicans in Congress have rejected the $447 billion proposal
he made in September, which would have increased direct aid to
states for teacher salaries, as well as money for other public
sector employees, including police and firefighters.  Last week, the White House released a study that reported
that 300,000 education jobs have been lost since the recession
officially ended in the summer on 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  