-- Lockhart Says Fed Faces Risk of Excessive Accommodation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-08-21T14:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/lockhart-says-fed-faces-risk-of-excessive-accommodation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said U.S. policy makers face a risk of
easing too much while trying to spur a “disappointing” three-
year-old economic recovery.  “There is a risk to monetary policy being employed too
aggressively and without effect to address economic problems
that can be resolved only by fiscal reforms that involve making
tough choices about the allocation of public resources,”
Lockhart said today in a speech in Atlanta. While “monetary
policy can exert a powerful positive influence on an economy,”
it “is not a panacea.”  Lockhart’s comments contrast with remarks he made in July,
when he said weak economic data increased the odds he would back
more Fed purchases of bonds to reduce borrowing costs. The
 Federal Open Market Committee , which next meets Sept. 12-13,
said on Aug. 1 it will “provide additional accommodation as
needed” to reduce an  unemployment rate  stuck above 8 percent
for more than three years.  The Atlanta Fed president, who votes on monetary policy
this year, today didn’t offer an opinion on the option of more
asset purchases. He has repeatedly told reporters after events
this year that he views a deterioration in the economy or a
threat of falling prices as among the conditions that could
warrant additional easing.  Further Accommodation  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last month that
further easing may include a third round of bond buying or a
change to the FOMC’s language on its outlook for  interest rates .
Bernanke will have the opportunity to update his policy outlook
in an Aug. 31 speech to the Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium
at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index above its highest close in four years, amid speculation
that euro-area leaders will make progress in resolving the
region’s debt crisis at meetings this week.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.6 percent to 1,425.96 at 10:37 a.m. in
 New York . The index has rebounded more than 11 percent from a
five-month low in June. Ten-year Treasury notes dropped, pushing
the yield up three basis points to 1.84 percent.  “Anytime you see the equity markets rise, I think what it
tells you is there is more appetite for risk,” Lockhart told
reporters after his speech. “And in the current context, I
would interpret that to be some comment on more confidence that
 Europe  will work through its problems without a major incident
of some kind.”  Recent Reports  Lockhart said recent economic reports have been “a little
firmer” since July 13, when he said he viewed economic data
“with increasing concern and in that sense my receptivity has
increased a bit” for more asset purchases.  “It is a cost-benefit calculation to consider more
monetary stimulus and someone like me needs to do his best to
really carefully weigh the costs and benefits,” Lockhart said
today to reporters.  Lockhart also told the audience he backs the Fed’s
conditional pledge to keep its target rate near zero through
late 2014. “I do think it is appropriate,” he said.  Fed policy makers, who are injecting record stimulus into
the economy, have identified Europe’s debt crisis as a threat to
the outlook for the U.S., along with budget cuts and tax
increases that are scheduled to take effect automatically at the
end of the year unless Congress acts.  “The recovery to date has seen weak growth and
persistently high  unemployment ,” Lockhart said in his speech to
the Latin American Chamber of Commerce and World Affairs Council
of Atlanta. “By any number of measures, the strength of the
recovery has been and remains disappointing.”  ‘Formidable Challenges’  “Fundamental imbalances” are to blame for the economic
weakness and pose “formidable challenges for monetary policy
makers,” said Lockhart, 65.  “I will leave it to economic historians to arrive at a
verdict” on whether the U.S. or parts of the world are in a
“lost decade” of anemic growth, he said. “Our current
expansion is not on the track we would wish.”  Real personal income excluding government transfer payments
remains 1.5 percent below its level before the recession began
in late 2007, Lockhart said. There are more than 4.5 million
fewer payroll jobs than in November 2007, and long-term
unemployment remains elevated, he said.  Some U.S. economic data has exceeded expectations since the
July 31-Aug. 1 FOMC meeting, with employers adding 163,000 jobs
in July, the most in five months, and retail sales rising after
three months of declines.  The Fed has kept the federal funds rate near zero since
December 2008, and its two rounds of asset purchases have
swelled its balance sheet to a record of almost $3 trillion.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
 Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  