-- Oil Near Three-Month High as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Drop
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-22T06:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/oil-trades-near-three-month-high-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-drop.html
Oil in New York traded near a three-
month high after a report showed stockpiles fell to the lowest
level since March in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude user.  October futures were little changed after climbing 0.6
percent yesterday on speculation European leaders will make
progress in resolving the region’s debt crisis. Crude
inventories dropped by 6 million barrels last week to 361
million, the industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said.
An Energy Department report today may show supplies slid by
250,000 barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The Department of Energy data will be important,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin,
a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “The level of optimism in
Europe may provide some support.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.87 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 3
cents at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. The September contract, which
expired yesterday, rose 71 cents to $96.68, the highest close
since May 10. Front-month prices are 2 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $114.60 a barrel, down 4 cents.
The European benchmark crude was at a $17.73 premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, from $17.80
yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  Oil’s rally in  New York  may stall as a technical indicator
shows futures have risen too quickly for further gains to be
sustained, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 14-day
relative strength index is near 70, the highest reading since
February. Crude also has chart resistance along its 200-day
moving average around $96.74 a barrel today. The front-month
contract yesterday traded higher than this indicator without
settling above it.  U.S. gasoline inventories climbed 869,000 barrels last
week, according to the API. The Energy Department report may
show supplies slipped  1.4 million barrels , according to the
Bloomberg survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, fell 1 million barrels in the
API report compared with a forecast 1 million-barrel gain in the
survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Europe Meetings  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the
group of euro-area finance ministers, visits  Athens  today to
listen to a request by Greece’s Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras,
for a two-year extension to the country’s fiscal-adjustment
program. French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in Berlin tomorrow. Concessions
are possible for Greece if it shows a willingness to meet the
main targets in its bailout,  Norbert Barthle , a senior lawmaker
with Merkel’s government, said yesterday.  Tropical Storm Isaac, the ninth named storm of the  Atlantic
hurricane season , was forecast to strengthen into a hurricane
tomorrow as it headed toward the Leeward Islands in the
 Caribbean Sea , according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.
Isaac was moving west at 18 miles (29 kilometers) per hour about
345 miles east of Guadeloupe, the Miami-based center said in an
advisory at 2 a.m. Atlantic time. The system packed maximum
sustained winds of 40 mph, below the minimum 74 mph speed of a
Category 1 hurricane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  