-- Oil Advances to 3-Month High Before Europe Debt Meetings
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-21T12:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/oil-advances-to-three-month-high-before-european-debt-meetings.html
Oil climbed to the highest in three
months in  New York  as speculation European leaders meeting this
week will make progress on the region’s debt crisis supported
prices against forecasts of rising supply in the U.S.  Futures surpassed $97 a barrel for the first time since May
11. European leaders will hold meetings in  Greece  and  Germany 
this week. U.S. oil supplies probably gained for the first time
in about a month as imports increased and demand fell from a
nine-month high, a Bloomberg survey showed before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Crude is trading close to its 200-
day moving average.  “At the moment, signs for a Euro zone solution are
positive,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. “But we’ve been
here before with  Europe  and converting intentions into actions
has been too much for them. Oil supply has been tightening, but
the demand environment is extremely poor.”  Crude for September delivery rose as much as $1.06 to
$97.03 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest intraday level since May 11, and traded
for $96.98 at 1:40 p.m. London time. The contract expires today.
The more-actively traded October future rose $1.01 to $97.26.
Front-month prices are down 2 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $114.89 a barrel,
up $1.20, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.66, compared with $17.44 yesterday.  Technical Resistance  WTI in New York has technical resistance along its 200-day
moving average, about $96.72 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday advanced close to this
indicator before settling lower for the day. Sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head of
the euro group of finance ministers, visits Greece tomorrow to
discuss the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment program. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
meet in Berlin Aug. 23 to discuss the fiscal crisis, and both
are set to talk separately with Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras later in the week.  “Technically, we feel that crude is trading at
resistance,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer
of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “The
EU meetings are tentatively being viewed. I see the only
solution is to provide more time for Greece.”  Rising Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose  900,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median response in a Bloomberg News
survey. Inventories of 366.2 million barrels in the week ended
Aug. 10 were about 8 percent above the  five-year  average for
this time of year. Gasoline supplies probably decreased by 1
million barrels and distillate fuel, including heating oil and
diesel, gained by 1 million, the survey shows.  “The market has been watching what’s been happening with
U.S. inventories over the past five to six weeks,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “Stockpiles are
still high, that’s why we’re not seeing the price rattle up to
$100. We’ve also had a fairly benign storm season so far.”  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate inventory data today. The API collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its survey.  U.S. Economy  Prices also gained before reports later this week that may
show the  U.S. economy  is starting to strengthen after a second-
quarter slowdown. Combined purchases of new and existing houses
increased in June, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The National Association of Realtors will
release existing sales on Aug. 22, with the Commerce Department
publishing data on new sales the next day.  The advances in oil and other raw materials is poised to
push the Standard& Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities into a
 bull market , as defined by a 20 percent increase from the year’s
low. As of yesterday’s close, the index had gained 19.7 percent
since June 21, and it is currently up 20.4 percent.  A tropical depression formed in the Atlantic, becoming the
ninth of the season, according to the National Hurricane Center.  The system was located 715 miles (1,150 kilometers) east of
the Leeward Islands with maximum sustained winds of 35 miles (55
kilometers) per hour, the Miami-based center said in an advisory
issued at 5 a.m. local time. Tropical storm warnings have been
issued for a number of Caribbean islands including  Dominica ,
Guadeloupe, St Kitts, Nevis, Antigua and Barbuda.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center is tracking two other
potential storms in the Atlantic basin. A system off the eastern
coast of  Mexico  has a 30 percent chance of developing and one
south of the Cape Verde Islands has a 40 percent chance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  