-- Oil Climbs to a Three-Month High on Europe Debt Optimism
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-21T20:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/oil-advances-to-three-month-high-on-european-debt-optimism.html
Oil climbed to a three-month high in
New York on speculation that euro-area leaders will make
progress in resolving the region’s debt crisis this week.  Futures rose 0.7 percent after a senior lawmaker with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party said concessions are possible
for Greece. Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  are
scheduled to meet in Berlin on Aug. 23 before holding separate
talks with Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. The euro surged
to a six-week high against the dollar.  “Positive sentiment is driving the market here,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The same factors that got us to three-
month highs continue to be at work and with the proper spark,
the market could easily tack on a couple more dollars to top
$100.”  Crude oil for September delivery rose 71 cents to $96.68 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 10. September futures expired today. The
more actively traded October contract gained 58 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $96.84.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  reported oil
inventories dropped 6.04 million barrels last week to 361
million, a four-month low. The October contract was up 52 cents
at $96.78 at 4:33 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for October settlement increased 94 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $114.64 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Bailout Program  Concessions are possible for Greece as long as Samaras
shows a willingness to meet the main targets set out in his
country’s bailout program,  Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman
in parliament for Germany’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in
a telephone interview.  Almost three years after the crisis came to light in
Greece, the country remains at the heart of the turmoil even as
contagion spreads to Italy and Spain, prompting European Central
Bank chief  Mario Draghi  to announce proposals to re-enter the
 bond market  to help lower government borrowing costs.  “There are hopes that the Europeans will get things
together and the European economy will turn around, and that
should help oil on the price side,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. Dollar weakness “is certainly bullish for oil.”  Equities rose with oil in early trading as the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  reached a four-year high in intraday trading
before giving up gains. The euro gained as much as 1.2 percent
to $1.2488, the highest level since July 5. A stronger euro and
weaker U.S. currency increase the appeal of dollar-denominated
raw materials as an investment.  Strong Correlation  “The correlation between the markets ebbs and flows,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of The Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Right now, the correlation seems to
be very strong. The move has little to do with fundamentals.”  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities has moved into a  bull
market , as defined by a 20 percent increase from the year’s low.
The index, which gained 19.7 percent from June 21 through
yesterday, rose 0.9 percent today.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade
traded in New York, widened 36 cents to $17.80 a barrel, based
on October contracts. The European benchmark grade may stay more
expensive than WTI in coming months because of field maintenance
in the North Sea.  “We see Brent reaching $120 on a three-month horizon,”
said  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York.  U.S. Economy  Prices also gained on optimism that reports later this week
will show the  U.S. economy  is starting to strengthen after a
second-quarter slowdown. Combined purchases of new and existing
houses increased in June, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The National Association of Realtors will
release existing sales tomorrow, with the Commerce Department
publishing data on new sales the next day.  “We’re in a bi-modal environment,” Greely said. “The
central path is one of modest world economic growth with an
increase in oil demand that continues to tighten the oil market,
forcing prices higher given constrained supplies. However, there
is the ongoing risk that policy missteps in Europe, China or the
U.S. could derail the world economic recovery, sending us back
into recession.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
that U.S. crude stockpiles dropped 250,000 barrels last week to
365.9 million, according to the  median  of 12 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Oil inventories  plummeted 3.7 million
barrels to 366.2 million in the week ended Aug. 10, the lowest
level since April.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 462,203
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 472,553
contracts yesterday, 13 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.47 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  