-- Lonmin May Fail Debt Tests, Considers Accessing Equity Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-21T16:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/lonmin-worker-dismissals-subject-to-discussion-munroe-says.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  said it will probably
miss debt conditions and may have to issue shares after a strike
that led to 44 deaths halted its biggest mine.  “The balance of probabilities is that the impact on
production of the current events will result in covenants being
breached at the next test date on Sept. 30,” Lonmin said in a
statement. Lonmin is considering its options, including issuing
stock, spokeswoman Susan Vey said by mobile phone.  The shares in the third-biggest platinum producer rose 0.4
percent to 612.5 pence by the close in  London , paring an advance
of as much as 5 percent in intraday trading.  Police shot dead 34 people near Lonmin’s Marikana
operation, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) west of  South
Africa ’s capital,  Pretoria , on Aug. 16 after a group of about
3,000 protesters gathering on a hill refused to disperse. Ten
people, including two police officers, were killed in clashes
around the company’s property the week before. Output at
Marikana has been at a standstill since Aug. 10.  The disruption has crimped revenue needed to fund
operations and service debt. Lonmin may have to consider raising
$1 billion by issuing stock to current shareholders,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  said on Aug. 16. The mine operator, like other South
African producers of the metal, was already grappling with
higher wage and power costs and lower prices.  Worker Return  “I don’t really see light at the end of the tunnel,”
Abhishek Shukla, an analyst with  Societe Generale  in Bangalore,
said by phone. Even after issuing stock to current shareholders,
“they are not a sustainable operation.”  Thirty-three percent of the 28,000 workers at Marikana
reported for duty compared with less than a third yesterday, Vey
said. One in five rock-drill operators came to work, while
attendance at the smelting operations and plants is at about 80
percent. Work could start “in isolated areas,” Vey said.  With each day of  strike action , Lonmin is losing about
2,500 ounces of platinum, used in jewelry and auto catalysts,
and an estimated $3 million, Absa Capital said on Aug. 17.  Lonmin today backed down from a threat to fire striking
workers as it struggles to balance the need to calm the conflict
and revive output to help meet debt obligations.  “I don’t think it will be helping anyone if Lonmin goes
out and dismisses a whole lot of people for not coming to work
today,” Mark Munroe, the executive vice president for mining at
Lonmin, said on Johannesburg-based Talk Radio 702. “We strongly
encourage people to come to work as soon as possible.”  Criticism Rejected  Lonmin, which won’t take disciplinary action on employees
who don’t return to work this week, had given the 3,000 striking
drillers until today to return or face dismissal.  President  Jacob Zuma , who declared a national week of
mourning on Aug. 17, rejected criticism that his handling of the
worst police action since the end of apartheid will hurt
investor confidence in the world’s biggest platinum producer.  “Our observation is that nothing has happened to investor
confidence,” Zuma, 70, said in an interview at his offices in
 Cape Town  today. “I am convinced that the action that was taken
so far helped to show South Africa is in control.”  The Marikana mining complex accounts for 96 percent of
Lonmin’s output, according to its annual report.  “If we need to we’ll raise funds in the most appropriate
manner,” Lonmin Chief Financial Officer Simon Scott said in an
interview yesterday. The timing on any announcement on potential
financing “depends how the situation unfolds” and when workers
return, Scott said.  Northam Concern  The violence that started Aug. 10 was the result of union
rivalry, Lonmin said Aug. 16. The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union has been recruiting members at Lonmin, at the
expense of the dominant Nation Union of Mineworkers.  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) , which owns the Zondereinde mine,
about 10 kilometers north of Marikana, is “deeply concerned”
the violence in the platinum industry may spread, spokeswoman
Marion Brower said in an e-mail today. There has been “some
activity” from the AMCU in attracting new members at
Zondereinde, where NUM is the representative union, she said.  Earlier this year, fighting between union members at  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s operation near Marikana led to the
closure of the world’s largest platinum mine for six weeks and
four fatalities. The company lost more than 120,000 ounces of
output in the strike that started in mid-January.  Zuma will probably announce the terms of reference for a
judicial commission of inquiry into the mine killings on Aug. 16
by the end of the week, spokesman  Mac Maharaj  said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  