-- Lonmin May Struggle to Refinance Debt After Unrest, BMO Says
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-22T17:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/lonmin-may-struggle-to-refinance-debts-after-strike-bmo-says.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the platinum miner that
expects to breach conditions on its loans as output was stalled
by labor unrest in which 44 died, may struggle to refinance the
debt given weak metals prices, BMO  Capital Markets  Ltd. said.  “The company is currently in discussions with its lenders
and is also considering other financial options,” Edward Sterck, a London-based analyst at BMO Capital, said in a note.  “Given Lonmin’s volatile operating environment” as well
as “depressed platinum-group metal prices and the current state
of capital markets, any refinancing on terms favorable to the
company and shareholders could prove challenging,” he wrote.  Lonmin, the third-biggest platinum producer, said it would
probably break so-called debt covenants and may need to sell new
shares to raise funds as a strike and violence halted output at
its biggest mine, Marikana, west of the South African capital of
 Pretoria . The mine, making up 96 percent of Lonmin’s output, is
the latest South African platinum complex to shut this year, and
unrest spread today to a Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. operation.  “The balance of probabilities is that the impact on
production of the current events will result in covenants being
breached at the next test date on Sept. 30,” Lonmin said in a
statement. The company is considering its options, including
issuing stock, spokeswoman Susan Vey said by mobile phone.  Raise Funds  Lonmin may have to raise $1 billion by selling stock to
current shareholders,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said Aug. 16. The
company, like other South African producers of the metal, was
already grappling with higher wage and power costs and lower
prices for platinum, used in jewelry and anti-pollution devices.  The metal has declined by 20 percent in the past 12 months
and was trading at $1,520.43 an ounce as of 4:59 p.m. in  London .
Lonmin shares today gained for a second day after declining
since Aug. 10. They rose 0.1 percent to 613 pence in London.  “I don’t really see light at the end of the tunnel,”
Abhishek Shukla, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in Bangalore,
said by phone yesterday. Even after issuing stock to current
shareholders, “they are not a sustainable operation.”  Lonmin is losing 2,500 ounces of output a day by closing
the Marikana operation, hampering the company’s ability to meet
the conditions set by creditors on its borrowings. It had net
debt of $356 million as of March 31, the company said in May.  Marikana Deaths  Output has been at a standstill since Aug. 10 because of
the unrest. Police shot dead 34 people near Marikana on Aug. 16
after a group of about 3,000 protesters gathering on a hill
refused to disperse. Ten people, including two police officers,
were killed in clashes around the property the week before.  Less than a third of the 28,000 workers at the mine
reported for duty today, Lonmin said.  There probably won’t be any ``significant'' production 
restart this week, Lonmin's Vey said by phone from the mine. The 
site will be shut for a memorial service tomorrow, and starting 
next week “we’re hoping for a complete change,” she said.  Lonmin this week backed down from a threat to fire striking
workers as it struggled to balance the need to calm the conflict
and revive output to help meet its debt obligations. The
company, which says it won’t take disciplinary action against
those who don’t return this week, previously gave 3,000 striking
rock-drill operators until yesterday to come back or face
dismissal.  Deteriorating Position  The financial position of the company “is deteriorating
faster than we had expected,” Nomura said today in a report.
“The platinum market is anticipating that the Lonmin strike
will persist. Or is perhaps suggestive of Lonmin not being able
to raise sufficient funds to keep its operations open.”  President  Jacob Zuma , who declared a national week of
mourning on Aug. 17, has rejected criticism that his handling of
the worst police action since the end of apartheid will hurt
investor confidence in the biggest platinum-producing nation.  “Our observation is that nothing has happened to investor
confidence,” Zuma, 70, said in an interview at his offices in
 Cape Town  yesterday. “I am convinced that the action that was
taken so far helped to show  South Africa  is in control.”  The violence that started Aug. 10 was the result of union
rivalry, Lonmin said Aug. 16. The Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union has been recruiting members at Lonmin at the
expense of the dominant  National Union of Mineworkers .  Unrest Spreading  Worker discontent spread to the North shaft at Royal
Bafokeng Platinum’s nearby Rasimone mine today as about 500
workers demanding higher wages started an illegal strike, the
company said in a statement.  Earlier this year, fighting between union members at  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s operation near Marikana led to the
closing of the world’s largest platinum mine for six weeks and
four fatalities. The company lost more than 120,000 ounces of
output in the strike that began in the middle of January.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the
metal, and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the fourth-biggest, have also
idled mines this year, expecting the price of the metal to
remain weak. They mine most of their platinum in South Africa,
which accounts for more than three-quarters of global output.  Zuma will probably announce the terms of reference for a
judicial commission of inquiry into the mine killings by the end
of the week, his spokesman  Mac Maharaj  said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 