-- Orchestras Fight Hard Times Through Bankruptcy Seeking New Model
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-21T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/orchestras-fight-hard-times-through-bankruptcy-seeking-new-model.html
Local chambers of commerce like to
brag about their professional sports teams and arts groups as a
way of attracting business and residents to their cities.  The ability to use classical music groups in such campaigns
may be increasingly at risk, say experts on professional music
organizations, who warn that growing deficits among U.S.
orchestras may be placing that sense of civic pride in jeopardy.
It’s a crisis some are choosing to resolve through bankruptcy.  The financial crisis facing such groups, and how they may
come out on the other side, was put in the spotlight by the
bankruptcy this past year of the Philadelphia Orchestra. The
group was the biggest among at least five U.S. symphonies to
seek court protection in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse.
Others include music organizations in Louisville,  Kentucky ;
Syracuse,  New York ;  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico ; and Honolulu.  “The orchestra has functioned as a symbol of civic pride
and cosmopolitanism,” Steve Metcalf, director of instrumental
studies at the  Hartt School  of music at the University of
Hartford in  Connecticut , said in an interview. “There’s still a
feeling that a major league orchestra is still a very important
thing for a city.”  Though subject to the same harsh realities of bankruptcy as
corporations, the recent reorganization in Philadelphia -- and
the decreased debt and expenses the group emerged with -- may
serve as a model for other symphonies struggling with fewer
donors and lower ticket sales.  Turnaround Approved  With its turnaround plan approved, the  Philadelphia
Orchestra Association  exited court protection July 30 after 15
months, having resolved $100 million in claims with a $5.5
million settlement, shrinking its payroll and winning a release
from its pension obligations.  Bankruptcy has been “a four-letter word in the performing
arts world,” said Michael Mauskapf, a co-founder of the
boutique consultant  Symphony Bros. LLC . Given Philadelphia’s
success in navigating reorganization, he said, it may be a
strategy other suffering groups may want to consider.  Another series of orchestra collapses took place a decade
ago. The symphony in  San Jose ,  California , sought court
protection in 2002, and the one in  Tampa Bay ,  Florida , filed for
bankruptcy in 2003.  Even before the recession, symphonic music faced declining
ticket sales, said  Robert Flanagan , an economics professor at
 Stanford University . Sales may have fallen further since then.  Ticket Sales  A 1 percent increase in local unemployment is accompanied,
on average, by a 0.7 point fall in the share of performance
costs covered by ticket sales, Flanagan wrote in “The Perilous
Life of Symphony Orchestras,” published this year.  Performance income fell from 48 percent of U.S. orchestras’
revenue in 1987 to 37 percent in 2005, Flanagan wrote. By 2005,
the average orchestra got 45 percent of its income from
donations, 13 percent from investments and 5 percent from
governments.  Jesse Rosen , president and chief executive of the 850-
member  League of American Orchestras , said one of the drivers of
recent financial difficulty for many groups is a decline in
state and federal funding.  “The state and local funding in some cases has been really
severe,” Rosen said in an interview. “That has been because of
tremendous pressure put on the states as a result of their
getting less money from the federal government and eroding tax
bases in cities.”  Taken with the recent recession, its negative effect on
individual donors, and what Rosen said are changing priorities
among philanthropists, orchestras are facing very tough times.  ‘Declining Industry’  “By the standards applied to profit-seeking organizations,
symphony orchestras have been a declining industry in the  United
States  over the past two decades,”  Flanagan wrote  in a 2008
research paper.  Struggling symphony orchestras that should consider using
federal bankruptcy courts to stabilize their finances include
those with runaway expenses similar to Philadelphia’s, said
Lawrence G. McMichael, a lawyer for the orchestra in its
bankruptcy case.  If a symphony faces contract and pension obligations it
can’t afford, owes debt it can’t pay, or needs financing it
can’t get, bankruptcy might be a good option, said McMichael, of
the Philadelphia law firm Dilworth Paxson LLP.  Reorganization may not save a symphony. Even when it
succeeds, an orchestra may end up with lower-paid musicians or
fewer of them, or both.  ‘Last Resort’  “I think bankruptcy should be used as an absolute last
resort,” said  Jay Blumenthal  of the  American Federation of
Musicians  in New York. “We’re talking about the livelihood of
highly skilled professionals that essentially ends up in
jeopardy.”  Just as with automakers or airlines, bankruptcy allows
nonprofit organizations such as orchestras to cancel debt and
labor contracts, and to borrow to meet expenses. For insolvent
symphonies, the outcomes vary.  The  Florida Orchestra , based in  St. Petersburg , is still
performing. So is the  Albuquerque Philharmonic Orchestra . San
Jose’s orchestra stopped playing and never resumed.  Musicians in Tulsa reorganized into the  Tulsa Symphony
Orchestra  in 2005 without filing for bankruptcy. Those in
Honolulu and Syracuse also formed new ensembles after their
orchestras closed.  Louisville Bankruptcy  The  Louisville Orchestra,  which entered bankruptcy in 2010
and emerged in April 2011, needed a two-step turnaround. It
missed a full season, using the time to negotiate its way out of
an impasse with musicians after emerging from bankruptcy, said
 Robert Birman , its chief executive.  When the organization went to court, its debt included more
than $43,000 in past pension obligations. It had exhausted a
$650,000 line of credit and decided it couldn’t continue
borrowing, Birman said.  As the symphony started negotiating a new musicians’
contract, it decided not to ask players to take pay cuts, he
said.  “If you reduce the wages of your workers, you then
suddenly have two things -- a dissatisfied worker base and you
become uncompetitive in terms of having to replace them if they
retire and move away,” Birman said.  Musicians at top orchestras spend as much $200,000 for a
conservatory education and $100,000 on their instruments, the
union’s Blumenthal said. They also commit themselves to a
rigorous practice schedule, he said.  ‘Untenable’ Expectation  It’s “untenable” to expect them to make those investments
then “have severe concessions placed on them with regard to
their ability to make a salary,” he said.  The Louisville orchestra kept base pay at $925 a week and
cut the season from 35 weeks to 30 to cut costs.  Even with the uncertainty of last year, the orchestra sold
$360,000 in advance season tickets, Birman said. That was down
from the average of $500,000, and it had to refund the money
when it canceled last season. Even so, Birman said, the sales
encouraged him about the season that begins in October.  The  Delaware Symphony Orchestra  in Wilmington reorganized
without filing for bankruptcy. It announced in June that it was
scaling back its 2012-2013 season. Betty Duncan, vice chairwoman
of its board, said the orchestra planned an overly ambitious
performance schedule, including more guest musicians and
productions that were costlier than it could afford.  “It was very thoughtful in terms of artistic capability
and offerings -- a very exciting season -- but we failed to
assimilate the numbers behind that offering,” Duncan said.  No Bankruptcy  The Delaware Symphony didn’t consider bankruptcy because it
doesn’t have assets to reorganize, so its options were to cut
back the season or close.  Metcalf, director of instrumental studies at the Hartt
School, said many orchestral groups remain mostly profitable,
and even flourishing.  “Some orchestras have obviously gone out of business, and
some have had these very serious fiscal and labor issues,”
Metcalf said. “It’s also true that it’s kind of a city-by-city
proposition.”  The  Chicago Symphony Orchestra  had a record fundraising
year in 2011, with $24.2 million in donations, or 15 percent
more than the previous year, according to a statement about its
annual meeting.  The orchestra’s $927,000 deficit was 1.4 percent of the $67
million operating budget. It had surpluses of less than $50,000
in the two previous years.  Boston Attendance  Mark Volpe, managing director of the  Boston Symphony
Orchestra , said that attendance, though having dropped slightly,
is on the rebound.  “We have been fortunate to have strong support from our
patrons for the past few years in response to the challenging
economic environment,” Volpe said in an e-mail.  In Philadelphia, the symphony’s leaders were afraid they
would lose attendance and donations if they filed for
bankruptcy, said McMichael, the lawyer. Instead, income from
both sources grew, he said.  The orchestra association, with a $46 million fiscal 2011
budget, saw revenue fall by $1.8 million from 2008 to 2010, with
ticket sales declining to 153,000 from 183,000.  The association repeatedly spent more of its endowment than
the industry standard of 5.5 percent or less, Richard B. Worley,
its board chairman, said in a court filing.  Pensions, Pay  The association went to court in April 2011, telling U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Eric L. Frank in a filing that it needed relief
from its pension obligations, musicians’ contract and concert
hall rent, as well as from a $1 million obligation to support
the Philly Pops run by the pianist and conductor  Peter Nero .  Philadelphia didn’t reduce the size of its orchestra. Its
musicians agreed to a renegotiated labor contract that reduced
their base salary.  The musicians’ base pay, which would have been $2,520 a
week during the last six months of the contract, was cut to
$2,400 a week through October and then to $2,000 a week for the
season that ended this spring. They will get $2,100 a week
starting in October.  Pensions were taken over by the  U.S. Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corp. , the agency that steps in when a plan fails.  Ticket sales for the past 28-week season rose 5 percent
compared with the year before and the number of concerts with
audiences of 90 percent of capacity increased by two-thirds,
said Janice Hay, the orchestra’s vice president of marketing.  Right Choice  Allison Vulgamore, the association’s president and CEO,
said bankruptcy was the right choice.  “I don’t wish this experience on another orchestra, but I
know in my heart that we traveled the path we did to ensure that
the Philadelphia Orchestra didn’t simply play for a few more
years, but rather that it played for generations to come,”
Vulgamore said in an e-mailed statement.  Not everyone involved with the Philadelphia group’s
reorganization thought bankruptcy was the right thing to do.  Ray Hair, president of the musicians’ union international,
called the bankruptcy a “clumsy, flatfooted attempt by the
orchestra management to shed itself of a great labor
agreement.”  “The company got a lot of what it wanted by pushing the
salaries and conditions for the musicians down a notch,” Hair
said. “The company spent $8 million on that process, and that’s
certainly money that could’ve been used to improve the
livelihood of its musicians.”  Changing Practices  Metcalf of the Hartt School said that one result of the
financial crisis among orchestras is that the groups themselves
are changing to match the times. He said smaller orchestras are
being formed and are managed by musicians not conductors.  “A symphony orchestra that has been 110 people in formal
wear may be giving way in many cases to a different model,” he
said.  Rosen, head of the League of American Orchestras, agreed
that they need to change.  “It’s moving quickly from a tradition and set of operating
practices that were very successful for the time in which they
were developed, which was really the second half of the last
century, toward operating models and missions that are attuned
to today’s world,” Rosen said.  Orchestras are joining local community organizations to get
more people interested in classical music, he said, citing a
venture of the Atlanta Symphony and Emory University, which is
organizing public forums and projects for the university’s
students.  Educational Concerts  More than 60 percent of the 30,000 performances given by
U.S. orchestras every year are educational or community-focused,
Rosen said.  People may value orchestras without loving classical music,
according to Metcalf.  “In many big cities where there’s a major league sports
franchise, or more than one franchise, you often find people who
may not be NBA basketball fans or certainly may not be NFL
football fans, but they’re very conscious of what the team
brings to their city and community,” he said. “I think an
orchestra is the same way.”  The case is In re Philadelphia Orchestra Association, 11-
13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 