-- Osaka Bourse Shares at Lowest This Year as Tokyo Tender Closing
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a ,   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-08-21T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/osaka-bourse-shares-at-lowest-this-year-as-tokyo-tender-closing.html
Osaka  Securities Exchange Co. shares
fell to the lowest level this year before  Tokyo  Stock Exchange
Group Inc.’s tender offer for its smaller competitor ends today.  The  stock  closed at 438,500 yen, the lowest level since
Nov. 28, a week after the bourses said they would merge. Volume
was 77 percent below the five-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 480,000 yen-a-share tender, which
began July 11, closes at 3:30 p.m. local time today, according
to the Tokyo bourse, which needs more than 50 percent of shares
to proceed. The results will be announced tomorrow.  Merging Japan’s biggest stock venues is the first step in a
government plan for creating a “comprehensive” exchange
handling equities, commodities and other securities as the
country seeks to re-establish itself as a financial center.
While regulators have scuttled more than $30 billion in global
exchange mergers since 2010, Japan’s Fair Trade Commission
approved the deal July 5.  “This is happening because the tender is closing,” Peter Lenardos, exchange analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London ,
said on Aug. 21. “If you are an investor and want to tender
your stock you will have already bought it because if you buy
today the stock won’t settle in time for you to tender. This is
also why the liquidity is drying up. As we approach the end of
the tender period investors are beginning to look through it.
The deal has been approved. Now what’s next?”  Naoya Takahashi, a spokesman for the Tokyo bourse operator,
declined to comment on the progress of the tender. Osaka
spokesman Masahiro Yada wouldn’t comment on the bid or the share
price, which has declined 5.2 percent this month.  Too Cheap?  The Osaka bourse dominates  Japan ’s growing futures and
options markets, while Tokyo hosts the world’s No. 3 cash
equities venue by the value of companies listed. Osaka’s shares
haven’t risen above the offer price since the bid was announced.  Jupiter Asset Management Ltd., which owns about 1.1 percent
of OSE, said July 26 that shareholders deserve a higher price
because Osaka is more profitable than Tokyo. JO Hambro Capital
Management Ltd., the third-largest shareholder, won’t tender its
5.1 percent stake because it wants to own a piece of the merged
exchange, Nudgem Richyal, a Singapore-based portfolio manager at
JO Hambro, said on July 10.  “The takeover bid will be one of the most symbolic events
for Japan in taking a step towards becoming  Asia ’s financial
hub,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd., which has 33 trillion yen ($416 billion) in
assets. “If this doesn’t kick-start well, there’s a danger it
will lead to Tokyo’s decline.”  The transaction has two steps, with TSE first bidding for
between 50 percent and 67 percent of Osaka in the tender offer.
Should that succeed, owners will then vote to complete the
merger via a share swap that values TSE at 1.7 times Osaka. The
companies project the deal will close in January.  The country’s Financial Services Agency was involved in
discussions between TSE and Osaka before the deal was announced,
two people with direct knowledge of the talks said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  