-- Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Week High on PBOC Injection
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-21T21:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/most-emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-a-week-on-pboc-fund-injection.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
the first time in three days, as rising commodities boosted
producers and China injected record funds into the banking
system.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent to
974.98.  Grupo Mexico  SAB, Mexico’s largest copper producer, rose
the most since Aug. 3. Chinese port operator  Chongqing Gangjiu
Co. (600279)  surged the most since April 2010. Brazil’s Bovespa stock
index dropped with homebuilder MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA
falling the most in three weeks.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 220 billion  yuan 
($34.6 billion) of reverse-repurchase operations today,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. That’s the biggest one-day injection since the current
round of reverse repos started in late June.  Brent crude , corn
and wheat have led a rally in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 raw materials from a low on June 21, lifting the  index (VXEEM) 
more than the 20 percent threshold that signals a  bull market .  “The central bank’s move is going to be exceedingly
important as  emerging markets  are largely reliant on China’s
consumption demand,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist
for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which
manages about $54 billion, said by phone. “A lot of emerging-
market countries are in the business of exporting resource-laden
materials and any increase in a commodities gauge indicates
consumption of stuff being exported.”  EM ETF Declines  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, slid 0.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, advanced 4.8 percent.  The Bovespa declined 0.6 percent with MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes falling the most since Aug. 2.  Grupo Mexico (GMEXICOB)  gained
1.4 percent, the most since Aug. 3, as copper rose to the
highest in more than four weeks.  Purchases of new and existing houses in the U.S. probably
rose in July and bookings for durable goods climbed the most
this year, economists said before reports this week.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 313, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Vietnam’s VN Index tumbled 4.7 percent, the biggest decline
among 93 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg, after the Tuoi Tre
newspaper said a founding shareholder of several of the nation’s
banks has been detained by police.  Energy Stocks  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks rallied 1.8 percent, the
most since July 3. OAO Gazprom Neft, a Russian  oil company ,
jumped 2.2 percent and OAO Novatek, a natural gas producer,
climbed 3.6 percent. Crude rose 0.7 percent to $96.68 a barrel
in New York.  India’s  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 1.1 percent amid
bets the government may implement measures to bolster economic
growth. Infosys rose 2.5 percent after an Alabama District judge
found no basis to support the charges made in a case filed
against the company last year alleging it misused visa permits,
Infosys said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.5 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in  Hong
Kong  climbed 0.3 percent.  Investment Plan  Chongqing Gangjiu, a port operator, rallied by the 10
percent daily limit.  Chongqing Road & Bridge Co. (600106) , a toll-road
operator, added 6.1 percent.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. (493)  jumped 14 percent after the Economic Information Daily
reported China may issue new policies to spur consumption.  Chongqing municipality plans to boost industrial investment
to 1.5 trillion yuan ($236 billion) in the five years through
2015, Xinhua said today, citing the local government. The
investment will help Chongqing expand its total industrial
output beyond 3 trillion yuan, the report said.  “We continue to expect these city-level initiatives to
help the economy to rebound in the second half,” Zhang Zhiwei,
China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a note.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , which assembles Apple Inc.
products, gained 1.3 percent in Taipei after Apple’s market
value rose to a record amid optimism its new iPhone will attract
high demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  