-- Most Motorola Beijing Workers Accept Sweetened Layoff Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T14:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/most-motorola-beijing-workers-accept-sweetened-layoff-deal.html
Almost all the laid-off staff at
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in Beijing have accepted the
manufacturer’s termination package, Will Moss, the company’s
Asia director of communications said today.  More than 200 workers in Beijing had protested against the
layoff of employees, Sina.com.cn reported on Aug. 17. The
company did not “fairly” negotiate a layoff deal with them,
Sina.com.cn cited protesters at the scene as saying.  The job cuts are part of a plan announced by  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
earlier this month to cut 20 percent of the staff at its
Motorola Mobility unit, or about 4,000 jobs globally. Google,
owner of the world’s most-popular search engine, said in a
filing on Aug. 14 that the move was to return Motorola’s mobile
devices unit to profitability. Google completed the purchase of
Motorola Mobility for about $12.5 billion in May, to boost its
patent portfolio and step up competition with Apple Inc.  “Almost all the employees have accepted the current
offer,” Beijing-based Moss said in a telephone interview today.
“We’re in pretty good shape in coming into agreement with the
employees.”  All but one of the workers terminated agreed to a sweetened
offer by Motorola Mobility, Moss said. He declined to comment on
how many staff were laid off. Motorola’s job cuts are expected
to affect 700 people in  China , the country’s official Xinhua
News Agency reported today.  Employees were offered a one-time payment for housing
subsidy assistance, and the company would compensate employees
for un-used annual leave in cash, at a rate of 300 percent the
staff member’s hourly income, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Monahan at 
 amonahan@bloomberg.net  