-- Lotos Wants SBM Offshore to Remove Yme Oil Platform, CEO Says
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-21T14:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/lotos-wants-sbm-offshore-to-remove-yme-oil-platform-ceo-says.html
Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , the Polish refiner
with a stake in Yme oil field, wants the owner of the evacuated
platform on the project off the shore of  Norway  to remove the
facility to speed up the start of crude production.  Canada’s  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the operator of the project,
should ask  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the owner of the platform and the
world’s largest supplier of floating oil and gas production
facilities, to fix the platform onshore or build a new one,
Lotos Chief Executive Officer Pawel Olechnowicz told reporters
in Warsaw today.  “We hope the platform is soon taken from the sea,”
Olechnowicz said.  Lotos, which had originally planned to get 100,000 tons of
oil a quarter from Yme starting in 2010, wrote down 934.6
million zloty ($286 million) of the investment’s value and said
today output will begin in 2015. The writedown pushed Lotos to
post the biggest quarterly loss in two years.  Talisman last month evacuated all 140 people from the Yme
platform after receiving no assurances from SBM that cracks
found in the steel structure in May were not hazardous, Andreas
Middlethon, a spokesman for Talisman, said on July 12.  Middlethon said then Talisman could replace the facility if
SBM doesn’t come up with a plan to fix it.  “The work that remains to be done on Yme is of many
different kinds,” Middlethon said by phone today. “Should the
platform be taken to land, a lot of this work would be easier
done on land,” he said.  “We would highly appreciate it if SBM would provide a plan
for further development at Yme within the end of the year,” the
spokesman said, adding that towing of the platform back to the
shore won’t be possible before 2013.  The decision to remove the platform will be “the most
difficult one,” Lotos Deputy CEO Zbigniew Paszkowicz told
reporters today. “According to our estimates the whole project
could still be economically viable” if the platform is removed
and repaired onshore or replaced with a new facility.  The same repair work takes 1.7 times more on the sea than
in the shipyard and nobody has been working on the platform
since July 10, Paszkowicz said, adding that Talisman is waiting
for independent reports before making the decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  