-- Overseas Shipholding Needs New Loan Agreement: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-08-21T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/overseas-shipholding-needs-new-loan-agreement-corporate-finance.html
Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  is
running out of cash and must renegotiate a loan agreement as an
industrywide slowdown and rejection of a federal debt guarantee
impedes profitability, challenging the company’s ability to pay
its  obligations  and pay for new vessel deliveries next year.  The largest U.S. tanker company, which reported 13 straight
quarters of  net losses , will be about $100 million short of the
funds it needs to repay $1.5 billion of loans by February even
after it gets a new $900 million  credit line  that month, it said
in an Aug. 7 regulatory filing. OSG also has $63.6 million of
bonds maturing in December 2013.  OSG’s earnings have been squeezed by tanker rates that have
 fallen  as much as 96 percent while fuel prices  almost  tripled
since the end of 2008. The New York-based company’s attempt to
improve liquidity through a federal loan guarantee was denied in
February after reports that OSG ships had called on  Iran ’s
largest oil port within the past year and U.S. House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  called on the U.S. Transportation Department
to reject the application.  “If they refinance the gap between the $1.5 billion and the
new $900 million facility, they are left with no financial
flexibility, and they still have to repay the bonds,”  Roger King , a debt analyst at debt researcher CreditSights Inc. said
in a telephone interview. “They’re going to need to make larger
and loosen covenants on the new revolver. They’ll have a hard
time finding new sources of capital.”  ‘Adverse Impact’  OSG drew down the remaining $343 million under the $1.5
billion credit line, it said in an Aug. 1 statement announcing
second-quarter results.  “Discussions are ongoing with our main banks to put in
place long-term financing that provides sufficient liquidity to
manage through an extended downturn,” Myles Itkin, chief
financial officer, said during an Aug. 1 teleconference to
discuss earnings with analysts and investors. Helen Harris, a
Tampa-based communications manager for OSG, said the company
declined to comment further.  The shipper is considering options to bridge the $100
million financing gap, it said in the Aug. 7 regulatory filing.
If market conditions remain weak, OSG could see a “material
adverse impact,” it said.  Bond Yields  OSG’s $146 million of 7.5 percent bonds due in February
2024 traded at 53.5 cents on the dollar on Aug. 13 to yield 16.7
percent, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Its $63 million of
8.75 percent bonds due in December 2013 last traded at 91 cents
on the dollar on July 12. These notes are yielding 16.3 percent,
Trace data show. The yields are more than double the average of
7.38 percent for all bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
High Yield Master II index.  “The 2013 bondholders are assuming the new revolver will
get funded and the company will do something to add liquidity,”
King said. “I don’t think it’s a good bet, personally. For all
the risk you are taking you’d want to be in the longer-dated
bond.”  The price of marine fuel, the largest expense for tanker
operators, is $663 a ton, up from $229 at the end of 2008.
Bloomberg data show. Tanker rates from the  Arabian Gulf  to the
 Far East  have fallen to $1,505 from $38,387, according to Poten
& Partners, a transportation broker.  OSG is the successor to Maritime Overseas Corp., founded in
1948, according to its  website . The firm has 112 vessels and
$4.2 billion of assets.  Oldest Shipper  Other shipping companies are suffering from low
transportation rates. Stephenson Clarke Shipping Ltd., the
world’s oldest shipping company dating back to 1730, liquidated
its fleet and said it is going out of business.  OSG’s  shares , which closed at $7.11 yesterday, have lost 35
percent so far this year, even as the  S&P 500 index  gained 12.8
percent. The stock closed as low as $5.55 cents on Aug. 2.  The shipper suspended its  quarterly dividend  on Feb. 9 to
preserve cash amid the industry downturn, it said in a
statement.  The company reported a second-quarter  net loss  of $55.3
million, or $1.83 per share, and  cash flow  from operations of
$10.1 million. On June 30, 15 vessels comprising 29 percent of
total book value of the company’s ships were pledged as
collateral for secured loans.  Loan Guarantee  The owner of tankers that have called at Iran’s largest oil
terminal over the past year had sought $241.8 million U.S. loan
guarantee to mortgage two vessels in its fleet and use the
proceeds as low-interest financing to “enhance its liquidity
and maintain its financial flexibility,” the company said in a
Feb. 17 regulatory filing. OSG withdrew its request after
receiving indications it would be rejected by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, according to the filing.  The withdrawal followed a European Union agreement on Jan.
23 to a phased-in ban on the purchase, transport, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil. The sanctions apply to 95 percent of
tankers because they are insured under rules governed by
European law. OSG said the pool in which its ships operate would
no longer go to Iran after the EU embargo on oil from the
Persian Gulf nation.  ‘Unencumbered Vessels’  Moody’s Investors Service lowered OSG’s credit rating on
Aug. 2 to Caa1 from B3 and the shipper’s unsecured debt to Caa2
from Caa1, signaling “very high” credit risk, analysts led by
Jonathan Root wrote in an Aug. 2 report  “What’s supportive is that they are an unsecured borrower
and have a number of unencumbered vessels,” Root, a senior
credit officer at Moody’s in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “OSG maintains flexibility because it has assets it
can pledge to solve this issue.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company and its debt ratings to
CCC+, five levels above default and a grade reserved for
obligations that are “currently vulnerable to nonpayment” and
dependent upon “favorable” business and economic obligations,
according to a July 17 statement.  “For each of 2012 and 2013, we calculate a cash burn of
about $110 million,” Root said. “The bogey for these guys is
what will freight rates do? Operations won’t solve the problem,
they need to raise cash.”  Average spot rates in OSG’s International Flag segments in
the third and fourth quarters of 2011 were the lowest they’ve
been during the industry’s cyclical downturn, which began in the
fourth quarter of 2008, the company said in its Aug. 7
regulatory filing.  “The challenges to the company and industry from an
operational perspective are weak global economic growth and too
many ships,” Root said. “There’s little any one individual
company can do to solve that problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 