-- How Volcker Created a Gold Standard Without Gold
-- B y   W i l l i a m   L .   S i l b e r
-- 2012-08-21T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/how-volcker-created-a-gold-standard-without-gold.html
On Aug. 14, 1979, a week after he
took office as chairman of the Federal Reserve,  Paul Volcker  led
his first meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  “Economic policy,” he said, “has a kind of crisis of
credibility.” As a result, “dramatic action” to combat
inflation would not receive public support “without more of a
crisis atmosphere.”  He did not have to wait long.  A public squabble erupted after a meeting at the Fed on
Sept. 18, 1979. The morning began with Volcker’s second FOMC
meeting as chairman and ended with the committee ratifying his
recommendation “to make a little move” up in the federal funds
rate. The vote was eight in favor and four against, with three
of the four dissenters urging greater tightening. Volcker wanted
tighter credit and higher interest rates to fight inflation but
knew that some members of the FOMC were worried about a
recession, so he emphasized caution.  No one but Wall Street professionals would have paid
attention to the slight increase in the federal funds rate, the
overnight  interest rate  on loans of reserves between banks,
because the action occurs far from the public spotlight. The New
York Fed’s trading desk sells  government securities  from its
holdings to withdraw reserves from the banking system. These
transactions push up the rate by forcing banks to borrow
reserves.  Discount Rate  However, a follow-up meeting of the seven-member Board of
Governors that same afternoon was much more widely noticed.
Volcker convened the board to discuss raising the discount rate
charged on loans of reserves to commercial banks. Such decisions
are announced immediately and are reported on the evening news
with the gravity of a declaration of war.  Most financial-market professionals ignore the rhetoric.
Banks borrow reserves at their regional  Federal Reserve  banks as
a safety valve, after reserves have been drained from the market
at the behest of the FOMC, and the discount-rate increase is a
defensive parry to block the escape route. The Board of
Governors controls the discount rate by legal statute, but it
usually follows the lead of monetary policy established at the
FOMC.  Sept. 18 was no exception. The board voted to approve an
increase in the discount rate to a record high of 11 percent, a
jump of half a percentage point, and explained in its press
release that it acted “against the background of increases in
other short term interest rates” and “to discourage excessive
borrowing by member banks from the discount window.” The vote
was four in favor and three against.  The half-point increase in the discount rate, the second
since Volcker took office, pleased him. It confirmed the Fed’s
commitment to tight money to control inflation.  The following morning, however, the front page of the  New
York  Times described the split decision as though it were an
armed insurrection among the rank and file. The 4-3 vote, the
paper said, left uncertain whether the chairman “could continue
to command a majority for his high rate policies. The split was
seen as indicating a fundamental division within the Board over
whether inflation remains a more pressing problem than
recession.”  The divided board had not bothered Volcker until then. He
felt confident he could marshal the same four votes to raise the
discount rate again. But on Sept. 19, a second front-page
article in the Times, with the headline “Gold Price Soars at
Record Pace in Wild Trading,” delivered a knockout punch. The
newspaper reported that transactions on the New York Commodity
Exchange had become “chaotic,” and at times “there were
temporarily no sellers, only would-be buyers.” Gold jumped more
than $25 and hit a record price of $376.25 per ounce.  ‘Inflationary Expectations’  Public commentary confirmed the message. Wall Street
economist  Henry Kaufman , who had apprenticed with Volcker at the
New York Fed in the 1950s and had been predicting higher
interest rates since the beginning of 1979, sounded the alarm:
“In effect, it is a vote against the established economic and
financial system.” Undersecretary of the Treasury Anthony
Solomon said the gold boom “cemented inflationary
expectations,” and could be “very damaging.”  Volcker responded by asking an FOMC economist, Stephen Axilrod, and Peter Sternlight, manager of the system’s Open
Market Account, to outline the plan that would revolutionize the
Federal Reserve’s operating procedures. The two career employees
drafted a confidential three-page memo. A single sentence
captured the essence of the plan: The FOMC “would seek to hold
increases in the monetary base and other reserve aggregates to
amounts just sufficient to meet monetary targets and to help
restrain growth in bank credit, recognizing that such a
procedure could result in wider fluctuations in the shortest
term money market rates.”  Volcker knew this would turn monetary policy on its head.
The so-called aggregates referred to measures such as the  money
supply  (checking accounts plus currency), or total bank
reserves, or bank reserves plus currency (called the monetary
base), that influenced total spending and inflation. The
quantity theory of money, which Volcker had studied at  Princeton
University , taught that excessive increases in the money supply
meant higher prices and inflation. Modern monetarists, led by
 Milton Friedman , resurrected the lessons of the quantity theory
and urged the Fed to control money and the related monetary
aggregates to keep inflation in check.  Volcker believed that controlling the aggregates could help
restrain inflation in the long run, but would also produce wide
fluctuations in interest rates in the short run, disturbing
traditionalists on the FOMC. The new plan would be considered a
monetarist takeover of the  Federal Reserve System , and could
create turmoil in credit markets by altering the Fed’s target of
operations. Volcker thought it was worth the risk.  Trading Room  The Fed manipulates the supply of dollars available as
currency and reserves by buying and selling securities in the
government-bond market. These so-called open market operations
occur quietly, by means of telephone contact between traders in
the New York Fed’s trading room in lower  Manhattan , managed by
Sternlight, and Treasury securities dealers at commercial banks.
But these obscure transactions had a profound impact on the
federal funds rate. When the Fed sells securities and reduces
reserves, for example, commercial banks are caught short of
their legal requirement, so they borrow reserves in the federal
funds market. This buying pressure drives up the overnight
interest rate.  Sternlight aimed his traders’ transactions at the federal
funds rate specified by the FOMC at the end of each meeting. If
the FOMC wanted an increase in the rate, he ordered Fed traders
to engineer a drop in reserves until they hit the target.
Reserves would then be added if the rate went up too much and
withdrawn if the rate went down.  Volcker recognized that this technical procedure, which had
served since the Treasury-Federal Reserve Accord in 1951 to
maintain orderly conditions in the money markets, now undermined
the Fed’s credibility as guardian of the currency. Controlling
the federal funds rate by adding or subtracting reserves meant
that the Fed lost control over reserves made available to banks.  Volcker recognized that it had been a disaster for the Fed
continuously to expand reserves and other monetary aggregates to
keep the federal funds rate from rising too quickly. It had done
precisely that during much of the 1970s, and the end result had
been that banks made more loans and created more deposits than
the Fed had promised. The excessive growth in the monetary
aggregates had fueled inflation and inflationary expectations,
destroying the central bank’s credibility.  Volcker and other members of the FOMC had rejected the
monetarist approach of focusing on the monetary aggregates and
permitting greater fluctuations in interest rates many times
before. As recently as 1978, Volcker had dismissed the tight
link between money and prices articulated by the quantity theory
and put forth by monetarists to keep inflation under control.  Monetary Aggregates  Instead, Volcker based his support for targeting the
monetary aggregates on the favorable impact on inflationary
expectations and central-bank credibility, an approach closer to
the then-emerging doctrine of rational expectations than to
mainstream monetarism. He believed that the announcement of
monetary growth ranges “sets a general framework for
expectations about inflation” and added that “this role in
stabilizing expectations was once the function of the gold
standard, the doctrine of the annually balanced budget, and
fixed exchange rates.” Volcker wanted to restore the gold
standard without gold.  Volcker’s commitment to controlling the aggregates would
require a drastic shift for the FOMC: abandoning the “prudent
and cautious and gradual” approach to  interest rates . He knew
that anything less would fail to establish the Fed’s
credibility. He thought the crisis of September 1979 justified
the risk, and he would exploit that event to persuade the FOMC
to implement an experiment it had thus far resisted.  But a visit with his Board of Governors colleague Henry
Wallich to discuss the draft memo gave him pause. Wallich, who
grew up in Weimar Germany, had a hatred of inflation that
resembled a childhood phobia, but he worried more about losing
control of interest rates. “The existing methods have the
advantage that we know the interest rate and we don’t run the
risk of the rate going in the wrong direction and creating
dollar problems,” he told Volcker.  Volcker also was concerned about the dollar, but felt that
the inflation-fighting credibility of the new operating
procedures would win support abroad. He would learn the truth
during a private lecture from an old friend, Helmut Schmidt, the
chancellor of  West Germany .  (William L. Silber is Marcus Nadler professor of finance
and economics and director of the L. Glucksman Institute for
Research in Securities Markets at New York University’s Stern
School of Business. This is the second of three excerpts from
his new book, “Volcker: The Triumph of Persistence,” which
will be published Sept. 4 by Bloomsbury Press, and is on the
long list for the 2012 Financial Times and Goldman Sachs
Business Book of the Year Award. The opinions expressed are his
own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on eliminating the  wind-energy
tax credit  and on  Congo’s bloody trade  in minerals; Clive Crook
on how badly the  EU would botch  a euro breakup;  Edward Glaeser 
on getting the  Army Corps  of Engineers  out of your neighborhood ;
 Michael Kinsley  on how  Ayn Rand  would make  Paul Ryan   a better
vice president ; Laurence Kotlikoff on economists who  become
political hacks .  To contact the writer of this article:
William L. Silber at  wsilber@stern.nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  