-- Peter Luger Steak Prices May Soar as Drought Culls Herds
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/peter-luger-steak-prices-may-soar-as-drought-culls-herds.html
The buttery porterhouse that Peter
Luger steakhouse has served up since 1887 may be the next victim
of the U.S. drought.  Steer that would normally be fattened and aged to produce
the highest-grade steaks are instead being killed young and
thin.  “They are slaughtering the cattle before they achieve the
size and the marbling,” said Amy Rubenstein, an owner of the
Brooklyn-based restaurant that’s famous for aging prime sides of
beef.  The worst Midwest drought since 1956 has scorched crops and
sent the price of corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed,
up 62.8 percent since mid-June. Ranchers are culling herds to
avoid feed costs, flooding the market with cheap supplies of
beef.  There’s a parallel decline in the quantity of animals that
yield the highest-quality prime cuts, which require months of
extra feeding. The shift will be felt in steakhouse menus down
the road.  “Today’s issues are next year’s price increases,” said
Lee Hanson, co-chef and an owner of the Minetta Tavern, one of
only two Michelin-starred steakhouses in New York (Peter Luger
is the other), in an e-mail.  To make a prime steak, prairie-fed steer are fattened for
an additional two to three months on a high-calorie corn diet
and penned in so their muscle turns to marbled flab before
they’re slaughtered. The best cuts are then dry-aged in a
humidity-free cooler for six to eight weeks before they’re
served.  Corn prices reached a record $8.49 a bushel this month, and
fewer ranchers can afford to fatten cows to prime.  Obama’s Freezers  The drought prompted President  Barack Obama  to help farmers
with $170 million in government meat purchases.  “We’ve got a lot of freezers,” Obama told a campaign
rally in Council Bluffs,  Iowa , on Aug. 13. The government is
also considering cuts to ethanol mandates after livestock
producers complained that too much grain is being diverted to
make fuel.  “The effects are going to be felt probably in October,
November and December,” said Stanley Lobel, the patriarch of
the eponymous family-owned butcher shop on  Manhattan ’s Madison
Avenue.  Lobel says the closely held company sells millions of
dollars of dry-aged prime meat each year, mainly through the
company’s mail-order division.  “The word on the street is that it’s going to happen and
that it will be scarce and be available at a premium,” Lobel
said.  Premium Prices  Prices for prime steak are already at a premium to USDA
choice grade beef. A 1.5-pound bone-in  New York  sirloin sells
for $45.95 at Peter Luger, and the 2.5-pound Porterhouse for
$93.90. (The famed creamed spinach and scalloped potatoes are
extra.)  Minetta Tavern charges $140 for its cote de boeuf for two.
That’s a 56 percent increase from May 2009, when the restaurant
charged $90. The smaller strip steak, at $58, is up 61 percent
from its $36 price tag three years ago.  Droughts often mean higher prices for prime meat a season
or more later. Smaller herds yield fewer calves, which take 14
to 18 months to reach slaughtering weight. The high cattle
prices that are expected to follow will make it hard for
ranchers who walk away now to return to cattle, said John Nalivka, president of Sterling Marketing Inc., a livestock
consulting firm in  Vale ,  Oregon .  “If I were a steakhouse selling prime steaks, I’d be more
concerned about 2014-2015,” Nalivka said.  Herds Cut  Even before the current beef crisis, droughts dating to the
1980s had cut the U.S. herd by 35 percent, to 30.5 million head
of beef cattle in July from 46.9 million in 1975, according to
the USDA.  Bruce Bozzi, Jr., executive vice president at The Palm
steakhouse in Manhattan, says his meat costs rose about 4
percent in the past year, and the drought will only make things
worse. While his vendors haven’t yet indicated a shortage of
high-quality meat, next year will be different.  “I think it’s going to be available, but I think it’s
going to be expensive,” Bozzi said.  The U.S. drought is hurting pasture conditions across the
country.  Prime cattle put on as much as half of their 1,200-1,300-
pound slaughter weight in the feedlot, says Larry Corah, vice
president of the Certified Angus Beef Program, a meat-marketing
association in Manhattan,  Kansas . U.S. feedlots probably bought
10 percent fewer young cattle in July as feed costs climbed, the
Department of Agriculture said in a report on Aug. 17.  Japanese Demand  “With these kinds of feed prices, we would expect there
would be fewer animals out there that’ll be fed to prime beef
quality,” said Joe Horner, an extension associate in
agricultural economics at the  University of Missouri  in
Columbia. White-tablecloth restaurants in the U.S. must also
compete with strong demand from importers led by  South Korea  and
 Japan , Horner said.  Cuts certified as prime by U.S. Dept. of Agriculture
inspectors account for only about 3.5 percent of U.S. beef. That
could drop significantly if the drought continues and farmers
are forced to slaughter more cattle before they can be fattened,
Horner said.  The prospect has Peter Luger’s Rubenstein concerned. The
cost of a New York strip steak is up 11 percent this year, and
45 percent since 2010, she says. “We think the price rise is
yet to come, and we’re afraid that perhaps the quantity of meat
that will be offered will be diminished.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  