-- Philip Morris Wins New Hampshire ‘Lights’ Class Reversal
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-08-21T16:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/philip-morris-wins-new-hampshire-lights-class-reversal.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
unit won’t have to face a group lawsuit by  New Hampshire  smokers
who claim the company misled them on the safety of so-called
light cigarettes, the state’s highest court said.  The New Hampshire  Supreme Court  reversed an earlier ruling
by a state judge who certified the  lawsuit  as a class action,
allowing smokers to pursue their claims as a group. The smokers
claim that Philip Morris falsely represented that Marlboro
Lights cigarettes would deliver less tar and nicotine than other
cigarettes.  Individual issues predominated over common ones, ruling out
class action treatment, the New Hampshire Supreme Court said in
an eight-page decision today. The court agreed with  Philip
Morris  that many prospective class members may have been aware
of reports that smokers compensated when using Marlboro Lights
by inhaling more deeply or by covering up ventilation holes in
the cigarette paper or filter, thus receiving similar amounts of
tar and nicotine.  “Given the volume of information available to consumers
from 1976 to 1995 about the compensation phenomenon, we
conclude, as a matter of law, that the number of class members
exposed to this information was not de minimus,” the court
said. The trial court “unsustainably exercised its discretion”
in granting class certification, the panel said.  ‘Individual Issues’  “The court recognized correctly that there are too many
individual issues for this case to be treated as a class
action,”  Murray Garnick , Altria Client Services senior vice
president, said in a statement. “This court joins 15 courts
which have rejected these cases on a variety of legal and
factual grounds.”  Stephen Tillery, an attorney for the smokers, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling. The lawsuit
sought to represent all New Hampshire smokers of Marlboro Lights
cigarettes from 1995 onward.  The case is Lawrence v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 2011-0574,
Supreme Court of New Hampshire (Concord).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  