-- Plane Part Failed Before Reno Air-Race Crash, NTSB Finds
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-08-21T20:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/plane-part-failed-before-reno-air-race-crash-ntsb-finds.html
A tail-wing part of a stunt plane’s
flight controls failed just before it crashed into a crowd
watching a September 2011 air show, the  National Transportation
Safety Board  said in releasing evidence from its investigation.  Loosening screws, including one with a crack, may have led
to vibrations known as flutter that caused the failure in the
modified P-51D Mustang plane called the Galloping Ghost during a
race in Reno,  Nevada , according to a report by the safety
board’s aircraft-performance study group released today. The
crash killed 11 people and seriously injured 66.  The flutter also may have developed from the wake of
another aircraft in the Reno Air Races. There is no indication
the failure resulted from the way the pilot handled the plane,
the study group found.  “During the race the speed and vertical loading of the
Galloping Ghost was comparable to other racing P-51s,” the NTSB
group said. “There was no indication that an increase in static
aerodynamic forces overloaded to cause the failure.”  The NTSB report raises the possibility that the failure of
the part called the left trim tab control rod may have
contributed to the crash. The study group couldn’t determine
from photographic evidence whether the failure occurred before
the plane began to lose control or about a half-second
afterward.  The NTSB will analyze the evidence it released today and
determine the probable cause of the accident later this month,
the board, which investigates aviation accidents, said in a
statement.  The plane at the annual race exhibition was flown by Jimmy
Leeward, a veteran movie stunt pilot. The plane was flying in
the final event of the day on Sept. 16, 2011, when it crashed
into the box-seat area near the center of the grandstand.  The plane had been in a steep left turn before it banked
left, then right and pitched upward ahead of the crash. The
motion of the aircraft as it rolled at the start of the accident
sequence was consistent with failure of the left trim tab and
its effect on the pilot, the NTSB study group found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  