-- Qihoo 360 Profit Declines as Search Costs Erode Ad Sales
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-22T04:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/qihoo-360-quarterly-profit-declines-as-spending-increases.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , maker of
China’s most-popular Web browser, said second-quarter profit
fell 37 percent as the company boosted spending on new services
such as a search engine, eroding higher advertising sales.  Net income  declined to $7 million in the three months ended
June 30, from $11.1 million a year earlier, Beijing-based Qihoo
said in a statement today. Profit missed the $10.1 million
average of seven analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue more than doubled to $72.8 million.  Qihoo is working to gain sufficient users for its search
engine in China, challenging market leader  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , to
generate advertising revenue from sales of keywords. Qihoo will
see “cost pressure” as the company increases spending on
product development and networks, Co-Chief Financial Officer
Alex Xu said.  “When you are ramping up your search service, and traffic
volume is going up, you will see an increase in bandwidth
costs,” Xu said on a conference call. Apart from the search
engine, Qihoo is also focusing its spending on services for
smartphones and cloud-computing technology, Xu said.  Qihoo rose 4.4 percent to $21.10 in  New York  trading before
the earnings announcement. The stock has gained 34 percent this
year, outperforming Chinese Internet companies including Baidu
and  Sina Corp. (SINA)   Third-quarter revenue may rise as much as 73 percent to $82
million, Qihoo said. The forecast compares with the $77.8
million average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Major Player’  Qihoo is adding users for its search-engine service, which
started last week, by targeting customers of its Web browsers
and hao.360.cn online directory, Chief Executive Officer Zhou Hongyi said on the call. Qihoo aims to be a “major player” in
China’s search market in the long term, Zhou said.  Advertising sales rose 90 percent to $50.8 million, Qihoo
said. Most of the ad sales are generated by hao.360.cn, Xu said.  Product development spending rose to $34.9 million from $12
million, Qihoo said.  Qihoo’s 360 Safe Browser accounted for 36.2 percent of
Internet surfing time in China in March, more than the 33.2
percent for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Internet Explorer, Xu said last
month, citing research company iResearch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  