-- Queensland Mortgage Arrears Highest on Insolvencies, Joblessness
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-21T14:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/queensland-mortgage-arrears-highest-on-insolvencies-joblessness.html
Queensland has the highest
delinquency rate in  Australia , as an increase in insolvencies
and unemployment and declines in home prices in parts of the
state weighed on borrowers’ ability to pay,  Fitch Ratings  said.  About 1.86 percent of home loans were more than 30 days
overdue as of March 31, from 1.7 percent on Sept. 30, and
compared with an average of 1.6 percent across Australia, Fitch
Ratings said in its Mortgage Delinquency by Postcode report. The
 Gold Coast , Ipswich and Logan, cities south of the capital
Brisbane, have been the worst performers since March 2011.  “For the first time since this report was first published,
most of the 10 worst-performing regions are in Queensland,”
James Zanesi, an analyst at Fitch, wrote in the report. “Fitch
is currently monitoring the development of delinquency rates
across Queensland to determine whether this is a temporary
situation or a long-term trend.”  Home prices  in southeast Queensland’s residential market,
where the Gold Coast, Ipswich and Logan are located, are not
experiencing the improvements seen in Brisbane, CBRE Group Inc.
said in a  release  in June. While the Queensland economy has
benefited from expansion in the resources sector, the state’s
tourism, manufacturing and construction industries continue to
struggle, the property broker said.  The number of personal insolvencies in Queensland rose 18
percent in the year to March 2012, and the  unemployment rate  in
Ipswich rose to 7.4 percent in March from 6.3 percent a year
earlier, Fitch said.  Six of the 10 worst-performing regions in Australia by
value were in Queensland and the rest in New South Wales, Fitch
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  