-- Rand Gains, Yields Fall as Euro Debt Optimism Boosts Risk Demand
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-21T13:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/rand-gains-yields-fall-as-euro-debt-optimism-boosts-risk-demand.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days and yields fell to the lowest in a more than a
week on speculation euro-area leaders will make progress on
 Greece ’s debt crisis, stoking demand for riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency advanced as much as 1.3 percent,
and traded 1.1 percent stronger at 8.2395 per dollar as of 3
p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds
due 2021 dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
6.80 percent, the lowest since Aug. 10.  International creditors may adjust the interest on Greek
bailout loans,  Norbert Barthle , a senior lawmaker of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, was quoted as saying by the
Passauer Neue Presse. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker , the head of the euro group of finance ministers, visits
Greece tomorrow. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President  Francois Hollande  meet in Berlin on Aug. 23 and both
are set to talk separately with Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras this week.  “An improvement in global risk appetite has supported
demand for emerging market commodity-based currencies, providing
support for the rand,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., and
colleagues wrote in a report today.  Foreign investors were net buyers of 1.1 billion rand ($133
million) of South African bonds yesterday, after selling 3.2
billion last week, according to JSE Ltd., which runs the
nation’s bond exchange.  Police Shooting  The rand had declined for two days after police fired on
striking workers at a Lonmin Plc mine on Aug. 16, killing 34.
Investors sold a net 2.1 billion rand of the nation’s bonds on
Aug. 17, the most since July 27.  “The worst effects of the mine shootings should now be
behind us,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments. “The rand should be able to start edging
stronger again: we saw the unit finally top out yesterday and
its compatriot currencies are making slow but steady gains.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials climbed
to the highest in more than three months as prices of metal
including copper rallied. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index 
gained for the first time in three days, led by commodity
exporters including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc.  Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data for 2011.
The currencies of other commodity-exporting nations including
 New Zealand , Brazil and  Canada  also gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  