-- Australia Growth Outweighs Global Woes in RBA Rate Call: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-21T06:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/rba-saw-local-growth-outweighing-global-slump-in-rate-pause-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
signaled confidence domestic growth would weather a “fragile”
global economy in its decision this month to maintain the
highest borrowing costs among major developed nations.  The central bank predicts an expansion rate over the
“medium term” at around the economy’s trend pace, even as
Europe’s woes cloud the outlook, according to minutes of the
RBA’s board meeting Aug. 7 that were released today in Sydney.
The bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5
percent for a second month after the gathering.  The report underscores optimism among Australia’s policy
makers that the country will withstand both turmoil from
Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in  China ’s growth as
officials there restrain the  property market . The RBA also
said Switzerland has joined central banks in buying Australia’s
dollar, a trend that’s bolstered the currency and damped
inflation pressures.  “The Reserve Bank won’t be cutting rates any time soon
unless the global economy worsens,” said  Craig James , a senior
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender, in a research note. “Policy makers seem more
comfortable with domestic economic conditions but continue to
watch the global situation carefully.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s decision to extend the pause after
1.25 percentage points of  reductions  from November to June
reflected stronger consumer purchases, a pipeline of  capital
spending  and sustained job growth. Since the RBA last lowered
rates on June 5, the currency has risen 7.7 percent.  SNB Buying  Switzerland’s central bank bought about 100 billion euros
($124 billion) over May and June, and further large purchases
probably occurred in July to maintain the franc’s peg against
the euro and avert inflation pressures, the RBA said.  “While some of these purchases were retained in euros, a
sizable share was converted into other currencies, including a
modest amount in the Australian dollar,” the minutes said.  The Australian dollar advanced to $1.0494 as of 4:18 p.m.
in Sydney, from $1.0455 before the minutes. It has averaged
$1.02 in the past two years, up from 72 U.S. cents for the prior
decade. At the same time, the terms of trade, a measure of
export prices relative to import prices, fell in June to the
lowest since 2010.  ‘High’ Currency  “The  exchange rate  had remained at a relatively high level
notwithstanding the weakening in the global outlook and decline
in commodity prices,” policy makers said in the minutes. The
so-called Aussie has closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar 
for all but 23 days this year, remaining above the average of 75
U.S. cents since the currency was floated in December 1983.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Hong Kong  may report
today that inflation slowed in July, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists, while  India  will also release consumer-
price data for the same month.  Asian stocks advanced. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained
0.3 percent to 121.12 at 3:27 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier
touching 121.42, its highest level since May 8.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President
 Dennis Lockhart  is scheduled to speak on the economic outlook at
a Latin American Chamber of Commerce gathering.  In Europe,  Estonia  and Ireland are scheduled to release
producer-price inflation figures for last month. Polish data on
consumer prices may show  core inflation  rose 0.1 percent last
month, unchanged from the June pace, according to a survey of
economists.  Weaker Confidence  Since Stevens’s decision to extend the rate pause,
government reports painted a mixed picture of the economy:
Employment and wages gained and home-loan approvals rose the
most this year, while  consumer confidence  dropped by the most in
five months.  “There were indications that  consumer  spending had
retained some momentum in the June quarter, even though consumer
sentiment remained at subdued levels,” the minutes said.
“Earlier falls in  interest rates  and rising rental yields were
likely to have increased the attractiveness of housing
investment.”  Traders are pricing in a 24 percent chance that the RBA
will resume rate cuts next month and lower borrowing costs by a
quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on swaps trading.  “The global economic environment remained fragile, with
the uncertainty emanating from the euro area affecting financial
markets and potentially delaying spending by firms and
households,” policy makers said in the minutes.  China’s Expansion  The RBA said there were indications that growth in China,
Australia’s largest trading partner, “appeared to be
stabilizing” at a more sustainable pace.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years, as
Europe’s debt crisis crimped exports and the government’s
property crackdown cooled domestic demand. The slowdown may
extend into a seventh quarter, with Deutsche Bank AG on Aug. 9
cutting its growth estimate for the three months through
September to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent.  “There were signs that investment growth had steadied and
some early indications that conditions in the housing market had
also improved a little in recent months,” the RBA said,
referring to China.  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since a gold rush in the 1850s. The latest bonanza -- for
 iron ore , coal and natural gas -- is bringing investment
projects the government estimates to be worth A$500 billion
($525 billion) and contributed to an unemployment rate of 5.2
percent last month. That’s lower than 8.3 percent in the U.S.
and 11.2 percent in the euro area.  Job Growth  Employment growth “in the near term was expected to remain
relatively modest,” according to the RBA minutes.  Mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto
Group are benefiting from demand for steel and electricity in
emerging economies including China and India.  “Additional large resource projects had commenced or
received approval in recent months, thereby sustaining the very
large stock of work in the pipeline,” the minutes said. “This
had occurred despite some mining companies adopting a more
cautious approach to potential, but yet to be approved,
investment projects.”  Stevens is scheduled to testify to a parliamentary panel
Aug. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  