-- Treasuries Hold Gain on Outlook for Unemployment Rate
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-21T05:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/treasuries-hold-gain-after-yield-matches-200-day-average.html
Treasuries held a two-day gain on
speculation yields at the highest level since May will attract
investors while unemployment holds at more than 8 percent.  Ten-year yields matched their 200-day  moving average 
yesterday, reaching a technical level that indicates demand may
increase. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities headed for
their steepest monthly loss since 2008 as demand for insurance
against rising costs in the economy tumbles. While reports this
month on jobs and consumption showed gains, the jobless rate has
been stuck at more than 8 percent for three years.  “Growth is too weak to lower the  unemployment rate ,” said
Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets
 Japan  Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “The 200-
day average is leading investors to buy on dips.”  Ten-year notes  yielded  1.79 percent as of 6:47 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of
the 1.625 percent securities due in August 2022 was 98 15/32.  The benchmark rate was as high as 1.86 percent yesterday,
matching the most since May 11 as well as the moving average.
Some investors and analysts who study charts of trading patterns
use the averages to identify levels where orders to buy or sell
may be set.  ECB Cap  Yields, which move inversely to bond prices, rose initially
yesterday after  Germany ’s Der Spiegel magazine reported the
 European Central Bank  is considering putting a cap on bond rates
to contain the region’s fiscal turmoil.  U.S. yields slid after the ECB said it hasn’t discussed a
plan to target yields of euro-bloc members. ECB policy makers
next meet Sept. 6.  Japan’s 10-year rate fell three basis points to 0.82
percent today, set for the biggest decline in two weeks. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The U.S. added 163,000 jobs in July, according to Labor
Department data Aug. 3, more than the 100,000 projected by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The same report showed the
jobless rate climbed to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent. Retail
sales rebounded in July from a decline in June, Commerce
Department data Aug. 14 showed.  Reports this week on housing and orders for durable goods
will show gains, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
economists.  Fed Operation  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to sell as much as $8
billion of Treasuries due from September 2014 to April 2015
today, according to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  The sales are part of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s effort to
swap shorter-term Treasuries in the bank’s holdings with those
due in six to 30 years to put downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs.  Efforts by European leaders to find ways for nations in the
region to pay their debts have curtailed demand for the safety
of  U.S. debt , said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist
at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  “The flight to quality has eased,” he said. Ten-year
yields will climb to 1.35 percent by Dec. 31, according to BNP,
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head of
the euro group of finance ministers, is scheduled to visit
 Greece  tomorrow. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  meet in Berlin on Aug. 23.  The Treasury Department is scheduled to sell $14 billion of
five-year inflation-protected notes on Aug. 23, just as demand
for the securities tumbles.  Comparative Returns  An index of TIPS has handed investors a 2.3 percent loss in
August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
last time the securities fell as much in a month was October
2008 when credit markets froze around the world and the U.S. was
in its worst recession since the Great Depression.  Treasuries that don’t offer inflation protection have
fallen 1.4 percent in August, heading for the biggest monthly
loss since December 2010.  The U.S. is scheduled to announce on Aug. 23. the sizes of
2-, 5- and seven-year notes it plans to auction next week.  It will probably sell $35 billion of two-year debt on Aug.
28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company based in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey .  Maturing Treasuries available for reinvestment will total
$50.4 billion, and the sales will raise $48.6 billion of new
cash, according to Wrightson. The government issues the
combination of 2-, 5- and 7-year notes every month.  The August slump in bonds is poised to end, based on a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Ten-year yields will be little
changed at 1.78 at Dec. 31, according to the responses, with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  