-- Reinhart Says Failing Fed Should Commit to Stimulus
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-21T16:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/reinhart-says-failing-fed-should-commit-to-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  should assure investors next week that “he’ll do
whatever it takes” to stimulate the slowing economy, said
 Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley.  Bernanke should use his Aug. 31 speech at the Fed symposium
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , to expand his commitment to providing
additional accommodation if needed because the central bank is
falling short of its mission, Reinhart said in an interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen.  “The Federal Reserve should provide a conditional
commitment that says as long as it is short of its goals it is
willing to expand its  balance sheet ,” Reinhart, a former head
of the Fed board’s Division of Monetary Affairs, said today.
“What you want to be is conditional, you want to be able to say
as long as the economy is not performing relative to what the
Congress told you to do, you’ll continue to act.”  The Fed chief should say he recognizes that “the  Federal
Reserve  is failing in both of its goals, maximum employment and
stable prices, and that we’ll have an open-ended commitment to
expand the balance sheet,” Reinhart said.  Economic growth decelerated to 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from 2 percent in the first quarter. That hasn’t been
fast enough to reduce a jobless rate that climbed to 8.3 percent
in July, the same level where it was in January, and has been
higher than 8 percent since February 2009. The next Federal Open
Market Committee meeting is Sept. 12-13.  ‘On Hold’  “I actually don’t think they’ll do much” at the FOMC
meeting, Reinhart said. “At best in September they’ll probably
tweak the interest-rate language and they’re going to keep the
balance sheet on hold until December.”  Growth will probably be about 1.75 percent for the next
year, Reinhart said. Economists forecast gross domestic product
will increase by 2.2 percent this year, the median of 78
estimates in a Bloomberg survey this month.  “After a severe financial crisis, you have significant
headwinds,” Reinhart said. “The  U.S. economy  is stuck in a
growth channel at 2 percent. Sometimes we’re at the low end of
the channel, sometimes we’re at the high end. Now we’re at the
low end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  