-- Trina Rises After Announcing Project Development Plans
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-08-21T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/trina-cuts-2012-panel-forecast-as-inventory-debt-double.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s
fourth-largest solar-panel maker, gained after the company said
it will develop power projects to boost revenue following its
fourth consecutive quarterly loss.  Trina’s American depository receipts rose 7 percent to
$5.18 at the close in  New York . The ADRs have fallen 22 percent
this year. One ADR is equivalent to 50 ordinary shares.  A global oversupply of panels and slowing demand in  Europe 
have driven down  prices  37 percent in the past year and
contributed to  losses  for Trina, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Trina seeks to spur demand for its products by
developing  power plants  that will use them, a strategy
implemented by competitors including  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the
largest U.S. solar company.  “Eventually, we think that’s going to be a big value for
us,” Chief Financial Officer Terry Wang said on a conference
call with analysts today. “This is going to be a long-term
strategy.” The Changzhou, China-based company didn’t provide a
time table or disclose how it would finance the projects.  Trina reported a second-quarter net loss of $92.1 million,
or $1.30 an ADR, from net income of $11.8 million, or 17 cents,
a year earlier, according to a statement today. Analysts had
expected a loss of $1.03 an ADR, the average of seven  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales fell 40 percent to
$346.1 million from a year earlier.  Becoming Profitable  “It’s very difficult to see how Trina could turn
profitable at any point in the next two years,” Pavel Molchanov
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in Houston, said in a
phone interview today. Project development “is an evolving
strategy. It’s understandably difficult for a company like Trina
to jump into this arena when there are existing players in the
market that have an advantage.”  Trina reduced its forecast for 2012 shipments by as much as
17 percent as its inventories and short-term debt both doubled,
according to the statement.  The company expects to ship 1.75 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts
in photovoltaic panels this year, compared with a May forecast
of 2 gigawatts to 2.1 gigawatts. Second-quarter shipments were
419 megawatts, in line with the company’s estimates.  Trina’s inventories increased to $463.3 million, from
$226.3 million a year earlier, and short-term debt climbed to
$733.7 million from $343 million, which Trina is using “for
working capital purposes, to maintain its cash level and as a
portion of its long-term borrowings became due,” according to
the statement.  Chinese Financing  The company’s debt burden would be more worrisome if it
didn’t receive so much support from the Chinese government,
Molchanov said.  “I’m not worried about Trina running out” of money, he
said. “If it were an American company, I would be. I don’t see
the Chinese banks pulling the plug.”  China Development Bank  has offered $47.3 billion since 2010
to support the country’s wind and solar manufacturers, a  credit
line  that’s only been partially tapped, according to London-
based researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It probably makes more sense for  China  this time around
to subsidize downstream -- there’s more employment in
installation than in manufacturing,” Aaron Chew, an analyst in
at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said today by telephone.  New President  Trina reached a manufacturing cost, excluding polysilicon,
of 52 cents a watt compared with 58 cents in the previous
quarter. It expects production costs to fall in the current
quarter.  The company also announced today that it hired Mark Mendenhall as regional president of the Americas. He previously
developed solar plants as president and general manager for
SunEdison, which is owned by  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the
second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker, according to the
statement.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. is the largest solar
manufacturer, followed by First Solar and Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. is the biggest U.S.
polysilicon producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  