-- Romney Mocked for Roofed Dog, Banks Attacked by Ry Cooder
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/romney-mocked-for-roofed-dog-banks-attacked-by-ry-cooder.html
Wall Street, take cover.  Mitt Romney , watch out. Ry Cooder is fired up with politics for his
album “Election Special.”  As the clock ticks down to polling day, Cooder wastes no
time in siding with  Barack Obama .  The opener “Mutt Romney Blues” takes the point of view of
the Republican candidate’s Irish setter Seamus, who was crated
on top of the family’s car for a 12-hour trip to  Canada  in 1983.  “Mitt Romney went for a ride,” sings Cooder. “Pulled up
on a highway side. Tied me down up on the roof. Boss, I
hollered, woof, woof, woof.”  If you agree with Cooder, you’ll like his comments about a
prospective leader of the free world. If your politics are
elsewhere, some of his cheap shots may be deeply irritating.  With only days to go until the Aug. 27 Republican National
Convention in  Florida , Cooder switches persona to become a party
backer for a jolly country ditty called “Going to Tampa.”  “I’ve paid all my money,” he says, “Sarah Palin calls me
‘honey’ and shakes the peaches on my tree.”  The singer predictably hates the Guantanamo detention camp
and likes the  Occupy  movement. He urges protesters to take over
“The  Wall Street  Part of Town.”  “Cold Cold Feeling” portrays a worried Obama pacing the
White House until he wears out his boots. Cooder says the
critics snapping at his heels should walk a mile in his shoes:
“if you never been president you don’t know how it feels.”  Robber Bankers  The album follows “Pull Up Some Dust and Sit Down” last
year, which flayed bankers who “robbed the nation blind.”  Cynics will note that Cooder’s overly political voice has
revived his career with headlines, controversy and sales. Still,
he sounds like he really means it.  Popular music has often been political. The closing song
“Take Your Hands Off It” harks back to Woody Guthrie’s “This
Land is Your Land” -- an apt memory in Guthrie’s centenary
year.  Yet Cooder fails to match the lasting power of the box set
“ Woody at 100 .” Inevitably, some of his references will date
fast. “Election Special” has the same flawed, rushed urgency
of  John Lennon ’s “Some Time in  New York City ” and  Neil Young ’s
“Living With War.”  The insistent sloganizing rarely reaches the poetic best of
his LP “Paradise and Lunch” in 1974.  The stripped-down music is just Cooder on guitars, mandolin
and bass (with his son Joachim on drums). Fans of such classics
as 1971’s “Into the Purple Valley” might wonder what happened
to the slide-guitar brilliance.  “Election Special” is quick and dirty. It’s topical and
may even move a few votes, but it’s far from Cooder’s best.  Rating: ***.  The album is on Nonesuch Records priced about $10. There is
a limited edition adding a campaign-style button and bumper
sticker. Download prices vary across services.  Information:  http://www.nonesuch.com   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 