-- Tropical Storm Isaac May Become Hurricane in Caribbean
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-22T00:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/tropical-storm-isaac-forms-in-atlantic.html
Tropical Storm Isaac, the ninth
named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season , was heading toward
the Lesser Antilles and is forecast to emerge over the eastern
Caribbean Sea within two days.  Isaac, about 435 miles (700 kilometers) east of Guadeloupe,
is moving west at 17 miles per hour, the Miami-based National
Hurricane Center said in an  advisory  before 8 p.m. New York
time. The storm, with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph, formed
earlier today about 500 miles east of Guadeloupe.  The system is forecast to move through the Leeward Islands
tomorrow evening and emerge over the eastern Caribbean Sea the
next morning, the hurricane center said. It is predicted to
strengthen over the next 48 hours. Tropical storm warnings have
been issued for islands including Dominica, Guadeloupe, St.
Kitts, Nevis, Antigua and Barbuda.  Tropical storm conditions are expected to reach warning
areas by tomorrow afternoon, “making outside preparations
difficult or dangerous,” the center said.  A system becomes a tropical storm when sustained winds
reach 39 mph and a hurricane when they reach 74 mph.  The center’s  tracking map  shows the system crossing Haiti
as a hurricane on Aug. 25 and striking Cuba the next day.  Two computer models are suggesting a Florida landfall that
may affect the Republican National Convention,  Jeff Masters , co-
founder of  Weather Underground  in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said on
his blog. The convention, at which the party will officially
nominate  Mitt Romney  as its candidate for president, is Aug. 27
to Aug. 30 in Tampa, Florida.  Storm Watches  “It would take a ‘perfect storm’ sort of conditions to all
fall in place” for the system to reach Tampa as a hurricane
during the  convention , Masters said. “But that is one of the
possibilities.”  Storm watches were posted for  Puerto Rico  and the  U.S.
Virgin Islands , among others. A warning means storm conditions
are expected within 36 hours. A watch means tropical storm
impact is possible within 48 hours.  As much as eight inches (20 centimeters) of rain may fall
over the Leeward Islands and the northern Windward Islands, the
center said. A  storm surge  may raise water levels as much as 3
feet (0.9 meters) above normal tide levels in the northern
Leeward Islands, “accompanied by dangerous waves” near the
coast.  The center is tracking two other Atlantic systems. A low-
pressure area over the far western  Gulf of Mexico  has a 20
percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days. Another, 550 miles southwest of the Cape Verde Islands,
has a 60 percent probability of becoming tropical.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlotte  Porter in New York at 
 Cporter11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  