-- Trucking Stocks Offer Bet on U.S. Consumers for Holidays
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/trucking-stocks-offer-bet-on-u-s-consumers-for-holidays.html
Holiday sales probably will grow at
a slower rate this year than last. That may present an
opportunity for investors prepared to wager they’ll be better.  Most investors aren’t betting on a strong shopping season
in the U.S. because of unemployment that’s remained above 8
percent since February 2009 and ambiguity about future tax
rates, said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Harris
Private Bank in  Chicago , part of the BMO Financial Group which
oversees about $60 billion of assets. Even so, now is the time
to consider a trucking-stocks strategy because these conditions
may offer a favorable risk-reward, he said.  “Everyone associates retail stocks with the holiday
season, but trucking companies may be a smarter play for a
positive surprise from the consumer,” Ablin said. Truckers are
“an interesting” opportunity because their shares have trailed
the market since 2009, reflecting pessimism about the economy;
meanwhile, retailers have enjoyed an “enormous rally” -- a
sign more optimism has been priced into these stocks, he said.  Retail sales, excluding restaurants, vehicles and gasoline,
rose 0.9 percent last month from June, the biggest gain since
January, based on data from the Census Bureau. Robert Dye, chief
economist at  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  in  Dallas , estimates they may
increase an inflation-adjusted 2 percent to 3 percent in
November and December, the traditional holiday rush, compared
with 2.7 percent last year.  “It’s not doom and gloom, but it’s not a robust forecast,
either,” Dye said, adding that holiday sales rose as much as
4.7 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis in 2005.  Fiscal Cliff  Weak  consumer confidence  is hurting discretionary spending
and probably will continue through the rest of this year because
of anemic job growth and the looming fiscal cliff, he said. The
U.S. faces higher taxes and reductions in spending on defense
and other government programs that will take effect at year-end
unless Congress acts.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Asset-Heavy Trucking Index (BNUSAHTD)  -- with 14
companies including  Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX)  and  Werner (WERN) 
Enterprises Inc. -- has lagged behind the  Russell 2000  Index by
about 51 percent since Dec. 31, 2008. In the same period, the
Standard & Poor’s Retail Select Industry Index has led the
broader  S&P 500  by 146 percent.  Trucking stocks continue to trail the Russell 2000 and now
are at the same “key support level” as a year ago, in part
because earnings for several companies -- including Werner and
 Con-way Inc. (CNW)  -- were weaker than investors anticipated, said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at New York-based
research company Technical Alpha Inc.  Relative Performance  Although investors may be wary about identifying this level
as a bottom, trucking stocks last year outperformed the Russell
2000 by 10.6 percent between mid-September and Dec. 30, when
their relative performance was previously this low, he said.  Based on the depth of the current underperformance,
investors appear to be bracing for “very anemic volume
growth,” said  Art Hatfield , an analyst in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
with Raymond James & Associates. “Nobody’s pricing in anything
positive in terms of a pick-up in economic activity in the
near-term.”  The rally in the retail index has stalled after it broke an
uptrend that began in February 2011, indicating investor
sentiment has become a little bearish in recent months, said
Stellakis, a chartered market technician. “Retail stocks may be
a group investors are looking to underweight now.”  No Comfort  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.5 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, after expanding 2 percent in the period
ended March 31. The jobless rate rose to  8.3 percent  in July,
the 42nd consecutive month above 8 percent; and consumer
sentiment, measured by the Bloomberg Comfort Index, fell to
 minus 44.4  in the week ended Aug. 12, the lowest since January.  One bright spot: The U.S. added 163,000 jobs in July, the
most since February, after four consecutive months when gains
trailed the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Amid continued weakness in “big-picture drivers” of
spending, investors are “a little squeamish” about what to
expect from this year’s holiday-sales season, said  John Manley ,
chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Funds Management in New
York. Still, it “wouldn’t be unusual” for consumers to figure
out a way to splurge, even if it means skimping on other
purchases, he said, adding that if shoppers can exceed what will
probably be “fairly conservative” sales estimates, trucking
companies may benefit.  “Betting against the American consumer is a tough bet to
make,” he said.  Short-Lived Rally  The same things holding back shoppers may inhibit trucking
stocks from overcoming the years of underperformance, Hatfield
said. Even if Americans deliver on a strong holiday season, a
rally in this group may be short-lived until the U.S. economy
exhibits sustained signs of improvement and expands at a faster
pace, he said.  For now, companies that transport items including retail
goods have indicated activity remains stable, Hatfield said,
adding that even though volumes and the prices truckers charge
their customers are weak by historic standards, there’s no
indication another recession is imminent.  Kevin Knight, chairman and chief executive officer of
Phoenix-based Knight Transportation, sees reason for “some
optimism” that the second half of this year will “end up being
more seasonal,” he said on a July 25 conference call.
“Compared to my expectations, I would say that June has been a
little bit behind what I would have hoped for and that July has
been a little bit ahead.”  ‘Strong Note’  Volume for Con-way ended June “on a strong note” after it
was a “little light” early in the month, President and Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Stotlar said on an Aug. 1 conference
call. The  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based company also saw daily
tonnage strengthen in July to finish “slightly ahead” of last
year, he said.  Based on conversations with customers, “we continue to see
people pretty optimistic about their business, even with really,
really slow economic growth,” Greg Lehmkuhl, president of Con-
way’s freight division, said on the same call.  While freight volume of companies including retailers and
consumer packaged-goods makers -- a barometer of the broader
economy -- fell 0.7 percent in July from the prior month, it
exceeded the trailing 10-year average of minus 2.5 percent for
July’s sequential change in shipments, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from Cass Information Systems.  Forecasting holiday sales this year still is more difficult
than in the past, Dye said. In addition to all the economic
impediments, Americans also are saving more -- 4.4 percent of
their disposable personal income in June, the highest in a year
-- which could hurt spending if people are worried about jobs
and taxes, he said.  Nonetheless, consumers have to be “hit over the head
pretty hard” to cut back meaningfully on gift-giving, Wells
Fargo’s Manley said.  “When expectations are modest, Americans rarely disappoint
when it comes to holiday sales,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  