-- Rules Reduce U.S. Manufacturing by $500 Billion: Study
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-21T16:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/rules-reduce-u-s-manufacturing-by-500-billion-study.html
Regulations on U.S. manufacturing
may reduce output by as much as $500 billion this year,
according to an industry-sponsored study that cast doubts on
President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to trim red tape in the federal
government.  The Obama administration has established an average of 72
regulations on manufacturers annually, an increase from the 45
per year imposed under President  George W. Bush , according to
the study, commissioned by the Manufacturers Alliance for
Productivity and Innovation, based in Arlington, Virginia.  “It is imperative that the pace of new regulations be
controlled and the cumulative burden of existing regulations be
reduced,” said the study, conducted by NERA Economic
Consulting.  With  job creation  a central theme in the U.S. presidential
race, the health of manufacturing companies is of importance to
both Obama and his Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Industry
groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and  National
Association of Manufacturers  have said federal regulations
hinder economic growth.  During remarks in Windham,  New Hampshire  on Aug. 18, Obama
said his administration has “created 4.5 million new jobs, half
a million in manufacturing.” Romney is scheduled to visit
LeClaire Manufacturing Co., a maker of aluminum casings, in
Bettendorf,  Iowa , tomorrow.  Major Regulations  Major regulations -- a category of rule where compliance
costs are estimated at more than $100 million -- reduce economic
output by $200 billion to $500 billion in 2010 dollars,
according to the study, which examined data from the White House
Office of Management and Budget during the last three decades.
Exports this year may be 6.5 percent to 17 percent lower, it
said.  The U.S. government issued an average of 36 major
regulations annually from 1993 to 2000, when Democrat  Bill Clinton  was president, according to the study.  Environmental regulations, such as those to reduce cross-
state air pollution, sulfur dioxide and particulate matter, have
the greatest impact on manufacturers, according to the study. It
also examined regulations for the financial, labor, energy and
transportation sectors.  The Obama administration has postponed decisions on some
regulations, including a proposal to reduce ozone emissions, and
in January 2011 the president issued an executive order for
agencies to find ways to cut red tape.  Cost Savings  Rule changes will save almost $6 billion during the next
five years, Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said May 10.  Federal rules are subject to a cost-benefit analysis before
being adopted. The manufacturers’s study did not address the
value of the benefits of the rules it reviewed.  Rules during the first 32 months of the Obama
administration cost $19.9 billion and delivered $91 billion in
net benefits, according to the White House Office of Management
and Budget.  A request to OMB for comment on the study was not
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  