-- Samsung to Spend $4 Billion to Boost Texas Chip Output
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-21T09:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/samsung-to-spend-4-billion-to-boost-texas-chip-output.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of memory chips, said it will invest about $4
billion in its  Texas  factory to boost output of processors
increasingly used in smartphones and tablet computers.  The investment will help convert the production of memory
chips to logic products, including processors that power mobile
devices, at the Austin, Texas, plant, Samsung said in a
statement today. The Suwon, South Korea-based company plans to
complete the conversion and start mass production in the second
half of 2013.  Samsung is shifting away from chips used to hold memory in
personal computers and digital gadgets to more complicated, yet
lucrative processors acting as the brains of devices. As the
exclusive manufacturer of Apple Inc.-designed chips running the
iPhone and iPad, Samsung has benefitted from the popularity of
the U.S. rival’s devices and its own Galaxy phones that together
control more than half the global smartphone market.  “It’s the right move to concentrate on the non-memory
business because it’s much more profitable,” Choi Do Yeon, a
Seoul-based analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co., said by
phone. “The market for mobile application-processors is getting
big, and Samsung is having a hard time keeping up with demand.
They need extra capacity.”  China Investment  Samsung, which plans to  spend  15 trillion won ($13 billion)
on the semiconductor business this year, had added another
 production line  dedicated to logic chips at the Austin plant and
began full operations in October.  With the new investment, the largest in size to be made by
a foreign company in Texas, Samsung’s spending on the factory
since 1996 will exceed $13 billion, according to the statement.
About 2,500 construction workers and equipment vendors will be
hired for the project, it said.  In April, Samsung announced it will spend $7 billion
building a semiconductor factory in  China  to satisfy growing
demand for mobile devices. The initial investment in that
project was $2.3 billion.  Samsung’s shares fell 0.1 percent to 1,282,000 won in Seoul
trading today, before the announcement. The stock has risen 21
percent this year, adding on three consecutive years of gains.  Apple Chips  Production at the Austin factory may be tailored for iPhone
and iPad chips, Choi said.  Apple accounts for  8.9 percent  of Samsung’s revenue, making
it the company’s largest customer, according to a Bloomberg
supply-chain analysis, even as the two companies have been
locked in global patent disputes for more than a year.  Apple’s reliance on Samsung chips for its best-selling
phones and tablets will be worth as much as $7.5 billion to
Samsung this year, a 60 percent jump from 2011, Gartner Inc.
estimates. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said at a conference
earlier this year that “the engine” for the iPhone and iPad is
made in Austin, without mentioning Samsung.  Samsung and Apple’s interdependence traces its roots to the
beginning of the iPhone. The two companies, which had already
worked together in screens and memory chips, cut a deal that
resulted in Samsung becoming the sole manufacturer of the so-
called A-series of chips, which are at the heart of the iPhone
and iPad.  The two companies also are locked in patent disputes on
four continents, with lawyers scheduled to make final arguments
in a California courtroom today after a three-week trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  