-- Samsung Copying Was ‘Intense,’ Apple Lawyer Says in Closing
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-22T00:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/samsung-copying-was-intense-apple-lawyer-says-at-trial-s-end.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  was so
desperate to catch up with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s smartphones and tablet
computers in February 2010 that the South Korean company began
“three intense months of copying” the iPhone maker, a lawyer
for Apple said.  Attorney Harold McElhinny, in closing arguments at a
multibillion-dollar intellectual property trial in federal court
in  San Jose ,  California , told jurors documents prove better than
witness testimony how Samsung went about changing its mobile
devices to mimic Apple’s “revolutionary” designs.  McElhinny said internal e-mail at Samsung revealed that the
company was experiencing a “crisis of design” due to
competition from the iPhone even as another e-mail sent just two
weeks later showed Samsung was facing pressure from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to make its devices look less like Apple’s.  “Samsung realized how far it was falling behind the
iPhone,” McElhinny said. “In those critical three months
Samsung was able to copy and incorporate” Apple’s four years of
research and development “without taking any of the risk,” he
said.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in
April 2011, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Big Conglomerates  Samsung’s lawyer, Charles Verhoeven, framed the jury’s
decision as one that could shape the future of the technology
industry. If the jury rules in Apple’s favor, he said, big
conglomerates with large patent portfolios would stifle
innovation by blocking out competitors.  “It’s a very important decision you have to make,” he
said. The decision “could change the way competition works in
this country,” he said. “Rather than compete in the
marketplace, Apple is seeking to gain an edge in the courtroom.
It’s seeking to block its biggest and most serious competitor
from even attending the game.”  Instead of copying the iPhone, Samsung seized on
technological advances to design its devices with full glass
screens for the best view of e-mail, an Internet browser and
video, he said.  Verhoeven said Apple’s estimate of more than $2 billion in
damages is unfounded.  “There was no confusion, deception, consumer harm,” he
said. “Apple is here asking for what it’s not entitled to.”  Damages Sought  In addition to damages, Apple seeks to make permanent a
preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet
computer, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Samsung seeks as much as $421.8 million in royalties that
the company claims it’s owed for Apple’s infringement of two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  