-- San Francisco Diesel at High as Tesoro Said to Cut Output
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-21T22:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/san-francisco-diesel-jumps-to-record-premium-to-futures.html
Spot diesel in San Francisco
advanced to a record premium against futures after  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) ’s Golden Eagle refinery in Northern California was said to
cut production of the fuel following a compressor breakdown.  Tesoro’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle plant curbed
diesel production after one of two compressors at a
hydrodesulfurization unit shut following an equipment failure, a
person with direct knowledge of the incident said earlier today.
The No. 3 HDS unit will run at reduced rates until new parts can
be installed in the damaged compressor, the person said.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco gained
1.5 cents to 27.5 cents a gallon above heating oil futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:08 p.m. East
Coast time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the largest
premium for the fuel since Bloomberg began compiling data in
November 2007.  Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters in  San Antonio , said the Golden Eagle refinery is
performing maintenance and expects to “meet all product supply
commitments.” She declined in an e-mail to comment on the
compressor.  CARB diesel in  Los Angeles  jumped 2.75 cents to 19.75 cents
a gallon above futures, the highest since Aug. 14.  California-blend distillate supplies tumbled 17 percent to
2.18 million barrels in the week ended Aug. 10, and production
of the fuel dropped 30 percent, data compiled by the state
Energy Commission show.  Chevron Richmond  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has been running process units at the
240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery, the largest in Northern
California, at reduced rates following an Aug. 6 blaze that shut
the plant’s only crude unit, a person with direct knowledge of
operations there said Aug. 8.  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  slipped 1.5
cents to a 7-cent-a-gallon premium to Nymex gasoline futures.
That’s the smallest difference since the fire in Richmond.  California-blend gasoline in Los Angeles was unchanged at a
2-cent premium to futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland , Oregon,
dropped 4.5 cents to 14 cents a gallon above gasoline futures.
Low-sulfur diesel in Portland also fell 3 cents to a premium of
37 cents a gallon against heating oil futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  