-- Santander Defies Spain Woes to Sell First Bonds Since March
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-08-21T16:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/santander-defies-spain-woes-to-sell-first-bank-bonds-since-march.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  raised 2 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) from the first sale of senior unsecured
bonds by a Spanish bank in more than five months.  Spain’s biggest lender tapped debt investors as the
nation’s government prepares to hash out terms for the 100
billion-euro bailout of its financial system.  Spanish banks 
posted record losses of 10.7 billion euros in the first half as
provisions for bad loans surged, the Bank of Spain said Aug. 17.  “Santander’s bond deal sets a standard for other Spanish
banks considering returning to the market,” saidSerafi Rodriguez, a fixed-income trader at Morabanc in Andorra.
“Santander is the biggest and the most defensive name in the
Spanish financial sector.”  The two-year 4.375 percent notes for Santander, which
doesn’t need rescue funds, were priced to yield 3.9 percentage
points, or 390 basis points, more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with a spread of 250
basis points on five-year bonds the bank sold in March in the
last offering of unsecured notes by a Spanish lender, Societe
Generale SA data show.  The extra yield investors demand to buy bonds from
financial institutions in the euro-area’s peripheral countries
has dropped to 463 basis points relative to the swap rate,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery
Financial Index. The gap has narrowed from 548 basis points on
July 25, the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do
“whatever it takes to preserve the euro.”  More Issuers  “More issuers may tap the market following the recent
spread tightening,” said  Maureen Schuller , an Amsterdam-based
credit analyst at  ING Groep NV. (INGA)  “Spanish spreads have re-
tightened significantly since the end of July.”  The Santander, Spain-based lender sold the debt as the
 European Central Bank  considers steps to bring borrowing costs
in the euro region’s peripheral countries closer to record-low
official  interest rates . Spain sold 12-month bills today at
yield of 3.07 percent, down from 3.918 percent at its last sale
of the debt in July.  Santander managed the sale of its bonds with  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , Deutsche Bank AG and Natixis. Santander is rated
Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the second-lowest investment
grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  