-- SEC Pays $50,000 in First Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Reward
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-08-21T21:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/sec-pays-50-000-in-first-dodd-frank-whistleblower-reward.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission awarded $50,000 to a whistleblower in its first
payout from a program started last year to reward people who
provide regulators with evidence of  securities fraud .  The whistleblower helped the SEC bring an enforcement
action that resulted in more than $1 million in sanctions, the
agency said today in a statement. The award represents 30
percent -- the maximum allowed under the Dodd-Frank Act -- of
the approximately $150,000 collected so far.  The agency set up a whistleblower program in August 2011 to
reward individuals who provide evidence of securities law
violations which results in sanctions of more than $1 million.
The program was authorized in the 2010 financial-regulation
overhaul, which said awards could range from 10 percent to 30
percent of the money collected.  “Had this whistleblower not helped to uncover the full
dimensions of the scheme, it is very likely that many more
investors would have been victimized,” SEC Enforcement Director
 Robert Khuzami  said in a statement.  The SEC, which didn’t name the whistleblower or identify
the related enforcement action, said it rejected a claim from a
second person in the same matter because the information the
person provided didn’t lead to or significantly contribute to
the enforcement action.  Bradley Bondi, a former SEC attorney who is now a partner
at law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in Washington,
said in an interview that even though the award is “relatively
small” in this case, it’s notable that the SEC awarded the
maximum amount it could under the whistleblower rules.  “The question is whether the SEC will continue to award
bounties at the upper end of the range when the SEC has
whistleblowers in bigger cases,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  