-- Sequoia Said to Beat $975 Million Goal for Venture Funds
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-08-21T16:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/sequoia-said-to-beat-975-million-goal-for-venture-funds.html
Sequoia Capital , a Silicon Valley
venture-capital firm that backed Apple Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and
Google Inc., is set to exceed its combined goal of $975 million
for a trio of new early-stage funds, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Sequoia plans next month to complete raising money for
early-stage venture capital funds focused on the U.S., China and
Israel, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the funds are private. The  Menlo Park , California-based firm has
been able to keep a 30 percent cut of profits on the new funds,
known as carried interest, the people said.  Sequoia Capital, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary
this year, has been an early backer of some of the biggest names
in the technology industry. The firm reaped profits through the
initial public offering of Apple in the 1980s, the IPOs of Cisco
Systems Inc. and Yahoo in the 1990s, and Google’s public-market
debut in the past decade. It more recently benefited from
investments in  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , Palo Alto Networks Inc. and
ServiceNow Inc.  Mark Dempster, a Sequoia spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Sequoia is raising separate funds for each geography,
departing from the structure of the predecessor, the people
said. Sequoia Capital 2010 LP, which raised more than $1
billion, makes early and growth investments in the U.S. and
China, according to a July 2010 summary of the fund from the
University of Michigan Regents. The firm has always raised
separate funds for Israel.  This time, Sequoia is seeking $450 million for its U.S.
early-stage fund and separately targeting $325 million for a
China-focused early-stage fund, said the people. The firm is
seeking $200 million for Sequoia Capital Israel V LP, an early-
stage fund mainly focused on  information technology .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  