-- Shoprite Plans Angola Warehouse in Africa Logistics Push
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-21T14:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/shoprite-plans-angola-warehouse-in-africa-logistics-push.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South
 Africa ’s largest retailer by market value, said it plans to open
logistics centers in Angola and Nigeria to reduce the effects of
road and port congestion as it expands across Africa.  Sales at Shoprite’s 156 stores outside its home country
rose 20 percent in the fiscal year through June, showing that
“the principle of distribution centers outside South Africa is
a must,” Chief Executive Officer Whitey Basson said in a
presentation in Johannesburg.  Warehouses in Luanda, Angola, will be ready before the
Christmas holiday in December, and Shoprite will set up a “big
distribution center” in Lagos, Nigeria, as soon as it finds a
site, Basson said. The Cape Town-based  company  may take its
first steps outside Africa in the event of a “good offer” in
India, Brazil or eastern Europe, he said, without elaborating.  Shoprite and local competitors such as  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) 
and  Truworths International Holdings Ltd. (TRU)  are adding stores
across Africa as oil and metal production boosts wealth in the
world’s poorest continent. The region’s swelling middle class
may boost household spending 63 percent to $1.4 trillion by
2020, according to a report two years ago by New York-based
consulting company McKinsey & Co.  More than 78 percent of Shoprite’s sales still come from
South African supermarkets, the retailer said in a statement
today. At the same time, the “accent on growth in terms of
store numbers was particularly strong” outside the country, it
said. The retailer opened 21 supermarkets in Africa excluding
its home nation in the year through June. Of the company’s top
10 outlets, three are outside  South Africa , Basson said.  Store openings this year included outlets in Kinshasa,
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, Shoprite’s first in the country,
and in Abuja, Nigeria. The company is looking to add two stores
in Abuja, Basson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  