-- Singh Resignation Sought by India’s Opposition on Auditor Report
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-08-21T08:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/singh-resignation-sought-by-india-s-opposition-on-auditor-report.html
India’s opposition party demanded
that Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  resign after a report by the
chief auditor last week said the government may have lost $33
billion by giving away coal blocks rather than auctioning them.  Both houses of parliament were adjourned today after
protests and disruptions by groups led by the  Bharatiya
Janata Party , threatening to deepen the political impasse that
has stalled legislation and cabinet decisions. The auditor’s
report said the government gave undue benefit to companies
including Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. and Tata Steel Ltd. by
awarding mining contracts at negotiated prices.  The latest report is another blow to Singh, 79, whose
government has been roiled by a series of corruption allegations
with two years left in its second term before facing national
elections, said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based
Centre for Media Studies. A new survey by  Nielsen Holdings NV 
showed Singh’s Congress party will lose power if voters were to
go to the polls today.  “This reduces the likelihood the government will be able
to pass any meaningful reforms,” Rao said. “It will be further
pushed to a corner, emboldening the opposition and coalition
allies to demand their pound of flesh in return for support.”  Downgrade Threat  Singh is battling to prevent the nation’s sovereign rating
from slipping to junk status after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings cut the outlook this year to negative, citing slowing
economic growth and his inability to rein in the budget and
current-account deficits.  The opposition personally blames Singh for the losses
because he was in charge of the coal ministry for part of the
period under review. Lawmakers stormed into the well of the
chamber in  India ’s lower house today shouting slogans, prompting
Speaker Meira Kumar to defer the proceedings to tomorrow. The
upper house was also adjourned.  The Comptroller & Auditor General said on Aug. 17 the
government lost 1.86 trillion rupees over a five-year period by
allocating the coal mining blocks. The auditor arrived at the
loss, calculating the difference between the average price of
coal and cost of production at  Coal India ’s mines in the year
ended March 31, 2011.  “The nation’s money is being looted,” said M. Venkaiah Naidu, a leader of the BJP. “The prime minister and the
government should resign. There’s no alternative.”  ‘Political Mileage’  Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal, and Singh’s cabinet
colleague, rejected the auditor’s report saying the government
had been fully transparent and needed the help of private
companies to boost production.  “It isn’t that somebody has been caught red-handed,” said
B.G. Verghese, an independent political analyst and an aide to
former prime minister Indira Gandhi. The BJP move is “purely to
make political mileage out of the issue,” he said.  This isn’t the first time the opposition has demanded the
resignation of Singh. A similar audit review two years ago into
the sale of phone permits in 2008 sparked the country’s biggest
graft probe, eliciting calls for him to step down.  The auditor said in 2010 that the licenses to operate
mobile networks were awarded at “unbelievably low” prices,
resulting in a loss of as much as $31 billion to the exchequer.
The investigation led to the arrest of a cabinet minister,
government and company officials. All those charged deny any
wrongdoing.  Opposition parties led by the BJP are set to snatch power
if elections were to be held today, an opinion poll carried out
by Nielsen and India Today showed the same day the auditor’s
coal report was released. It forecast that Singh’s coalition may
win 78 fewer seats than the 259 it secured in May 2009, while
parties led by the BJP may win as many as 205, the poll showed.  Nielsen   questioned  almost 16,000 people in 19 states at
the beginning of July. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  