-- Somalia Swears in Parliament, Misses Deadline for Presidency
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-08-21T09:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/somalia-swears-in-parliament-misses-deadline-for-presidency.html
Somalia swore in a parliament in
time for a deadline to transition to a permanent government,
while failing to elect a speaker and president to start the 16th
attempt at establishing a national authority since 1991.  The Horn of Africa nation inaugurated 215 of 275
legislators late yesterday on the tarmac of the airport in
Mogadishu, the capital, surrounded by  African Union  soldiers and
encircled by vehicles that illuminated the proceedings with
headlights. The transitional government was supposed to have
elected a president and speaker by yesterday, although it now
has enough legislators to make laws.  “Today’s events are the culmination of over 12 months of
arduous and contentious political negotiations,”  Augustine Mahiga , United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s Somalia
envoy, said in an e-mailed statement. The ceremony starts the
“last phase of the transition which will be completed in the
coming days.”  The election of the speaker, deputy speaker and president
will complete a plan to create a functioning central government
to end a 21-year cycle of clan-based civil war that began with
the ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. The insecurity has
let piracy, kidnapping and corruption flourish, and given al-
Qaeda and its Somali affiliate, al-Shabaab, a regional base.  The political advances come as African Union, Ethiopian and
Somalia troops press a campaign to weaken al-Shabaab’s grip on
territory in central and southern parts of the country.  Awaiting Elections  Al-Shabaab has fought against the transitional government
and its predecessor since at least 2006 to establish strict
 Islamic law , although they have over the past year been forced
out of Mogadishu and other towns and cities by the joint
offensive.  Elections for the speaker and deputy will be held on Aug.
26, General Muse Hassan Abdulle, named the acting speaker
because he is the eldest legislator, said after the ceremony.  There was no date given for the presidential vote. The
remaining parliamentarians will be named soon, Halima Ismail
Ibrahim, who headed the technical selection committee that
vetted legislators, said at the inauguration.  “It is really an historic event to collect together such
broad-based Somali scholars from inside and outside the
country,” lawmaker Mohamed Hassan said at the inauguration.
“We have to manage to steer the current corruption situation
away from our country.”  Slush Fund  A UN report published in July says graft, fraud, and theft
of public resources are “a system of governance” in Somalia
and that revenue intended for development has gone missing,
including $131 million in 2009-10.  The report  also said plans to
print currency notes may have been an attempt to create a
“political slush fund” to influence the election.  The U.S. urged the parliament to hold elections quickly.  “Any attempt to impede the political transition will not
be tolerated,” the White House said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “All parties must work in a fair and transparent
manner and will be held accountable for any failure to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  