-- South Africa Urges Vietnam to Help End Rhino Poaching
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/south-africa-urges-vietnam-to-help-end-rhino-poaching.html
Vietnam  needs to cooperate with
 South Africa  to stop illegal trade in rhino horn as the number
of the animals poached in South Africa is on course to reach a
record, the African country’s Department of Environmental
Affairs said.  “We can only end poaching and smuggling if it is addressed
along the entire trade chain,” Mavuso Msimang, Rhino Issue
Manager for the department said in a report released today. “We
hope South Africa and Vietnam can actively collaborate.”  South Africa, home to more than 90 percent of the world’s
rhinos, in March asked the Vietnamese Ministry of Agriculture
and  Rural Development  to conduct inspections and verify that the
rhino trophies exported from South Africa to Vietnam are still
in the possession of the hunters. There has been growing demand
for rhino horns in Vietnam, where they are ground and used for
their supposed medicinal properties.  So far this year 281 rhinos have been poached in South
Africa with TRAFFIC, a Cambridge, England-based wildlife
monitoring organization, predicting a record total of 515 deaths
this year. Last year a 448 were poached, a record at that time.  The report released today by TRAFFIC calls for Vietnam to
“review and strengthen legislation and penalties concerning
illegal rhino horn trade,” and to “employ effective law
enforcement strategies in the market place.”  Of the 43 arrests of Asian nationals for rhino crimes in
South Africa, 24 have been Vietnamese, TRAFFIC said, without
specifying over what period the arrests took place.  “Ultimately the only long-term solution to stamping out
rhino poaching in Africa and  Asia  lies in curbing demand for
horn,” Tom Milliken of TRAFFIC, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The fact that the Vietnamese government has not played a
greater role in ensuring such an outcome is problematic, but
presents an opportunity for decisive action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  