-- Spain Deficit Goals at Risk as Cuts Consensus Fades: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-22T07:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/spain-deficit-goals-at-risk-as-cuts-consensus-fades-euro-credit.html
Quarrels over who bears the brunt of
cuts worth more than 10 percent of  Spain ’s annual gross domestic
product threaten Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s plan to tackle
the euro area’s  third-largest  deficit as a second bailout looms.  A seven-day rally that has driven  Spain’s 10-year yield  to
6.2 percent at 9:05 a.m. in  Madrid  from 6.9 percent may falter
as squabbles between the government, regions and towns about
spending and tax receipt allocations hobble deficit reduction.
Spain will miss its targets for budget gaps of 6.3 percent of
GDP this year and 4.5 percent in 2013 as the nation’s recession
worsens, according to the median forecast of 12 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “As budget deficit targets look unachievable, the risk of
a potential full bailout of the Spanish economy is still
there,” Jaime Becerril and Axel J. Finsterbusch, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , wrote in a note. “Further
measures must be taken to restore market confidence.”  Five regions will boycott rules depriving illegal
immigrants of free health care, while towns such as Hospital de
Orbigo and Cartagena are trying to alleviate the austerity
burden on families, one by paying for school books, the other by
compensating civil servants for wage cuts.  Rescue Funds  Spain signed off July 24 on as much as 100 billion euros
($125 billion) of aid from European rescue funds to shore up
banks burdened with bad loans. Rajoy, who broke his first
election pledge after nine days of office, is weighing a second
bailout as he struggles to implement his fourth round of tax
increases and spending cuts in eight months to preserve  market
access  for the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy.  Town halls are asking to share regions’ incomes and
suggesting that responsibilities including paying for school
maintenance might be reassigned. Madrid has discussed cutting
back on its civic duties while criticizing that 83 percent of
the taxes it collects go to poorer regions. Valencia, the
second-most indebted region, said its debt load would be 60
percent smaller if it had received funding in proportion to its
population.  “The problem is that each one is trying to save time by
blaming someone else,” said Jose Antonio Herce, a public
administrations consultant in Madrid with Analistas Financieros
Internacionales. “No one wants to tell voters they have to meet
the targets with the resources they have because there simply
isn’t more money.”  Spending Limits  Economists are predicting overspending may remain close to
8.9 percent of GDP for a second year. The central government
exceeded in June its limit for the whole year as it bailed out
the regions, town halls and the welfare system amid the second
recession since 2009.  Rajoy has assigned 73 percent of the nation’s 2012 deficit-
reduction effort on the regions and municipalities, forcing them
to reduce shortfalls by respectively more than half and a
quarter while continuing to fund public services such as health
care and education amid a tax-receipts drought.  “It is difficult because the measures that need to be
taken are very harsh,” said Leandro Esteban, a spokesman for
Castilla-La Mancha, which had the highest regional deficit in
2011 at 6.07 percent of GDP. About 40 percent of temporary civil
servants will be dismissed to cope with the previous
government’s mismanagement, he said, citing the construction of
an airport where grass now covers an unused runway.  Economic Promises  The Socialist president of the northern Basque Country
Patxi Lopez today told Cadena Ser radio he is moving local
elections initially scheduled for March 2013 forward to Oct. 21
in order for Basques to choose how to deal with the crisis.
“There is a lot of uncertainty about the future and our
economic model is what counts,” he said.  The Andalusia region said Aug. 1 it will take the state to
court on 2012 debt ceilings. It should be allowed to borrow more
as its burden is 10.6 percent of its GDP compared with a 13.5
percent regional average, it said.  The 17 semi-autonomous governments won’t keep their
economic promises this year, according to a report released this
week by the Fedea research institute in Madrid. It forecast
overspending for the regions may reach 4 percent of GDP,
compared with 3.3 percent last year and a target of 1.5 percent.  ‘Political Damage’  The government has ruled out cutting pensions next year and
extended a temporary benefit for long-term jobless people to
stem growing discontent, Afi’s Herce said. “Rajoy’s strategy is
to wait and say little to avoid political damage in the short
term.”  Overhauling pensions, which account for 32 percent of
 government spending , is one of the European Commission and
International Monetary Fund recommendations Rajoy hasn’t yet
introduced. Retirement pay has been his only spending increase,
ending a freeze imposed in 2010 by his Socialist predecessors.  Support for Rajoy’s PP has slipped 8 percentage points
since it won 40.6 percent of votes in a landslide in November.
Since then, Rajoy has announced more than 100 billion euros of
budget cuts, raising income and value-added tax, scrapping a tax
break for home owners and cutting civil servants’ wages,
 unemployment benefits  and health care and education spending
against his word.  “We believe the Spanish  bond market  is in a perilous
halfway house,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed comment.
“ Germany  is unwilling to sanction unlimited and unconditional
support while Madrid is reluctant to cede more fiscal and
economic sovereignty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marc Gilbert at 
 mgilbert17@bloomberg.net  