-- Autism Stem-Cell Therapy to Be Tested in Kids in Trials
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/stem-cell-therapy-for-autism-to-be-tested-in-first-trial.html
Researchers are recruiting autistic
children for a  study  that will test whether injecting  stem cells 
banked from their umbilical cords can lessen symptoms and
provide insights into the nature of the disorder.  While stem cells have been promoted, and sold, as a
treatment for autism, few clinical trials have been conducted to
see whether they’re effective. The study, which begins enrolling
patients today, is the first of its kind approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to assess the use of stem cells as
a potential autism therapy, said Michael Chez, director of
pediatric neurology at  Sutter Medical Center  in  Sacramento ,
 California , and the principal investigator.  About 1 in 88 children in the U.S. are diagnosed with an
autism-related condition. The disorder hurts brain development
and is linked to poor social interaction and communication
skills, repeated body movements, and unusual attachments to
objects.  “With this study we’ll be able to answer in a firm way
that this is truly an observed effect, or we didn’t get an
observed effect,”  Chez said in a phone interview.  Thirty children with autism, ages 2 to 7, will be divided
in two groups, with one getting the stem cell injection and the
other receiving a placebo shot. After six months, the groups
will switch. Patients will be monitored for improvement in
language as well as irritability and other autism rating scales.  Potential Success  Ricardo Dolmetsch, a neurobiologist at  Stanford University 
in California whose  laboratory  is studying autism, said he
doesn’t think the trial will yield much in usable results,
though he’s glad the idea of using stem cells is being testing.  “I commend them for having the guts to actually do it,
given that there are all kinds of people out there trying to
sell it,” he said. “On the other hand I don’t think it’s big
enough to provide an answer.”  Chez theorizes that autism, which has no known cause or
cure, may be spurred on by damaged nerve cells. Stem cells, the
building blocks of life that can grow into any type of tissue in
the body, could repair the damage or create new cells, he said.
Such a mechanism would yield results in six to 12 months, the
time it takes to create new cells.  Another possibility may be that autism is related to a
signaling issue, where cells in the body aren’t connecting
properly. Stem cells may help repair that problem, he said, and
would be evident if results are seen within weeks of the
injection. A third and more exploratory possibility is the
disorder is related to inflammation, an immune system response.  ‘Blind’ Study  The study is designed to keep clinicians, researchers and
parents in the dark about what arm of the study they’re in to
prevent bias, Chez said.  “Parents want so desperately to see a response, and
therapists want to see a response, if you don’t have an
appropriately blinded control study, you get an elevation of
observation of response,” he said. “That’s true for any
disease that has no cure, but more so with something subjective
like autism.”  While companies sell stem cell injections as a treatment
for various ailments including cancer, diabetes and  Parkinson’s
disease , research testing their effectiveness in humans is at an
early stage, said David Panchision chief of the  National
Institute of Mental Health’s  developmental neurobiology program.  “Because there’s so much hype surrounding stem cells in
general, it’s easy to get people excited about it,” Panchision
said in an interview. “But it’s not necessarily the panacea
people think it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  