-- Straumann Declines After Profit Misses Estimates: Zurich Mover
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-21T07:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/straumann-first-half-profit-misses-estimates-as-europe-lags.html
Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s
biggest maker of dental implants, dropped the most in six months
after first-half profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The shares fell as much as 7.5 percent, the most since Feb.
22. First-half net income climbed to 43.8 million Swiss francs
($45.1 million) from 38.5 million francs a year earlier, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. That missed the 47.4 million-franc average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Straumann bought a 49 percent stake in Brazilian dental-
implant maker Neodent for 260 million francs in June to reduce
reliance on  Europe , its biggest market. The Swiss company said
it doesn’t expect demand in the crisis-stricken region to
improve “in the near term.”  “Our environment has been disappointing and the gradual
market improvement that we were expecting has not
materialized,” Chief Executive Officer Beat Spalinger said.
“Furthermore, the market slowdown has coincided with several
cost-intensive strategic initiatives, including our new
organizational structure and the addition of sales power in
 North America .”  Straumann shares were down 6.1 percent at 117 Swiss francs
at 9:20 a.m. in Zurich, reducing the company’s market value to
1.83 billion francs.  Martin Brunninger, an analyst with Nomura International
Plc, reduced his recommendations on Straumann and its next-
biggest rival,  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , to neutral from buy on
Aug. 17, citing a risk that the companies may reduce their
forecasts for the year.  Euro Zone  Last year’s profit included a 40 million-franc charge to
revalue Straumann’s Japanese distributor as demand weakened in
the wake of a tsunami.  “With the  euro zone  in recession, it really affects
patients’ willingness to spend money,” Carmen Chan, an analyst
with Millennium Research Group in Toronto, said Aug. 10 by
phone.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 53.3 million
francs during the period from 38.9 million francs a year
earlier. That compares with the 59.3 million-franc average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales declined to 361.7 million francs from 367.3 million
francs a year earlier, short of the 363.1 million-franc average
estimate of 14 analysts. Last year’s sales were reduced by 42
million francs by the strength of the Swiss currency.  Straumann expects to perform above the market and revenue
this year will be “at least in line” with the 2011 level of
693.6 million francs. The Ebit margin will be similar to the
first-half level, which was 14.7 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  