-- Study of St. Jude Durata Heart Wire Finds No New Concerns
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-21T20:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/study-of-st-jude-durata-heart-wire-finds-no-new-concerns.html
The insulation coating on  St. Jude
Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Durata lead, used to connect a life-saving
defibrillator to the heart, can fray when it rubs against
another object, according to a  study  that didn’t raise
substantial new concerns about the device.  The study, highly anticipated by investors on  Wall Street ,
was less damaging than expected,  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst with
BMO Capital Markets, said today in a note to investors. The
report from  Robert Hauser , a device safety expert and
cardiologist at the Minneapolis Heart Institute, didn’t find any
evidence of the “taboo” flaws that lead  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based St. Jude to pull its older Riata wires off the market in
2010, Wuensch said.  The older Riata models were recalled after research showed
the electrical wires could break through the insulation coating,
potentially leading the device to give off excessive shocks or
to fail to work when needed. Newer Durata and Riata ST Optim
leads are coated with a stronger insulation known as Optim that
was designed to prevent protrusions, called externalized leads.  “While Hauser did not find the taboo externalized lead
issue with the company’s Durata lead, it found other problems,
including one death, and he concluded that the new coating does
not prevent insulation abrasion to the level that the company
has suggested,” Wuensch said. “In our view, ICD lead worries
are going to dog St. Jude Medical until time passes sufficiently
and new products start to command more center stage.”  Known Cause  Abrasion caused by the wires rubbing against each other or
the device’s canister is a known cause of failure with all
leads, said David Roman, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in  New York . The study doesn’t show that the newer St. Jude
products are worse than the competition in terms of failures for
any reason, and Durata’s performance may be better than some
competitor’s products, he said.  “Heading into today, we had viewed publication of Dr.
Hauser’s report as an overhang for the shares,” Roman said
today in a note to investors. “However, given the largely
immaterial nature of the data in the report, we view publication
as a clearing event, leading to potential positive momentum in
the stock.”  St. Jude declined less than 1 percent to $37.96 at the
close in New York. The shares have dropped 7.7 percent in the
past 12 months.  Study Details  The article in  Europace , a European cardiology journal,
examined 52 reports of abrasion seen with St. Jude’s Durata and
Riata ST, which are coated with the Optim insulation. The
reports were submitted to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
by St. Jude from December 2007 to January 2012.  Since December 2007, doctors have implanted more than
33,000 Riata ST Optim leads and 276,000 Durata leads, according
to Amy Jo Meyer, a St. Jude spokeswoman. The device maker has
the largest registries in place of any company to monitor the
safety of its leads, she said. St. Jude has done its own
analysis of the FDA reports, most of which came from the
company, and determined that abrasions with its products, their
reliability and performance are similar to its rivals, she said.  “We welcome ongoing discussion and research about the
performance of our products, and believe it is important to
consider all of the available information to understand the
clinical performance of a device,” Meyer said in a statement.
“To date, the accumulation of data continues to support the
overall safety and reliability of our Durata leads.”  Fraying Incidents  Eight of 15 Riata ST leads frayed in a spot where the wire
rubbed against the stop-watch-sized metal canister that houses
the electrical components of the device. Three abrasions stemmed
from friction caused by the wire rubbing against another device,
possibly a different wire. The devices failed to work for four
patients and one died, the study found.  In a different patient, an internal insulation defect was
found, the researchers said.  Twelve of the 37 reports on Durata detailed damage caused
when the wires, also known as leads, rubbed against the
canisters, while six were caused by friction from another
device, the study found. Electrical abnormalities were found in
72 percent of those devices, the researchers said. Other testing
found three cases of internal insulation flaws, the study said.  Riata ST Optim and Durata leads “have failed due to
insulation abrasions,” and the novel insulation coating didn’t
prevent the abrasions from occurring four years or less after
the devices were implanted, the researchers concluded. “Studies
are needed to determine the incidence of these failures and
their clinical implications.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  