-- Summer Bond Sales Defy Slump as Banks Join Shipper
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-22T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/summer-bond-sales-defy-slump-as-banks-join-unrated-shipper-1-.html
(Corrects aggregate issuance number in third paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  Bond sales in  Europe  are defying the
quiet August period as companies take advantage of optimism that
governments and the  European Central Bank  are making progress in
tackling the debt crisis.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, sold 1
billion euros ($1.2 billion) of bonds due 2018, while  Spain ’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  sold 2 billion euros of two-year notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of the largest container carrier, offered its first
bonds in euros since November 2010.  Today’s issuance lifts this month’s sales of bonds in euros
and pounds to 18.3 billion euros, 11 percent higher than the
same period of 2011, according to data on corporate, financial
and agency bond sales compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings have
jumped as the ECB considers steps to cut borrowing costs for the
euro area’s peripheral nations and on speculation leaders will
make progress on  Greece ’s debt woes at meetings this week.  “The overall sentiment seems to be cautiously optimistic,
and with the recent headlines from the ECB and given that we
shall soon be approaching the fourth quarter, the hunt for yield
is on,” said Steven Mitra, a partner LNG Capital LLP in  London .  SocGen, Santander  SocGen’s notes were priced to yield 1.25 percentage points
more than the benchmark swap rate. That compares with a spread
of 2.09 percentage points for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
EMU Financial Corporate Index.  “We already completed our long-term funding plan for the
year but we still want to be opportunistic and be able to take
advantage of good funding conditions,” said Vincent Robillard,
head of group funding at SocGen. “For the last two or three
weeks we’ve seen a lot of liquidity in the market and today’s
conditions were good enough to take advantage.”  Santander’s fundraising was the first sale of senior
unsecured bonds by a Spanish bank in more than five months. The
notes for the Santander, Spain-based lender were priced at a
spread of 3.9 percentage points more than the swap rate.  Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, the Dutch municipal lending
agency, sold 1 billion euros of bonds due 2022 at a spread of 40
basis points, or 0.4 percentage point.  Maersk in Copenhagen raised 750 million euros from seven-
year bonds at a spread of 2 percentage points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company isn’t rated by Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings.  “We thought the opportunity to sell was good,” said Jan Kjaervik, head of group finance at Maersk. “This week hasn’t
reflected the usual type of summer season with less liquidity.
This is led by sentiment in the market so it’s important for us
to act swiftly when the opportunities are there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  