-- Swedish Committee Calls for Fewer Pension Funds to Boost Return
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-21T08:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/swedish-committee-calls-for-fewer-pension-funds-to-boost-return.html
Sweden  needs to reduce its number of
state pension funds to lower costs and improve returns on about
$131 billion in assets being managed for the Nordic nation’s
retirees, a government-appointed committee said.  The group, appointed last year by Swedish Financial Markets
Minister Peter Norman, recommended that the number of AP funds
be cut to three from the five, according to a report released to
today in Stockholm. A new agency should also be created to
oversee the funds, according to the report.  The parallel structures, poor governance and current
investment rules have reduced annual returns by at least 1
percent, or 9 billion kronor ($1.35 billion), and added about
250 million kronor to costs. The committee also presented an
alternative of merging the funds into one.  “The AP funds are outdated and characterized by an
antiquated approach to asset management,” Mats Langensjoe, the
group’s head, said today in an opinion article in newspaper
Dagens Nyheter.  The five buffer funds, called AP1, AP2, AP3, AP4 and AP6,
manage 870 billion kronor ($131 billion) and are tapped when
pension payments exceed tax deposits. The government in May
criticized the funds, which date back to 2001, for not having
reached their targets and called the performance over the past
five years of at least three “unsatisfactory.”  Pension payments exceeded tax income set aside for retirees
for a third consecutive year in 2011, while the funds’ annual
return averaged 3.3 percent, the government said.  Power Concentration  The rule that each fund is not allowed to control more than
2 percent of the Swedish stock market should remain intact to
reduce concerns of power concentration, Langensjoe said.  The anticipated report had stirred up a debate in Sweden
and prompted economist such as Assar Lindbeck, a professor of
economics at  Stockholm  University, to warn of dangers of
political meddling in the nation’s pension assets.  “If there is just one big state fund the concentration of
power in the Swedish financial markets will become colossally
big,” Lindbeck, 82, said in a phone interview before the
recommendation. “If there is one big player on the market who
can buy shares and that way gain influence at companies, then
politicians won’t be able to resist the temptation to start
meddling.”  The funds should be kept apart and invest more in index
funds to reduce management costs that are higher than they would
have been with a single fund, said Lindbeck, whose friendship
with former Prime Minister Olof Palme ended over a spat over the
creation of national labor funds. Palme was assassinated in
1986.  Very Dominant  The objections stem from when the Social Democratic party,
backed by Sweden’s largest blue-collar union, forced companies
to pay into union-backed funds to boost worker influence. The
funds were later disbanded.  “In a situation where the AP-Funds’ combined ownership on
the Swedish stock exchange is 1.7 percent of the combined stock
exchange capital, the discussions about a power concentration
are less relevant,” Langensjoe said.  Sweden was the first country to in 1913 legislate a
guaranteed state pension. In 2001, the pension funds became
independent from one another with individual placement,
ownership and risk policies.  “I used to work in the financial markets in 1995-1996
when there only was one big AP fund and I remember that it was
very dominant,” said Mats Dillen, who heads Sweden’s National
Institute of Economic Research. “We at least thought that their
strategy choices had a very large market impact.”  Labor unions also agree that the funds should be kept
largely intact.  “It’s good to spread risks by having several funds and
it’s also good that the AP funds are relatively active as
owners” with “an interest in companies’ development and long-term performance,” said Torbjoern Haalloe, an economist at
Sweden’s largest trade union, LO. “It would be unfortunate if
too much was invested in passive index funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  