-- Syria Says Assad Fate May Be Part of Talks With Rebels
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-08-21T21:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/syria-says-assad-fate-may-be-part-of-talks-with-rebels.html
A Syrian national dialogue must
begin before there can be discussions of President Bashar al- Assad’s resignation, Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil said.  Calls for Assad’s resignation before dialogue starts would
make talks impossible, Jamil, who oversees Syrian economic
affairs and led the country’s delegation for talks in Moscow,
told reporters yesterday in the Russian capital. “After the
dialogue begins, there’s nothing that should prevent the
discussion of any issue -- and that is a question that can be
discussed as well.”  The Syrian opposition has ruled out negotiations until
Assad resigns, with the Syrian National Council demanding that
the president step down before any transition talks are held.  “There is no room for dialogue with the Syrian
president,” Burhan Ghalioun, a member of the Syrian National
Council, told Al Arabiya television in an interview yesterday.
“He is no longer a president, people no longer consider him a
president.”  “I think this is a game,” he said, in which Assad’s
regime is calling for dialogue in a new attempt to buy time.  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
told reporters “we didn’t see anything terribly new” in
Jamil’s statements.  “The Syrian government knows what it needs to do,” she
said of calls for Assad to step down. “There is no need to
complicate it, as the deputy prime minister appeared to do.”  Monitors Depart  International efforts have failed to halt a 17-month
uprising against Assad that has claimed more than 23,000 lives.
 United Nations  military monitors are leaving the country after
the two warring sides failed to observe an April cease-fire and
UN envoy  Kofi Annan  resigned this month complaining about
“name-calling” among UN member states.  Arab League foreign ministers who met in Doha, Qatar, on
July 22 urged Assad in a statement to step down in exchange for
safe passage out of the country. The U.S. and its European
allies also are seeking to force Assad to quit, while  Russia  and
 China  have vetoed UN resolutions designed to accelerate his
departure.  President  Barack Obama ’s comment on Aug. 20 that any
discovery that  Syria ’s chemical weapons are being moved or used
may force him to reconsider U.S. military action shows the West
is looking for an excuse to invade the Middle Eastern country,
Jamil said.  “A red line for us is we start seeing a whole bunch of
chemical weapons moving around or being utilized,” the U.S.
president said at a White House news conference.  Jamil, who met Lavrov yesterday, made his second visit to
Moscow in less than three weeks. Syria said it may get oil
products from Russia and has also asked its Soviet-era ally to
provide a loan and air transportation to the rest of the world.  Syrian Security forces killed at least 195 people across
the country yesterday,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing the Syrian
Network for  Human Rights .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  