-- U.K. Stocks Rise; Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton Lead Advancers
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-08-21T15:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/u-k-stocks-rise-barclays-royal-bank-of-scotland-climb.html
U.K. stocks  climbed before a series
of bilateral meetings between euro-area leaders that will try to
calm the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton (BLT)  Ltd. led gains, rising at
least 1.5 percent.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender
by assets, added 3.2 percent after saying it’s in talks to sell
its African units.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced
after Liberum Capital Ltd. advised buying the stock.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 0.6 percent to 5,857.52 at the
close in London. The benchmark has climbed 11 percent since this
year’s low on June 1. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also rose
0.6 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.9 percent.  “Today’s gains are largely being driven by hopes that the
European Central Bank is moving closer to responding with a plan
to arrest the spread of the regional debt crisis,” Ishaq
Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital in London, wrote in
a note.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, head of
the group of euro-area finance ministers, visits Athens tomorrow
to listen to a request by Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
for a two-year extension to the country’s fiscal-adjustment
program. French President  Francois Hollande  and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel meet in Berlin on Aug. 23.  In the U.S., house sales and durable-goods orders probably
increased in July, economists said before reports this week.  Miners Gain  Copper climbed in London after China’s central bank
injected the most funds into the financial system since its
current round of reverse-repurchase operations began on July 3.  A gauge of mining and resource companies was among the
biggest gainers of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Rio Tinto (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company, rose
2.1 percent to 3,062.5 pence. BHP Billiton, the biggest, added
1.5 percent to 1,980 pence.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , a copper producer, advanced 4.5
percent to 966.5 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , the largest copper
producer in Kazakhstan, increased 2.6 percent to 735 pence.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , an oil and gas company, rose 4.6 percent
to 549.5 pence. Ophir said it found gas in Equatorial Guinea’s
Block R well and raised its estimate of the mean recoverable
resources in place by 40 percent from its initial pre-drilling
forecast.  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , an oil and gas explorer active in the
Middle East and Africa, jumped 22 percent to 205 pence after
agreeing to sell a stake in its Miran gas field in Kurdistan to
Genel Energy Plc and canceling a share sale.  Barclays Africa  Barclays added 3.2 percent to 197.1 pence. The lender and
South Africa’s Absa Group Ltd. said they’re in talks to combine
their African units and complete a plan started seven years ago.  RBS climbed 2.5 percent to 237.5 pence. Liberum raised its
recommendation on the stock to buy from hold.  Mecom Group Plc (MEC) , an investor in consumer media, rallied 3.8
percent to 82.75 pence. Peel Hunt LLP raised its recommendation
on Mecom to  buy , saying the company’s strategic review may lead
to asset sales.  Development Securities Plc (DSC) , a property investment company,
added 5.6 percent to 164.8 pence after saying it completed three
disposals, raising 40.9 million pounds ($64.5 million).  James Fisher & Sons Plc, a tanker owner and provider of
marine services, climbed 4.3 percent to 673 pence after
reporting increased first-half profit and saying it’s poised for
further growth.  CPP Group Plc (CPP) , which offers credit card protection, sank 23
percent to 38.3 pence after reporting a 70 percent drop in
first-half pretax profit.  Severfield-Rowen Plc (SFR) , a construction company, slid 4.5
percent to 139.5 pence after saying it will combine three U.K.
units in response to renewed pressure on margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  