-- U.K. Unexpectedly Posts Deficit as Tax Receipts Plunge: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-21T10:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/u-k-unexpectedly-posts-budget-deficit-as-corporation-taxes-drop.html
Britain unexpectedly posted a  budget
deficit  in July as  corporation-tax  receipts plunged, partly due
to the closure of the Elgin gas field in the North Sea.  The shortfall, which excludes government support for banks,
was 557 million pounds ($878 million) compared with a surplus of
2.84 billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London  today. The median of 17 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg News survey  was for a surplus of 2.2 billion pounds.
Tax revenue fell 0.8 percent and corporation tax plunged 19.3
percent.  Government spending  rose 5.1 percent.  While the drop in revenue was largely centered on company
taxes, the U.K.’s struggle to climb out of a recession has
raised concerns that that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will miss his forecast for a deficit of 120 billion
pounds in the current fiscal year. Osborne has resisted demands
to ease the pace of his fiscal squeeze, saying his plans have
helped to insulate Britain from the euro-area debt crisis.  “The figure highlights the huge challenges facing the U.K.
in restoring stability to its public finances,” British
Chambers of Commerce Chief Economist  David Kern  said. “To
maintain credibility, we need to persevere with spending cuts,
but supplement them with forceful policies to  boost growth .”  The National Institute for Economic and Social Research
predicts that Osborne will miss his target for the fiscal year
ending March 2013 and forecasts a deficit of 138.5 billion
pounds.  Tax Revenue  Corporation taxes fell 1.7 billion pounds in July from a
year earlier, the statistics office said. July is traditionally
a big month for company taxes and about 1 billion pounds of the
decline was due to the oil and gas industry, where  Total SA (FP) ’s
Elgin field was shut down after a leak was discovered in March.
A decline in  oil prices  also affected receipts from the
industry.  In the first four months of the fiscal year, the deficit
widened to 44.9 billion pounds from 35.6 billion pounds a year
earlier. The figures exclude a one-time boost in April from the
28 billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension
assets to the public sector.  Government spending rose 3.5 percent in the period, the
statistics office said. Tax receipts were up 1.1 percent,
lagging behind the OBR’s 3.9 percent full-year forecast.
Corporation taxes fell 10.4 percent in the April-July period
compared with a year earlier.  “This will raise pressure on the government to keep the
fiscal plan on track,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
Scotiabank in London. “Tighten more to make up for lost ground,
or loosen a little and hope that the extra growth delivers
better public finances.”  Net Debt  A  cash measure  showed the public finances in surplus by
22.9 billion pounds in July. Net debt amounted to 1.03 trillion
pounds, or 65.7 percent of gross domestic product. It reached a
record 66.2 percent of GDP in June.  The statistics office also said that net borrowing in the
fiscal year that ended in March was 125 billion pounds, 700
million pounds lower than previously estimated.  Britain’s economy shrank for a  third straight quarter  in
the three months through June, fueling accusations from the
opposition  Labour Party  that the pace of the government’s fiscal
squeeze is making things worse. Osborne says his program has
helped to push down borrowing costs.  The yield on the  10-year gilt  was at 1.67 percent as of
11:12 a.m. in London, down from about 3 percent two years ago.
The yield fell to a record low of 1.407 percent on July 23.
 Spain ’s 10-year bond yield was at 6.22 percent today, while
Italy’s was at 5.7 percent.  Osborne Support  Also in the U.K. today, the  Confederation of British
Industry  said its index of  manufacturing orders  fell to minus 21
in August, the lowest in eight months, from minus 6 in July. A
gauge of export orders declined to the lowest since January.  “The economic environment for U.K. manufacturers remains
challenging, with domestic demand relatively muted and the
ongoing euro-zone crisis now seeming to drag on broader global
economic momentum,” said Anna Leach, the CBI’s head of economic
analysis in London.  Osborne has lost the support of a group of economists who
wrote an open letter before the last election supporting his
fiscal squeeze, the  New Statesman  reported on Aug. 15. Only one
of the 20 economists who put their names to the letter in
February 2010 “was willing to repeat his endorsement,” the
London-based magazine said.  Australian Confidence  By contrast,  Australia ’s central bank signaled confidence
domestic growth would weather a “fragile” global economy in
its decision this month to maintain the highest borrowing costs
among major developed nations.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia predicts an expansion rate
over the “medium term” at around the economy’s trend pace,
even as  Europe ’s woes cloud the outlook, according to minutes of
its Aug. 7 board meeting that were released today in Sydney.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Hong Kong  reported
inflation slowed to 1.6 percent in July from 3.7 percent in
June. Indian  inflation  eased to the slowest pace in four months,
a separate report showed. The consumer-price index rose 9.86
percent from a year earlier, compared with a revised 9.93
percent in June, the  Central Statistical Office  said in New
Delhi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  