-- U.S. Muni-Index Probe to Benefit Individual Buyers, Mulford Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-21T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/u-s-muni-index-probe-to-benefit-individual-buyers-mulford-says.html
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board’s examination of indexes tracking the $3.7 trillion local
 debt market  will boost price transparency and benefit retail
investors, said Burt Mulford, a portfolio manager in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, at Eagle Asset Management Inc.  Mulford, whose firm oversees $1.8 billion in munis as a
subsidiary of  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , also discussed
California bankruptcies, separately managed accounts and threats
to the tax-exempt status of munis for today’s Bloomberg Brief:
Municipal Market newsletter.  Q: The MSRB is looking into muni indexes and how they’re
put together. What do you think about that investigation?  A: This will be a terrific thing for individual investors,
because in many instances, you’ve got the same bond that might
be trading with a three- or four-point price differential
depending on who’s buying the bond. True valuation of municipals
is still an ongoing challenge.  Q: Are individuals now more interested in their holdings,
or do they still leave the decisions to portfolio managers?  A: Investors are more involved in their portfolios and we
do more conference calls and more face-to-face meetings than we
have in the past. The No. 1 question we get is about pension
liabilities.  We do have full discretion on our accounts. We will get a
lot of questions if we buy a  California  bond. It’s just guilty
by association in terms of the retail mentality. They figure
that because there have been so many negative headlines in the
California market, if it’s from California, it has to be bad.  Q: Are the bankruptcies in California going to be a problem
that will spread across the country?  A: It’s certainly not indicative of the overall credit
quality of the municipal market. There was competition among
municipalities to attract police and firefighters, so they were
incentivizing them with these attractive pension and
compensation packages. That marketplace was a bit overinflated.  But I don’t think it’s just going to be limited to
California. What we look at when we’re buying a local G.O.,
we’re looking at those that have higher per-capita incomes than
the national average, where unemployment rates are lower than
the national average, the housing market has been relatively
stable, and there’s  population growth .  Q: Have you noticed more interest in separately managed
accounts? Why are they so active now?  A: It seems to be a trend -- there’s more and more interest
in SMAs over funds because clients know what they own, and they
have more control over their holdings for year-end tax purposes.  At year-end, you have control if you want to do some tax-
law selling and do some bond swaps to offset some gains in other
portions of your portfolio. Clients feel more comfortable when
they can see on a regular basis what their managers are doing.  Q: Do you think we’ll see a rush to market in the second
half of 2013 because of the threat of changes to the  tax code ,
and if so, how much volume could there be?  A: If the tax-exempt status were lost or reduced, it would,
in our opinion, grandfather in bonds issued prior to the
effective date, and you’d see a rush to buy munis by investors
going into that, because those bonds would be more valuable.  Issuance ramping up could be a possibility. When the Build
America Bonds program was eliminated, there was a rush to issue
in the last quarter of the year before those went out of play.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  