-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Drop From 3-Month High on Refuge Appeal
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-21T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/u-s-10-year-rate-nears-2-month-high-on-central-bank-speculation.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell
from a three-month high after a decline in U.S. stocks renewed
government securities’ haven appeal as investors debate whether
European leaders will be able to curb the region’s debt crisis.  Bonds slumped earlier for the first time in three days,
pushing up yields, on speculation a proposal to ease  Greece ’s
bailout terms will help curb the financial turmoil and amid
waning bets the U.S. will add further stimulus. The  Federal
Reserve  will release minutes tomorrow of its July 31-Aug. 1
policy meeting.  “It’s the flight-to-quality bid that continues to drive
Treasuries,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in
New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “ Europe  is always lurking in the
background.”  Ten-year note  yields  were at 1.80 percent at 5:10 p.m. New
York time, down less than one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They climbed
six basis points earlier to 1.86 percent, the highest intraday
level since May 11, matching their 200-day moving average. The
price of the 1.625 percent security due in August 2022 rose
2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 98 13/32.  “There’s strong support at the 200-day moving average,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “That brought buyers back into the
market.” Support is an area on a chart where buy orders may be
clustered.  Long Bonds  Thirty-year bond  yields decreased two basis points to 2.90
percent after rising earlier to 2.98 percent, exceeding their
200-day moving average of 2.96 percent  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent after
sliding from a four-year high as a drop in technology shares
tempered optimism euro-area leaders will make progress on
resolving their debt crisis.  The euro rose as much as 1.2 percent to $1.2488, the
strongest since July 5, in New York trading. Spanish and Italian
 government bonds  gained amid speculation the  European Central
Bank  will buy them to help contain the crisis.  Concessions are possible for Greece, where Europe’s debt
crisis began more than two years ago, as long as Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras shows a willingness to meet the main targets set
out in his country’s bailout program,  Norbert Barthle , budget
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said in a phone interview today.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of
euro-bloc finance ministers, is scheduled to visit Greece
tomorrow. Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  meet in
Berlin on Aug. 23.  European ‘Jawboning’  “Those meetings may propel some sort of volatility, and it
could be carried into the Treasury market,” said Paul Horrmann,
a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an
interdealer broker. “There’s a lot of jawboning coming out of
Europe about bond buying.”  Volatility was little changed from yesterday at 70 basis
points in New York. The figure is below the 2012 average of 75
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE
index. Volatility dropped to a five-year low of 56.7 basis
points on May 7 and touched a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on
June 15. The index measures price swings based on options.  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to about $206
billion after falling yesterday to $140 billion, the lowest
level since May 7. The daily volume has averaged $239 billion
this year.  Home Sales  Bonds fell earlier before data tomorrow that will show U.S.
purchases of  existing  homes rose 3.2 percent in July from the
month before, when they slid 5.4 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Sales of  new homes  increased 4.3 percent
last month, following an 8.4 percent decline in June, according
to a separate poll. That report will be released Aug. 23.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said U.S.
policy makers face a risk of easing too much while trying to
spur a “disappointing” three-year-old economic recovery.  “There is a risk to monetary policy being employed too
aggressively and without effect to address economic problems
that can be resolved only by fiscal reforms that involve making
tough choices about the allocation of public resources,”
Lockhart said today in a speech in Atlanta.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of quantitative easing to spur
economic growth.  Fed Sale  The central bank sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries today due
from October 2014 to April 2015. The sale was part of Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s effort to swap shorter-term Treasuries in the
central bank’s holdings with those due in six to 30 years to put
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  The U.S. is scheduled to announce on Aug. 23 the sizes of
its auctions next week of two-, five- and seven-year notes.  It will probably sell $35 billion of two-year debt on Aug.
28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company based in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey .  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for the rate of inflation over the life of the
securities and is known as the break-even rate, increased one
basis point to 2.26 percentage points today, above the 2012
average of 2.19 percentage points. It touched 2.34 percentage
points on Aug. 9, the highest since April.  Turning Point  The August slump in bonds is poised to end, based on a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Ten-year yields will be at 1.78
at Dec. 31, according to the responses, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  Investors in Treasuries held on to wagers in the past week
that the prices of the securities will increase even as yields
climbed, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of  net longs , or bets the securities will
rise, was steady at 10 percentage points in the week ending
yesterday. The percent of outright longs was unchanged at 19
percent for the second straight week, while the percent of
outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall in value, held
steady at 9 percent, the lowest level since February, according
to the survey.  Investors left neutral bets unchanged at 72 percent for the
third straight week, the survey reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  