-- U.S. Consumer Automaker Ratings Equal Record High of 2009
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/u-s-consumer-automaker-ratings-equal-record-high-of-2009.html
U.S. consumers rated automakers this
year at the same level as the record-high satisfaction score
they gave in 2009, helped by gains in vehicle quality, according
to the  American Customer Satisfaction Index .  Automotive brands averaged 84 on a 100-point scale among
U.S. consumers,  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based ACSI said today in a
report based on a survey of 5,000 customers collected in the
second quarter. About 60 percent of 20 U.S. and international
auto brands had an improved satisfaction rating, compared with
last year, the ACSI said.  In 2009, consumer satisfaction was driven by incentives
such as the government’s cash-for-clunkers rebate program, while
this year’s 1.2 percent gain over 2011 was aided by “strength
of quality improvements,” ACSI said in a statement. Consumers
are more willing to spend when they expect they’ll be satisfied,
so an increased score is a good indicator of future demand,
according to Claes Fornell, founder of the ACSI.  “The difference between the industry’s high marks for
customer satisfaction in 2012 versus 2009 is that customers are
responding to better quality rather than price promotions,”
Fornell said in the statement. “An ongoing commitment to
quality seems like a workable formula for sustaining both
customer satisfaction and sales growth.”  Slow Selling  U.S. brands, while improving the most, scored lower than
European and Asian autos, with Chrysler Group LLC’s Dodge brand,
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s GMC line and the Chrysler nameplate making
up the bottom three.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s namesake brand was below
the industry average, while its slow-selling Lincoln luxury line
topped the list with a score of 90, up 4.7 percent from 2011.  “The downside for Lincoln is that high satisfaction may
reflect a loyal, but dwindling, customer base,” ACSI said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus luxury line achieved the second-
highest satisfaction rating, with a score of 89. GM’s Buick
brand followed with a score of 87, which was matched by  Subaru (9778) ’s
namesake brand. Next was Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW
brand, which tied with GM’s Cadillac luxury line with a score of
86.  GM’s Chevrolet brand’s score matched the industry average
of 84, while Chrysler’s Jeep brand rose 5.1 percent to 83, its
highest score in the survey’s 18-year history.  The Toyota nameplate fell 2.3 percent to 85 and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s namesake brand dropped 2.4 percent to 83.  “While  Japan ’s production is back on track after last
year’s earthquake and tsunami, both Toyota and Honda have had
quality issues as they race to recapture market share,” Fornell
said. “These two automakers, once known for setting the bar for
quality, have issued a large number of recalls over the past
year. ACSI data show that recalls for quality defects have a
negative impact on customer satisfaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  