-- UBS’s Rosen Said to Be Departing to Start Credit Hedge Fund
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-08-21T14:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/ubs-s-rosen-said-to-be-departing-to-start-credit-hedge-fund-1-.html
Eric Rosen, the co-head of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s
fixed-income, currencies and commodities business for the
Americas, is leaving the bank next month, about a year after he
joined, to start a hedge fund.  Matthew Zola, who is now co-head with Rosen, will become
sole head of the unit after the departure in September,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because it hasn’t been announced. Rosen, 42, who
worked at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  from 1997 to 2010, didn’t return
messages to his office or mobile phones. The Zurich-based firm
has said it will reduce the fixed-income trading business, which
will be less profitable under stricter capital rules.  Rosen plans to start a credit hedge fund, according to a
person familiar with his plans.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest lender, has been buffeted by
departures at the investment bank and a $2.3 billion loss last
year from unauthorized trading. Other executives who have left
this year include Kaushik Amin, Jim Lanzilotti, Matias  Santa Cruz , David Cannon and Stephen Chronert, the former head of
high-yield bond and leveraged-loan sales in the U.S. who left
earlier this month.  Megan Stinson, a UBS spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The exodus marks a turnaround for the bank, which hired
more than 1,700 bankers between 2009 and 2011 to rebuild after
more than $57 billion in writedowns and credit losses during the
financial crisis. The investment bank division was shaken last
year by the discovery of a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading, which resulted in the departure of Chief Executive
Officer  Oswald Gruebel .  Rosen joined JPMorgan in 1997 and ran its North American
credit trading until January 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 