-- Urban Outfitters Soars After Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-21T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/urban-outfitters-soars-after-profit-tops-estimates.html
Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  surged the
most since 2003 after posting second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as sales gained at all of its main brands.  The  shares  rose 18 percent to $36.98 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain since March 2003. The
Philadelphia-based retailer has gained 34 percent this year.  Urban Outfitters rehired co-founder  Richard Hayne  as chief
executive officer in January to turn the chain around after
increased discounts caused profit to shrink to a four-year low
in its last fiscal year. The company also appointed new heads of
its namesake and Anthropologie brands as it works to improve
merchandise and generate a majority of its sales online.  The brands built on successful merchandise introduced
earlier this year, including “colored denim, other bottoms and
dresses, and executed in these categories with excellent
results,” Hayne said on a conference call with analysts after
the report. Direct-to-consumer sales also drove profit, with an
about 30 percent increase in traffic from last year on the
company’s web and mobile sites, he said.  Net income rose 8.1 percent to $61.3 million, or 42 cents a
share, from $56.7 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts’ average
 estimate  was 33 cents a share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Very Encouraged’  Urban Outfitters  trades  at more than twice the valuation of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, showing that it’s become
increasingly valuable to investors relative to other U.S.
companies. Its premium is  higher  than that of Gap Inc., the
biggest U.S. specialty apparel retailer, and Limited Brands
Inc., the operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain.  “We’re very encouraged by results, which speak to positive
customer reaction to new assortments and ability to quickly
adapt/chase new trends,” Pamela Quintiliano, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a note today, reiterating
her outperform rating on the company. “Results illustrate that
the new management team is on track, with fundamentals
continuing to improve dramatically.”  Second-quarter net sales climbed 11 percent to $676.3
million, driven by the namesake, Anthropologie and Free People
brands, the company said. Analysts were projecting revenue of
$672.6 million. Direct-to-consumer sales rose 22 percent to
$137.7 million in the quarter, according to the statement.  Urban Outfitters increased its web-exclusive offerings by
75 percent from last year, which helped boost sales, Hayne said
on the call yesterday. The company increased dress styles
available online by 50 percent this year from 750 across all its
brands last year, Hayne said.  The namesake brand accounted for 46 percent of net sales in
the quarter with $310.7 million, a 14 percent gain from a year
earlier. Sales at Free People, the smallest of the three brands,
jumped 26 percent to $73.8 million, while those at Anthropologie
increased 3.4 percent to $281.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  