-- Hutchison Whampoa No ‘Magician’ to Partner CFO: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-08-22T14:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/hutchison-whampoa-no-magician-to-partner-cfo-israel-overnight.html
Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) ,  Israel ’s
second-largest mobile phone provider, is “doing all the right
things” and can regain market share even after Hong Kong-based
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  abandoned plans to become a stakeholder,
Chief Financial Officer Ziv Leitman said.  “We don’t think they had a crystal ball to come in and
turn around the company,” Leitman, the CFO of Rosh Ha’Ayin,
Israel-based Partner said by phone yesterday. “We were not
expecting a magician from  Hong Kong  to come and tell us how to
manage the company. We are doing all the right things taking
into account competition and regulations in the market.”  Units of Hutchison and the Li Ka-Shing Foundation Ltd.
canceled a deal yesterday to acquire a majority stake in Scailex
Corp., which owns 44.5 percent of Partner. The buyers terminated
the agreement reached in June after they discovered “adverse
findings” and a decline in Partner’s operations while reviewing
the deal, Scailex said in a regulatory filing.  American depositary receipts of Partner, which have lost 56
percent this year as rising competition in the sector reduces
revenue, rebounded yesterday, gaining 3.1 percent. The company
was the lead gainer on the Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of
the biggest New York-traded Israeli companies yesterday. The
gauge dropped 0.3 percent to 84.  Partner’s shares gained 4.3 percent today, the most in a
week, to 16.18 shekels, or the equivalent of $4.02, at the close
in  Tel Aviv . Israel’s TA-25 Index fell 0.3 percent, trimming its
advance this year to 2.7 percent, compared with a 12 percent
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The Bloomberg US-
Israel index has increased 3.4 percent.  Re-Entry in Israel  “Investors think Hutchison may offer to buy a stake in
Partner from bondholders or the public,” Ilanit Sherf, an
analyst at Psagot Investment House Ltd. said today by phone.
Sigalit Tamary, a spokeswoman for Hutchison in Israel, declined
to comment.  Billionaire Li Ka-Shing’s biggest company was set to enter
the Israeli telecommunications market again after its unit sold
a 51 percent stake in Partner to Scailex, the investment firm
owned by entrepreneur Ilan Ben Dov, for $1.4 billion in 2009.  Subsidiaries of Hutchison and the  Li Ka-Shing  Foundation
had agreed to acquire a 75 percent stake in Scailex for $125
million from Suny Electronic Ltd., the Hong Kong-based company
 said  on June 5.  Partner has lost more than half its market value since the
start of the year as the Israeli government boosted competition
in the industry and reduced costs for customers. The country’s
three biggest telecommunications operators are the  worst
performers  on the TA-25 Index in 2012.  “When outlook and market prices reflect such a negative
scenario, how do you quantify another piece of bad news,” Gil
Dattner, an analyst at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., said by phone
from Tel Aviv. “There’s a hurricane going on outside, and this
is just another rain. It’s not good, but not the top concern for
everyone right now.”  ARPU Unchanged  Partner reported second-quarter net income of 120 million
shekels, or $30 million, on Aug. 14, a 41 percent drop from the
same period last year. There was no change in average revenue
per user of 101 shekels, or $25.16, from the previous quarter,
it said in the statement.  “Partner’s shares are in line with the telecom industry in
Israel unfortunately,” Leitman said. “Our results were pretty
good taking into account the circumstances.”  New York  shares of Partner increased to $3.93 yesterday,
after a 5 percent decline on Aug. 20 on speculation the deal
would be terminated. The stock slipped to a nine-year low of
$3.12 on July 24.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Cellcom, Mellanox  The Israel shares of  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the nation’s
largest mobile-phone operator, retreated 2.3 percent to 28
shekels, or $6.96. The Netanya, Israel-based company has tumbled
56 percent this year, the most on the TA-25 index.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Israeli maker of technology
used to transfer and store data, rose 0.7 percent to $114
yesterday, the highest since it was listed in February 2007. Its
Tel Aviv shares fell 1.1 percent to 458.8 shekels, or $114.04,
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  