-- Verizon Is Said to Offer Nokia Windows 8 Phone This Year
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-08-22T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/verizon-is-said-to-offer-nokia-windows-8-phone-this-year.html
Verizon Wireless  plans to sell a new
Nokia Oyj phone with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 software this
year, marking the first time it has released a Windows device
since May 2011, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Microsoft and Nokia are holding a press conference on Sept.
5 in  New York  to discuss Nokia’s Lumia brand of Windows phones.
While Verizon isn’t expected to be part of that event, the
carrier intends to roll out a Nokia phone later, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the plans are private.
That would give Nokia a new beachhead at the top U.S. carrier,
building on its longstanding relationship with No. 2  AT&T (T)  Inc.  Verizon is looking to lessen its dependence on Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, which
dominate the smartphone market. For Microsoft and Nokia,
meanwhile, the move would bolster efforts to regain market
share. The Nokia phone would also provide fresh ammunition
against the latest iPhone, which people familiar with the matter
expect to be introduced on Sept. 12.  “Nokia has had a difficult time breaking in to the U.S.
market,” said  Charlie Wolf , a Needham & Co. analyst in New York
who has a neutral rating on the shares. “Landing on the Verizon
network is a positive development. It doesn’t solve the problem,
but it is a big step in the right direction.”  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-
based  Verizon Wireless (VZ) , declined to comment, as did Erica Fields
at Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft. Christopher Hollis, a
U.S. spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, also declined to
comment.  Shares Gain  Nokia shares  climbed  1.9 percent to 2.32 euros today in
Finland. Microsoft fell 0.8 percent to $30.54 in New York
trading, while Verizon Communications Inc., the co-owner of
Verizon Wireless, declined less than 1 percent to $42.62.  Verizon released its only current Windows Phone, the Trophy
from HTC Corp., more than a year ago, and it hasn’t been a top
seller. Microsoft and Verizon also stumbled with the 2010
release of the Kin phone, which was scrapped after less than two
months in Verizon stores. While that experience strained
relations, the companies have made strides in improving the
partnership since then, the person said.  For now, Nokia is more closely tied with AT&T, which
introduced the Lumia 900 Windows Phone on April 8. AT&T Chief
Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  has promoted the device and
uses it personally.  Previous Generation  Nokia’s first Windows Phone in the U.S. was the Lumia 710,
which debuted at  T-Mobile USA  in January. Both the AT&T and T-
Mobile Lumia devices rely on Microsoft’s older-generation
Windows Phone 7 software.  Microsoft is releasing the Windows Phone 8 operating system
as a companion piece to its new software for personal computers
and tablets. The phone software will be able to run on devices
with speedier, dual-core chips and high-definition screens,
Microsoft has said.  In July, a Nokia vice president  told  the tech news website
Neowin that Nokia’s Lumia Windows phones would soon be available
on Verizon.  Microsoft had a 3.5 percent share of the mobile operating
system market in the second quarter, with shipments of 5.4
million, according to  research firm IDC . That’s dwarfed by
Android’s more than 68 percent and Apple’s 16.9 percent.  Nokia (NOK1V)  sold 4 million Lumia phones worldwide in the second
quarter. The company needs to sell five times that many per
quarter if it wants to offset the decline in its previous
smartphone platform, Symbian, said Needham’s Wolf.  “If the Windows Phone 8 delivers, I think Nokia has a
chance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  