-- Verizon, Comcast Airwaves Deal Said to Have Votes at FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-21T18:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/verizon-comcast-airwaves-deal-said-to-have-votes-at-fcc-1-.html
Verizon Wireless’s proposal to buy
unused airwaves from cable providers led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  has
enough votes to win regulatory clearance from the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission , officials said.  The five-member agency’s two Republican commissioners have
cast electronic votes to approve the $3.6 billion deal, joining
Democratic Chairman  Julius Genachowski , said two agency
officials who declined to be identified because the tally hasn’t
been made public. The agency’s remaining two Democratic members
haven’t yet cast their votes and don’t face an immediate
deadline to do so, the people said.  The deal on Aug. 16 won antitrust approval from the U.S.
Justice Department, which limited cooperation between Verizon,
the largest U.S. wireless provider, and the cable companies
selling airwaves, a group that includes No. 1 carrier Comcast
and the second-largest,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   Spokesmen Mark Wigfield of the FCC, Ed McFadden of Verizon
and Sena Fitzmaurice of Comcast declined to comment.  The airwaves sale and cooperation pact that the companies
proposed in December, if left unaltered, would have brought
higher prices and lower quality for consumers, the  Justice
Department  said.  Verizon in June agreed to sell airwaves to T-Mobile USA
Inc., the smallest of the four nationwide wireless providers.  Adding Airwaves  Verizon, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, wants to add
airwaves as customers increasingly adopt smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to watch video and browse the Web.  The Justice Department’s conditions won’t do enough to
ensure competition in a market characterized by locally
exclusive cable companies and a wireless sector dominated by
four players, critics said.  Final approval would give Verizon success where No. 2
mobile carrier  AT&T Inc. (T)  failed last year, when regulators
barred it from buying T-Mobile because the transaction would
have eliminated the smaller carrier and reduced competition.  Verizon’s proposed sale of spectrum to T-Mobile, contingent
on winning approval of the cable-airwaves deal, turned the unit
of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  from an opponent of the
transactions into a supporter.  Cable Group  Closely held Bright House Networks contributed some of the
airwaves being sold to Verizon by the cable group including
Philadelphia-based Comcast and New York-based Time Warner known
as SpectrumCo. Separately, Cox Communications agreed to sell
airwaves to Verizon for $315 million.  Comcast owns 64 percent of SpectrumCo and is to receive
about $2.3 billion from the sale, the companies said in a
statement in December. Time Warner Cable owns 31 percent of
SpectrumCo and will receive about $1.1 billion. Bright House
owns 5 percent of SpectrumCo and will receive about $189
million, the companies said.  Verizon Wireless is 55 percent owned by New York-based
Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in
Newbury, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  