-- Vietnam’s Arrest of Bank Mogul Sparks Slide in Financial Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T09:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/vietnam-s-arrest-of-bank-mogul-sparks-slide-in-financial-stocks.html
Vietnam ’s arrest of Nguyen Duc Kien,
the founder of several banks, triggered the largest stock market
drop in almost four years and highlighted investor concern about
the vulnerability of the country’s financial system.  Kien, 48, the founder of banks including  Asia Commercial
Bank (ACB)  and Kien Long Bank, was arrested by police yesterday, the
central bank said in a statement on its website today. Police
are investigating violations at three companies managed by Kien
after he allegedly “conducted business illegally,” according
to the statement.  The arrest comes as Vietnamese authorities seek to shore up
a banking system grappling with increasing bad debt and
identified as a threat to the economy by credit ratings
companies. Vietnam has struggled to meet economic growth targets,
with bank lending stagnating as businesses contend with
declining earnings and demand.  “It’s like a spaghetti bowl,” Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi
Minh City-based economist at the Harvard Kennedy School’s
Vietnam program, said of the cross-ownership of the country’s
banks. “It’s very difficult to untangle the relationships,
particularly because a lot of the relationships are not
transparent. It presents a very difficult governance problem for
the financial system.”  Banking stocks contributed to a 4.7 percent slump in the
benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange today,
its biggest drop since October 2008. Shares in Asia Commercial
Bank, the country’s fourth-largest listed lender by market value,
fell 7 percent in Hanoi trading, the maximum daily drop
permitted by the exchange.  Police Summons  Police summoned Asia Commercial Bank Chief Executive
Officer Ly Xuan Hai for questioning yesterday in connection with
Kien’s arrest, deputy CEO Nguyen Thanh Toai told Bloomberg News
in a telephone interview today. Kien’s shareholding in the bank
is currently less than 5 percent, according to Toai. Kien is no
longer involved in management of the bank, the central bank said
in its statement.  Other Asia Commercial Bank investors include  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , with a 15 percent consolidated stake, according
to  Louis Taylor , the CEO of the London-based lender’s Vietnam
unit. Taylor declined to comment on the developments at Asia
Commercial Bank when reached by mobile phone today.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will “closely watch market
movements and take necessary measures to help ensure liquidity
at ACB if needed,” Nghiem Xuan Thanh, chief administrator at
the central bank, said by telephone today.  Two different mobile phones belonging to Kien were turned
off. Nguyen Duc Nhanh, Hanoi’s police chief, said he couldn’t
immediately comment when reached by Bloomberg News on his mobile
phone.  The  Hanoi Stock Exchange  has asked Asia Commercial Bank for
details related to Kien’s detention and the lender will send the
information “soon,” Nguyen Vu Quang Trung, the bourse’s deputy
general director, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  