-- Vietnam Will Be ‘Very Cautious’ With More Interest Rate Cuts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T12:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/vietnam-will-be-very-cautious-with-more-rate-cuts-correct-.html
Vietnam ’s central bank will be
“very cautious” with regard to additional cuts in interest
rates because it may increase inflation and currency instability.  The monetary regulator doesn’t expect to lower the dong
deposit rate further, as it may prompt depositors to switch from
dong to dollars and gold, and fuel inflation, Central Bank
Governor Nguyen Van Binh said during a National Assembly meeting
broadcast live on state television today. The central bank has
cut its key refinance rate five times this year.  “We did the right thing in lowering interest rates so far
this year,” Binh said, responding to questions from lawmakers.
“We would be very cautious in cutting rates further.”  Vietnam is struggling to boost a slowing economy while
trying to control an  inflation  rate that was once the fastest in
 Southeast Asia . The central bank has cut interest rates and
approved expanded credit at banks to help businesses and spur
economic growth. The central bank is aiming for credit growth of
8 percent this year, Binh said today.  Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh has said the country may
miss its 6 percent growth target after the economy grew by 4.7
percent in the three months to June from a year earlier.
Consumer prices may rise in August from July because of higher
power and fuel costs, the Ministry of Finance said on Aug. 15.  Annual inflation may accelerate to between 6 percent and 7
percent at the end of this year, Binh said. Economic growth may
slow to as low as 5.1 percent, Nguyen Duc Kien, deputy head of
the National Assembly’s economic committee, said in an interview
in Hanoi yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  