-- Vietnam Mogul Arrest Sparks Stock Plunge as Tensions Surface
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-22T03:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/vietnam-tycoon-arrest-sends-stocks-plunging-as-tensions-surface.html
Vietnam’s arrest of a high-profile
banking tycoon triggered the largest stock market drop in almost
four years amid investor concern that it signaled wider
vulnerabilities in the country’s financial system.  Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial Bank,
Vietnam’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, was arrested
two days ago, according to a central bank statement. Police are
investigating violations at three companies managed by Kien, 48,
after he allegedly “conducted business illegally,” according
to the statement.  “The sword of Damocles that’s been hanging over Vietnam is
the banking sector, and everyone knows that someday they’re
going to have to deal with it,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London , which oversees
about $9 billion in emerging-market debt including Vietnamese
bonds. “With the lack of clarity, in the markets there’s a
shoot first and ask questions later mentality.”  The benchmark VN Index on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange fell 2.1 percent as of 10:14 a.m. local time, extending
yesterday’s 4.7 percent plunge, the biggest drop since October
2008. Shares in Asia Commercial Bank lost 6.6 percent in Hanoi
trading after tumbling 7 percent yesterday, the maximum daily
drop permitted by the Hanoi Stock Exchange.  Power Struggle  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy. The arrest of Kien, who has links to the prime
minister, may also be related to Dung’s ongoing rivalry with
President Truong Tan Sang for power within the Communist Party
ranks, according to Steve Norris, a Singapore-based analyst at
 Control Risks Group .  “I don’t think removing this tycoon in itself is enough to
decisively weaken the prime minister or threaten overall
stability,” he said. “It’s just another example of these
tensions going on beneath the surface that we very rarely see.”  Dung, who was reappointed to a five-year term last year,
has faced criticism over his management of debt-ridden, state-
owned Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, known as Vinashin.
Sang formerly headed the  Central Committee ’s central economic
commission before he was appointed as president last year, one
of the country’s top three leadership positions.  Kien held a senior position managing Vietnam’s professional
soccer league and his family was among the 30 wealthiest in the
country last year, according to  VnExpress .  ‘Very Surprised’  Kien lives in a three-story house ringed by an iron fence
that overlooks West Lake in a wealthier section of Hanoi.
Expensive cars were often parked outside his home on weekends
for parties, said Tran Trung Thanh, 33, who lives nearby.  “When the police came, people around here felt very
surprised,” he said. “We thought that he’s working in the
banking system so he must be doing clean business.”  Two different mobile phones belonging to Kien were turned
off. Nguyen Duc Nhanh, Hanoi’s police chief, yesterday said he
couldn’t immediately comment when reached by Bloomberg News on
his mobile phone.  Police summoned Asia Commercial Bank Chief Executive
Officer Ly Xuan Hai for questioning in connection with Kien’s
arrest, deputy CEO Nguyen Thanh Toai said by phone yesterday.
Kien’s shareholding in the bank is currently less than 5
percent, according to Toai. He is no longer involved in
management of the bank, the central bank said in its statement.  Other Asia Commercial Bank investors include  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , with a 15 percent consolidated stake, according
to  Louis Taylor , the CEO of the London-based lender’s Vietnam
unit. Taylor yesterday declined to comment on the developments
at Asia Commercial Bank when reached by mobile phone.  Bad Debt  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will “closely watch market
movements and take necessary measures to help ensure liquidity
at ACB if needed,” Nghiem Xuan Thanh, chief administrator at
the central bank, said by telephone yesterday.  Vietnam’s bad debt is the highest by percentage among the
six Southeast Asian economies covered by Moody’s Investors
Service, said Karolyn Seet, a Singapore-based assistant vice
president. Vietnam’s central bank said non-performing loans
within the banking system reached 8.6 percent at the end of
March.  “There’s a lot of bad debt out there because a lot of
loans were made for projects that haven’t worked out,” said
Jonathan Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist at the
Harvard Kennedy School’s  Vietnam  program. “Lending decisions
were made because of relationships and connections rather than
because of the quality of the projects themselves.”  ‘Very Cautious’  The concerns over the banking system surfaced in a
parliamentary session yesterday involving the central bank
governor that was broadcast live on television. Nguyen Thi Kim
Ngan, vice chairman of Vietnam’s National Assembly, told State
Bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh that the central bank needs to
quickly help weak lenders to prevent the system from collapsing.  Speaking in parliament, Binh urged commercial banks to
boost lending to help businesses while maintaining standards to
avoid bad debts. The central bank will be “very cautious” in
cutting  interest rates  further, he said.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  increased 19 percent this year through Aug.
21, third-highest in Southeast Asia after  Thailand  and the
 Philippines . The dong has gained 1 percent against the dollar in
that time.  Kien’s arrest “could be a good political move” as
Vietnam’s leaders seek to reassure the country’s 87.8 million
people that wealth doesn’t buy power, according to Carlyle Thayer, professor of politics at the Australian Defense Force
Academy in Canberra. The Communist Party, which took control of
the entire country in 1975, restricts organized dissent.  “The atmosphere is to come down hard, to show the public
that any questionable financial activities are being taken
seriously by the party,” Thayer said. “The party wants to
respond to the perception that questionable financial activities
are hurting the party’s legitimacy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  