-- Waiting Game for Kosovo Prime Minister on UN Recognition
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-21T06:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/waiting-game-for-kosovo-prime-minister-on-un-recognition.html
Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci
says his 4 1/2-year-old country’s recognition by the  United
Nations  and its entry into the European Union and NATO are
simply a matter of time.  How much time, Thaci says, will depend on Serbia, the state
to which Kosovo used to belong and which still claims
sovereignty over the country on behalf of Kosovo’s minority of
ethnic Serbs. At last count, 92 UN governments, including the
U.S., and 22 of the 27  European Union members  had recognized
Kosovo’s independence.  “The whole world knows that Kosovo is a sovereign
country,” Thaci said in an interview yesterday. “Serbia
understands the reality of an independent Kosovo; however now it
is not ready to recognize us ‘de jure,’” he said through an
interpreter, the Latin phrase poking through the Albanian.  Speaking in New York on the eve of the UN Security
Council’s annual review of Kosovo’s progress from protectorate
to statehood, Thaci said the leaders of  Serbia , his country’s
former ruler, will soon have to abandon their nationalist
rhetoric and show their citizens some economic progress.  “My message to them is to focus on jobs and the economy,”
Thaci said of the Serbians. “They won the election on a
platform of nationalism, but they can’t survive on that
platform. People are more interested in jobs than nationalism.”  Genocide Threat  Serbia’s new president,  Tomislav Nikolic , said last month
in an interview with the  Guardian newspaper  that Serbs in Kosovo
are living under the threat of “genocide,” and that he
wouldn’t rule out a partition between ethnic Serb and Albanian
regions of the former province.  Serbia’s prime minister,  Ivica Dacic , is a former spokesman
for  Slobodan Milosevic , the late Serbian president whose
campaign of ethnic cleansing against Kosovo’s Albanian minority
led to a 77-day NATO-led bombing campaign that chased Serbia
from Kosovo, a former province.  Thaci and many of his senior officials were affiliated with
the Kosovo Liberation Army, which battled the Serbs on the
ground, while NATO bombed from the air. That’s made dialogue
between the leaders difficult, although Thaci said he is ready
to meet with Dacic and settle political issues including border
control and reciprocal recognition.  “They lost the battle in 1999,” Thaci said.  Kosovo has made progress on building a functioning
democratic state, he said, even though its police and justice
system are still overseen by an EU-led body and the U.S. and
other donors still fund many of the nation’s government offices.  ‘It Will Happen’  While  Kosovo ’s Serbs have the same rights as its Albanian
majority and seats are reserved for them in parliament and
government, some 5,600 NATO-led  troops  remain, partly to ward
off ethnic violence between Serbs and Albanians and partly to
tamp down the smuggling and trafficking still prevalent in
Kosovo.  “Both Kosovo and Serbia will be members of the European
Union and NATO,” Thaci said. “I can’t say in days, weeks or
months, but it will happen.”  Serbian leaders know this, he said.  “In closed meetings, I know what they say,” he said,
referring to Nikolic and Dacic. “They say Kosovo is an
independent state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  