-- Warren Keeps Akin Focus Attacking Brown on Women’s Rights
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-21T21:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/warren-keeps-akin-focus-attacking-brown-on-women-s-rights.html
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  is using
Republican U.S. Representative Todd Akin’s remarks on rape to
focus on Scott Brown’s links to his party as she campaigns to
replace him as  Massachusetts ’ junior senator in Congress.  In rallies around the state, including an appearance today
in  Boston , Warren is hammering the Republican agenda reflected
by measures Brown supported, such as letting employers refuse to
provide birth-control coverage in some instances. Brown has
called on Akin to end his Senate campaign in  Missouri  after he
said that “legitimate rape” rarely leads to pregnancy.  Brown opened a 49 percent to 44 percent lead over Warren in
the latest poll, released today by Public Policy Polling in
Raleigh,  North Carolina . The survey suggests a weakness that
Warren is seeking to exploit, as 53 percent said they would
prefer that Democrats retain control of the Senate next year.  “Not just Rep. Akin -- GOP agenda would turn back the
clock on  women’s rights ,” Warren said in a message posted on
Twitter.com. Akin made the remark in a television interview Aug.
19, setting off a torrent of criticism. Republican leaders
including presidential contender  Mitt Romney  have asked Akin to
quit the campaign against Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Democrat.  Broader Agenda  “This is part of a broader agenda that the Republicans are
pushing and Scott Brown has said that he trusts no one more than
Romney,” Alethea Harney, a Warren spokeswoman, said today by
telephone. “Brown can try to be the first one to condemn these
remarks but the fact is that he supports the Romney-Ryan
ticket.”  Someone should remind Warren that she is running against
Brown, not Mitt Romney, said Alleigh Marre, a Brown spokeswoman.  “Brown is an independent thinker who is rated one of the
most bipartisan senators in the country,” Marre said. “He has
a proven record of working across the aisle to get things done
for the people he represents.”  The senator took issue today with the  Republican National
Committee ’s plans to include a plank in its 2012 platform that
he said opposes “a woman’s right to choose and supporting a
constitutional amendment banning abortion.”  “I believe this is a mistake because it fails to recognize
the views of pro-choice Republicans like myself,” Brown said in
a letter to Reince Priebus, the party chairman.  Big Tent  “If we are to grow and succeed in all parts of this great
nation, we must be a ‘big-tent’ party,” Brown said in the
letter, which he made public. “There are people of goodwill on
both sides of the abortion issue, and we need to send a message
to voters that there is room in the  Republican Party  for
differing perspectives.”  Warren, a Harvard Law professor who helped set up the
federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is her party’s
hope to recapture the seat long held by  Ted Kennedy , who died in
office in 2009. Brown upset Attorney General  Martha Coakley , a
Democrat, in a January 2010 special election to serve the
remainder of Kennedy’s last six-year term. The outcome of the
race could help determine which party controls the Senate, where
Democrats wield a six-vote majority.  Independent voters backed Brown 58 percent to 32 percent in
the Public Policy Polling survey, little changed from others
taken earlier this year. While Democrats outnumber Republicans
three to one in Massachusetts, 52 percent of voters are
independents, state figures show. The automated telephone poll
of 1,115 likely voters from Aug. 16-19 has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.9 percentage points.  Women Threatened  Warren is painting Romney, a former Massachusetts governor,
and running mate  Paul Ryan , who represents  Wisconsin  in the
House, as threats to women’s economic security and reproductive
health in appearances as part of her “women for Warren” week
of events that began yesterday.  “I’ve spent decades working on the economic issues that
face working families -- wages, housing, health care, college --
and women and families are getting squeezed,” Warren said today
in a statement. “The Romney-Ryan agenda threatens economic
security of women and families.”  A Brown victory in November may give Republicans a Senate
majority, which may help abortion opponents pass new limits on
reproductive rights.  “Warren has the opportunity to use this to get voters to
take another hard look at  Scott Brown  and recast this race as
whether Scott Brown is really for Massachusetts or if he’s for
the national Republicans,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic
consultant with the Dewey Square Group in Boston. “It’s a
chance for her to go on offense.”  Jobs Focus  Brown is spending the week traveling from Provincetown, at
the tip of Cape Cod, to Pittsfield, in the Berkshire hills, to
meet voters, visit businesses and talk about jobs and the
economy, Marre said. In a  statement  yesterday, Brown called on
Akin to apologize.  “As a husband and father of two young women, I found Todd
Akin’s comments about women and rape outrageous, inappropriate
and wrong,” Brown said. “There is no place in our public
discourse for this type of offensive thinking.”  Akin made a public apology today through a video release.  “Brown’s been able to hold up his image as a moderate and
that has him in a good position,” said Dean Debnam, Public
Policy Polling’s president, in a statement with the results.
“Democrats will have to convince voters who like him to vote
against him anyway to keep the Senate from going Republican.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  