-- Wet Seal Hires Financial Advisers and Adopts Poison Pill
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-21T22:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/wet-seal-hires-financial-advisers-and-adopts-poison-pill.html
Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA) , the women’s apparel
chain under pressure by an activist investor to sell the
company, hired financial advisers and adopted a so-called poison
pill to block an amassing of shares.  The pill, which expires June 2013, discourages an investor
from acquiring more than 10 percent or more of the company, the
 Foothill Ranch , California-based chain said in a statement. The
board has also engaged Guggenheim Securities LLC and Peter J.
Solomon Co. to pursue strategic options to increase shareholder
value.  The retailer fired CEO Susan McGalla on July 23 after a
year and a half amid declining sales. On the same day, Clinton
Group Inc., a Wet Seal investor with a 3.9 percent stake in the
company, published a letter it sent to the board pushing for a
sale to maximize  shareholder value . That came after a letter in
June criticizing the performance of McGalla and the company.  “We took this action to insure the board has sufficient
time to consider any option,” Wet Seal Chairman Harold Kahn
said on a conference call with analysts.  Joseph De Perio, a senior portfolio manager for Clinton
Group, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking
comment.  Wet Seal, which operates 550 stores in the U.S. and  Puerto
Rico , reported a net loss of $12.4 million for the quarter ended
July 28, or 14 cents a share, compared with net income of $2.2
million, or 2 cents, a year earlier. The company reported an 11
percent decline in second-quarter  same-store sales , a key
measure of a retailer’s growth. Such revenue may fall as much as
18 percent in this quarter, Wet Seal said.  Fast-Fashion Roots  To improve results, Wet Seal will return to its fast-
fashion roots, according to Kahn. Under McGalla, the company
began designing its own apparel, which increased the time it
took products to reach stores and alienated customers, he said.  The company will now focus on identifying trends and buying
from suppliers as quickly as possible to speed up time to
market. Wet Seal expects to have most of its new merchandise in
stores by November. Until then, it will be clearing old clothes
with discounts that will continue to hurt profit margins, Kahn
said.  “We believe that a strategy that brings us to ordering
more merchandise closer to the need of delivery is very, very
important to the young junior customer who is very, very
understanding of fashion,” he said on the call. “This is not a
new turnaround strategy. This is going back to a strategy.”  The company faces off against larger competition in the
fast-fashion category, including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ’s H&M,
Forever 21 and  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ’s Uniqlo. Wet Seal’s return to
focusing on the most popular trends and low prices won’t take
long to win back the customers it lost, Kahn said.  “It’s still a strong brand,” he said.  Wet Seal was little changed at $3.06 at 6 p.m. in  New York .
The shares have declined 6.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  