-- White Sox Beat Yankees as Dunn Hits League-Leading 36th Home Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-21T05:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/white-sox-beat-yankees-as-dunn-hits-league-leading-36th-home-run.html
The  Chicago White Sox  hit four home
runs to rally past the  New York  Yankees 9-6 in a matchup of
American League division leaders.  Alexei Ramirez hit a two-run homer for the White Sox in the
seventh inning to snap a 6-6 tie last night at U.S. Cellular
Field in Chicago.  Adam Dunn  hit his 36th home run of the season,
the most in  Major League Baseball , while Gordon Beckham and
Dewayne Wise added homers for Chicago.  The AL Central-leading White Sox erased deficits of 3-0 and
6-5 to improve to 66-55 and extend their division lead over the
Detroit Tigers to two games.  Derek Jeter  had four hits for the Yankees to tie Eddie Murray for 12th place in MLB history with 3,255 career hits. The
Yankees, who allowed all nine runs from the fifth inning on,
fell to 72-50 and had their AL East lead over the Tampa Bay Rays
cut to four games.  The Rays extended their winning streak to five games with
yesterday’s 5-1 victory over the  Kansas City Royals . The
Baltimore Orioles are six games behind the Yankees after a 5-1
loss to AL West-leading Texas Rangers and cling to a half-game
lead over the Oakland Athletics for the second of the league’s
two wild card playoff berths.  The Athletics lost 7-2 to the Minnesota Twins last night,
when they acquired shortstop Stephen Drew in a trade with the
 Arizona  Diamondbacks for minor league infielder Sean Jamieson.  The Washington Nationals extended their lead atop the
National League East by beating the Atlanta Braves 5-4 in 13
innings. The Nationals scored the winning run on an infield
single by Chad Tracy and improved their record to an MLB-best
76-46. They hold a six-game division lead over the Braves
(70-52), who lead the NL wild card race.  The San Francisco Giants moved atop the NL West with a 2-1
win over the  Los Angeles Dodgers  as Madison Bumgarner pitched
eight shutout innings. Pablo Sandoval drove in both runs for the
Giants (67-55), who took a half-game lead over the Dodgers
(67-56) in the division. The Dodgers are a half-game behind
Pittsburgh for the second of the NL’s two wild card spots. The
Pirates fell to 67-55 with yesterday’s 3-1 loss in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  