-- Whole Foods Sees Stores Tripling With Embrace of Produce
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   B r y a n   G r u l e y
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/whole-foods-sees-stores-tripling-with-embrace-of-produce.html
When  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) 
announced last year it was opening a store in downtown Detroit,
the reaction was predictable: Whole Foods? In Detroit?  The move reflects a new direction for America’s largest
purveyor of natural goods, according to Walter Robb, the chain’s
co-chief executive officer.  “We’re accelerating growth,” Robb said in an interview at
the company’s Austin, Texas, headquarters. “That’s going to
take us places we have not been to before.”  As Whole Foods prepares to open the Detroit store in May,
it’s planning to triple its store count to 1,000 and boost sales
by opening locations in underserved areas and smaller markets.
Whole Foods is just the latest grocer to see opportunity in so-
called food deserts and other areas where finding fresh fruit
and vegetables is a chore.  A chain known for selling organic bok choy and mushroom-
infused brie seems an odd fit for neighborhoods dominated by
discount grocers, said Jack Horst, a partner at Kurt Salmon, a
consulting firm.  “How successful are you going to be when you’re in a
neighborhood that skews toward more middle-class or to people
who shop more at a Save-A-Lot?” said Horst, who’s based in
Atlanta. “Maybe they don’t need five different kinds of kale.”  Supermarkets are fighting for share as Americans eat out
more and grocery-store sales stagnate. Industry revenue will
grow an estimated 0.4 percent to about $491 billion this year,
according to a June report from researcher IBISWorld Inc. Sales
at Whole Foods may rise 16 percent to $11.7 billion in the
company’s fiscal 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its “niche product lines and loyal customer base” will help
propel continuing sales growth, IBISWorld said.  Trading Premium  Whole Foods, which boosted profit for three years running,
has become increasingly valuable to investors relative to other
U.S. companies. It trades at more than twice the valuation of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while  Kroger Co. (KR) ,  Safeway Inc. (SWY) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)  trade at a discount.  The  company  has been talking to the mayors of Chicago and
Newark about opening its doors in areas with few or no grocery
stores, Robb said. Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  “wants to bring more food
service to the south side of Chicago,” he said.  “It’s an effort for us to stretch ourselves” and it’s
generating interest across the U.S., Robb, 58, said.  The Detroit store -- the site is in the city’s Midtown
neighborhood -- will be near  Wayne State University  and the
College for Creative Studies, aligning with Whole Foods’
strategy to open units in areas with educated populations.
Still, only 27 percent of  Detroit  residents have a bachelor’s
degree or higher, compared with 34 percent in Chicago and 36
percent in New York, according to the U.S. Census Bureau’s 2010
American Community  Survey .  Smaller Markets  Whole Foods is also planning to open more stores in smaller
markets -- those with populations of about 75,000 are up for
consideration. Whole Foods has recently opened locations in Glen
Mills, Pennsylvania; West  Des Moines , Iowa; and is targeting
Wichita,  Kansas , for another.  These smaller units have to slim down their food options,
Robb said. “Instead of having an eight-foot rice section, you
might have a four-foot rice section, maybe just a few less
varieties,” he said.  Whole Foods faces plenty of competition. Chains including
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Supervalu
Inc. (SVU)  have announced plans to open hundreds of stores in food
deserts in partnership with First Lady  Michelle Obama  and her
efforts to bring fresh produce to low-income Americans.  And traditional grocers are “raising their game” with
fresh fruits, vegetables and meats, which is Whole Foods’
specialty, Horst said.  Lowering Prices  Supervalu, based in  Eden Prairie , Minnesota, is lowering
fruit and vegetable prices and has trained its employees to help
shoppers pick and cook fresh foods. Wal-Mart, which recently
began selling and advertising USDA Choice steaks in the U.S.,
has also said it’s reducing produce prices to make healthier
food more affordable.  Even pharmacy  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  has promised to open or convert
at least 1,000 so-called food oasis stores in areas with little
access to grocery stores in the U.S. These locations are
carrying 750 more food items such as Greek salads, cantaloupe
and frozen tilapia.  Whole Foods will also look to boost revenue by opening more
locations in its existing strongholds, Robb said. “We’re
nowhere near saturated in Chicago or  Boston  or  Los Angeles  or
 San Francisco .”  Major Markets  People in major Whole Foods markets spend more on food than
in less-populated areas, according to data from Census Bureau.
Households in San Francisco spent $4,214 on food to eat at home
in 2010 and Chicagoans spent $4,250, on average, compared with
$3,300 in Baltimore and $3,690 in Phoenix.  Whole Foods may open stores as small as 15,000 square feet
and as big as 75,000 square feet, according to company filings.
The company will need to shrink its average store size to scale
to smaller markets, said Scott Van Winkle, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Inc. in Boston who advises buying the shares.  “The question is: Can they properly size their investment
for that market?” Van Winkle said. “You know they can operate
and you know they can attract consumers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Gruley in Chicago at 
 bgruley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  