-- Why Is the Army Corps Ruling Your Neighborhood?
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-08-21T22:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/why-is-the-army-corps-ruling-your-neighborhood-.html
Opponents of  New York ’s plan to
reopen a waste-transfer plant on the Upper East Side of
 Manhattan  were predictably disappointed that the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers gave the plant a  green light  last month.  But the regulatory authority of the Army Corps should be
limited to assessing threats to navigation, not neighborhood
concerns. The Army Corps’ control over navigable waterways,
which dates back to 1899, should remind us just how ill-suited
the U.S. transportation and infrastructure system is for the
needs of the 21st century. We need a system where the Army Corps
is confined to providing engineering expertise and
transportation funding, in the same way that federal school
spending is tied to performance.  As a Bloomberg View columnist, I’m not going to pick a
fight with a plan by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration to
install a waste-transfer plant on New York’s  East River . The
idea of moving more trash by barge, and less by truck, seems
sensible in a city with scant street space. And the proposal
will end the injustice whereby all waste-transfer plants are
 located  near poorer communities outside Manhattan.  Most issues involving the plant, however, are best handled
by New York’s own political system. No federal agency, and
certainly not the Army Corps of Engineers, has the local
knowledge needed to assess the impact of a waste-transfer
station on the nearby neighborhood. The City Council includes a
local  representative  who can convey residents’ concerns within a
larger debate over the city’s needs. If the process is messed
up, then voters can oust their elected officials.  Controlling Navigation  The federal government is involved in U.S. river-related
projects for two important reasons: navigation and the
environment. Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation
Act of 1899  made it illegal  to build  “any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty, or other structures” in
ports, canals, navigable rivers or “other water of the  United
States  … except on plans recommended by the Chief of Engineers
and authorized by the Secretary of War.”  By 1899, the Army Engineers were the natural guardians of
U.S. waterways because the agency, which is now part of the
Defense Department, had by then almost a century of engagement
in water-related projects, such as the fortifications of New
York Harbor  before 1812  and the dredging of the  Mississippi   as
far back  as 1824.  The Corps’ track record was  imperfect , but the U.S.
government had no comparable engineering talent.  The 1899 Rivers and Harbors Act is occasionally called the
first American environmental regulation. It  forbids  the
“discharge” of “refuse matter of any kind” into “any navigable
waters of the United States,” unless the secretary of war and
his engineers deem that such waste will not harm navigation.
Although the courts typically gave the Corps wide latitude to
engage in environmental regulation, the agency’s engineers often
put navigation ahead of aquatic ecosystems. Environmentalists
and the Corps battled over  Currituck Sound  in  North Carolina  in
the 1920s, when the Corps built a canal that caused a flow of
salt water into the sound,  disrupting  thousands of migratory
birds.  The agency adapted itself to environmental demands, and its
control over waterways continued after the  Clean Water Act ,
first passed in 1972. Although the Environmental Protection
Agency  sets  environmental guidelines, the Corps of Engineers is
still responsible for issuing water-related permits, such as the
right to reopen a waste-transfer plant on the East River.  Education Model  It may seem odd and archaic that the Army Corps controls
the East River, but the fault lies not in the agency but in our
outdated federal approach to transportation and infrastructure.
The U.S. has a disjointed system of regulation, by disparate
entities such as the Corps and the EPA, and spending, where tax
dollars are simply funneled to lower levels of government that
can then spend, more or less, as they will.  A better model would use spending and regulation together
to provide the right incentives for smart infrastructure. An
incentive-based model, which could be adapted for
transportation, is  exemplified  by federal education policies
such as No Child Left Behind and Race to the Top. In these
programs, federal payments are linked to measurement of key
“deliverables,” typically test scores, and money is used to
promote better state and local systems. These U.S. education
initiatives may need amending -- test scores are an imperfect
gauge of educational success -- but they have established that
the federal government can improve local government by measuring
and rewarding success.  Federal transportation policy today does little to
encourage smart infrastructure spending.  Adam Smith  famously and
correctly  argued  that when roads, bridges, canals and the like
are “made and supported by the commerce which is carried on by
means of them, they can be made only where that commerce
requires them, and consequently where it is proper to make
them.” But federal funding of state projects makes it easy to
build infrastructure that is required neither by commerce nor by
local voters.  This summer’s deeply flawed highway bill  includes  $18.8
billion of general  tax revenue  to supplement the Highway Trust
Fund, and further separates the funding of infrastructure from
its users, practically inviting foolish projects, such as
bridges to nowhere and  Detroit ’s infamous People Mover monorail.  The most notable failure of the  Army Corps  in recent years
was the flood system that crumbled in the face of  Hurricane
Katrina . The delegation of responsibility to a remote authority
seems sure to create future disasters.  A better transportation policy would start with objectives,
not spending targets. The goal is to ensure that people and
goods can move swiftly and safely, and to limit environmental
costs. Regulatory bodies would be part of the system, not
something apart, and their assessments should be used to direct
federal funds.  Final Decisions  The Transportation Department could then use these measures
to allocate funding, so that federal transport aid would pay for
performance. States that didn’t use their funds wisely and left
bridges in disrepair would face substantial aid cuts. More
pressure to improve highway performance should push states to
adopt smart policies, such as time-specific congestion charges,
that get the most out of existing infrastructure. I would
happily call the program “No Trucker Left Behind,” except that
we should expect trucking companies to pay the full cost of the
infrastructure they use.  The expertise of the Army Corps would fit into this
program. The engineers can continue to assess threats to
navigable waterways, and more extensively evaluate the safety
and engineering aspects of roads and bridges. They already
 monitor  the maintenance of U.S. bridges.  But neither the Army Corps nor the EPA is well suited to
make final decisions. A solid bridge does not have to be a big
bridge. The final evaluation of individual projects and overall
state performance should go to an entity with a broader range of
skills, and more ability to weigh economic, environmental and
engineering considerations. Let the EPA evaluate the
environmental consequences of infrastructure, but then ensure
that final decision-making power sits with a body that will
consider more than just the environment.  In the case of federal approval for projects that might
impinge on transport, such as the East River waste-transfer
plant, local governments could have two options. One is a
complete evaluation before a larger board that weighs federally
relevant costs and benefits. The second option is a short-form
process, where the Army Corps certifies that no damage will be
done to the navigability of the waterways and the EPA certifies
that there is no significant environmental damage to the river
itself. The federal government should create funding to make
sure that states cooperate with one other and look after each
other’s interests.  Neither process should include a federal outlet for
community complaints about traffic, noise or pollution. These
concerns are real, but they aren’t the business of the U.S.
government, and the Army Corps of Engineers shouldn’t provide an
extra opportunity to litigate issues that sit at the center of
local politics.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on eliminating the  wind-energy
tax credit  and on  Congo’s bloody trade  in minerals; Clive Crook
on how badly the  EU would botch  a euro breakup;;  Michael Kinsley 
on how  Ayn Rand  would make  Paul Ryan   a better vice president ;
Laurence Kotlikoff on economists who  become political hacks ;
William L. Silber on  Paul Volcker ’s  goldless gold standard .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 