-- Wisconsin Attorney General Seeks to Restore Voter-ID Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-21T22:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/wisconsin-attorney-general-seeks-to-restore-voter-id-rule.html
Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  asked the state Supreme Court to reinstate a voter
identification law before the Nov. 6 elections.  The law would require otherwise-eligible voters to present
a government-issued photo ID before being allowed to cast
ballots. It was declared unconstitutional March 12 by Circuit
Judge Richard G. Niess in Madison. A second judge, David T.
Flanagan, ruled the law invalid July 17 after a nonjury trial.  The attorney general appealed both rulings on the state’s
behalf.  “While I respect the judicial process and the right to
challenge a law in court, it is time for our Supreme Court to
take control of these cases,” the Republican attorney general
said in a statement.  Papers seeking a bypass of the state’s intermediate
appellate court, consolidation of the cases and a high-court
injunction were filed by the state with the Supreme Court in
Madison just before noon, said Dana Brueck, a spokeswoman for
Van Hollen.  Fights over voting access are intensifying in swing states,
including  Florida ,  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania  and Wisconsin, where both
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see a
possibility of victory. Voter cases are also under way in
 Alabama ,  Texas  and  South Carolina .  2011 Law  First-term Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, signed the
Wisconsin voter ID measure into law last year.  “Requiring photo identification to vote helps ensure the
integrity of our elections,” a spokesman for Walker, Cullen
Werwie, told Bloomberg News last year.  There are nine forms of acceptable ID, the state said. They
include a driver’s license or Department of Transportation-
issued state identification card.  The agency is required by the law to issue an ID free to
anyone who doesn’t have photo identification, can prove U.S.
citizenship, will be at least 18 years old on Election Day and
is otherwise eligible to vote.  The cases were filed last year by the League of Women
Voters of Wisconsin and the  Milwaukee  branch of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.  “The law imposes additional qualifications beyond those
listed in the constitution,” a League of Women Voters attorney,
 Susan Crawford , told Niess during oral argument in March.  Niess, in his March 12 ruling, agreed.  Court’s Ruling  “The government may not disqualify an elector who
possesses these qualifications on the grounds that the voter
does not satisfy additional statutorily created
qualifications,” the judge said.  The attorney general maintains the law is both
constitutional and necessary to ensure sound administration of
elections, according to today’s filings.  Arguing for a Supreme Court stay of enforcement of Niess’s
ruling and that of Flanagan, Van Hollen told the high court that
a last-minute reversal of those rulings on appeal may result in
voters’ being unable to obtain a qualifying ID in time for the
election.  “Those persons would then be effectively
disenfranchised,” he said. “Not because the voter photo ID
requirements prevented them from voting, but because the circuit
court’s injunction led them to believe it was not necessary to
comply with those requirements.”  ‘Hail Mary’  Lester Pines, a League of Women Voters lawyer, said in a
phone interview that his clients have 14 days to file papers
opposing the attorney general’s requests. He also predicted the
 Supreme Court  would reject Van Hollen’s overtures.  “The Supreme Court has already heard this one,” Pines
said, citing the high court’s decision this year to reject an
earlier referral by the intermediate-level state Court of
Appeals. That court then put the case on an accelerated briefing
schedule.  “It’s kind of a hail Mary pass by the attorney general,”
Pines said. “I don’t think the Supreme Court is going to be
interested in taking this case up at the last minute.”  NAACP attorney Aaron Halstead didn’t immediately reply to a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  Two more challenges to the voter ID law are pending at the
federal courthouse in Milwaukee. U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman last week scheduled a preliminary injunction hearing in
both cases for Oct. 10.  The cases are League of Women Voters of Wisconsin v.
Walker, 2011CV04669; and Milwaukee Branch of the NAACP v.
Walker, 2011CV005492,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court,
Dane County (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  