-- Worse-Than-Argentina Debt Offer Rejected by Belize Holders
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-21T21:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/worse-than-argentina-debt-offer-rejected-by-belize-bondholders.html
Belize is offering bondholders 20
cents on the dollar in a debt restructuring, worse than what
 Argentina  gave creditors following its 2001 default, according
to  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and Citigroup Inc.  Investors are wagering that a better offer is coming.  Belize, the Central American nation that’s home to 333,000
people and the largest barrier reef in the Western Hemisphere,
missed a $23 million coupon payment yesterday on $544 million of
dollar bonds due in 2029. The government is unlikely to make the
payment during a 30-day grace period, Finance Secretary Joseph
Waight said in an interview.  While the bonds are trading at 34.50 cents on the dollar,
Scotiabank says the government’s  three proposals  to restructure
the debt give the securities a net present value of about 20
cents, the least among 16 sovereign debt restructurings since
1998.  Belize’s offer “is not a haircut, it’s a scalping,” said
Arturo Porzecanski, a professor of international finance at
American University in  Washington . “It puts Belize in the same
league as the most punishing restructurings in sovereign
history.”  The bonds from the country once known as British Honduras
traded at almost 50 cents the first week of August, before Prime
Minister Dean Barrow said the government couldn’t afford to make
the coupon payment. While a restructuring may deprive the $1.4
billion economy of foreign capital, it would let Barrow divert
money to cover a  budget deficit  he said will climb to 2.5
percent of gross domestic product this year from 1.1 percent in
2011.  Coupon Jump  In response to the missed payment,  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered Belize’s rating to selective default today and said
investors were likely to recover 30 percent to 50 percent of the
bonds’ face value in a restructuring.  Belize’s debt servicing costs increased after the coupon on
the so-called superbond climbed to 8.5 percent in February from
6 percent as part of an accord reached with investors in 2007.
Falling oil and tourism revenue added further strains, which may
worsen after an agreement is reached with shareholders of
nationalized companies Belize Telemedia Ltd. and Belize
Electricity Ltd., according to the central bank.  The economy expanded 2 percent in 2011, as tourism and
services accounted for 55 percent of GDP. Manufacturing and
construction made up 21 percent of the economy, while
agriculture and fishing’s contribution fell for a sixth
consecutive year, to 11 percent, according to the central bank.  Engaging Creditors  “We simply do not have the capacity to make the payment,”
Waight said in a phone interview yesterday from Belmopan,
Belize’s capital. “We would like to engage with creditors and
say ‘Look, what is your reaction to these scenarios’ and sit
down with them to see if we can have constructive discussions
leading to a solution.”  The bonds fell 0.25 cent to 34.50 cents today after
tumbling as low as 30.5 cents on Aug. 10, the lowest since 2007,
when the debt was issued as part of a restructuring, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap between the price and the
government’s offers show that bondholders are waging Barrow’s
government will sweeten the deal during the grace period to
avoid a default, according to Jeremy Brewin, who helps manage
$4.7 billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in
 London .  Argentina,  South America ’s second-biggest economy, offered
bondholders securities valued at 30 cents on the dollar in a
debt exchange in 2005 following its $95 billion default,
Scotiabank said, citing data from Moody’s Investors Service.
 Greece ’s 200-billion-euro ($247 billion) debt swap this year,
which was the world’s biggest debt restructuring, valued its
bonds at 29 cents based on future  cash flow , Scotiabank said.  ‘Unilateral Decision’  While a restructuring in Belize is needed, the terms the
government offered are too harsh, according to AJ Mediratta, a
partner at Greylock Capital Management who is leading a group of
investors holding about $300 million of the country’s bonds.  “We accept the fact there may be losses involved, but what
we don’t accept is a unilateral decision,” Mediratta said in a
phone interview from  New York . “It is very hard to feel they’ve
made the case for a restructuring on par or worse than Greece.”  Two of the  three restructuring scenarios  the government has
proposed call for a 45 percent principal reduction, a lower
coupon and a maturity extension to 2042 from 2029. The third
option includes the reduction of the 8.5 percent coupon rate to
2 percent with a 15-year principal grace period and a maturity
date extension to 2062, the central bank said Aug. 8.  Law Firm  Assuming a yield of 12 percent, the bonds in the
government’s offer are worth between 20 cents and 22 cents,
according to Nomura Securities International Inc. With a yield
of 15 percent, it is no more than 18.33 cents, according to
Citigroup.  Belize hired New York-based law firm  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen
& Hamilton LLP to advise the government on its restructuring,
Waight said. Cleary Gottlieb aided Argentina in two debt
restructurings following its default.  With a restructuring, Belize would have enough resources to
survive “for years” without having to borrow from
international markets, according to Gorky Urquieta, who helps
oversee $15 billion of emerging-market securities at ING
Investment Management in Atlanta.  “I don’t know if they count on accessing  capital markets 
in the medium term,” said Urquieta, who has sold his holdings
of Belize bonds. “From that perspective, they think it’s better
to go for a big reduction in debt service. You probably have the
worst combination where you are dealing with the questionable
ability and questionable willingness to pay.”  Yucatan Peninsula  Belize, wedged between Mexico and  Guatemala  on the Yucatan
Peninsula, relies on foreign capital to finance its current
account deficit. Argentina has been shut out of the
international  bond market  since its default, as has Ecuador,
which stopped payments on its $3.2 billion debt in 2008.  Belize’s government is determined to impose bigger losses
on creditors because Barrow wants to court public support by
blaming foreign investors for the country’s economic woes,
according to Morten Bugge, chief investment officer at Kolding,
Denmark-based Global Evolution AS, which oversees $1 billion.  “There might be a little bit of improvement but not to the
extent that the 35 cents on the dollar is justified as it is
trading right now,” said Bugge, who sold his Belize bond
holdings over the past month, in a telephone interview. “They
need to treat investors in a more friendly manner, but I very
much doubt this is going to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  