-- Zuma Rejects Criticism of Handling of Lonmin Mine Deaths
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2012-08-22T12:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-21/zuma-rejects-criticism-of-handling-of-lonmin-mine-deaths.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
rejected criticism that his handling of the most lethal police
action since the end of apartheid has hurt investor confidence
in the world’s biggest platinum producer.  In his first television interview on the shooting and
killing of 34 mineworkers during an illegal strike at  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine on Aug. 16, Zuma told Bloomberg TV yesterday
that he has taken decisive steps to show that his government is
in control. Those include creating a judicial inquiry and a
committee of cabinet ministers to investigate the violence, he
said. Zuma said he won’t fire his police commissioner.  “Our observation is that nothing has happened to investor
confidence,” Zuma, 70, said in an interview at his offices in
Cape Town. “I am convinced that the action that was taken so
far helped to show  South Africa  is in control.”  The violence highlighted investor concern about law and
order in an economy that relies on mining for almost two-thirds
of its exports. The rand fell as much as 1.8 percent against the
dollar on the day the number of dead was announced, more than
any of the more than 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg.  “The global community has to look at what happened based
on facts,” Zuma said. “We are talking about an incident that
took two to three minutes and government moved immediately and
we are in control of the situation. If I was an international,
global observer, why should I get worried? You could get worried
if there is continuous fighting and killing.”  Murder Rate  Zuma is struggling to restore public trust in policing in a
nation where 43 people are murdered every day. Since taking
office in May 2009, Zuma has fired two police chiefs implicated
in graft and the head of crime intelligence has been suspended
while he’s being investigated for abusing state funds. South
Africa’s murder rate is more than six times that of the U.S.  Fitch Ratings ,  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service already have a negative outlook on South African debt as
slower economic growth this year makes it difficult for the
government to stick to its budget deficit targets. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Aug. 16 he will probably lower
the government’s growth forecast in coming months after
predicting 2.7 percent expansion for this year.  Automatic Weapons  The police killings “will make it more difficult for South
Africa to attract foreign investment,”  Carmen Altenkirch , a
sovereign analyst at Fitch Ratings in London, said by phone on
Aug. 17.  Police opened fire with automatic weapons on a crowd of
about 3,000 workers, many of who were armed with spears,
traditional fighting sticks and machetes after a six-day
standoff. Ten people, including two police officers, had already
died at the mine in fighting between members of rival labor
unions in the week before the shooting.  Police commissioner, Riah Phiyega, who was appointed two
months ago without any prior policing experience, said on Aug.
17 officers had acted in self defense after shots were fired
from the crowd that was being dispersed with water cannons and
tear gas. Police used live ammunition and automatic weapons
after first firing rubber bullets, she said.  Zuma rejected calls from security analysts and human rights
groups for Phiyega and Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa to be
fired as the judicial panel hasn’t done its investigation.  Judicial Inquiry  “That is one of the most unfortunate things, in my view,
that when things happen, people demand a resignation,” the
president said. “It’s not totally responsible when you don’t
know the facts. We have to wait and hear what the account of the
police is going to be.”  The judicial inquiry will move quickly to investigate the
incident and take action against individuals where necessary, he
said.  “People will be held accountable,” Zuma said. “Once we
get to the bottom of what the truth is, there must be
consequences. This cannot be allowed to continue.”  The commission of inquiry, which has been backed by
opposition political parties, business groups and labor unions,
may help to restore confidence in policing.  “More good is going to come out of this than bad,” Peter Major, head of mining at South Africa’s Cadiz Corporate
Solutions, which advises companies on acquisitions and
divestments, said in a phone interview from  Cape Town  yesterday.
“Everybody is going to look like a culprit. I don’t think
anyone will be able to sit down and point fingers at anyone
else.”  Lonmin Ultimatum  Zuma criticized London-based Lonmin for threatening to fire
striking workers four days after the police shooting, saying the
company was “insensitive.” The mining company is losing about
2,500 ounces of platinum production, worth about $3.75 million
at current prices, for every day of  strike action .  “You make such ultimatums when there is just a strike, but
when so many people have died, when people who have been with
strikers have died, scores of people, I just think it was
unfortunate,” Zuma said.  Lonmin yesterday backed down from its plan to fire striking
workers. Of the 28,000 workers at the mine, 22 percent reported
for duty today, compared with 33 percent yesterday, spokeswoman
Susan Vey said. Lonmin  shares  have plunged 13 percent since the
day before the shootings and were trading at 602 pence as of
1:03 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  