-- 
’Dropping Acid’ Cookbook Has Meals From Reflux Pioneer Charity

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/-dropping-acid-cookbook-offers-recipes-from-reflux-pioneer-voice-charity.html
Dr. Jamie Koufman saw a patient in
1981 who had benign growths in her throat caused by acid
returning from the stomach. She diagnosed it as reflux disease,
only to have many of her peers dismiss it.  “I couldn’t get anything published on reflux for almost a
decade,” Koufman said in an interview.  Now the diagnosis is commonplace. About 20 percent of U.S.
adults have gastroesophageal reflux disease, according to the
Milwaukee-based  International Foundation for Functional
Gastrointestinal Disorders . It occurs when stomach acid comes
back up into the esophagus, causing pain, hoarseness, coughing
or difficulty swallowing.  Koufman established the nonprofit  Voice Institute of New
York , which provides medical care for those with  larynx 
disorders, acid reflux and vocal ailments.  The ailment has hampered and derailed the careers of opera
singers and others who use their voices for a living, Koufman
said. A  study  of 351 singers by a researcher at  Catholic
University  of Medicine and Surgery in  Rome  showed that they had
a higher incidence of reflux than the general population.  Koufman now preaches a low-fat, low-acid diet, whose
effectiveness she argued in a study published in May in the
 Annals of Otology, Rhinology and Laryngology . Her findings are
that acid-reflux symptoms sharply declined or ceased after
patients adopted such a diet.  “I have a patient with chronic cough who is in her 70s,
and we treated her reflux with medication and with a low-fat
diet. And after 42 years, her cough is better,” said Koufman.
“Many of my patients have been basically cured by changing
their diet.”  ‘Dropping Acid’  Koufman has invested $200,000 in publishing “Dropping
Acid: The Reflux Diet Cookbook & Cure.” She worked with  Dr.
Jordan Stern , an acid-reflux specialist and founder of the
sleep-disorders center  BlueSleep , and  Marc Bauer , a master chef
at New York’s French Culinary Institute.  The book’s 75 recipes support the message that people
should avoid fatty and acidic foods such as chocolate,
carbonated beverages, deep fried foods, ribs and coffee. They
should instead favor foods such as bananas, grilled or steamed
chicken, egg whites and raw or cooked vegetables.  “The diet is a good idea,” Dr. Roy K.H. Wong, the
integrated chief of gastroenterology at Walter Reed Army-Navy
Medical Center and a professor of medicine, said by phone.
“Whenever you eat fatty substances, they stay in the stomach
for a longer period of time, and the fat slows down the emptying
of the stomach.”  Word of Mouth  The self-published book has sold about 7,500 copies by word
of mouth and has attracted more than 3,400 to its  Facebook.com
page  since its publication. Sales of the book will support the
Voice Institute.  Dr.  Christine Frissora , an associate professor of medicine
and a gastroenterologist at  New York ’s Weill Cornell Medical
College, said “Dropping Acid” won’t cure all those with acid
reflux. A patient who has advanced reflux or  Barrett’s
esophagus , a precancerous condition, will need medication. If
left untreated, “it can develop into esophageal cancer,” she
said.  In “Dropping Acid,” Koufman recommends that those with
reflux avoid processed foods. “Everything in a bottle or a can
is acidic,” she said.  Chicken stock is used for flavor instead of lemon juice or
white wine in recipes for codfish and Asian-style shrimp with
jasmine rice.  “Classic French soups and sauces are usually finished with
butter or cream because the fat helps the flavor stick on your
taste buds,” Bauer said. “I avoid it by using flavoring” such
a small amount of “cheese that has a nutty taste.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 