-- 
Malaysia Street Protests Averted as Group Agrees to Use Stadium

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-05T10:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/malaysia-street-protests-averted-as-group-agrees-to-use-stadium.html
A Malaysian election-rights group 
agreed to a government offer to hold a protest rally in a 
stadium rather than on the streets, easing a standoff that has
led to more than 100 arrests.  The July 9 protest “is going to be in a stadium but we
don’t know which stadium yet,” Maria Chin Abdullah, a steering
committee member of the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections,
said in a telephone interview. Prime Minister Najib Razak told
reporters today the government is prepared to meet with the
group comprised of non-governmental organizations supported by
opposition parties.  Failure by the government and the group known as “Bersih”
to abide by an accord could lead to violent confrontations
between police and rival protesters, say analysts such as Joseph
Chinyong Liow. Similar protests by the group seeking changes to
the electoral system in 2007 drew 40,000 people in the capital
of  Kuala Lumpur  and water canons were used to disperse crowds.  “Even though the respective parties have claimed that the
protests will be peaceful, when people gather together in large
numbers and emotions are riled up and provocations start, there
is every danger that things might get out of hand,” said Liow,
an associate professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies in  Singapore .  Police Detention  Police have detained more than 100 people for inciting
others to join the rally, Inspector-General of Police Ismail Omar said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We are prepared to meet them,” Najib told reporters in
today in Putrajaya, outside of Kuala Lumpur. “But they must
ensure that they come in peace and go back in peace.” Ethnic
Malay rights groups including Pertubuhan Pribumi Perkasa
Malaysia and UMNO Youth will not hold counter demonstrations,
Najib said.  Calling off a street rally will be good for markets in the
long term, Citigroup Inc. analyst Ng Yong Yin said today in an
e-mail before the group agreed to the stadium venue. “So far,
the market has not reacted to the seemingly tense political
condition on the ground,” Ng said.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index was little changed to
close at 1581.85. The benchmark closed at a record on July 1.  Bersih, which means “clean” in the Malay language, is a
coalition of 62 non-government organizations and isn’t
affiliated with any political party. Opposition groups have
backed the Bersih campaign, which includes  calls  for a broad
rewriting of election laws.  Election Laws  Bersih is seeking changes such as ensuring campaigns last
at least 21 days to allow candidates to explain their platforms
to voters. In the last general election in March 2008, the
campaign period was eight days. The group is also asking that
indelible ink be applied to voters’ fingers when casting ballots
to prevent people from voting more than once.  The government’s arrest of Bersih supporters has drawn
condemnation from rights groups including Human Rights Watch.
Najib’s coalition should “step back from this intimidation
campaign, and negotiate with Bersih and it’s supporters in
civil society to address their legitimate concerns for
electoral reform,” Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director at
 Human Rights Watch , said in a statement yesterday.  The decision to allow the Bersih rally to go ahead in a
stadium underlines a commitment to freedom of expression when
public safety can be ensured, the government said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  