-- 
Albaraka Banking Group’s Egypt and Turkey Units to Raise Funds

-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-07-05T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/albaraka-banking-group-s-egypt-and-turkey-units-to-raise-funds.html
Albaraka Banking Group (BARKA)  BSC’s units in
 Egypt  and Turkey are planning to sell Islamic bonds and seek a
Shariah-compliant syndicated loan, Chief Executive Officer Adnan Ahmed Yousif said.  Al Baraka Bank Egypt ESC, the group’s Cairo-based arm,
expects to raise 1 billion Egyptian pounds ($168 million) from
the sale of 10-year Islamic bonds this summer. In Istanbul,
 Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS (ALBRK)  plans to raise $200 million
with a murabaha Islamic syndicated loan, Yousif said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  The lender in Egypt has “begun the sale of the floating-
rate sukuk this month, and we will keep the sale open for
another three months,” Yousif said. In Turkey, “we will award
banks with the mandates for the contracts either this week or
next week,” he said. The units are raising the capital to help
“restructure liabilities” and finance “growth plans,” he
said.  The funding plans come after Albaraka Banking delayed the
sale of a $300 million sukuk to September from April after the
uprisings in the  Middle East  raised the cost of borrowing. The
average yield on sukuk in Persian Gulf Arab countries jumped to
a five-month high on Feb. 28. It has since dropped 190 basis
points to a five-year low of 4.15 percent yesterday, according
to HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Al Baraka Egypt’s sukuk, which can be redeemed after six
months, will pay an annual profit rate, Manama-based Yousif
said, declining to give a percentage. They won’t be tradable,
“but we are talking to the central bank about amending this so
that they can trade on the stock exchange,” he said.  The Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority agreed in
principle on June 6 on a law allowing for the sale and trade of
Islamic bonds in the North African country. The draft law will
be discussed with “experts” before it is sent to the cabinet
for approval, it said on its website. Al Baraka Egypt’s plan to
sell $100 million of dollar-denominated Islamic bonds before
year-end hasn’t changed, Yousif said.  In  Turkey , the Islamic syndicated loan will be the bank’s
second, according to Bloomberg data. The Istanbul-based lender
got a $240 million, one-year murabaha Islamic syndicated loan in
September. The bank’s Chief Executive Officer Fahrettin Yahsi
said in March the lender plans to borrow about $300 million via
a syndicated loan in June. Albaraka Turk also plans to sell $180
million in Islamic bonds before mid-July, Yahsi said in June.  Shares of Al Baraka Bank Egypt retreated 1.7 percent to
11.36 Egyptian pounds yesterday. The shares have declined 8.8
percent this year, outperforming the benchmark EGX 30 Index,
which has fallen 24 percent. Albaraka Turk shares were unchanged
at 2.26 Turkish liras yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  