-- 
Lan, Tam Advance on Bets Chilean Court Will Approve $4.1 Billion Takeover

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T20:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/lan-tam-advance-on-bets-chilean-court-will-approve-4-1-billion-takeover.html
Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  and  Tam SA (TAMM4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest carriers by sales, gained on speculation
 Chile ’s antitrust tribunal will approve the Santiago-based
company’s $4.1 billion takeover of its Brazilian rival.  Lan advanced 2.2 percent in Santiago trading to 13,904
pesos, the highest price since Jan. 28, at 4:15 p.m. New York
time. Tam jumped 4.6 percent to 36.46 reais in Sao Paulo, the
steepest increase since Jan. 12.  The Chilean tribunal, known as TDLC, is studying the merger
proposal at the request of a consumer defense association. Lan
said July 1 that German regulators had approved the tie-up,
which made investors more optimistic on a favorable ruling in
Chile, according to Ignacio Spencer, who covers Lan for IM Trust
in Santiago. The deal was first announced in August.  “After the German approval, sentiment toward the Chilean
antitrust process has changed,” Spencer said.  Alejandro Domic, a TDLC spokesman, wasn’t immediately
available to comment, an assistant said by phone. Tam said in an
e-mailed statement it has no new information on the deal. A
press official at Lan didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  Analysts Marcelo Varejao at Socopa Corretora in  Sao Paulo 
and Mabel Weber at BICE Inversiones in Santiago said today that
investors are betting the tribunal will rule this month in favor
of the acquisition.  “The market is awaiting this news,” Varejao said in a
telephone interview. “There’s nothing else” to justify today’s
gains, he said.  Tam’s Mauricio Amaro, who will be chairman of the combined
company, said May 26 he’s “confident, but not sure” of
regulatory clearance. The transaction is also subject to
approval from  Brazil ’s antitrust agency, known as Cade.  Lan’s advance marked its 12th consecutive session of gains,
the longest streak in a year. Tam reached the highest level
since Feb. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  