-- 
Arab Emirates’ Rainbow Sheikh Exemplifies Record Rolls Sales Trend: Cars

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-07-05T23:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/arab-emirates-rainbow-sheikh-exemplifies-record-rolls-sales-trend-cars.html
Sheikh Hamad Bin Hamdan Al Nahyan, a
member of  Abu Dhabi ’s ruling family, is one of the reasons why
the Persian Gulf region has become a hot market for luxury cars,
even as political turmoil grips other parts of the Middle East.  Sheikh Hamad, known as the Rainbow Sheikh for his penchant
for bright colors, exemplifies the region’s automotive excess.
His collection of more than 200 vehicles, which includes a five-
meter (16 feet) high replica of a Dodge Power Wagon and a see-
through disco car, is housed in a  pyramid-shaped museum .  With demand stoked by profits from  oil prices  near $100 a
barrel, wealthy Arabs are set to buy a record number of vehicles
from the likes of BMW’s Rolls-Royce,  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati and
Porsche SE this year. Sales of high-end cars in Gulf countries,
including the  United Arab Emirates  will probably grow 20 percent
this year, more than double the overall rate of 9.7 percent in
the segment, according to data from IHS Automotive.  Buying luxury cars in the Gulf is “an extension of the
ego,” said Pierluigi Bellini, associate director of Middle East
research at IHS Automotive in Milan. Wealthy consumers like
“showing off” more than Europeans and Americans, he said.  The sales spurt will probably continue, with IHS
forecasting the market will more than double from 2010 to 2015,
compared with a 51 percent increase globally.  The upbeat outlook for much of the Gulf contrasts with
other areas of the Arab world, where uprisings have overthrown
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  and sparked a civil war in
 Libya  and riots in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen.  Waiting Lists  “Thanks to the U.A.E., we were able to counterbalance the
slowdown in other parts of the region,” said Umberto Maria
Cini, who oversees the  Middle East  and Africa for Maserati. If
the sales pickup from May and April continues, the Fiat unit may
“run out of cars” in the next few months, Cini said,
predicting a gain of more than 10 percent for the rest of 2011.  Porsche is asking U.A.E. buyers of the Cayenne SUV to wait
at least three months to get delivery, while a 911 sportscar may
take as long as seven months to arrive, George Wills, acting
managing director for the region said in an e-mail. He predicted
growth of at least 10 percent in the second quarter.  Rolls-Royce’s sales through May surged 74 percent in the
Middle East and Africa, with the U.A.E. the largest market. BMW-
brand deliveries jumped 42 percent in Abu Dhabi in the first
quarter and 38 percent in Dubai, powered by high-end models like
5- and 7-Series sedans and X5 and X6 sport-utility vehicles,
said Reiner Braun, BMW’s regional sales chief.  ‘Luxury Bias’  “High oil prices generally translate -- with a lag -- into
second-round wealth effects,” said Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce,
senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank in Dubai. “In this
case, there is a marked bias toward luxury consumption.”  In addition to the growth, the mark-up on customized and
special-edition vehicles is attracting investment from ultra-
luxury nameplates.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce has
its biggest showroom in the world in Abu Dhabi. An indoor
 Ferrari theme park , big enough to fit seven football fields end
to end, opened there last year.  Maserati plans a showroom in  Iran , where it once served
Shah Reza Pahlavi, by early next year. Cini predicted that the
country will become the brand’s second-largest in the region
after the U.A.E.  “In the Middle East, we see richer versions and
customizations, which makes it a better market for margins for
luxury-car makers,” said IHS’s Bellini. “It’s a region that
traditionally likes luxury cars, making it a good bet.”  Desert Colors  An inclination toward extravagance spurred the development
of models like the Bugatti L’Or Blanc, which is equipped with
porcelain accents from Berlin-based  KPM , a 248-year-old company
that supplied King Frederick the Great of Prussia. The 1.65
million-euro ($2.4 million) special edition of the Veyron Grand
Sport, which features a caviar tray in the center console, was
created by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s supercar brand for an unidentified
Abu Dhabi businessman.  Then there’s the Rolls-Royce Phantom Coupe Baynunah with a
price tag of 2.05 million dirhams ($558,142). The model features
a leather rooftop and a color-combination inspired by the
desert. That followed the Yas Eagle, the first Rolls Royce with
a matte exterior color for 1.95 million dirhams.  Maserati introduced the limited edition GranTurismo S MC
Sport Line for the Middle East in 2009, after selling half the
global allotment of the 685,000-dirham Quattroporte Collezione
Cento in the region.  Diamond-Studded Verse  The region’s wealthy aren’t satisfied with owning a limited
edition of one of the world’s most elite cars. Many want
something even more exclusive.  “There’s more customization here than other parts of the
world,” James Crichton, Rolls-Royce’s director for the Middle
East and  Africa , said in a phone interview. “Middle Eastern
customers want to create something individual that’s unique to
them. Other buyers are more standard and less adventurous.”  To grant the wish of an Abu Dhabi buyer, Rolls-Royce
crafted a poetry verse out of diamonds, gold, and leather for
the interior of a $450,000 Phantom extended wheelbase model. The
Goodwood, England-based carmaker also created a color called
“Astro Silver Matte” for the exterior of another Gulf Phantom.
Such wishes aren’t free. The paint job cost $23,000, according
to Rolls-Royce’s Crichton.  While sales volumes are relatively small, representing just
1.7 percent of global luxury-car deliveries last year, buyers
like Sheikh Hamad, who has a Mercedes in every color of the
rainbow, make it a lucrative market. Sheikh Hamad wasn’t
available for comment.  “Our top customers here change their cars every year,”
said Kadhim Alhelli, Rolls-Royce brand manager at Abu Dhabi
Motors. “Some even more often.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  