-- 
Arab States’ Aid to Egypt Seen as Effort to Block Iran Influence

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-07-05T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/arab-states-aid-to-egypt-seen-as-effort-to-block-iran-influence.html
The  United Arab Emirates  joined Saudi
Arabia in offering a multibillion dollar economic assistance
package to  Egypt  as it seeks to block the way for Iranian
influence in post-Mubarak Egypt, analysts said.  With Egypt’s first elections since the fall of President
 Hosni Mubarak  due in September, members of the interim
government are touring the Persian Gulf to get support for their
country’s ailing economy. The benefit of aiding Egypt is twofold
for nations including Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and  Kuwait : They
can assert claims that Iran is meddlesome while benefiting from
opportunities in Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous nation.  “Moving away from the established orbit of Egypt being
part of an axis that views Iranian involvement in the region
with suspicion and hostility is a major concern for the Gulf
states,” Salman Shaikh, director of  Brookings Doha Center  in
Qatar, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There is in
this changing and fluctuating region a competition taking place
to shape the region and Egypt is very pivotal in that. Simply
put, Egypt matters.”  Members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a bloc of six
Sunni Muslim-dominated nations, have accused  Iran , the region’s
main Shiite Muslim power, of meddling in regional affairs.
Bahrain says Iran assisted Bahraini Shiite protesters seeking to
overthrow the monarchy. Kuwait has expelled a number of Iranian
diplomats for spying, and the U.A.E. is embroiled in a
territorial dispute with Iran over three Persian Gulf islands.  Businesses, Housing  The U.A.E. committed $3 billion to Egypt yesterday
following a visit by interim Prime Minister Essam Sharaf to Abu
Dhabi. The funds will be directed toward Egypt’s small- and
medium-sized businesses and housing projects. Saudi Arabia
offered budgetary aid worth $4 billion in May, and Qatar is
expected to announce a package “soon,” Egypt’s Finance
Minister  Samir Radwan  said July 4, adding that Egypt won’t
require assistance from the  International Monetary Fund  or  World
Bank  as long as Gulf allies are willing to help.  “Gulf countries know that if there is a serious change in
Egypt, it will affect the whole region,” Moustafa el-Husseini,
author of “Egypt on the Brink of the Unknown,” said yesterday
in a telephone interview from Cairo. They are “worried about
more Iranian and Turkish influence in the region.”  Mubarak was overthrown in February after a 19-day popular
revolt fueled by grievances over issues including unemployment
and complaints of police brutality. Less than two weeks after
Mubarak was toppled, Egypt allowed two Iranian warships to use
the  Suez Canal  to reach the Mediterranean Sea. The decision
prompted an outcry from  Israel , which alleged Iran sought to use
Egypt’s vulnerability to intimidate countries in the region.  Middle East  Divide  Iran and Egypt have been on opposite sides of the Middle
East divide since ending full diplomatic relations in 1979 after
the Iranian Revolution that brought Shiite clerics to power. In
March, Egypt’s then-Foreign Minister Nabil el-Arabi said his
country’s “government doesn’t consider Iran to be an enemy
state” and that “we’re opening a new page with all countries,
including Iran,” Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency
reported.  Iran continues to take credit for the political changes
that began sweeping the Middle East and North Africa early this
year. Mohammad Ali Ansari, head of the ideological department of
the Iranian military’s naval forces, said July 2 that the
regional uprisings are “offshoots” of his nation’s revolution,
Iran’s state-run Fars news agency reported.  Unrest Saps Growth  The unrest has dimmed prospects for Egyptian growth. The
International Monetary Fund said in April that the country’s
economy will slow “significantly,” cutting its 2011 forecast
to 1 percent from 5 percent, as the aftermath of the turmoil
weighs on investments. Tourism plummeted by 80 percent in
February and investment dropped 26 percent, Fitch Ratings Ltd.
said July 1.  “There’s no debate over Egypt’s long-term potential,”
 Simon Williams , chief Middle East economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Dubai, said by phone yesterday. Gulf-based investors
recognize that Egypt has “a large, young population, great
geographical location, unique appeal as a tourist destination,
potential for agriculture; and the service-sector and
manufacturing-base growth is clear.”  Countries in the  Persian Gulf  were vocal supporters of the
Mubarak regime in the early days of the revolution and have
since supported the democratic aspirations of Egyptian citizens.
Only Bahrain and Oman have seen similar popular revolts, while
other Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia, have sought to
quell protests through increases in public spending.  Gates Accuses Iran  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  accused Iran
last week of stepping up efforts to wield influence in the
Middle East and the Persian Gulf region. The pattern has become
particularly evident since revolts began against authoritarian
rule in  Tunisia , Egypt and elsewhere, he said.  Sharaf said yesterday that Egypt’s position toward Iran
hasn’t changed, although he declined to say whether Iran was the
source of recently reported tensions between Egypt and the
U.A.E. The Supreme Council of the Egyptian Armed Forces said
April 26 that Egypt wasn’t receiving any external pressure from
 Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E., the Emirates News Agency reported
April 26, following reports that Egyptians were being denied
visitor and residency visas for the Gulf states.  Several members of Egypt’s  Muslim Brotherhood , the
country’s biggest and best-organized opposition group under
Mubarak, have said that they encourage dialogue with all
regional parties.  “We support ensuring the Egyptian and Arab national
security and holding a dialogue with Iran and  Turkey  that can
achieve security and economic development for the region,” said
Essam el-Erian, deputy leader of the Freedom and Justice Party,
which is affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood. Those who
support that stance “will benefit and who try and stop it will
fail,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview from Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 