-- 
Larsen & Toubro to Double Orders From Outside India on Gulf Construction

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-07-06T12:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/larsen-toubro-to-double-orders-from-outside-india-on-gulf-construction.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest
builder of power networks and refineries, expects to double
overseas orders in three years as a new structure helps it
challenge South Korean builders for projects in the  Middle East .  Contracts from overseas will rise to 25 percent of total
orders in the period as the company divides operations into nine
units to improve management focus, Chief Financial Officer Y.M. Deosthalee said in a July 4 interview at the company’s Mumbai
head office. Foreign deals now account for less than 10 percent
of orders, he said.  “Our international strategy has not panned out the way it
should have,” he said. That is one reason for the new
management setup as “this business has to grow,” he said.  The company will focus its overseas push on the Gulf, as
rising oil prices and economic development spur investment in
refineries and infrastructure. Countries in the region plan to
spend almost $1 trillion on construction over five years,
Deloitte Corporate Finance Ltd. said in November.  “Larsen has the wherewithal to win orders overseas,” said
Rupesh Kumar, a Mumbai-based analyst with KR Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt. “But, the going won’t be easy for them as they
are facing some formidable competitors.”  The company gained 0.8 percent to 1,806.6 rupees at the
3.30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The shares have dropped
8.7 percent this year, matching the decline in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Larsen plans to promote work it has done in  India ,
including building four airports, to win overseas contracts,
Deosthalee said. India’s lower wages may also help Larsen
challenge South Korean builders, including Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co., the nation’s biggest, which got 38 percent of
sales in the Middle East last year.  ‘Tough Job’  “It’s a very tough job to compete against them, but we
have some advantages,” Deosthalee said. “Our entire design and
engineering team is sitting in India,” which pares costs, he
said.  Larsen last month announced 13.7 billion rupee ($310
million) of transmission and power distribution  orders  from the
Middle East, including installing a 225 kilometer-long power
line for a Saudi Arabian railway and building five substations
for Abu Dhabi Ports Co.  Nine Units  The builder expects its total orderbook to rise as much as
20 percent by March 31 from 1.3 trillion rupees at the end of
the last fiscal year, it said earlier this year. The company in
January unveiled the new management set-up centered on nine
units, focused on areas including construction, shipbuilding,
electrical parts,  information technology  and financial services.  Aside from the Middle East, Larsen is also looking to win
business in other South Asian countries and in  Africa ,
Deosthalee said. It has opened an office in  South Africa  to win
contracts there to build electricity transmission lines, he
said.  The company also makes heavy-engineering equipment,
including parts for fertilizer plants and refineries, which are
sold worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  