-- 
Matsumoto Quits as Japan’s Reconstruction Minister in Latest Blow to Kan

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-07-05T07:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/matsumoto-quits-as-japan-s-reconstruction-minister-in-latest-blow-to-kan.html
Japan ’s disaster reconstruction
minister quit a week into his job after publicly scolding the
governor of a tsunami-devastated region, further damaging Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s embattled administration.  Ryu Matsumoto said today that he had submitted his
resignation to Kan, adding that he also quit as disaster
prevention minister. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
Kan appointed vice minister Tatsuo Hirano as the new minister.  “I truly apologize for my thoughtless and rough words that
hurt the feelings of disaster victims,” Matsumoto said.  Matsumoto on July 3 rebuked Miyagi Governor Yoshihiro Murai
for arriving late to a meeting, then said that unless there was
a consensus in the prefecture for a rebuilding plan, “we won’t
do anything.” He then told the assembled press not to report
the remarks. Video of the meeting was posted on the Internet.  Opposition lawmakers called on Matsumoto, 60, to quit and
criticized Kan’s judgment in appointing him to the newly created
post. Kan is already under pressure from both the opposition and
his own  Democratic Party of Japan  to step down over his handling
of the March earthquake and tsunami that caused the biggest
nuclear disaster in 25 years.  Matsumoto’s gaffe may complicate Kan’s aim of passing three
bills before carrying out a pledge to step down. Kan last week
said he wants parliament to approve his second disaster recovery
package, authorize the sale of deficit-covering bonds and enact
a renewable energy bill before the end of August. Seven in 10
voters want him to quit by then, a poll yesterday showed.  ‘Another Blow’  “This is another blow to an already weak government,”
said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at  Sophia
University  in  Tokyo . “This is unlikely to prevent the
opposition for calling for Kan’s resignation and they may not
cooperate in parliament. There’s no way forward for Kan.”  Ichiro Aisawa, a senior member of the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party , said Kan “will have to be questioned
severely for his responsibility in this matter,”  Kyodo News 
reported.  Kan today proposed a 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) stimulus
plan, half the size of a package approved in May. The government
won’t rely on new bond sales to pay for the plan because it will
use leftover funds from last year’s budget.  Kan’s approval rating dropped to 19 percent from 24 percent
last month, the Mainichi newspaper  reported  yesterday. About 44
percent of respondents said he should resign immediately and 27
percent said he should do so next month. The paper surveyed
1,129 voters on July 2 and 3 and didn’t provide a margin of
error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  