-- 
Australia Trade Surplus in May Widens to Seven-Month High

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-05T01:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/australia-trade-surplus-in-may-widens-to-seven-month-high-1-.html
Australia’s trade surplus in May was
the widest in seven months as the  mining industry  fueled a
recovery from the nation’s worst quarterly contraction in two
decades.  Exports exceeded imports by A$2.33 billion ($2.5 billion),
from a revised A$1.62 billion surplus in April, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists was for a surplus of
A$1.9 billion.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has paused
raising  interest rates  at 4.75 percent for the past six meetings
to help the economy recover from natural disasters at home and
abroad. A report last month showed gross domestic product shrank
in the first quarter by the most in 20 years as floods and a
cyclone in Queensland state slashed sales abroad.  The widening of the trade surplus is “largely due to an
increase in iron-ore exports,” Andrew McManus, an analyst at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney, wrote
before today’s report. “Meanwhile, ports data suggest that coal
exports continued to be affected by flooded mines in May. It now
seems that coal exports will not provide the significant rebound
to second-quarter GDP.”  The Australian dollar maintained earlier losses the report.
The currency traded at $1.0708 as of 11:32 a.m. in Sydney, from
$1.0715 before the report and $1.0734 yesterday in  New York .  Gold Exports  Exports rose 3 percent to A$26 billion, led by a 49 percent
jump in gold shipments to A$1.62 billion, which was the fifth-
highest on record, the report showed. Imports were little
changed at A$24 billion, it showed.  Australia’s trade with  China  totaled A$8.9 billion, the
biggest since December, according to the report.  The RBA says Australia is undergoing a once-in-a-century
mining boom to meet demand from India and China, two economies
that account for more than a third of the world’s population.  “Hundreds of millions of people in the emerging world have
seen growth in their incomes and associated changes in their
 living standards ,” Stevens said in a June 15 speech. “This
means they are moving towards a more energy- and steel-intensive
way of life and a more protein-rich diet.”  Stevens said the transformation “is fundamentally changing
the shape of the world economy. Even if China’s growth rate
moderates this year, as it seems to be doing, these structural
forces almost certainly will continue.”  Australia recovery from the natural disasters earlier in
the year may be prolonged after a June 9 government report
showed employers cut 79,200 full-time jobs in May and April, the
biggest two-month decline in more than two years.  Still, Australia’s unemployment rate in May held at 4.9
percent.  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in  Western Australia , threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation. BG Group Plc, Chevron, Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies planning
to invest about A$200 billion in proposed liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  