-- 
Austria Doesn’t See Capital Surcharge for Nation’s Top Banks

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-05T12:12:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/austria-says-won-t-order-capital-surcharge-on-nation-s-top-banks.html
Austrian regulators won’t pursue a
capital surcharge for the country’s biggest banks as European
policymakers are debating how to adapt at the national level new
rules to make global “too-big-to-fail” lenders safer.  In an effort to prevent another financial crisis, the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  said last month that banks
deemed too big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage
points in additional capital. As many as 30 banks worldwide may
face such surcharges. The debate is now turning to banks whose
collapse could unsettle a particular country’s banking system
even if they are too small to cause global havoc.  Helmut Ettl and Kurt Pribil, co-chairmen of Austrian
financial supervisor FMA, said nations should have leeway to
apply capital surcharges and other rules selectively and
shouldn’t be forced to slap a surcharge on banks that are
systemically important on a national level.  “Depending on management, risk, and other factors, we
should be able to selectively” apply different measures to
ensure banks don’t have to be bailed out by taxpayers, Pribil
told reporters yesterday. “It doesn’t make sense to simply say
that the surcharge must apply to a fixed set of banks.”  The European Commission is due to discuss new rules for
national systemically important financial institutions, or
SIFIs, Ettl said.  Austria ’s biggest lenders are  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria AG and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , none of which are among the 30 banks that face
the Basel surcharge.  Not Size Alone  The definition of systemically important banks must not
rely on size alone, but also consider complexity and
interconnectedness, Ettl added. Austria, for instance, had to
bail out Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG in 2009, which
was the country’s sixth-biggest bank with total assets of just
41 billion euros ($59.3 billion).  “We recommend that there is as much room to maneuver as
possible for national supervisors to design the regulation of
national SIFIs rather than relying on a simple capital
surcharge,” Ettl said.  Austrian banks’ total assets make up 4.2 times the
country’s gross domestic product, exceeding the euro area
average of 2.8 times GDP, mostly because of their eastern
European businesses.  Austria’s central bank, which shares responsibility for
bank supervision with the FMA, has said the countries six
biggest banks have less capital and rely more on wholesale
funding than their peers in eastern  Europe , and need to build up
their risk buffers. The central bank estimates that the Alpine
nation’s entire banking sector needs to raise 10 billion euros
to reach the minimum requirements of new Basel III banking rules
and to repay state aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  