-- 
Bahrain Promotes Talks to End ‘Family’ Squabble

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-07-05T03:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bahrain-promotes-talks-to-end-family-squabble.html
Bahraini state television, promoting
a “national dialogue” after unrest, shows two girls playing
and then squabbling, smiles replaced by scowls. Then the smiles
return, accompanied by a caption: “Like any family, we have our
differences, but we love each other.”  The monthlong talks involving representatives of political
parties, activists and prominent Bahrainis began July 2 in
Manama, two days after a renewal of tensions in the capital
prompted troops to use tear gas on protesters. Sunni Muslim King
Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa called for the dialogue to heal rifts
opened by the crackdown that has left at least 30 dead and 500
in jail. Between Sunni concern that Shiite Muslim-led Iran is
stoking the unrest and Shiite bitterness over the violence, he
may find dialogue alone fails to bring family unity.  When demonstrations erupted in February, mostly among the
Shiite majority, the demands were for higher  living standards 
and greater representation. The violence against demonstrators
radicalized many, leading to calls for the monarchy’s overthrow,
and alarming neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf Cooperation
Council nations, which sent troops to help restore order.  “It seems unlikely that major changes will emanate from
this forum,” Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow for the
 Middle East  and North Africa at  Chatham House  in  London , said
July 2 in response to e-mailed questions. “The current national
dialogue is not a dialogue between the government and the
opposition.”  The talks are “not going to solve the specific problems
between the government and the opposition,” she said.  Four Themes  The dialogue revolves around four themes: politics, the
economy, and social and legal issues, Parliament Speaker Khalifa
bin Ahmed al-Dhahrani, chairman of the event, said last month.
The participants’ recommendations will be sent to the king, who
will then order the executive and legislative authorities to
take the necessary action, according to al-Dhahrani.  Many of the 300 attending are pro-government loyalists,
while the biggest Shiite party,  al-Wefaq , has five seats.
Kinninmont said more than 60 percent of Bahrainis live in
districts that elected al-Wefaq lawmakers last year.  Bahraini and Saudi officials have accused  Iran  of being
behind the opposition to Sunni rulers, without presenting
evidence.  The eruption of unrest in the kingdom has coincided with
pro-democracy demonstrations that have rocked the Arab world.  The economy of Bahrain, which has promoted itself as a
business center to rival nearby Dubai, has been hurt by the
unrest. Gross domestic product shrank 1.4 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months. The central bank cut its
economic growth forecast this year by two percentage points to 3
percent, Governor Rasheed al-Maraj said in a June 16 interview.  Ratings Cut  In May, the crisis prompted Moody’s to lower Bahrain’s
credit rating by one level to Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade. Standard & Poor’s cut  Bahrain ’s rating twice this year to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade.  Bahrainis talk about relationships that have suffered
because of sectarian differences -- brawls in schools, tensions
in the workplace and friends who have been removed from users’
pages on social-networking websites such as Facebook and Twitter
because their postings reflected different viewpoints.  “The divisions are deep,” Jamal Fakhro, first deputy
chairman of the Bahrain Shura Council, a consultative body
appointed by the king, said in a telephone interview. “But
we’ve been through this before and we will come out of it this
time. The best thing about this dialogue is that there are no
red lines on the subjects to be discussed.”  Equal Rights  Bahrain’s Shiites, who make up about 70 percent of the
population according to the U.S. State Department, have long
demanded rights equal to those of Sunnis, including appointments
to senior government and military posts. In the 1990s, Bahrain
was shaken by violence stemming from Shiite disaffection.  The U.S., which keeps its Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain,
has called for reconciliation and political changes in the
kingdom while sparing its rulers the criticism leveled at
repression of pro-democracy protests in Syria and  Libya .  Hadi al-Mousawi, one of 18 al-Wefaq lawmakers who resigned
from parliament to protest the crackdown, said last week that
the gathering has no power to act and said his group is under-
represented at the talks.  Mounira Fakhro, head of the delegation representing Waad, a
secular, pro-democracy party of Sunnis and Shiites, said
expanding the dialogue to include social and economic issues was
a mistake.  “There’s a political problem,” she said by phone last
week. “Sit down and solve it and the other issues will be
resolved.”  Panel Investigating  In the days before the start of the dialogue, the
government took some steps to defuse tensions and the king
announced the formation of an independent committee to
investigate the crackdown. It’s the first time an Arab head of
state has taken such a step, Cherif Bassiouni, the panel’s chief
and a professor emeritus at the DePaul University College of Law
in  Chicago , said June 30 as he arrived in Bahrain.  About 140 people have been released from detention in the
past week, including medics as well as players and staff from
the country’s national soccer team, Al-Mousawi said yesterday.
Hundreds of people remain in jail, he said. Four have died in
detention, and almost 2,000 have been fired or suspended from
work,  Amnesty International  said June 23.  Mansoor al-Jamri, former editor of the independent
newspaper al-Wasat, is taking part in the talks, though he says
he is still bitter at the way he was forced to quit his job in
April. Prosecutors accused him of publishing false stories to
incite fellow Shiites to rise against the government. He says
the information was planted into the newspaper’s computer system
and published inadvertently.  The dialogue is “one simple move that has to be followed
by a bigger initiative for it to succeed,” al-Jamri said in an
interview last week in Manama. “I feel very angry, but you have
to repress it because something has to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 