-- 
BASF Said to Mull Genetically Modified Crop Exit in Germany

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-06T12:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/basf-said-to-consider-genetically-modified-crop-exit-in-germany.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical
maker, may withdraw genetically modified crop research from
 Germany  in response to growing political opposition, three
people familiar with discussions said.  The maker of the Amflora scientific potato is considering
the future of its research facility in rural Limburgerhof in
southwestern Germany, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. A move to the U.S.
is possible for the plant biotechnology operations, which employ
700, said one of the people.  Germany plans to close all 17 of its nuclear reactors by
2022, exiting atomic power after a meltdown in  Japan  stoked
safety concerns. The move has strengthened the Green Party,
which rejects nuclear energy and is now a junior coalition
partner in BASF’s home state. The risks of genetically modified
organisms are difficult to calculate, the Greens say.  “GMOs may be just like atomic energy,” said Ulrike Hoefken, the  Green Party ’s regional environment minister. “The
risks are masked and big benefits are claimed. But it’s the
general public who is left with the costs for any damage.”  The flight of research means Germany may lose out on the
$12 billion market for genetically modified plants, which is set
to grow 5 percent annually over the next five years, according
to advisory firm Phillips McDougall. BASF founded the
 agricultural center  in Limburgerhof in 1914 and now has 11,000
square meters of greenhouses and some 40 hectares of fields.  Weighing Politics  BASF, in an e-mailed response to questions, said it’s too
early to comment on the future of plant biotechnology research,
though the company will take regional politics into account. The
company has already halted projects focusing solely on the
European market, it said. The Green Party tripled its vote in
Rhineland-Palatinate, home to BASF’s Ludwigshafen headquarters,
on March 27.  “We are committed to green biotechnology,” Peter Eckes,
head of BASF’s plant science unit, said in an e-mail. “We value
the open and constructive dialogue we have had with Rhineland-
Palatinate’s government in the past and want to continue this
dialogue with the members of the new government. This also
includes the clarification of the new government’s attitude
toward green biotechnology.”  The potential setback comes a year after BASF won
permission to plant its Amflora potato for use as a thickening
agent for paper, overcoming 13 years of opposition from
environmental groups in Germany and  Sweden  who cited possible
damage to health and ecology.  Missing Out  Developing countries  will overtake industrialized nations
in planting genetically modified crops before 2015, said Clive James, founder of nonprofit International Service for the
Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications, or ISAAA.  A European Union plan to let individual member states ban
the cultivation of GM crops won support this week. Legislators
endorsed a draft law that would give governments an opt-out from
rules making the EU a single market for goods. The aim is to
accelerate approvals of applications to plant scientific seeds.  “The price countries like Germany will have to pay if they
decide against biotech will be very high,” James said in an
interview on June 15. “The money and the scientists would go
elsewhere. That’s a long-term loss.”  James estimates 15.4 million farmers use biotech crops, 90
percent of those being “among the poorest of the poor.” The
crops are an “essential element” to help reach the United
Nation’s goals of cutting poverty and hunger, James said.  Monsanto’s Moves  German seed maker  KWS Saat AG (KWS)  carries out research and
plants test fields in its home country, while commercial
planting takes place in the U.S. because of regulatory hurdles
in  Europe , according to spokeswoman Sabine Michalek. Bayer,
based in Leverkusen, Germany, located its plant biotechnology
research in  Belgium .  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, has pared
plant development in Germany to a sole project with two test
fields because the country’s “basic framework doesn’t lend
itself to further products,” company spokesman Andreas Thierfelder said.  “We’re keeping the minimum required to retain our
accreditation,” Thierfelder said by telephone on June 22.
“It’s just enough to keep our foot in the door.” Monsanto does
most of its research in  Missouri , where the company is based.  China  may be spending the most on researching crops
engineered for specific traits or resistance to pests, ISAAA’s
James estimates, with Brazil and  India  also investing heavily.  “China sees it as a strategic issue, a question of
independence and of  food security ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sheenagh Matthews at
   smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in
 Frankfurt  at   rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 