-- 
Bats Options, CBI, Note-Printing Bribery, OCC: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-05T12:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bats-options-note-printing-bribery-occ-bank-firewalls-compliance.html
Regulators approved a program
proposed by Bats Global Markets over the objections of  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and other exchanges that allows market-makers
operating on Bats to give certain brokers better options prices.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
allow Bats Exchange Options Market to introduce a so-called
 directed-order program . The plan was criticized by the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , NYSE Euronext,
 International Securities Exchange  and BOX Options Exchange. The
SEC’s  approval order  was published July 1.  Bats  first proposed  a directed-order program in December.
The Lenexa, Kansas-based company withdrew that after exchanges
objected and suggested a different version of the plan in March.
The program will be run on a six-month pilot basis that ends on
Jan. 30, 2012, the SEC said.  Bats will provide data so people can evaluate the program,
said  Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman. The exchange will also
submit monthly reports about the program to the SEC.  The Bats exchange had 4.1 percent of options volume last
month, according to data  compiled  by Chicago-based OCC, which
clears all equity derivatives contracts in the U.S. The largest
individual market is the CBOE, with 25.4 percent. The Bats
program allows market makers to send the exchange two prices on
options contracts. One would be displayed publicly while the
other, assuming the first price is quoting at the national best
bid or offer, would improve that price and be hidden.  Nasdaq OMX and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  complained in letters to the
SEC in June that the Bats programs is “discriminatory” and
will have “a significant and damaging impact on the options
industry as a whole.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CBI Says U.K. Proposals for Bank Firewalls May Hurt Competition  The  Confederation of British Industry  said plans to erect
firebreaks around the consumer-banking units of lenders to
protect taxpayers and depositors during financial crises may
hurt competition and damage economic growth.  The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby, said
recommendations drawn up by the  Independent Commission on
Banking  must take into account each bank’s funding models and
that a “one-size-fits-all solution” would force banks to
follow the same business model, stifling innovation, reducing
competition and increasing costs.  John Vickers, a former Bank of England chief economist, was
asked by the government last year to recommend ways to boost
stability and competition in the British banking industry. The
 Treasury  spent 65.8 billion pounds ($108 billion) rescuing  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  during
the financial crisis.  House Democrats Urge OCC to Seek More Comment on Preemption Rule  U.S. House Democrats are asking the regulator overseeing
national banks to seek additional comment on rules governing
when state consumer-protection laws can be trumped by federal
powers amid criticism of an initial proposal.  Five members of the  House Financial Services Committee , led
by Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, made the
request in a letter to Acting Comptroller of the Currency John
Walsh after the U.S. Treasury Department said the OCC’s plan
ignored the will of Congress expressed in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The letter said the original 30 day comment period was
“insufficient to foster a meaningful and balanced exchange of
views between the OCC and other interested parties.” The
lawmakers urged Walsh to extend the comment period by at least
60 days. The OCC had no immediate comment on the letter.  Congress directed the OCC to propose new rules after state
officials said federal regulators used preemption to let banks
escape tougher oversight before the 2008 credit crisis.  The  Conference of State Bank Supervisors , which sought a
60-day extension of the comment period in a letter this week,
has said that Dodd-Frank granted them new power over national
banks for consumer protection laws.  The OCC said in its proposal that preemption remains
largely intact, and that the agency would make decisions in
consultation with the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  EU’s  Deutsche Boerse  Questionnaire Focuses on Derivatives  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rivals and customers were asked by
European Union regulators whether its $9.57 billion bid for NYSE
Euronext would reduce competition for derivatives and equity
trading and clearing.  The  European Commission , in a survey with more than 165
questions obtained by Bloomberg News, asked what effect the deal
to create the largest owner of equities and derivatives markets
would have on access to market data. They also asked whether  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest future exchange, may become “a
significant player” in trading or clearing European
derivatives.  Deutsche Boerse’s offer for NYSE Euronext would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European  stock trading  in the
hands of one organization.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission in
Brussels, said the questionnaire was “part of the usual
procedure for investigating mergers.” Frank Herkenhoff, a
spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in Frankfurt, and James Dunseath,
a spokesman for NYSE Euronext in London, both declined to
comment.  The EU’s antitrust agency last week set an initial deadline
of Aug. 4 to rule on the deal. Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s
competition chief, said in March that he expects to open an in-
depth review of the “complex deal” after the initial monthlong
probe.  The questionnaire was sent out last week with a deadline to
reply by July 7, a “pretty difficult” limit that may see
companies seek more time, said Matthew Hall, a Brussels-based
partner at McGuire Woods LLP.  For more, click here.  Basel Group Publishes Clarification on Capital, Liquidity Rules  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said it
published guidance for banks and regulators on the
implementation of international rules on capital and liquidity,
known as Basel III.  The guidance published today concerns “the definition of
capital and the liquidity sections of the Basel III framework,”
it said in a statement on its website.  Compliance Action  Australian Central Bank Currency Firms Charged With Bribery  The Australian central bank’s note-printing units and six
people including former managers have been charged with bribing
officials in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam to win currency
contracts.  Securency International Pty and Note Printing Australia
Ltd. were charged over alleged payments to foreign public
officials between 1999 and 2005, the Australian  Federal  Police
said in a statement on its website. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, which owns NPA and 50 percent of Securency, said in a
statement it condemns corrupt behavior of any kind and no one at
the bank has been accused of wrongdoing.  The July 1 arrests are the first under Australia’s decade-
old foreign bribery laws and coincided with related bribery
charges against two individuals in Malaysia by that nation’s
Attorney-General’s Chambers following an investigation by the
country’s anti-corruption commission, the AFP said. The RBA said
in November last year that it will sell its stake in Securency.  Australian Assistant Treasurer Bill Shorten and Reserve
Bank Governor Glenn Stevens, who spoke after the announcement,
expressed confidence in the bank and condemned corrupt or
questionable behavior related to it.  The six men appeared in a Melbourne magistrate’s court July
1. The charges carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in jail
and/or a fine of A$1.1 million ($1.2 million), AFP’s statement
said.  For more, click here.  U.K. Fraud Office Says It’s Not Probing Banks in U.S. Fund Case  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said it isn’t looking into
specific banks on behalf of a U.S. investigation into sovereign
wealth funds.  SFO Director  Richard Alderman  issued a statement July 1
saying that he “indicated that should the SFO be asked we would
assist our U.S. colleagues in any way we could.” The comments
contradict earlier reports that the SFO was already assisting
the U.S. authorities.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
whether transactions with Libya’s sovereign fund may have
violated bribery laws, the Wall Street Journal reported last
month, citing people it didn’t identify. SEC officials are
reviewing documents including those related to a $50 million fee
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to pay the Libyan fund to help
recoup losses, the newspaper said. The payment was never made,
it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Goldman Sachs are among banks
that held funds for the Muammar Qaddafi-controlled Libyan
sovereign wealth fund, London-based advocacy group  Global
Witness  said earlier this year.  In an interview on June 28, Alderman said that the agency
was “talking to the Americans about various issues.”  When asked about whether HSBC would be a focus for the SFO,
Alderman replied, “Yes, that’s the thought.”  Reports that the SFO are looking at specific banks is
“incorrect,” the agency said in the statement July 1. “We
work closely with a range of U.S. authorities, the Department of
Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission in particular
and with whom we regularly discuss matters of mutual interest.
The director did not confirm any investigation into specific
companies.”  HSBC spokesman Jezz Farr declined to comment. French Bank
Networks Settle Pay-Systems Probe, Agency Says  French bank networks are concluding a settlement of a probe
into commissions on alternative payment systems such as bank
cards, according to the country’s competition regulator, which
said it would provide more details of the deal later this week.  The investigation into fees charged for processing the
payments was split from an inquiry into electronic check-
processing fees concluded in September 2010, which resulted in a
384.9 million euros ($559 million) fine against 11 banks. That
fine encouraged the targets of the second probe to negotiate a
settlement, Bruno Lasserre, the President of the Competition
Authority, said yesterday in Paris.  Lasserre declined to give details on the targets of the
inquiry or the terms of the settlement.  The agreement is still pending, according to an agency
spokesman who declined to be named citing official policy.  The check-processing fine was the year’s highest, the
antitrust regulator said July 3 in its annual report.  The regulator also announced two sector inquiries yesterday
focused on electronic commerce and automobile repair and parts.  Courts  Discover Says FDIC Reviews Marketing of Fee-Based Products  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the credit-card issuer and
payments network, said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is
reviewing its marketing of fee-based products in connection with
a Minnesota lawsuit.  The FDIC examination includes the company’s “payment-
protection fee product, which could lead to an enforcement
action,” the Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  July 1. Discover, the
fourth-biggest U.S. payments network, didn’t specify what aspect
of its fee-based products the FDIC is reviewing.  “We are engaged in constructive dialogue with the FDIC,”
Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-
mailed statement. She added that the company is committed to
providing quality services and marketing them “transparently.”  In June, Discover agreed to a preliminary settlement of
eight class-action cases challenging its marketing practices of
fee-based products, according to the filing. The settlement
requires judicial approval, the filing said.  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson filed a lawsuit in
December 2010 against Discover Bank and Discover Financial,
claiming that Discover Bank telemarketers failed to tell
consumers when they were agreeing to purchase optional, fee-
based services, including payment protection. The FDIC review is
related to the lawsuit, Sutton said in her e-mail without
elaborating.  Discover will “vigorously defend all claims asserted
against it,” according to the July 1 filing. The company made
more than $105 million on its fee-based services in the three
months ended May 31, the filing said.  The Minnesota attorney general’s office didn’t immediately
return requests for comment.  Former ICBC (Asia) Executive Chan Pleads Guilty in Bribery Case  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  (Asia) Ltd.’s former
head of corporate banking Derick Chan Po-fui pleaded guilty to
accepting bribes, according to Hong Kong’s  Independent
Commission Against Corruption .  Chan pleaded guilty to accepting HK$1 million ($128,000)
and HK$2.3 million from Zeng Wei, a shareholder and director of
property developer United Win Holdings Ltd., the ICAC said in a
 statement  posted on its website July 3.  Chan, who will be sentenced July 20, took the money in
exchange for delaying the due dates for repayment of loans, the
ICAC said. ICBC (Asia) is a unit of  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value.  Hilda Chow, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for ICBC (Asia),
declined to comment July 4. No phone number was available for
United Win.  Zeng, 48, had an arrest warrant issued against him after he
failed to appear in court for the trial July 3, according to the
ICAC statement. Zeng has been charged with giving a bribe, the
ICAC said.  Interviews/Speeches  FDIC’s Bair Urges ‘Long-Term Perspective’ on Regulation  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair spoke
about the need for regulators to be given the money and power to
implement the Dodd-Frank Act.  Bair, who testified before the  Senate Banking Committee ,
also discussed the state of the U.S. banking industry, the so-
called Basel III rules and negotiations between lawmakers over
raising the federal debt ceiling.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 