-- 
Munger Disbands His Investor Cult With Barbs for Wall Street

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-05T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/berkshire-s-munger-disbands-his-investor-cult-with-barbs-for-walls-street.html
Charles Munger, the 87-year-old
billionaire, used his farewell conference to criticize  Wall
Street , reflect on investing and raising children, and treat a
fawning audience to his gratitude and familiar jibes.  “You all need a new cult hero,” Munger said on July 1 at
the conference, called ‘A Morning with Charlie,” in Pasadena,
 California . “I’m doing you a favor” by ending the annual
question-and-answer sessions with investors, he said.  Munger, vice chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , began the
three-hour meeting with observations on the deficiencies of
bankers, the rise of  China  and the record of George W. Bush. He
criticized decisions at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , praised  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST) ’s pricing policies and said he hopes he’s dead
before Berkshire pays a dividend.  “I think that some of you will live to see a Berkshire
dividend but I hope I don’t,” Munger said. Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire, which uses earnings to fund acquisitions and
stock picks, has said it will consider a payout when managers
are no longer able to find investments for its profits.  Munger gained a following among investors as the outspoken
business partner of  Warren Buffett , Berkshire’s chairman and
largest shareholder. He speaks in front of tens of thousands of
people at Berkshire’s annual meetings in Omaha, where his role
on stage is the caustic foil to a courtly Buffett. Hundreds of
people, whom Munger called “groupies,” would show up at the
 Pasadena  events to see him speak without Buffett.  ‘Peculiar People’  “You people aren’t normal,” Munger told the audience last
week. “It’s only peculiar people like you that I want to
impress.”  Investment bankers and mortgage issuers were afflicted with
“insanity, megalomania and evil” when they helped inflate the
pre-2008 housing bubble, Munger said. He said U.S. unemployment
must be faced with “gumption” -- which he called one of his
favorite words -- because people in China,  Japan  and other Asian
countries have demonstrated talent at production and innovation.  “This brutality of capitalistic competition is really
something,” Munger said. “I kind of like seeing the Chinese
rise after so many years being down.”  Bank of America, which has lost more than three-quarters of
its stock value since 2006, was guided by decision-making that
Munger called “a disgrace.”  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which counts
Berkshire as its biggest shareholder, was better than most big
banks at “avoiding the common stupidities,” Munger said.
Berkshire divested a three-year holding of  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America last year.  Punic Wars  Munger quoted  Oscar Wilde , cited author W. Somerset
Maugham’s views on romantic relationships and likened the U.S.
response to the credit crunch of 2008 to the strategy employed
by ancient  Rome  in wars that left Carthage  destroyed . The
bailouts under former President Bush and then-Treasury Secretary
 Henry Paulson  helped the U.S. recovery, he said.  “I feel good about the way the Romans handled the Punic
Wars, and I feel good about the way Paulson, and both political
parties and  George W. Bush  handled the great recession,” Munger
said.  Munger, a lawyer who gave up his practice after meeting
Buffett in 1959, promised the “Morning with Charlie” to former
shareholders of Wesco Financial Corp. Berkshire, which had owned
80 percent of Pasadena-based Wesco since 1983, increased its
stake to 100 percent this year and removed the company from the
stock exchange. Munger was Wesco’s chairman and chief executive
officer and presided over the unit’s annual meetings.  Member of ‘Cult’  “I’m delighted to count myself in as a member in your
cult,” a questioner said.  Attendees, who lined up behind microphones at the Pasadena
Convention Center, thanked Munger for his time, and some said
their lives had been improved by the billionaire’s musings on
topics ranging from investment planning to filial relations.
Munger was asked to give pointers for wealthy parents and
recounted a conversation he once had with a successful friend.  “I just think it’s too damn bad that you got too rich and
you can’t provide hardships for your children,” Munger said he
told the person. “I gave him the same advice I gave myself,
‘Lose graciously.’”  Wesco investors were offered cash or Berkshire stock for
their holdings in a transaction completed last month. Elizabeth Caspers Peters, a former Wesco director and an ally of Buffett
and Munger in the 1970s when the men were building a stake in
the firm, said in an interview that the deal made her a
Berkshire shareholder for the first time. She didn’t need stock
in Buffett’s company as long as she had Wesco shares, she said.  Berkshire’s Surge  “I had my own and I thought they were better than his,”
Caspers Peters said at Munger’s conference. “And it worked out
fine.”  Berkshire has surged more than 30-fold since 1987 when it
was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Wesco advanced more
than 20-fold since the end of 1983. Wesco paid dividends to
shareholders, while Berkshire hasn’t. Berkshire, whose Class A
shares ended at $117,050 on July 1, will continue to provide
growth for investors, Munger said.  “I think that people that own Berkshire stock at current
prices will do quite all right just sitting on their patoots,”
Munger said.  Munger had a lawyer on stage at his event, whom he turned
to for help understanding what a questioner said or meant to
say. Munger didn’t seek clarification for all his doubts, as
when he told one attendee:  “I’m not sure I fully understood the question, but let me
answer the question I would prefer to have been asked,” Munger
said. He made a few remarks about Berkshire’s growth, and said,
“Anyway, I think that answers the question I hope you asked.”  BYD, Coca-Cola  Munger was asked to review some of Berkshire’s holdings,
including BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker facing a decline in
sales. BYD has the ability to recover from missteps, he said.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  was cited by Munger as one of his favorite
consumer-goods companies. Even so, “it’s not nearly as good a
business as it was 20 years ago,” he said. Berkshire is
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola’s biggest shareholder.  Costco, the largest U.S. warehouse-club chain, was praised
by Munger, a Costco director, for its skill at cutting costs and
passing savings on to customers.  “It’s almost a religious duty,” Munger said. “Costco is
just about the most admirable capitalist enterprise that ever
existed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Pasadena at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  