-- 
Billionaire Prokhorov Opposes Putin’s Centralization of Power

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-07-05T15:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/billionaire-prokhorov-opposes-putin-s-centralization-of-power.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who’s
taken the helm of a pro-business party, said he opposed Russian
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s centralization of power and
poked fun at a nationwide pro-Putin movement.  “I don’t agree with the model of government for the
country,” Prokhorov said in an  interview  published today in the
newspaper Kommersant and confirmed by his press office.
“Everything is determined by the center; it’s impossible for
the country to progress that way.”  Prokhorov, the 46-year-old owner of the  New Jersey Nets 
basketball team and owner of a fortune that Forbes estimates at
about $18 billion, was elected chairman of the Pravoye Delo
political party on June 25. He said after his election that he
would be willing to serve as prime minister.  The businessman entered politics after Putin sought to
widen his political base by setting up the All-Russia People’s
Front, a national coalition of his supporters that will campaign
in December parliamentary elections. The ruling United Russia
party, which holds 315 of 450 seats, has seen its popularity
slide since the beginning of last year.  “In my view, it’s really funny when in a single day, 38
million farmers join the front,” Prokhorov said, referring to
the way the leaders of various interest groups allied their
members with the coalition. Prokhorov has set a goal of Pravoye
Delo winning 15 percent of the vote nationwide, compared with
the 7 percent required to enter parliament.  Putin, Medvedev Support  The Pravoye Delo project appears to have the blessing of
both Putin and President  Dmitry Medvedev , who want it to win
support at the expense of other opposition parties, said Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg Politics Foundation.  “Ideologically, the party is closer to Medvedev but both
the president and the prime minister agreed to this project,”
he said.  Middle-class Russians, who account for 40 percent of voters
in Moscow and 15 percent to 20 percent in other major cities,
have been ignored by the authorities, the Center for Strategic
Studies, which advises the government, said in a March report.  Pravoye Delo, formed through the merger of political
parties including the now defunct pro-democracy Union of Right
Forces, in November supported Medvedev’s candidacy in 2012
presidential elections.  Putin, 58, a former KGB colonel, has remained at the center
of decision-making after handing the presidency in 2008 to
Medvedev, a 45-year-old lawyer who has promised to fight
corruption and improve the rule of law.  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president in 2012. Putin, who served as president from 2000 to
2008, can return to the Kremlin without violating the
constitutional ban on three consecutive terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 Hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  