-- 
Billionaire’s Return May Put Riot Police to Work: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-07-05T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/billionaire-s-return-may-put-riot-police-to-work-william-pesek.html
All dressed up in riot gear and
nowhere to go. Such was the plight of two dozen Thai police
officers stewing in boredom Sunday night near one of Bangkok’s
busier nightlife districts.  Thai elections tend to be anarchic affairs for the keepers
of order, with protests often deteriorating into violence. This
time was different; tear gas canisters sat unused after the
victory of allies of  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a
2006 coup.  Yet the riot shields, clubs and guns may not be idle for
long. It’s something investors pouring into Thai assets this
week should consider. The assumption that political stability
has returned to one of the world’s most chaotic democracies
could be a costly one.  Optimism is the story for the moment. Southeast  Asia ’s
second-biggest economy just held a competent election. Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  conceded to Pheu Thai party leader
Yingluck Shinawatra. The nation has its first female leader.
This, as Thais were quick to tell me in Bangkok, is a moment for
pride and celebration, not cynicism.  The trouble is, Yingluck, 44, still must overcome
resistance from  Thailand ’s military, which is as coup-happy as
they come. She must do the same with the courts and the
bureaucracy as she tackles the prickliest issue of all: when and
how Yingluck moves to return her brother Thaksin to the nation
he’s been trying to run from afar in self-imposed exile.  Thaksin’s Return  That’s the real issue, and Thais will be assessing the risk
that Yingluck moves too fast to repatriate her brother.
Protesters and the military would snap into action and thrust
Thailand back into crisis.  Much is forgiven when an economy scores high growth rates.
In 2010, Thailand grew the fastest in 15 years. Yet governmental
stability matters, too. The longer Thailand goes without it, the
further it falls behind  China . Just a decade ago, Thailand was a
democratic oasis in a region of archaic autocrats. Today, it’s a
political basket case.  That gets at a bigger question: Why is Asia’s democratic
process so messy and, at times, violent?  Thailand is Exhibit A; political demonstrations last year
alone led to 91 deaths. What Thailand and its 67 million people
prove is that elections aren’t enough, says a new report from
the United Nations Development Program, titled “ Understanding
Electoral Violence in Asia .”  Violent Elections  In recent decades, a view developed that untroubled
contests were the ultimate prize. Yet, the report says, “seeing
elections as a test of democratic development, rather than a
goal in themselves, provides a better conceptualization of the
processes that are needed to ensure free, fair and peaceful
elections.”  Democracy  is about what leaders do after the votes are
tallied. The key is creating institutions to ensure competence
and transparency, providing checks and balances to weed out
corruption and cultivating nongovernment watchdogs to keep
politicians honest.  The  Philippines  tends to fall prey to electoral violence.
Journalists who dare to report on public corruption often pay
with their lives. In  Malaysia , Prime Minister Najib Razak is
going all out to head off a political rally his weekend,
tarnishing his nation’s image in the process.  Report Card  Thaksin personifies why Thailand’s record is so poor. It’s
remarkable how popular he remains almost 5 years after he was
brought up on corruption charges. Chat up the average taxi
driver, bartender or food-stall worker and you will get an
earful about how Thaksin, the populist, looked after the
nation’s poor while Abhisit, the elitist, ignored them.  It’s easy to forget how billionaire Thaksin bent Thailand’s
leadership apparatus -- government ministries, the courts, the
bureaucracy and the military -- to his will to benefit his
business interests. There’s no mystery why shares in the family
media business, Shin Corp. Pcl, surged after Thaksin’s sister
won the election. It’s widely thought that he will be calling
the shots again, which would be great for Thaksin Inc.  If Thailand had built a robust political system, one where
independent bodies existed to uphold its legitimacy, this would
be dismissed as the stuff of conspiracy theories. Only it’s all
too clear that Thaksin used his power while in office from 2001
to 2006 for personal gain. It’s not a coincidence that Thailand
has slipped to 78th among the 178 countries in Transparency
International’s corruption perceptions index, the same level as
 Greece , Colombia and  Lesotho . In 2001, it ranked 61th.  The generals who removed Thaksin did themselves no favors
by lacking a clear plan for their traumatized nation. And it’s
not as if Abhisit’s party, which grabbed power and then governed
in an opaque manner, was a big improvement.  Expectations for Yingluck are like those Americans had for
 Barack Obama  in 2008. Thais expect her to end their political
nightmare and put the economy on track to become the next  South
Korea , not the next Philippines.  That won’t happen if her brother pulls the puppet strings.
At the moment, the odds favor that he will. Bangkok’s riot
police may soon be back in business along with the Thaksin
family.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Bangkok at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 