-- 
Biotech-Crop Cultivation Flexibility Backed by EU Lawmakers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-05T10:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/biotech-crop-cultivation-flexibility-backed-by-eu-lawmakers.html
A European Union plan to let
individual member countries ban the cultivation of genetically
modified crops won support from the bloc’s parliament, setting
up a clash with governments that oppose the step.  The European Parliament endorsed a draft law that would
give national governments an opt-out from rules making the EU a
single market for goods. The aim is to accelerate approvals at
EU level of applications to plant gene-modified seeds made by
companies such as  Monsanto Co. (MON)   The 27-nation EU is split over the safety of such foods,
slowing EU permission to grow them and prompting complaints by
the U.S. and other trade partners. Under current practices,
national authorities throughout the EU have a say over approvals
because the bloc’s common-market rules require that a product
sold in one member be allowed for sale in the others.  “It is necessary to respect the rights of the member
states when it comes to the use of their own territory,” said
Corinne Lepage, a French member who steered the measures through
the EU Parliament today in Strasbourg, France. National
governments, which are blocking the draft law, need to give
their backing before any final EU approval.  Governments threatened in October to reject the  proposal ,
which was made a year ago by the European Commission.
Environment ministers from countries including  France  and
 Germany  said that the draft rules may splinter European trade
policy.  Superweeds  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, wants to expand
 Europe ’s share of the $11 billion  global biotech-seed market  in
the face of resistance by half or more of the bloc’s members.
Surveys show opposition to gene-altered foods by European
consumers, who worry about risks such as human resistance to
antibiotics and the development of so-called superweeds that are
impervious to herbicides.  Biotech foods range from corn to oilseeds in which genetic
material has been altered to add traits such as resistance to
weed-killing chemicals. The EU ended a six-year ban on new gene-
altered products in 2004 after tightening labeling rules and
creating a  food agency  to screen applications.  In a case brought by the U.S.,  Canada  and  Argentina , the
 World Trade Organization  ruled in 2006 that the European
moratorium was illegal. Since 2004, the EU has let new gene-
modified products be imported for food and feed uses while
stopping short of endorsing any request for cultivation with the
exception of one application for a potato developed by  BASF SE (BAS) 
to be grown for the production of industrial starch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  