-- 
Bloomberg Law Releases Latest Evolution of its Web Platform

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-05T16:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bloomberg-law-releases-latest-evolution-of-its-web-platform.html
                                
Press Release  Enhanced Interface and Expanded Features Will Provide Additional
Value and Ease-of-Use  New York --  Bloomberg Law , the legal research system from the
world leader in data and information services, today released
the next evolution of its innovative platform.  Bloomberg Law has revolutionized the legal research industry by
providing the first system that integrates comprehensive legal
content, company and client information and proprietary news all
in one place. Bloomberg Law’s all-inclusive, transparent and
predictable pricing means that every user has the same
unrestricted, unlimited access to the content in our databases.
The latest version of Bloomberg Law adds new and enhanced
features designed to make the system even faster and easier to
use, including:  -Redesigned interface for even more intuitive navigation  -Enriched search capabilities for faster information retrieval
so users spend less time searching and more time analyzing and
applying their findings  -New practice centers offer practice specific resources to
quickly and easily access primary and secondary sources, news
and analysis  -Enhanced collaboration and workflow features that build on
Bloomberg Law’s innovative workspace tools to help users
research faster, stay organized and share securely  “Bloomberg Law was built from the ground up to provide the first
truly comprehensive primary research platform that addresses the
integrated legal and business needs of a modern law practice,”
said  Lou Andreozzi , chairman of Bloomberg Law. “We have been
working very closely with our clients to ensure we develop the
resources that will help them better manage their research and
costs so they can concentrate on adding value to their clients
and driving new business.”  Bloomberg Law seamlessly integrates primary legal research and
Bloomberg’s renowned news, company information and analytics
into one reliable resource. Bloomberg Law features include:
-BCite: Bloomberg Law’s legal citation tool and one of only
three major U.S. legal citators  -Bloomberg Law Reports: Written and edited by Bloomberg Law’s
legal analysts, with feature articles contributed by leading
lawyers,  these provide up-to-date analysis and insight on legal
developments and include direct links to cited cases and
resources  -Company and Market Information: Information from the world-
class Bloomberg database, including securities filings and
proprietary company profiles to help lawyers grow their
practices and better understand their clients’ businesses  -Dockets: Fully integrated dockets product that offers
unrestricted search and Bloomberg Law’s up-to-the minute
Breaking Complaints feature  -Help Desk: Bloomberg Law’s exemplary customer service
specialists are available to offer assistance any hour of every
day  -Real-Time 24/7 News and Alerts: Real-time news from the
Bloomberg News global network and access to thousands of web
sources and blogs  Read more about Bloomberg Law and other innovations from
Bloomberg on the  company’s blog .  About Bloomberg Law
Bloomberg Law is the first real-time legal research system that
integrates innovative search technology, comprehensive legal
content, company and client information, and proprietary news
all in one place. This collaborative workspace also includes a
suite of new tools for more effective legal analysis and more
productive client development. For more information, visit
BloombergLaw.com.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jill Goodkind, +1 212-617-3669,  jgoodkind@bloomberg.net 
