-- 
Bombardier to Cut 1,400 Jobs at Britain’s Last Train Factory

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-05T16:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bombardier-to-cut-1-000-jobs-at-last-u-k-rail-plant-union-says.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the world’s biggest
trainmaker, will eliminate more than 1,400 jobs at a plant in
Derby, England, in a move unions say could threaten the future
of Britain’s sole remaining railcar factory.  The cuts follow the U.K. government’s decision to award a
contract to build 1,200 carriages for the Thameslink commuter
service to  Siemens AG (SIE)  on June 16, Bombardier said today. Siemens
will carry out most of the manufacturing work in Germany.  “Without new orders we cannot maintain the current level of
employment,” Francis Paonessa, president of Bombardier’s U.K.
passenger unit, said in a statement. The Thameslink contract
would have “secured workload” at the Derby site, he added.  Britain’s  Department for Transport  last month selected
Munich-based Siemens, private-equity firm 3i Group Plc and
private-finance specialist Innisfree Ltd. to expand Thameslink’s
train fleet. While some U.K. jobs will be created in component
manufacture and at two new maintenance depots, the trains will
be built in Krefeld, near Dusseldorf, Siemens said at the time.  ‘Misguided’  “The dire consequences of the misguided decision to exclude
Bombardier from the contract are now becoming a reality,” Unite
union General Secretary Len McCluskey said in a statement,
adding that thousands of other jobs in the rail supply chain are
also at risk. “The government must now act swiftly and
decisively to save Britain’s last train manufacturer,” he said.  The Derby plant, known as Litchurch Lane, will finish
building Turbostar multiple units for the  London  Midland rail
franchise by the end of September, leaving only work on London
Underground tube trains through 2014 that’s insufficient to
support its 3,000 employees, Montreal-based Bombardier said.  A mandatory 90-day consultation process will be held on the
loss of 446 permanent posts and 983 temporary jobs, the company
said, with Colin Walton, U.K. chairman for Bombardier
Transportation, adding that the Thameslink decision has forced
an ongoing “U.K.-wide review” of the company’s operations.  The job cuts will cost less than $50 million, according to
New York-based Credit Suisse AG analyst Hamzah Mazari, who said
Bombardier may opt to shutter the Derby plant in the “slightly
longer term,” since the next major U.K. contract, the trans-
London Crossrail project, won’t commence manufacture until 2015.  ‘Vandalism’  The  RMT  rail union said today the Siemens award was an act
of “industrial vandalism that would wipe out train building in
the nation that gave the railways to the world.”  Some 97 percent of rail-procurement awards in  Germany  over
the past three years went to companies based there, included a 5
billion-pound ($8 billion) contract given to Siemens by state-
owned Deutsche Bahn AG about which “no-one batted an eyelid,”
the union said. In  France  the figure was 100 percent, it said.  Litchurch Lane also supports about 12,000 workers in its
supply chain, according to Bombardier, and 4,000 of those
positions may also be at risk, said  Howard Wheeldon , senior
strategist at BGC Partners in London, who reckons the U.K.
government made a poor choice with the Thameslink award.  “I have nothing against Siemens and I completely understand
that there may well be slightly less risk to the U.K. government
by going this particular route,” he said. “But the politics of
trade today demand that when an industry such as this one is
threatened as a direct result we should ditch the ridiculous
notion of free market competition unless each and every other
country guarantees to open their markets on the same basis.”  Job Split  Siemens says its bid will create 300 positions in component
manufacture in Hebburn, northern  England . Bombardier spokesman
Neil Harvey said that compares with the 3,000 posts that would
have been safeguarded in Derby, though close to 1,000 temporary
jobs may still have been at risk depending on other programs.  Both bids offered 1,400 maintenance and construction jobs
at depots on the Thameslink line, which carries commuters on the
main north-south route across London. Bombardier’s tender would
have created more than the 300 U.K. supply-chain posts touted by
Siemens because more parts would be British-made, Harvey said.  British Business Secretary Vince Cable said he’ll establish
a  task force  to help mitigate the impact of the job cuts and
work to hang on to Bombardier as a U.K. manufacturer.  “It is vital that we retain these skills,” Cable said in
a statement. “And we will help the company explore any other
international markets which are priorities for them.”  Procurement Question  Transport Secretary Philip Hammond said earlier that
decisions regarding the tender were taken mainly by the previous
Labour government, and that while “very disappointing for
Bombardier,” Siemens had made the best-value bid according to
European procurement laws.  “The contract process was started off by the previous
government, the specification of what was required was set by
the previous government and the methodology by which bids were
to be evaluated was set by the previous government,” Hammond
told the British Broadcasting Corp. “What we have done,
effectively, is open the envelope and announced the result.”  Cable said in his statement that the coalition government
recognizes the need to examine whether Britain is making the
best use of its application of EU procurement rules.  Alstom Closure  Britain has manufactured trains since it pioneered rail
travel 200 years ago. Bombardier’s Derby site was one of several
that made up state-owned British Rail Engineering Ltd. until
that business was privatized, passing into the ownership of ABB
Ltd., Daimler AG -- as Adtranz -- and then the Canadian company.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of TGV high-speed trains, shut
a 150-year-old plant at Washwood Heath in Birmingham in 2005
after completing a contract to build tilting Pendolino units for
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Trains. Most London Underground tube
trains were built there by onetime owner Metropolitan-Cammell.  Britain has already ceased making locomotives, with the
last batches built by  General Electric Co. (GE)  in the U.S. and
 Electro-Motive Diesel Inc. , a unit of Caterpillar Inc.
previously owned by  General Motors Co. (GM) , in  Canada .  Hitachi Ltd. will assemble trains at Newton Aycliffe,
northeast England, as part of a 7 billion-pound program to
replace Britain’s 30-year-old InterCity 125 diesel expresses.  About 500 jobs will be created from 2015 in outfitting and
integrating body-shells shipped from  Japan  and it’s possible
that full-scale manufacture may follow, depending on the size of
the requirement, spokeswoman Daniela Karthaus said today.
Financial close on the contract is expected this year, she said.  Bombardier was trading 0.4 percent lower at C$6.88 as of
11:46 p.m. in Toronto, paring the stock’s gain this year to 37
percent. Siemens closed up 0.1 percent at 94.47 euros in
 Frankfurt  and has added 1.9 percent in the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  