-- 
Bond Hunger Drives Fonterra’s Funding Costs Below Banks: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-06T05:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bond-hunger-drives-fonterra-costs-below-banks-australia-credit.html
Australia’s “hunger” for bonds
outside the financial industry is rewarding companies with lower
borrowing costs than the nation’s highest-rated banks.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, paid 100 basis points more than the swap rate on July
4 when it sold A$300 million ($322 million) of five-year notes
to be rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , ranked two steps
higher at AA, priced A$2.8 billion of similar-maturity bonds at
a 117 basis-point spread last month.  Companies outside the finance industry accounted for 6
percent of a record A$64.3 billion of bonds sold in Australia in
the first half, compared with about 50 percent of $529.9 billion
of investment-grade U.S. offerings, Bloomberg data show.
Australia, a nation with a smaller population than Shanghai, has
the fourth-largest pension savings pool in the world, with a
forecast A$6.1 trillion in assets by 2035, boosting demand for
fixed-income investments.  “Fonterra emphasized the hunger for non-financial issuers
in the Australian market,” said  John Sorrell , head of credit at
Tyndall Investment Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney, which
manages about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets. Company debt
“tends to be less geared and less affected by the regulatory
uncertainties that are currently impacting the financials.”  Bond Returns  Notes issued by Australian companies returned 5.3 percent
in the six months to June 30, compared with 2.6 percent on
similar bonds globally, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  Australian dollar bank bonds returned 4.8 percent,
according to the indexes.  Led by  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
National Australia Bank, the nation’s lenders need to refinance
A$412 billion of debt between 2011 and 2015, compared with A$40
billion of corporate securities coming due, according to
Deutsche Bank AG analysts Gus Medeiros and Colin Tan in Sydney.  Fonterra, based in Auckland, marketed its notes at an
initial spread of 105 basis points and investors placed orders
for more than A$500 million, ANZ Bank said in an e-mailed
statement on July 4. The relative yield on the 6.25 percent
securities, the company’s first Australian dollar offering, was
quoted at 91 basis points today, according to ANZ prices.  Diversification  “We benefit from the fact that our name brings quite a lot
of diversification to investors,” Stephan Deschamps, general
manager of treasury at Fonterra, said in a phone interview.
“We’re not a financial, we’re in the  agriculture sector , which
is quite rare.”  None of the 171 bonds in Merrill Lynch’s Australian
Corporate and Collateralized Index were issued by agricultural
companies.  Dairy export volumes rose to a record in March amid surging
demand from Asia and increased milk output, Fonterra said on
April 27. Prices of  New Zealand ’s commodity exports climbed for
a ninth month to an all-time high in May, according to an index
calculated by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  While demand for soft commodities bolsters New Zealand’s
economy, Australia is experiencing the biggest mining boom in a
century as  China  and  India  buy  iron ore , copper and coal.  Australia, whose population of 22.6 million is behind
 Shanghai ’s 23 million, had a record trade surplus last year.
Total trade with China surged 24 percent to surpass A$100
billion for the first time, according to the government.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent yesterday for the seventh
straight meeting, saying the European debt crisis had “added to
uncertainty” about the outlook for the world economy.  Economic Growth  “Growth through 2011 is now unlikely to be as strong as
earlier forecast,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in yesterday’s
statement, retreating from the RBA’s May 6 prediction that the
economy will expand 4.25 percent this year, the fastest pace
since 1999.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, dropped the most in about three weeks against the  U.S.
dollar  after the announcement. It rose to $1.0725 as of 2:39
p.m. in Sydney today.  Yields on  Australia ’s benchmark 10-year bond dropped one
basis point to 5.21 percent today, or 207 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries. Consumer prices in Australia may
rise an annual 2.87 percent in the next 10 years, based on the
gap between yields on government bonds and inflation-indexed
notes.  Bond sales in Australia totaled A$26.4 billion in the
second quarter after offerings of A$37.9 billion in the first
three months of 2011, according to Bloomberg data.  Woolworths Sale  Woolworths Ltd., the nation’s biggest retailer, sold A$500
million of five-year notes at 105 basis points more than the
swap rate in March, lower than relative yields paid by banks and
General Electric Co., Bloomberg data show. The Sydney-based
company’s 6.75 percent bonds, rated A- by S&P, were quoted at an
85 basis-point spread today, ANZ prices show.  The government is seeking to expand the corporate  bond
market  by making it simpler for companies to market debt to
individual investors, according to proposals  announced  in
December.  Listing  government bonds  on a securities exchange will also
stoke demand for corporate debt by providing a more visible
pricing benchmark, according to a Treasury briefing note.  “A vibrant corporate bond market is critical to putting
competitive pressure on bank lending rates to business, and to
harnessing our national superannuation savings so we can
domestically fund more productive investment in our economy,”
the Treasury said.  Pension Funds  Australian investors favor shares over fixed-income, with
the nation’s A$1.3 trillion pension fund industry holding more
than half its funds in stock investments in 2009, according to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Australia’s benchmark stock index fell 41 percent in 2008
as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sparked a
global credit freeze. Regulators are clamping down on banks in
the wake of the crisis, seeking to bolster their liquidity and
capital to prevent a repeat of the worst global recession since
World War II.  Fonterra’s sale was the biggest by a non-financial company
in Australia in almost three months, Bloomberg data show. Banks
including Commonwealth Bank, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and BNP
Paribas have sold A$30.9 billion of notes in the nation this
year.  “We have seen a lot of financials in this market and that
creates an extra demand for very strong corporates,” said Edwin
Waters, a debt capital markets director at ANZ, which helped
manage the transaction.  “The popularity of the Fonterra trade
is reflective of the strong  credit quality  and the diversity
that Fonterra adds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 