-- 
Bovespa Drops The Most in a Month as Brazil Retailers, Builders Decline

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-05T21:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bovespa-drops-for-first-day-in-seven-as-brazil-retailers-builders-decline.html
The Bovespa stock index declined the
most in a month, led by retailers and homebuilders, as foreign
investors held back from pouring new cash into the Brazilian
market after six straight days of gains.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar fell on
concern shareholder Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA won’t
relinquish control amid a disputed proposal to merge the
Brazilian retailer with Carrefour SA’s local unit. Rossi
Residencial SA led real-estate shares lower after Bank of
America Corp. cut the sector to “equalweight” on rate concern.  The Bovespa fell 1.3 percent to 63,038.81 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close, halting a six-day advance. It was the
measure’s biggest decline since June 6. Fifty-six stocks dropped
on the index, while eight climbed. The real weakened 0.7 percent
to 1.5648 per dollar.  “There’s space for profit-taking after a good rally,”
said Alvaro Bandeira, director of Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage
Ativa Corretora. “The market is still indefinite. It’s going to
need foreign money.”  Investors pulled 1.38 billion reais ($882 million) from
 Latin America ’s largest equity market in the year through June
27, according to the exchange.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity gauge extended losses after
 Portugal ’s long-term government bond ratings were cut to Ba2, or
junk, from Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Portugal is the second euro country rated non-investment
grade by Moody’s, joining  Greece , after winning a 78 billion-
euro ($113 billion) international bailout in May as the Iberian
nation struggles to repair its finances. Concern that Portugal
won’t be able to fully achieve its deficit-reduction target was
one of the reasons for the cut, Moody’s said in a statement.  Pao de Acucar  Pao de Acucar fell 1.9 percent to 70.70 reais. Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA Chief Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri told  Luciano Coutinho , president of Brazil’s state
development bank, known as BNDES, that the company will seek to
keep a controlling stake in Brazil’s largest retailer, O Estado
de S. Paulo reported, citing an unidentified Casino official.  Valor Economico  separately reported, without saying where
it obtained the information, that Casino wants to accelerate a
shareholder agreement that would give it control of Pao de
Acucar in 2012.  Rossi, Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue, lost
4.6 percent to 12.56 reais as the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index
slid 1.7 percent.  “Confidence on the end of Brazil’s monetary tightening
cycle by July has diminished” following the central bank’s
“hawkish” second-quarter inflation report, analysts at Bank of
America, including Renato Onishi, wrote in a note to clients
today. They cut homebuilders from “overweight.”  Tam Advances  Losses were partially offset as airline Tam SA advanced 4.6
percent to 36.46 reais on speculation  Chile ’s antitrust tribunal
will approve its takeover by Lan Airlines SA.  Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras, a Brazilian airline created
by JetBlue Airways Corp. founder David Neeleman, hired banks to
hold an IPO, two people familiar with the situation said
yesterday, asking not to be named because they’re not authorized
to speak publicly about the transaction. Giafranco Beting, the
company’s director of communication and branding, declined to
comment.  The index yesterday posted the longest winning streak since
April as traders pared bets for higher borrowing costs in Brazil
and equities rallied worldwide amid optimism on Greece’s debt
crisis.  The Bovespa lost 12 percent from a November high through
yesterday. The index trades at 10.2 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, near the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.2 for
MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  