-- 
BP Should Buy Back Shares With Asset Sale Cash, Citigroup Says

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-07-05T12:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/bp-should-buy-back-shares-with-asset-sale-cash-citigroup-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) , operator of the Macondo well
that caused the biggest  oil spill  in U.S. history, should use
cash from asset sales to buy back shares, Citigroup Inc. said.  BP shares are down 30 percent since the April 2010 spill
and have dropped 8 percent since January, when it announced
plans to swap shares with OAO Rosneft and explore the arctic
Kara Sea that were blocked by BP’s existing Russian venture,
TNK-BP. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  has promised to
sell as much as $30 billion of fields to cover the costs of the
disaster and shore up the company’s balance sheet.  “BP’s under-performance this year has less to do with
Russia than with investors’ disappointment that they won’t get
money back from asset sales,”  Alastair Syme, Citigroup’s
managing director for oil and gas research in  London , told
journalists in London today. “The strategic offering is pretty
uninspiring. They should have bought back shares.”  Among the world’s biggest oil companies, the average cash
return on capital invested has slipped to about 10 percent this
year from about 17 percent in 2001, Syme said. That suggests
that the so-called mega-mergers more than a decade ago,
including those that combined BP, Amoco Corp. and Atlantic
Richfield Co. as well as Exxon Corp.’s purchase of Mobil Co.,
haven’t helped profitability.  Syme said that oil majors now control little of the world’s
energy resources while also accounting for most of the equity in
the industry. Share prices have failed to track the 18 percent
increase in Brent crude prices this year.  “The CEOs tell you there are still good opportunities to
invest,” Syme said. “I refute that. The problem is the lack of
acknowledgement that their equity is trading at a discount.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  