-- 
Brazil Sugar Ships Face Longest Wait in Two Years at Ports

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-07-05T20:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/brazil-sugar-ships-face-longest-wait-in-two-years-at-ports-1-.html
Ships waiting to load sugar at
 Brazil ’s main port may face the longest wait in two years as a
late start for the harvest and poor crop yields reduce the
amount available for export.  Ships lined up outside the Santos Port, Brazil’s largest
for sugar, are waiting as many as 45 days to load this month,
the most since July 2009, Nicolle Alves de Castro, a commercial
associate at research firm SA Commodities, said today by
telephone from Santos. The delay is mainly affecting ships
picking up sugar sold in the  spot market , said Jose Carlos
Silvares, a spokesman for the council that oversees the Santos
port authority.  “There is a mismatch between what we can deliver and what
the market needs,” Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical
director at the Unica sugar industry association, said today in
a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . Sucrose levels, the
substance in cane that’s turned into sugar and ethanol, “have
been very low and it means we won’t produce as much sugar as
initially expected.”  The sugar-cane harvest in Brazil’s Center South, the
world’s largest producing region, started in the second half of
April, about 45 days later than last year. Output in the region
fell 25 percent to 6.73 million metric tons this crop year
through the first half of June, down from 8.95 million in the
same period a year earlier, Sao Paulo-based Unica said June 28.  ‘Tramp’ Ships  Silvares said the backlog has been worsened by “tramp”
ships, which are unscheduled vessels aiming to carry sugar
traded on the spot market. The average wait at Santos for all
ships, including those with scheduled pick-ups, is 15 days this
month, de Castro said.  “Sometimes the ship arrives, but there is simply no sugar
to load,” said Paulo Jose Mendes Passos, commercial and
logistics director at Guarani SA, a Brazilian sugar-cane
processing unit of  Tereos Internacional SA (TERI3) , today in a phone
interview from Olimpia, Brazil.  Sugar output in Brazil’s Center South may fall to 33
million tons this year from 33.5 million tons last year because
of low sucrose content, Passos said. Exports from the Center
South may fall to 22 million tons, from 24.9 million tons last
year, after stockpiles at mills declined, he said.  Sugar-cane output in the region is forecast to fall 4
percent this year to 536 million tons, the first drop in a
decade, industry researcher Datagro Ltd. said June 16.  Ships waiting yesterday to load sugar at Brazil’s six main
ports had the capacity to transport 2.78 million tons, down from
2.84 million tons a year ago, SA Commodities said. Brazil had a
record 135 ships waiting to load sugar on Aug. 10.  Brazil is the world’s largest producer and exporter of the
sweetener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 