-- 
Evans Beats Out Contador in Photo Finish to Win Tour de France Stage Four

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-05T22:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/cadel-evans-beats-out-alberto-contador-attack-to-win-tour-de-france-stage.html
Two-time runner-up  Cadel Evans 
yesterday won stage four of the  Tour de France , beating
defending champion  Alberto Contador  in a photo-finish.  Evans, an Australian with BMC Racing, overcame a late
challenge from Contador on a four-mile ascent at the end of the
107-mile stage between Lorient and Mur-de-Bretagne.  Thor Hushovd of Norway kept the race-leading yellow jersey,
staying one second ahead of Evans.  “I’ve worn yellow before and that’s a wonderful
experience, but it can wait,” Evans told Eurosport.  Spain ’s Contador, seeking his fourth Tour win in five
years, gained eight seconds on last year’s runner-up  Andy Schleck  and rose to 41st from 69th in the overall standings.  Contador is now 1 minute, 41 seconds behind Evans and 1
minute, 30 seconds behind Schleck.  Today’s stage travels 164.5 kilometers (102 miles) through
relatively flat ground between Carhaix and Cap Frehel on the
French coast.  As rain fell at the start, five riders with different teams
led a breakaway through narrow country lanes and villages in the
Brittany region of  France . The group was caught with about two
miles left.  Evans twice had mechanical problems and had to slow down
when a motorbike rider following the race fell and blocked his
path with 12 miles left.  “It was really small roads, quite dangerous,” Evans said.  Contador attacked for the first time at this Tour with
about a mile to go, clenching his teeth and puffing out his
cheeks. He was caught by other stage leaders, with Evans
prevailing at the end. Alexander Vinokourov finished the stage
in third place.  ‘Good Test’  “It was a good test for Alberto, but Evans was a little
bit too strong,” Contador’s Saxo Bank team manager Bjarne Riis
told Eurosport.  Hushovd, a sprinter, stayed with the leaders on the final
climb, finishing sixth. He took the race lead when Garmin-
Cervelo won the team time trial two days ago.  Belgium ’s Jurgen Van de Walle became the first rider to
pull out of this edition, reducing the field to 197 cyclists.
His Omega Pharma-Lotto team said he was suffering following a
crash on the first stage.  Contador is riding the Tour after being acquitted by the
Spanish cycling federation after testing positive for banned
stimulant clenbuterol in winning last year’s race. The
federation accepted his argument that the reading was down to
contaminated meat.  Cycling’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
appealed the decision and the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court
of Arbitration for Sport will make a final decision after the
race, which ends July 24 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  