-- 
California Lawmakers Vote to Require Gay History Included in Textbooks

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/california-lawmakers-order-gay-history-included-in-public-school-textbooks.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  will
decide whether the state with the biggest public school
enrollment should be the first in the U.S. to require teaching
the history and accomplishments of gays and lesbians.  The Assembly passed 49-25 a  bill  approved earlier by the
Senate that would direct social-science classes and texts to
include the “role and contributions” of lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgendered people.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, has 12 days to sign or veto
the measure. His decision will affect not only the state’s  6.2
million  students in public school. California is the largest
textbook buyer in the U.S., representing almost 13 percent of
the $3.4 billion market in 2009, according to the  Association of
American Publishers . School publishers typically try to sell
California-approved texts to other states.  “We need to portray all people, regardless of their race,
their color or their sexual orientation, in a positive way in
our textbooks,” Assemblywoman Joan Buchanan, an Alamo Democrat
and former teacher, said in floor debate on the bill.  Brown hasn’t said whether he’ll sign the measure. The
governor was elected last year with  support  from  Equality
California , the state’s largest gay-rights group. The
organization has met twice with Brown to urge the governor to
support the measure, Executive Director Roland Palencia said in
an e-mail yesterday.  “The bill has not yet been received,” said  Gil Duran , a
spokesman for Brown, in an e-mail message. “We generally do not
comment on bills prior to action by the governor.”  Lobbying Planned  Opponents and proponents of the gay-history bill say they
plan to lobby Brown.  “We’re hoping the people of  California  will be able to
influence the new governor,” Ron Prentice, executive director
of the  California Family Council , which promotes Judeo-Christian
principles, according to its website.  “We want the governor to really look at whether this is in
the best interest of schoolchildren or whether this would
contribute to more confusion and problems as the children
develop a sexual identity,” Prentice said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Supporters including Palencia characterized the bill as a
way to broaden the teaching of history for all students.  Multicultural ‘Struggle’  “The struggle of the multicultural and multiethnic LGBT
community in California is one of the greatest stories yet to be
told,” Palencia said in a statement, referring to lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender people. The measure “will ensure that
public schools acknowledge the heroism of individuals and
communities who in spite of countless barriers continuously
overcome adversity,” he said.  Since taking office in January, Brown has focused on
closing a budget gap that was $26.6 billion in March. Democratic
lawmakers approved an $85.9 billion budget June 29 that
eliminates the deficit through spending cuts and forecasting
more revenue than originally projected. Within an hour of the
budget vote, Brown  vetoed  a measure that would have made it
easier for farmworkers to unionize,  angering  organized labor,
which supported his 2010 campaign.  Opponents of the history bill will frame their case to
Brown partly in financial terms, said the Family Council’s
Prentice. He said the measure will cost money by requiring
schools to buy updated textbooks.  State Senator Mark Leno, the bill’s chief sponsor, said in
a May interview that the measure wouldn’t require the state to
buy new textbooks, only that the additional elements be added to
future editions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  