-- 
Canadian Dollar Advances Against Euro on Higher Crude Oil, Greece Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-05T21:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/canadian-dollar-advances-against-euro-on-higher-crude-oil-greece-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened against
the euro on an advance in crude oil prices and after Moody’s
Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s long-term government bond
ratings to junk.  The loonie, as the currency is also known, rose against 13
of its 16 most-traded peers as crude, Canada’s largest export
climbed above $97 a barrel. The euro fell against most major
peers on concern the European sovereign debt crisis is
deepening.  “The underlying commodity movement certainly supports the
loonie and the Portugal news is throwing some further weight on
the euro,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a
unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster,
 New Jersey .  The Canadian currency gained 0.5 percent to C$1.3903 per
euro at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.3974 yesterday. The loonie
dropped 0.2 percent to 96.34 cents per U.S. dollar, compared
with 96.11 cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0380.  Crude oil  futures rose added 2.1 percent to $96.90 a barrel
in  New York , after rising as high as $97.48 a barrel. Canada is
the largest supplier of crude oil to the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy.  Greek Concern  The loonie gained versus the 17-nation currency as  Standard
& Poor’s  yesterday said the French plan for rolling over Greek
debt would likely trigger a default rating. Banks that agree to
exchange their Greek government bonds for new securities may
incur impairment charges on debt maturing through June 2014 that
they continue to hold, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s cut Portugal’s ratings to Ba2 from Baa1. The
outlook is negative. The reductions stem partly from “the
growing risk that Portugal will require a second round of
official financing before it can return to the private market,”
Moody’s said today in a statement.  The Swiss franc and the greenback, traditional havens, were
the top performers among the major currencies.  “The only thing supporting the Canadian dollar is that we
do see a little bit of a rally in  oil prices  and that’s making
it clearly more attractive,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at online trader GFT Forex in New York.  Yearly Performance  Canada’s currency has weakened 1.9 percent this year versus
those of nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the
fourth-worst performer. The yen is down 5.7 percent, as is the
greenback and sterling is off 2.8 percent.  “The warnings from S&P, as well as the warning from
Moody’s this morning about how they’re not really satisfied with
the Greek debt rollover plan proposed by  France , really isn’t
helping the markets,” said GFT’s Lien.  Canada’s dollar will weaken to 99 cents per U.S dollar by
the end of March 2012, according to the median forecast of 39
economists and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market is a little bit less secure now about buying
risk and the Canada dollar is considered to be a risk asset,”
said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . “There’re expectations that  China 
could be hiking rates as soon as this weekend.”  Bond Returns  Canada’s  government bonds  have returned 2 percent this
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The five-year note’s yield fell two basis point to 2.28
percent before tomorrow’s auction. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in June 2016 rose 10 cents to C$98.69.  Canada will auction C$3.5 billion of five year bonds
tomorrow, according to a schedule on the  Bank of Canada ’s
website. The 2.75 percent bonds will mature in September 2016.
The previous auction of five-year bonds, on May 18, drew an
average yield of 2.57 percent, and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.59
times. The average coverage ratio during the past five auctions
is 2.39 times, according to Bank of Canada  data .  The  European Central Bank  will increase its benchmark rate
to 1.5 percent on July 7 from 1.25 percent, according to all 54
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last week reiterated that policy makers are in a state
of “strong vigilance,” a phrase he has used before tightening
monetary policy.  Jobs Reports  Canada’s economy added 15,000 jobs in June, after boosting
payrolls by a net 22,300 positions in May, according to the
median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Statistics Canada  is due to report the data on July 8 at 7 a.m.
in Ottawa. The jobless rate held at 7.4 percent, according to
the survey.  U.S. payroll jobs climbed by 100,000 workers after a 54,000
increase in May that was the smallest in eight months, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Labor Department data due July 8. The jobless rate held
at 9.1 percent.  The fate of the Canadian dollar during the near term
“depends on the data that comes out this week, what kind of a
picture that paints for the U.S. and the global recovery,” said
Gain’s Dolan. “The darker the picture the more the loonie has
to lose, and the  U.S. dollar  to gain. There’s very little to
suggest there’s been some sort of significant improvement in the
U.S. recovery in the last few weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  