-- 
Carrefour Says Casino-Diniz Agreements Don’t Prevent Talks

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-05T11:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/carrefour-says-casino-diniz-agreements-don-t-prevent-talks-1-.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  said publicly available
accords between  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  and the Diniz Group
relating to Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar
don’t “to our knowledge” prevent talks with other parties.  Carrefour’s board yesterday approved a plan to merge its
Brazilian business with Pao de Acucar, creating a new jointly
owned company which the French retailer says would achieve
annual savings of 600 million euros ($868 million) to 800
million euros. Casino said yesterday the proposal violates a
2005 agreement for it to become Pao de Acucar’s sole controlling
shareholder in 2012, and that it considers the plan “hostile”
and based on illegal negotiations.  “Casino has not referred to any specific clause to support
its assertions,” Carrefour said today in a statement.
“Carrefour has no hostile intentions regarding Casino.”  The merger plan was proposed to Carrefour last month by
Banco BTG Pactual SA’s investment fund Gama, setting up a power
struggle with Casino, which responded by raising its stake in
Pao de Acucar,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer, to 43.1 percent. About
85 percent of the cash needed for the deal would be provided by
Brazil’s BNDES development bank, which said July 1 that its
financing plan depended on a “friendly understanding” among
all involved.  “The proposed transaction is subject to Pao de Acucar’s
approval,” Carrefour said today.  Unanimous Support  Casino has said the plan requires unanimous support from
the board of Wilkes, its venture with the Diniz family that
controls Pao de Acucar. The Saint Etienne, France-based company
said yesterday that it has filed a second request for
arbitration against the Diniz Group at the International Chamber
of Commerce.  Pao de Acucar said yesterday it hasn’t received any details
about the second arbitration request.  Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz will today propose a
Wilkes board meeting for Aug. 2, to discuss the merger plan,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Casino and Carrefour are seeking to offset weaker earnings
at home by reaching into emerging markets. Casino gets a quarter
of sales from  Latin America , while Brazil is the second-largest
contributor to Carrefour’s revenue after  France . Brazil’s $1.6
trillion economy is the second-biggest among developing nations
after  China ’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opposition Lawmakers  Opposition lawmakers in Brazil have criticized BNDES for
financing a private transaction that may lead to market
concentration, according to the Chamber of Deputies’  website .
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today that the proposal
isn’t a government issue and won’t use government funds.  Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves , the 42-year-old chief
executive officer of Banco BTG Pactual, and Abilio Diniz, 74,
suggested the combination.  The merger also faces potential scrutiny from Brazilian
antitrust authorities because the combined retailers would
control more than 30 percent of sales in a third of the
municipalities where they operate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 