-- 
China Banks’ Outlook May Be Souring on Loans, Moody’s Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-07-05T10:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-bank-outlook-may-be-souring-on-local-government-loans-moody-s-says.html
Chinese banks’ loans to local
governments are about 3.5 trillion yuan ($540 billion) more than
the national auditor’s estimate, and the industry’s credit
outlook could decline, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The Chinese audit agency could be understating banks’
exposure to local governments,” Yvonne Zhang, a Moody’s analyst
in Beijing, said in the report today. The “apparent absence of
a clear master plan to deal with this issue” is likely to
exacerbate problems and lenders may be left to manage a portion
of the souring loans on their own, it said.  Bank shares fell and bond risk rose on concern that the
banks will be unable to absorb losses on defaults should
property prices drop. Moody’s estimates that local governments’
debt is about a third more than the audit office’s findings last
week of 10.7 trillion yuan. Non-performing loans could reach as
much as 12 percent of total credit, it said.  “This type of negative news will dampen sentiment on the
outlook of Chinese banks, particularly on small and mid-sized
Chinese banks,” said Banny Lam, an associate director at CCB
International Securities in Hong Kong. “The pressure may ease
when the Chinese government unveils more details on how these
loans could be treated.”  China ’s three biggest banks dropped in Hong Kong trading.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s most
profitable lender, fell 0.5 percent to HK$5.93, reversing
earlier gains of as much as 0.7 percent.  China Construction Bank
Corp. (939)  shed 1.2 percent while  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  lost 0.3 percent.  Risk of Defaults  The nation’s first assessment of local government debt
showed that 79 percent of the liabilities are bank loans and 8
billion yuan is overdue, Auditor General Liu Jiayi said June 27.  The audit office’s estimates are similar to those of the
China Banking Regulatory Commission, Wan Li, a Shanghai-based
banking analyst at BoCom International Holdings Co., said by
telephone today. Loans that weren’t accounted for by the audit
office would be those extended at the county level, which pose a
limited burden for the banks, he said.  “There shouldn’t be a serious understatement from the NAO
figures,” Li said. “They should more or less reflect the real
situation.”  ‘Stress Case’  The additional 3.5 trillion yuan of loans, which account
for about 7 percent of China’s 50.8 trillion yuan in outstanding
local-currency loans, aren’t considered by the audit office as
real claims on local governments, Moody’s said. That indicates
the debt may be poorly documented and at greater risk for
defaults, it said.  Non-performing loans may be higher than a “base case”
estimate of 5 percent to 8 percent, and closer to the “stress
case” scenario of 10 percent to 18 percent, the ratings company
estimated following an assessment of the new data.  The cost of insuring debt of  Bank of China , the nation’s
third-largest lender, from default rose 8 basis points to 168,
near a two-year high of 175 set last week, according to data
provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. An advance suggests deteriorating
perceptions of creditworthiness.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on China’s AA- long-term,
local-currency rating to negative from stable on April 12
because of the risk the government would have to bail out banks.
As much as 30 percent of loans to local government entities may
go bad, accounting for the biggest source of banks’ non-
performing assets,  Standard & Poor’s  said that month.  China’s largest publicly traded banks will be able to
absorb credit losses even if 27 percent of their loans to local
governments go bad, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimated this
week. The central government is also unlikely to let its
unlisted policy banks, which are state-owned lenders set up to
fund government projects, default on the debt, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  