-- 
China Money Rate Surges Most in Two Weeks on Reserve Payment

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T03:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-money-rate-surges-most-in-two-weeks-on-reserve-payment.html
China ’s money-market rate surged by
the most in almost three weeks on speculation the supply of cash
will tighten as banks make payments today to meet  reserve
requirements .  Payments must be made on the 5th, 15th and 25th of each
month if a bank’s deposit holdings expand, said Wang Mingfeng, a
Beijing-based bond analyst at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s
biggest brokerage. Today’s amount is based on the deposit
holdings at the end of June, he said.  “The payment must be huge today because banks’ deposits
probably increased a lot on June 30” as they tried to meet loan-
to-deposit requirements at the end of the quarter, said Wang.
“But the gain will be temporary. The overall trend is still
that money-market rates will decline before the middle of
July.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 201 basis points to 6.82 percent as
of 10:43 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the
biggest jump since June 15.  The People’s Bank of China has ordered banks to set aside
more cash as reserves six times this year to curb inflation. The
latest increase, which lifted the reserve-requirement ratio to a
record 21.5 percent, took effect on June 20.  The central bank kept the yield on one-year bills unchanged
at 3.4982 percent, after two weeks of increases, according to
traders at primary dealers required to bid at the auctions.  “This suggests that the central bank does not want to
tighten liquidity further, in line with signs of softening
growth, and as inflation will peak soon,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a
research note.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.83 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 