-- 
China to Award Shale Areas in Bid to Tap Reserves Exceeding U.S.

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T05:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-may-announce-shale-gas-auction-winners-today-zhang-says.html
China  is likely to name winners of
the country’s first auction of shale-gas areas today as the
world’s biggest energy consumer prepares to tap deposits
estimated to exceed U.S. reserves by 50 percent.  The sale will allow Chinese energy explorers to develop the
Nanchuan and Xiushan blocks in southwest China, where natural
gas is trapped in rocks, Zhang Dawei, deputy director of oil and
gas strategy research at the Ministry of Land and Resources,
said in a telephone interview from Beijing. Zhang declined to
identify the companies before the official announcement.  The ministry will award two of the four blocks offered in
last month’s auction that each attracted at least three bidders,
and contracts will be signed this month, Zhang said. Nine bids
were received from companies including PetroChina Co.,  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum Group Co.,
China United Coalbed Methane Co. and Henan Provincial Coal Seam
Gas Development and Utilization Co., the ministry said June 29.  Foreign companies will likely continue to be barred from
the second auction planned for later this year, Zhang said,
without giving a schedule for the sale.  China, aiming to triple the use of gas to about 10 percent
of energy consumption by 2020, may hold 1,275 trillion cubic
feet of shale gas, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
said in a report in April. That compares with the 862 trillion
cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  The Nanchuan block straddles Chongqing municipality and
Guizhou province, while the Xiushan block spans Chongqing,
Guizhou and Hunan province, the official Xinhua News Agency said
on June 28. The Nanchuan block has an area of 2,198 square
kilometers (848 square miles) and Xiushan 2,039 square
kilometers, the land ministry  said  on June 29.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 