-- 
China ETF in U.S. Loses Most Money as Mainland Brokers Buy

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-07-05T20:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-etf-in-u-s-loses-most-money-as-mainland-brokers-say-buy-.html
The biggest Chinese exchange-traded
fund in the U.S. is losing money faster than any other country-
focused ETF, even as the lowest valuations since 2008 convince
brokerages in the Asian nation that it’s time to buy.  Investors pulled a net $961.2 million from the  iShares FTSE
China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  this year, the most among 140 single-country
ETFs that trade on U.S. markets, according to data compiled by
New York-based research firm  XTF Inc . The outflows coincided
with a decline in the Shanghai Composite Index’s price-earnings
ratio using estimates for the next year to 11.6, a valuation
last seen during the financial crisis in November 2008.  Valuations in the Shanghai Composite slumped after the
country’s central bank raised lender reserve requirements 12
times since the start of 2010 and increased benchmark  interest
rates  for the fourth time. The People’s Bank of China is
tightening monetary policy to curb inflation, which climbed to
the highest level since July 2008 in May.  “ China ’s been too popular and money’s starting to flow
out,” said  Kenneth Fisher , who oversees $44 billion as chief
executive officer of Woodside, California-based Fisher
Investments Inc. “It’s outside China where the interest has
been focused and primarily in America. People were tripping over
themselves to get into Chinese equities and now, they’re
starting to get scared.”  Second-Half Rally  Mainland brokers say that the lowest multiples since
economic growth collapsed three years ago will lift equities.
Beijing-based Citic Securities Co., the nation’s largest
brokerage, and China International Capital Corp. both predict
the Shanghai Composite will rally in the second half as the
government sustains economic growth by easing monetary policy.  U.S. investors aren’t convinced. FXI, which is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange’s Arca platform, has fallen 0.3
percent in 2011 amid concern the country will struggle to
control inflation, as well as increased regulatory scrutiny
following accounting problems of Chinese companies listed in
 North America . The China-linked security tracks China’s largest
25 stocks on the Hong Kong exchange.  At the same time, money managers in the U.S. are favoring
the world’s second-biggest emerging market, pouring money into
the largest  Brazil  ETF. About $1.43 billion went into the
 iShares MSCI Brazil Index Fund (EWZ)  this year. The Shanghai Composite
Index has advanced 0.3 percent in 2011, while Brazil’s Bovespa
index has retreated about 9 percent.  Driving Flows  “It’s certainly counterintuitive because you’re used to
thinking that performance drives money flows in and out,” said
Nicholas Colas, the New York-based chief market strategist at
BNY ConvergEX Group LLC. “China is raising interest rates and
that’s caused money flows out of the country, while the
underlying index has been generally fine. It’s declined but it’s
not like it’s down 10 percent.”  China’s stocks rose today, driving the benchmark index to
the highest level in six weeks, after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
inflation will be controlled and services industries expanded at
the second-fastest pace this year. The Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.1 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa fell 1.3 percent at 4:09
a.m. New York time.  While developed equity markets and other emerging market
stocks have struggled this year, the ETFs tracking some of these
countries have managed to attract U.S. investors. The iShares
Brazil ETF had the sixth-biggest inflows this year, while
falling 4.5 percent.  Japan Wins Money  The single-country ETF that lured the biggest investment
this year is the  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , which drew $2.63
billion in assets as it declined 3.4 percent. FXI has lost about
$564.5 million in the past three months, XTF data show.  “We’ve seen heavy selling the last few weeks,” said Eric Lichtenstein, the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based managing
director of ETF trading at Knight Capital Group. The China ETF’s
outflows may be due to the “overall negative view of
equities,” he said.  Concern about the Greek debt crisis and the end of the
 Federal Reserve ’s stimulus measures in the U.S. have spurred
investors to sell equities globally. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of developed and emerging markets has slumped 3.4 percent
since climbing to a high of 357.72 on May 2.  Guggenheim China Fund  The market capitalization of all 26 exchange-traded funds
that track only China is about $10.2 billion, according to XTF
data. Investors have withdrawn $1.04 billion from the group this
year. The  Guggenheim China Small Cap ETF (HAO)  saw the second-biggest
outflows out of China-focused ETFs, losing $122 million.  Economists predict China’s expansion, which has averaged
more than 10 percent during the past decade, may slow to 9.5
percent this year, according to the median estimate in a survey
by Bloomberg.  Fisher said money managers may be wary of  China’s economy 
as economists and investors warn of a property bubble in the
region.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 cut it outlook on Chinese
developers, echoing concerns by bears such as hedge fund manager
 Jim Chanos . New home prices rose in 67 of 70 of China’s cities
in May.  U.S. investors may be partly exiting Chinese equity funds
after reports that companies from  Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd. (LFT)  to  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  were exaggerating operations, Colas
said.  Inflation, Accounting  “The fundamental problems China has -- controlling
inflation, its monetary policy -- are more important drivers but
it can’t help,” he said. “It’s definitely a concern.
Accounting is always a concern.”  While investors have grown bearish on China, the outflows
for FXI may be also driven by a decline in short interest in the
country’s equities, according to Lichtenstein and Colas. The
short-interest ratio for FXI sank to 1.42 on June 15, the lowest
level in more than a year and after rising to a record 3 in
February, according to New York Stock Exchange data.  Large orders of ETFs are made through authorized agents who
purchase blocks of the underlying holdings and trade them with
the fund to create new shares. Investors betting on declines may
still need to create shares of the ETF in order short the funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  