-- 
China Stocks May Rebound Over Next Two Months, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T01:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-stocks-may-rebound-over-next-two-months-jpmorgan-says-1-.html
Chinese stocks may be poised for a
rebound over the next one-to-two months as the economic recovery
picks up in the third quarter, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Companies that benefit from fixed-asset investment will
likely lead the recovery, JPMorgan analysts led by  Frank Li 
wrote in a report today. They favor Changsha Zoomlion Heavy
Industry Science & Technology Development Co., Weichai Power
Co.,  China  National Building Material Co. and Anhui Conch Cement
Co., according to the report. The economy may grow more than 8.5
percent in the third quarter from 7.8 percent in the previous
three months, they said.  “The China market might have reached the maximum stress
point,” the JPMorgan analysts said. “China’s sequential
economic growth appears to have troughed in the second
quarter.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  also predicted a “short-term”
rebound for Chinese stocks, according to a July 1 report from
analysts led by Hanfeng Wang.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said
yesterday investors should be “overweight” Chinese equities in
the next three months as the government achieves a “soft-
landing” for the economy. Nomura Holdings Inc. said yesterday
the nation’s stocks will offer “buying opportunities” in the
second half.  The  MSCI China (MXCN)  index rose 2.3 percent yesterday, erasing
this year’s loss, on speculation the central bank will refrain
from adding to four interest-rate increase since early 2010 as
services and manufacturing reports signaled slower growth.  Real Interest Rates  The stock gauge has climbed 1.6 percent in 2011 through
yesterday, compared with a 1.6 percent gain by MSCI’s gauge of
emerging-market companies and a 0.2 percent rise by the Shanghai
Composite Index.  JPMorgan maintained its "medium-term view" that Chinese
shares may not stage a “sustainable rally” until after so-
called real  interest rates  move into positive territory, the
analysts said in the report. The magnitude of the expected
short-term stock rebound will depend on quickly consumer-price
gains slow in the second half of the year after an expected
peaking in June and July, the analysts wrote.  The inflation rate, which jumped to a 34-month high of 5.5
percent in May, may surge to 6.5 percent in June, spurring the
central bank to raise interest rates for the first time since
April, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said in a June 30 report.  Monetary Policy  Concern  Chinese inflation running beyond the government’s target
could keep stocks “flat at the current level” for the next two
months, amid concerns over further measures to tighten monetary
policy, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “The MSCI China index has never performed well when
expectations are for high inflation, or CPI higher than 4
percent,” Allen Gui, a Shanghai-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, said last week in an interview. “The  market sentiment 
will remain weak in the coming two months, as high inflation is
always followed by cooling measures.”  China is likely to raise rates this weekend after the
central bank said yesterday inflationary pressure remains high,
the Economic Information Daily reported today, without citing
anyone. Consumer-price increases may hit 6.2 percent in June,
the report said, citing market estimates.  --Allen Wan and Shiyin Chen. With assistance from Irene Shen.
Editor: Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  