-- 
Chinese Curbs on Raw-Material Exports Break Rules, WTO Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-05T16:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/chinese-curbs-on-raw-material-exports-break-rules-wto-says-1-.html
Chinese restrictions on exports of
nine raw materials violate global rules and give the country’s
manufacturers an unfair edge, a World Trade Organization panel
said, backing a complaint by the U.S., the European Union and
 Mexico .  Today’s ruling comes more than 18 months after WTO judges
agreed to investigate whether Chinese quotas, export duties and
license requirements on overseas shipments of industrial
ingredients including coke, zinc and bauxite are discriminatory.
The restrictions have stoked tensions between China and its
trading partners, which often accuse the Chinese government of
having unfair commerce and currency policies.  “The panel found that China’s export duties were
inconsistent with the commitments that China had agreed to in
its Protocol of Accession,” WTO judges said in a summary of the
315-page ruling on the Geneva-based trade arbiter’s website.
“The panel also found that export quotas imposed by China on
some of the raw materials were inconsistent with WTO rules.”  China, the world’s second-largest economy, is the top
producer of cadmium, gold, indium,  iron ore , lime, lead,
manganese, mercury, molybdenum, phosphate, salt, tin, tungsten,
vanadium and zinc. Its export restrictions have caused worldwide
supplies of many raw materials to plummet, sending prices higher
and providing an incentive for manufacturers to move to China to
take advantage of the cheaper materials.  ‘Significant Victory’  “Today’s panel report represents a significant victory for
manufacturers and workers in the U.S. and the rest of the
world,” U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said in an e-mail.
The duties “have caused massive distortions and harmful
disruptions in supply chains throughout the global
marketplace.”  The commodities at issue in the WTO case also included
magnesium, manganese, silicon carbide, fluorspar, silicon
carbide and yellow phosphorus, which are used by the steel,
aluminum, automotive and chemicals industries.  China  argued that the restrictions are necessary to
conserve exhaustible natural resources and ease overproduction
and emissions of carbon and sulfur gases from furnaces. The
U.S., the EU and Mexico said the curbs discourage the export of
materials that are “critical” for their manufacturers, while
keeping them cheaper and readily available in China.  The WTO panel said that China was “unable to demonstrate”
that the export duties curtailed pollution. China’s government
has the right to appeal the decision.  Rare Earths  Today’s ruling may prompt the U.S. and the EU to make good
on threats to complain at the WTO over Chinese restraints on
exports of rare earths, a group of 17 elements used in  wind
turbines , hybrid cars and defense applications such as guided
missiles.  China has limited domestic output and exports of the
metals, sending some rare earths up sixfold and souring ties
with major users including the U.S. and  Japan . The government
may further reduce its quotas, pushing prices higher, Goldman
Sachs & Partners Australia Pty said in May.  “I expect that China will now bring its export regime in
line with international rules,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in a statement. “In light of this result, China
should ensure free and fair access to rare earth supplies.”  China, supplier of 95 percent of global rare earths, has
said the curbs protect the environment and are in line with its
WTO commitments. The country’s Inner Mongolia Baotou region
produces so-called light rare earths such as lanthanum, cerium
and samarium. Heavy rare-earth production, concentrated in the
south of China, includes the elements dysprosium, gadolinium and
terbium.  Strong Case  James Bacchus, a lawyer at Greenberg Traurig in  Washington 
and a former chairman of the WTO’s Appellate Body, said a
“strong legal case” can be made against China’s policies on
rare-earth exports.  “China may be especially vulnerable to WTO action in the
case of rare earths because, while applying and increasing
restrictions on rare-earth exports to the detriment of foreign
producers, China has done little to impose rare-earth
restrictions on its domestic producers,” he wrote in the Wall
Street Journal on May 20. “An environmental defense is possible
only for measures that are ‘made effective in conjunction with
restrictions on domestic production or consumption.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 