-- 
China Said to Discuss Allowing SEC Probes of Mainland Firms for First Time

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T18:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/china-said-to-discuss-allowing-sec-probes-of-mainland-firms-for-first-time.html
U.S. and Chinese officials will meet
next week to discuss giving American securities regulators the
right to investigate companies within  China  for the first time,
said two Chinese officials with direct knowledge of the plans.  Representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  will meet with
counterparts from the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
Beijing from July 11 to 12, said the officials, who asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  A joint delegation from the SEC and PCAOB will share
“technical and practical information regarding audit inspection
and cross-border oversight that we hope and expect should
facilitate our achievement of our meaningful inspection
procedure for Chinese audit firms going forward,” said Colleen Brennan, a PCAOB spokeswoman, declining to discuss the timing of
any meeting.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  China-Biotics Inc. (CHBT)  and  Heli Electronics Corp. (HELI)  are among
dozens of companies traded in the U.S. that have disclosed
auditor resignations or accounting irregularities this year,
leading to the suspension or delisting of their shares. Some of
the SEC’s previous investigations of such companies have been
stalled by the inability to gather information in China.  Regulators in the Asian nation haven’t felt pressure to
immediately address oversight of companies publicly traded in
the U.S. because they weren’t responsible for approving the
listings, one of the officials said.  Reverse Mergers  The meetings next week will discuss the feasibility of U.S.
regulators conducting field inspections of auditors and
companies in China, the officials said. They’ll also include
talks focused on companies that list in the U.S. through reverse
mergers, said one of the Chinese officials.  Reverse mergers allow closely held firms to buy publicly
traded shell companies, thereby gaining a stock listing without
the scrutiny of an initial public offering. Chinese companies
listed in the U.S. have had $4.1 billion wiped off their market
value this year amid a wave of auditor resignations and fraud
allegations by short-sellers including Carson Block’s Muddy
Waters LLC. Auditors have cited problems ranging from forged
paperwork to a suspected fake bank website.  The SEC cautioned investors last month, saying that
companies gaining listings this way may be prone to “fraud and
other abuses.”  ‘Gaping’ Hole  PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty said in April that the
inability to inspect auditors in China represents a “gaping
hole in investor protection.” The board regulates and inspects
registered auditors under the oversight of the SEC.  “We’re at a time where the integrity of the financial
statements of so many companies has been challenged, that the
natural place to look for some reassurance is the regulator with
oversight responsibility,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC
lawyer now with Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in
Potomac,  Maryland . “But if the regulator cannot oversee, that
in and of itself diminishes confidence.”  Access that U.S. regulators have requested doesn’t comply
with China’s existing laws, one of the Chinese officials said.
The Chinese regulators were offered equal access to conduct
field inspections in the U.S., according to the officials. No
foreign companies are currently listed in China.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission didn’t
immediately respond to faxed requests for comment.  ‘Something Conclusive’  U.S. regulators previously met with officials from the
China Securities Regulatory Commission in May in Washington.
Doty said at the time that those talks may lead to “something
conclusive” on how the nations handle the situation.  “Both sides have agreed to accelerate efforts, including
undertaking a process for negotiations and engaging in technical
assistance activities, to reach a bilateral agreement,” the
PCAOB’s Brennan said.  Some SEC investigations have been stalled as Chinese
regulators blocked attempts to gather data even when the firms
were willing to cooperate, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said in May.  The Nasdaq Stock Market has delisted companies such as
 China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  and  China Agritech Inc. (CAGC)  China
Agritech spokesman Fan Bin said the company’s delisting hasn’t
affected its business. Zheng Zhuofeng, China MediaExpress’s
financial controller, wasn’t available to comment.  New Policy  More than 150 Chinese companies with a market value of
$12.8 billion have entered U.S. markets through reverse mergers
since 2007, according to the PCAOB. During that same period,
only about 50 Chinese companies filed IPOs. The Bloomberg
Chinese Reverse Mergers Index, which tracks 78 shares listed in
the U.S., has dropped 44 percent this year.  The accounting board last month rejected an application by
Hong Kong-based Zhonglei CPA Co. to become a registered U.S.
auditor, citing an inability to inspect its work for companies
based in China. It was the first time the board had rejected an
application since tightening rules in October.  The PCAOB issued a new  policy  in October making the
inability to inspect auditors in nations such as China a factor
when considering whether to approve them. The organization is
currently blocked from inspecting firms based in China.  Most of the customers of the firms that are under
investigation by the SEC are in China, not regulated by the SEC.
Without the ability to subpoena information from the firms’
customers, it’s been difficult for the SEC to corroborate sales
records, a person familiar with the matter said in May.  ‘Illegal Acts’  The SEC in March suspended trading of Heli Electronics
after faulting the company for a lack of current and accurate
information in its financial statements. MaloneBaily LLP
resigned as the company’s auditor that same month after it
identified irregularities with Heli Electronics’s financial
statements. Calls to the company’s offices in the city of
Guangzhou went unanswered.  China-Biotics said June 29 that the company intended to
voluntarily delist its stock from trading on the Nasdaq
exchange. BDO Ltd. resigned June 22 as the company’s auditor
citing irregularities it had uncovered that likely constituted
“illegal acts,” including being directed by China-Biotics
staff during audit work to a suspected fake bank website. An
operator who answered calls to the company’s offices in  Shanghai 
said no one was available to comment.  --Eva Woo, Dune Lawrence. With assistance from Charles Li in
Beijing, Neil Western in  Hong Kong  and Jesse Hamilton in
 Washington . Editors:  John Liu , David Scheer  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7537 or
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at +1-212-617-4510 or
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  