-- 
Clifford Chance, Allen & Overy Profits Rise on Asia, Middle East Markets

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-07-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/clifford-chance-allen-overy-profits-rise.html
Clifford Chance  LLP and Allen & Overy
LLP, two of the U.K.’s highest-grossing law firms, saw single-
digit increases in both profit and revenue following expansions
into emerging markets such as China, Turkey and Indonesia.  Profit at Clifford Chance rose 8 percent to 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million) per equity partner and total profit at
Allen & Overy increased 6 percent to 456 million pounds, for the
fiscal year ended April 30. Profit per equity partner was
unchanged at Allen & Overy at 1.1 million pounds after it
invested in office moves and lateral hires, Wim Dejonghe, the
firm’s managing partner, said in a telephone interview.  Clifford Chance opened offices this year in Qatar and
Istanbul while Allen & Overy started practices in Jakarta and
Australia. Clifford Chance advised the underwriters of both the
Glencore International Plc and Prada SpA initial public
offerings, while Allen & Overy advised  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  on its
A$9.5 billion ($10.2 billion) bid for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)   “Our practices in  Asia  and the  Middle East  have shown
particularly impressive results,” said David Childs, Clifford
Chance’s managing partner.  Allen & Overy’s total revenue rose 7 percent to 1.12
billion pounds. Clifford Chance, which has 420 partners who
directly share in the firm’s profits, said total revenue rose 2
percent to 1.22 billion pounds.  “We see that the much talked about shift from the West to
the East is now a reality,” Dejonghe said.  Clifford Chance, once the largest law firm in the world by
revenue, said it benefited from international business with
clients seeking advice in 20 or more offices.  Financial Regulation  Both firms said they saw an increase in demand for advice
on financial regulatory reforms, both in the U.S. and in  Europe .  “There’s no single human being who can possibly get to
grips with the volume” of financial rules being developed by
regulators and governments, Childs said.  Allen & Overy opened its first office in Washington D.C.
this year, because the city is “the heart of decision making in
terms of banking regulations” Dejonghe said. “The bank
regulation space is an opportunity for us.”  The U.S. is overhauling the rules governing its financial
services industry as part of the Dodd-Frank reforms, in the wake
of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The
 European Commission , the European Union’s executive arm, is
reviewing laws governing financial markets, bank capital,  hedge
funds  and short-selling.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 