-- 
Colombia Sells $2 Billion of 10-Year Dollar Bonds Overseas

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-07-05T23:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/colombia-sells-2-billion-10-year-dollar-bonds-at-130-basis-point-spread.html
Colombia  sold $2 billion of 10-year
dollar bonds overseas, the nation’s first international debt
sale since winning an investment-grade rating in March.  The country sold the 4.375 percent bonds due 2021 to yield
130 basis points, or 1.3 percentage points, more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, Vice Finance Minister Bruce Mac Master
told reporters today in Bogota. Mexico dollar bonds due 2020
yield 4.01 percent, while Brazilian bonds due 2021 yield 4.06
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “Colombia is a great credit and it offered a good
premium,” said Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at
Bulltick, a Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin America.  The offer is the largest overseas sovereign debt sale from
 Latin America  since  Venezuela  issued $3 billion of bonds in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Colombia is tapping
overseas debt markets for the first time after its foreign
 credit rating  was upgraded to the lowest level of investment
grade by  Standard & Poor’s  in March, Moody’s Investors Service
in May and Fitch Ratings last month.  Colombia received bids worth $7.3 billion for the dollar
securities, Public Credit Director German Arce said in the
presentation alongside Mac Master. The government has said it
plans to issue $2.24 billion in foreign bonds in 2011. Colombia
may decide not to sell the remaining $240 million, Arce said.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc.
managed today’s sale.  Oil Investment  The upgrade to investment grade, “a huge expansion in the
oil and gas sectors and a significant improvement in fiscal
laws” is driving appetite for Colombia’s financial assets, said
 Nick Chamie , the global head of emerging markets at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto.  Colombia is opening up unexplored swathes of the country to
expand oil production to as much as 2 million barrels a day in
2020, from 930,570 barrels a day in June. The oil and mining
industries accounted for 86 percent of the $5.78 billion foreign
investment in the year through May, according to the central
bank. That compares to $3.68 billion in the first five months of
2010.  Congress last month passed legislation, known as the fiscal
rule, that will allow the nation to capitalize on its oil and
mining riches, cut its budget deficit and create a fund to
cushion the economy during crises. It targets a central
government  budget deficit  of no more than 2.3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2014 and 1.9 percent of GDP in 2018, from an
estimated deficit this year of 4 percent of GDP.  Peso Gains  The law also creates a dollar-denominated rainy-day fund
that will maintain excess mining and energy revenue overseas, as
the Andean nation seeks to ease gains in the peso. The peso has
jumped 7.8 percent this year, the best performance among the six
most-traded Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Lawmakers also passed legislation in June that ensures
“fiscal sustainability” is taken into account under the
constitution, so that courts consider the health of the
government’s fiscal accounts before awarding payouts.  Colombia last tapped overseas markets in July 2010, when it
sold $500 million more of its peso-denominated securities due
2021.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  