-- 
Canadian Stocks Retreat as U.S. Service-Sector Index Declines

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-06T21:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/connacher-oil-gas-methanex-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for the first
time in seven days, led by energy companies, after China raised
its benchmark  interest rates  and an index of U.S. service
industries declined.  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. (BNK) , an oil and gas producer with
operations in Albania, plunged 15 percent after its second-
quarter production trailed its forecasts. BlackBerry maker
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  lost 3.8 percent after market-research
firm ComScore Inc. said its market share shrank.  Silver Wheaton
Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-largest precious-metals company by market
value, advanced 5.4 percent as investors sought a haven from the
European debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 22.2
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,403.10.  “The services number came out this morning quite weak,
confirming a global slowdown,” said Stephen Gauthier, a money
manager at Fin-XO Securities in Montreal, which oversees C$600
million ($620 million). “With China raising interest rates
again, the markets will probably correct some more in the next
few days.”  The S&P/TSX had advanced six-straight days, led by
commodity producers, as  Greece  approved an austerity package and
a gauge of U.S. manufacturing climbed. The Canadian equity index
increased 4 percent during the streak, narrowing its yearly
decline to 0.1 percent.  China ’s Rates  Energy stocks retreated after the People’s Bank of China
raised its benchmark interest rates for the third time this
year. China is the world’s largest user of industrial metals and
second-biggest oil consumer behind the U.S.  The Institute for Supply Management said its index of U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses slipped to 53.3 in June from 54.6
in May, trailing most economist forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , the country’s fifth-biggest energy
company, declined 2.6 percent to C$35.55 as natural gas futures
slumped as much as 3.3 percent. Talisman Energy Inc., which
produces oil and gas in  North America , the North Sea and
Indonesia, lost 1.4 percent to C$19.91.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the
owner of Canada’s largest pipeline system, slipped 1.2 percent
to C$41.59.  Bankers Petroleum sank 15 percent, the most since December
2008, to C$6.07 after production missed its forecasts by about
8.5 percent. Gavin Wylie, an analyst at Bank of Nova Scotia, cut
his rating on the shares to “sector perform” from “sector
outperform.”  Cut to Junk  Government-bond yields in the most-heavily indebted Western
European countries jumped today, a day after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its rating on Portuguese credit to junk. Talks on
investor involvement in the new Greek bailout package bogged
down after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both indicated
they would cut Greece to default if the European Union went
ahead with a plan to ask creditors to roll over expiring Greek
bonds into new debt.  Gold futures gained 1.1 percent and silver rallied 1.4
percent in  New York  as investors sought hard assets.  Silver Wheaton climbed 5.4 percent to C$34.99.  Eldorado
Gold Corp. (ELD) , which mines in China and Turkey, rallied 4.1 percent
to C$15.47.  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI) , Canada’s fifth-largest gold
producer, rose 3.2 percent to C$12.07.  Eastern Platinum Ltd. (ELR)  surged 20 percent, the most since
October 2009, to C$1.02. Don MacLean, an analyst at Paradigm
Capital Inc., said in a note to clients that a slide in the
stock, after the mining company reported earnings that missed
estimates and encountered labor unrest, was overdone. The shares
closed at a 19-month low July 4.  RIM slipped 3.8 percent to C$26.79 after ComScore said it
has fallen to third place, behind Apple Inc., in U.S. smartphone
market share. Devices using Google Inc.’s Android operating
system have the most users.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short
seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, retreated for the
first time in six days, slumping 10 percent to C$4.75. The
company postponed a trip for analysts it had proposed for mid-
July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  