-- 
Could Italy Be the Next European Domino?: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/could-italy-be-next-european-domino-to-fall-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
In recent days,  Greece ’s parliament
adopted new austerity measures and Europe’s finance ministers
approved another round of Greek loans. So the European debt
crisis is under control, right?  Probably not. One obvious reason is the dual warning by
ratings firms to banks agreeing to roll over Greek government
bonds into new instruments. Standard & Poor’s July 4 threat to
declare a default, and today’s suggestion by Moody’s Investors
Service that banks may have to take an impairment charge, could
force everyone back to the drawing board.  Less obvious, but no less worrisome, is Italy. With a
precarious fiscal picture, it could be the next to come under
pressure. And this time, U.S. banks are in the line of fire,
with about $35 billion in loans to  Italy  and potentially more
exposure to risk through derivatives markets.  U.S. regulators should call for a new round of stress tests
that assume sovereign-debt restructurings in Europe and take a
realistic view of counter-party risks in opaque markets such as
foreign exchange swaps. Based on those tests, the biggest banks
probably need to suspend dividends and raise more capital as a
buffer against losses.  Many market participants believe Greece will eventually
attempt an orderly restructuring of its debt, in which European
governments, together with the IMF, commit more resources and
European banks agree to lengthen bond and loan maturities. The
effect on Italy could be significant.  Debt Climbing  In the most recent  International Monetary Fund  projections,
Italy’s headline debt will reach 120 percent of national output
this year, and then decline only slightly to 118 percent by the
end of 2016. Italian bonds last week yielded about 4.9 percent,
with the spread over German bonds widening to about two full
percentage points (in contrast, the Greek-German spread is now
about 13 percentage points). Further increases in  interest rates 
could push the forecasts for Italy’s debt toward Greek levels.  How could that happen? Investors are just beginning to
understand that they will soon face losses on loans to Greece.
Until recently, the presumption had been that German, Dutch and
other northern European taxpayers would bail out failing
governments in peripheral eurozone countries, at least to the
extent necessary to protect creditors against losses.  This logic made some sense for smaller countries like
Greece. It has about 360 billion euros in debt outstanding and
the potential credit losses in any restructuring are in the
range of 100 billion to 200 billion euros. The amounts are small
relative to the EU’s 12 trillion-euro economy.  Inconceivable Rescue  Italy, though, has close to 2 trillion euros in debt
outstanding. It’s inconceivable that  Germany  or the IMF could
provide a rescue to protect its creditors. Such a package would
have to involve loans and guarantees of at least 500 billion,
and possibly 1 trillion, euros to impress the markets. This
would be a significant fraction of Germany’s gross domestic
product of about 2.5 trillion euros.  With a debt-to-GDP ratio
of about 80 percent, Germany’s ability to take on new debt is
limited.  The Netherlands,  Finland  and  Austria , combined with
Germany, have a GDP of about 3.5 trillion euros. France adds 2
trillion more, but its debt, already 85 percent of output, is
expected to grow over the next several years.  It all adds up to one sobering fact:  Europe  does not have
enough fiscal firepower to handle an Italian crisis -- at least
in such a way as to protect creditors completely. Beyond the
difficult numbers, why would Germany or other EU countries lend
to Italy, particularly when its politicians show no sign of
coming to grips with their new reality?  Higher Yields  Once these facts dawn on investors, they are likely to
demand higher yields on Italian government bonds. If Italy’s
economic growth is disappointing or if its recently announced
fiscal austerity measures fail to impress the markets, its debt
will look even more dubious. Long-term investors hate this kind
of volatility and will shift out of Italian assets. By itself,
that could push Italian rates up, similar to what happened in
Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland over the last 18 months.  Italy has one major advantage over other eurozone
countries:  Much of its government debt is held by domestic
financial institutions. If foreigners bolt, Italian authorities
could pressure local institutions to support new bond auctions.
But most Italian institutions have attached a very low -- and
perhaps zero -- risk-weight to Italian  government bonds . As
yields rise, the value of those bonds falls. The losses will
quickly threaten to swamp banks’ equity capital.  Italian Banks  Italian banks aren’t likely to fail. Regulators will offer
plenty of forbearance, so the banks won’t have to value assets
at true market values.  But the overhang of sovereign-debt
losses and a potential ratings downgrade (after a recent warning
on Italy from Moody’s Investors Service) could cause banks to
cut back on private-sector lending. This would lower GDP growth
and further worsen Italy’s debt-to-GDP projections.  Italian banks will be able to draw on substantial credit
from the  European Central Bank , especially once  Mario Draghi ,
former head of the  Bank of Italy , becomes the ECB president in
November. But the entire euro system -- the ECB plus the 17
central banks sharing the euro -- has a combined balance sheet
of only about 1.9 trillion euros. It’s unlikely that ECB credit
can do more than postpone sovereign-debt problems on an Italian
scale.  What are the implications for the U.S.? Think about the
market turbulence that questions over Greece, Ireland and
Portugal caused in the last year, and multiply. And think about
an endgame in which moral hazard is really over -- meaning
creditors that bet big on bailouts are allowed to suffer losses.  Previous bank stress tests did not factor in such difficult
events, so the private sector and policy makers have no
information to guide them. They are just guessing. All of this
means the U.S. needs another round of stress tests for
systemically important institutions. It would be wise for U.S.
banks to raise enough capital now to withstand any trans-
Atlantic storms.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  professor and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View  columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 