-- 
Crucial Australian Independents Back Gillard’s Climate Plan as Vote Nears

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-05T07:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crucial-australian-independents-back-gillard-s-climate-plan-as-vote-nears.html
Two Australian independent lawmakers
whose support Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs to pass a
carbon emissions plan gave conditional backing ahead of a July
10 announcement on how it will be structured.  Tony Windsor , who is from New South Wales, said for the
first time he would back the trading system as long as it
reflects recommendations from the Multiparty Climate Change
Commission on which he sits. Tasmanian lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie 
said he would vote for the laws as long as household and
corporate assistance is provided.  Gillard is battling declining public support for the
climate measures in the world’s biggest coal exporter, with the
number of Australians who say the nation should take action
slipping to a record low 41 percent, according to a Lowy
Institute poll published June 27. She needs backing from the
Greens Party and three independent lawmakers to get the plan
through parliament.  “I am confident that if the legislation reflects the
committee’s recommendations that it will get my support in
parliament,” Windsor said in an interview today. “It will be a
big deal for regional areas.”  Gillard has said that the emissions trading system, which
is due to start next July, will be based on advice from the
Multiparty Climate Change Committee and that laws will be
introduced to parliament in the second half of the year.  Low Income Earners  The committee has provided recommendations to the
government on a fixed carbon price for the first three to five
years of an emissions trading system. Gillard, a committee
member, has said more than half the revenue raised would be used
to help low income earners and pensioners and that there would
be assistance to exporters with high emissions.  “I support in principle the government’s move to put a
price on carbon, but the settings must be right,” Wilkie said
in an interview today. “People on low incomes must be properly
compensated, high-emission trade-exposed industries such as the
zinc works in Hobart must be fairly treated, there must be a
high level of investment in renewable energy sources.”  Opposition Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott ,
who has said he will repeal the plan if he becomes prime
minister, pledged on June 25 to deliver tax cuts without a levy
on carbon. Abbott has accused Gillard of misleading the public
on the carbon tax and said the plan will increase electricity
costs by A$700 per household each year.  Discussions will continue this week on the trading
arrangement that will affect fewer than 1,000  companies , Gillard
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The July 10
announcement will mark the culmination of those discussions and
will result in the creation of the world’s third trading system
behind the European Union and  New Zealand .  “It will cut our pollution while still allowing strong
economic growth and jobs growth and growth in  living standards 
in the future,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said today
on Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. “It’ll help drive the
transformation of the economy to a clean energy future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  