-- 
Crude Oil Advances to Three-Week High on Signs of Growth in U.S. and China

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-07-05T20:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crude-oil-advances-to-two-week-high-on-greek-bailout-surge-in-commodities.html
Crude oil climbed to the highest
price in three weeks on signs of economic growth in the U.S. and
 China , the world’s two biggest oil consumers.  Oil rose 2.1 percent as data showed orders placed with U.S.
factories increased in May, indicating manufacturing may rebound
from a slowdown. China’s services industries expanded at the
second-fastest pace this year as new orders and employment
climbed.  “As long as we can see the economy growing, we are going
to see more strength in oil,” said Carl Larry, director of
energy derivatives and research with Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in
New York. “Oil may rise to $100 this month.”  Crude for August delivery gained $1.95 to $96.89 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
price since June 14. Futures have gained 34 percent in a year.  Floor trading was closed yesterday for the U.S.
Independence Day holiday and electronic trades will be booked
with today’s transactions for settlement purposes.  Brent oil for August settlement advanced $2.22, or 2
percent, to $113.61 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil also advanced as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
raw materials increased for the first time in three days. The
S&P GSCI Index jumped 1.7 percent to 675.35, led by silver,
wheat and corn.  “The commodity indexes are strong, so it seems like we’re
following them,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston.  Durable Goods Orders  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods in the U.S. rose 0.8
percent, less than forecast, after a revised 0.9 percent decline
in April that was smaller than previously estimated, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington .  Demand for durable goods that are meant to last at least
three years increased 2.1 percent, while unfilled orders climbed
the most since September, department data showed.  A purchasing managers index in China was 54.1 in June
compared with 54.3 in May, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said in a statement today. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Barclays Plc increased its 2012 estimates for North Sea
Brent and U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude grades.  The bank raised its Brent forecast to $115 a barrel, up $10
from its previous estimate on March 24, Barclays analysts led by
 Paul Horsnell  in  London  said in a report today. The bank
increased its 2012 outlook for WTI by $4 to $110.  ‘Robust Demand’  “Demand forecasts show a continuation of robust emerging
market demand,” Horsnell wrote. “China remains the strongest
individual component of global oil demand.”  Global oil demand will increase by 1.38 million barrels a
day next year to average 90.6 million, Barclays analysts said.  “We do not think China will sacrifice its growth to
contain inflation,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , London-based
head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
cut official selling prices for August shipments of light crude
grades to customers in  Asia .  The state-owned producer, known as  Saudi Aramco , reduced
the price for Arab Extra Light crude to Asia by 50 cents a
barrel to $2.95 above the benchmark, the company said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “It seems particularly bullish when we consider that Saudi
Aramco is cutting prices and we still see” higher prices in oil
futures, Larry said.  Aid to  Greece   European finance ministers approved an 8.7 billion-euro
($12.6 billion) aid payment to Greece on July 2.  “The economic outlook looks better and the Greek situation
looks significantly improved and is no longer a major concern
for people,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “That’s
giving people a lot of optimism about the economy in Europe and
the U.S.”  Hedge funds  and other large investors cut their bullish
bets on crude oil by 8.6 percent to 153,148 futures equivalents
in the week ended June 28, the lowest level since Nov. 26.  The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. gained by
three to 1,006 last week, the 11th consecutive week the count
has reached the highest level since Houston-based Baker Hughes
Inc. separated the oil and natural gas rig counts in 1987.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 465,805
contracts as of 3:33 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 521,407
contracts on July 1, 24 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 