-- 
Oil Halts Two-Day Drop in London; Barclays Raises 2012 Brent, WTI Forecast

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-05T12:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crude-oil-falls-a-third-day-on-china-growth-concern-iea-supply-release.html
Oil advanced, halting a two-day drop
in  London , on speculation of rising oil-demand growth in the
U.S. and  China , the world’s two largest energy users.  Brent rose as much as 1.3 percent before a report today
that may show U.S. factory orders rebounded in May. Futures fell
as much as 0.8 percent earlier after the People’s Bank of China
said yesterday the country faces inflationary pressure and the
central bank will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy.
Barclays Plc boosted its 2012 Brent price forecast by $10 to
$115 a barrel.  “Demand forecasts show a continuation of robust emerging
market demand,” Barclays analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  in
London wrote in a report today. “China remains the strongest
individual component of global oil demand.”  Brent for August settlement climbed as much as $1.43, or
1.3 percent, to $112.82 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and traded for $112.61 as of 1:33 p.m. London time.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , crude for August
delivery was at $95.68 a barrel in electronic trading, 74 cents
higher. Floor trading was closed yesterday for the U.S.
Independence Day holiday and electronic trades will be booked
with today’s transactions for settlement purposes. New York
futures have risen 33 percent in the past year.  Factory Orders  Orders placed with U.S. factories may have risen by 1
percent in May, after falling in April by the most in almost a
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economics. The
Commerce Department will publish its report at 10 a.m. in
 Washington .  Chinese lenders may have greater exposure to bad local-
government loans than anticipated, Moody’s Investors Service
said. Bank loans to local governments are about 3.5 trillion
yuan ($540 billion) more than official estimates, and the credit
outlook for the industry could decline, Moody’s said.  “We do not think China will sacrifice its growth to
contain inflation,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , London-based
head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA.  Global oil demand will increase by 1.38 million barrels a
day next year to average 90.6 million, Barclays analysts said.  New York futures fell 4.6 percent on June 23 after the
 International Energy Agency , an adviser to 28 oil-consuming
nations, said its members will release 60 million barrels of
crude and oil products. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries failed to agree on June 8 to increase production to
make up for a supply shortfall in  Libya . OPEC’s 12 members pump
about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  