-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near Three-Week High on Forecast Drop in U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crude-oil-trades-near-three-week-high-on-signs-of-growth-in-u-s-and-china.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New York 
on speculation crude inventories declined for a fifth week in
the U.S., signaling fuel demand may be climbing in the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity.  Futures gained 0.6 percent, after advancing 2.1 percent
yesterday, before an Energy Department report tomorrow that may
show crude stockpiles dropped 2.5 million barrels last week, the
longest streak since January. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today. Oil supplies
have dropped 3.8 percent since the end of May amid U.S. peak
gasoline demand and the start of the Atlantic  hurricane season .  “Inventories drawing, the summer drive-time and the
hurricane season all provide that flavor for a market that wants
to continue higher,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director
of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel this year. “I’d expect more
gains to be had in the oil market.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 59 cents to
$97.48 a barrel, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $97.45 at 12:25 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract yesterday gained $1.95 to $96.89, the highest
settlement since June 14. Futures have gained 35 percent in a
year.  Floor trading was closed July 4 for the U.S. Independence
Day holiday and electronic trades were booked with yesterday’s
transactions for settlement purposes.  Oil rose yesterday as data showed orders placed with U.S.
factories increased in May, indicating manufacturing may rebound
from a slowdown.  Brent oil for August delivery rose 24 cents to $113.85 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at a premium of $16.65 to U.S. futures.
The spread reached a record $22.29 on June 15.  Gasoline Inventories  U.S. crude inventories shrank 0.7 percent to 357 million in
the week ended July 1, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates before the Energy Department report. All of the
respondents forecast a decline.  Gasoline supplies probably increased 1 million barrels from
213.2 million, according to the survey. It will be the first
gain in three weeks.  Barclays Plc increased its 2012 estimates for North Sea
Brent and U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude grades.  The bank raised its Brent forecast to $115 a barrel, up $10
from its previous estimate on March 24, Barclays analysts led by
 Paul Horsnell  in  London  said in a report yesterday. It increased
its 2012 outlook for U.S. futures by $4 to $110.  Saudi Prices  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
cut official selling prices for August shipments of light crudes
to customers in the U.S. and  Asia  and raised prices for medium
and heavy grades sold in those markets.  The state-owned producer, known as  Saudi Aramco , said it
cut the price for Arab Extra Light crude shipped to Asia by 50
cents a barrel to $2.95 a barrel above the average of the Oman
and Dubai grades, the Gulf benchmarks used by traders in Asia.
It lowered the Arab Light price by 10 cents a barrel to a
premium of $1.35 above the Oman-Dubai average.  The first tropical storm of the  Atlantic hurricane season ,
which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, formed last week. Arlene
dissipated over the Sierra Madre mountains in  Mexico  after
forming last week, the National Hurricane Center said July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  