-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low on Bets China’s Economic Growth to Slow

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-05T06:43:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crude-oil-trades-near-95-in-new-york-on-outlook-for-china-s-slower-growth.html
Oil traded near the lowest in two
days in  New York  as investors bet  China  will step up efforts to
cool its economy, tempering fuel demand in the world’s biggest
energy consumer.  Futures fell as much as 0.3 percent after the People’s Bank
of China said yesterday the country still faces “large”
inflationary pressure and the central bank will maintain a
“prudent” monetary policy. Chinese lenders may have greater
exposure to bad local-government loans than anticipated, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  “These certainly affect sentiment in the market because
China has been the major bullish factor driving oil,” said
 Victor Shum , a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc. in
Singapore, an energy consultant. “Some of the recent economic
and manufacturing data has been not as strong as some expected
so there are some signs that China is slowing a bit.”  Crude for August delivery was at $94.86 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 8
cents, at 2:23 p.m. Singapore time. Floor trading was closed
yesterday for the U.S. Independence Day holiday. Yesterday’s
electronic trades will be booked with today’s transactions for
settlement purposes. Futures are up 31 percent in the past year.  Brent Oil  Brent oil for August settlement was at $111.24 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, down 15 cents. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $16.43 to U.S.
futures. The spread reached a record $22.29 on June 15.  So-called long positions in Brent dropped to 87,831
contracts in the week ended June 28, from 89,058 in the previous
week, ICE Futures said yesterday. Bets on rising prices still
outnumbered those on declines by 38,530 contracts, the data
showed. That’s down from 39,391 for the week to June 21.  New York futures fell 4.6 percent on June 23 after the
 International Energy Agency , an adviser to 28 oil-consuming
nations, said its members will release 60 million barrels of
crude and oil products, the first such deployment in five years.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries on June 8
failed to agree to raise production to make up for a supply
shortfall in  Libya . OPEC’s 12 members pump about 40 percent of
the world’s crude.  Moving Average  Oil in New York continues to face chart resistance around
$96 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
August contract last week traded near the 200-day moving average
and has yet to settle above it. A breach of technical resistance
usually means prices will rise further.  The sale of U.S. emergency crude reserves as part of the
IEA’s program has been “very successful” based on awards
announced last week, according to the Paris-based agency.  “The initial signs from the U.S. this time around are
looking good so we would hope that a very sizeable proportion of
this would be taken up,”  David Fyfe , the IEA’s head of oil
industry and markets division, said yesterday.  Orders placed with U.S. factories rebounded in May after
falling in April by the most in almost a year, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a Commerce Department report today.
Factory orders probably increased 1 percent from minus 1.2
percent, according to the median estimate of 52 economists
polled.  The services industries, which cover about 90 percent of
the  U.S. economy , are expected to have expanded at a reduced
pace in June, a report from the  Institute for Supply Management 
may show tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in  Singapore  at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  