-- 
Crystal Cathedral Ministries Gets Two Bids to Buy Campus Out of Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-05T21:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crystal-cathedral-ministries-gets-two-bids-to-buy-campus-out-of-bankruptcy.html
Crystal Cathedral Ministries , the
bankrupt Southern  California  church built by television
evangelist Robert Schuller, received at least two offers to buy
its campus, creditors said in court filings.  Chapman University  and Greenlaw Acquisitions LLC both
offered $46 million to purchase the 30-acre campus in Orange
County, California, and lease back part of the property to the
church so it can continue operating, the official committee of
unsecured creditors said in papers filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Santa Ana , California.  The church plans to sell the campus in a court-supervised
auction with Greenlaw as the initial bidder, said Marc J.
Winthrop, Crystal Cathedral’s attorney.  “We are getting interest from a lot of different potential
bidders,” Winthrop said today in an interview. A decision on a
buyer is “a long way off,” he said.  Creditors prefer  Chapman University ’s offer and asked the
judge overseeing the case to let them pursue a reorganization
plan to compete with one Crystal Cathedral proposed based on the
Greenlaw bid, according to court documents.  “In light of the clear benefits to the ministry presented
by the Chapman University proposal, the committee is simply
baffled by the debtor’s position,” creditors said in court
papers.  Loan Repayment  Crystal Cathedral has proposed a reorganization that would
use cash from the proposed $46 million sale to repay a bank loan
of about $33.3 million in full and pay lower-ranking creditors
over two years.  The Garden Grove, California-based church, known for its
television show “The Hour of Power,” listed assets and debts
of $50 million to $100 million each in Chapter 11 documents
filed in October. The church estimates its congregation has
10,000 members.  The case is In re Crystal Cathedral Ministries, 10-24771,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Santa
Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 