-- 
Crystal Sugar Rose 3.8% In Two Weeks on Tight Supply, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-05T09:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/crystal-sugar-rose-3-8-in-two-weeks-on-tight-supply-cepea-says.html
Crystal sugar prices in  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, climbed 3.8 percent in the past two
weeks as production continued to lag behind last year’s level,
said Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  The price of crystal sugar, which accounts for 68 percent
of the sweetener sold within Brazil, was 57 reais ($36.70) a 50-
kilogram (110 pound) bag on July 1, up from 54.92 reais on June
17, data from Cepea compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Sugar production in São Paulo state remains lower than
expected, underpinning prices in both domestic and international
markets, Cepea analyst Heloisa Lee Burnquist wrote in a report
yesterday. Mills haven’t yet been able to boost inventory
levels, she added.  Production in the Center South, the country’s main
producing region, dropped almost 25 percent from the start of
the harvest in mid-March until June 16 compared with a year
earlier, data from industry group Unica showed. Lower yields may
lead the association to revise its crop estimate for the 2011-12
season, Unica said.  Raw-sugar prices climbed 7.4 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York  in the past two weeks, while white, or refined sugar
advanced 5.8 percent on NYSE Liffe in London.  Sugar exports were on average 7 percent more profitable
than sales in Brazil’s domestic market last week, according to
Cepea calculations. Both ethanol and sugar are made from
sugarcane in Brazil. Sales of crystal sugar were 30 percent more
profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the type used for blending
with gasoline, and 41% more profitable than hydrous ethanol,
used in flex-fuel cars.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined, or white, sugar futures
traded on NYSE Liffe in  London  call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 