-- 
Tax Increases Not Easy to Define as Debt Talks Enter New Phase

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/debt-talks-complicated-by-definition-of-a-tax-increase.html
Congressional Republicans are
refusing to include tax increases in a bill to raise the U.S.
debt limit, even as they fight with each other and with
Democrats about how to define just what a tax increase is.  Lawmakers and tax analysts associated with both parties are
challenging the approach that says eliminating a tax break is
always a tax increase. Instead, they say tax benefits for
ethanol, solar energy, mortgage interest and other items are
really spending in disguise. If that view is accepted, such tax
breaks could be curtailed for  deficit reduction  and be seen as
equivalent to federal spending cuts.  In this semantic debate, members of Congress talk past each
other without a common fiscal language. Defining a tax increase
has become a central policy question as Congress and the Obama
administration seek an agreement that can satisfy Republicans
who oppose tax increases and Democrats who insist on them.  “I can tell you exactly how many angels can fit on the
head of a pin, but I have no idea what a tax increase is,” said
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who was the economic adviser to 2008
presidential candidate John McCain and opposes including tax
increases in the debt-limit bill.  He’s only half-joking. For years, anti-tax activist  Grover
Norquist ’s definition of a tax increase has dominated Republican
circles in Washington, and it remains the primary approach,
backed with a pledge that Norquist enforces.  Eliminating Tax Breaks  Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, views
the elimination of a tax break as a tax increase unless
accompanied by a tax cut, regardless of what the tax break is or
who it affects.  Keith Hennessey, who was director of the National Economic
Council under President  George W. Bush , said when that
administration examined legislation, it asked: “Did the bill
score as a net tax increase?” If the answer was yes, it was a
tax increase and thus unacceptable.  “It was pretty much that simple,” said Hennessey, a
research fellow at the Hoover Institution, a policy center at
 Stanford University  in  California  that promotes private
enterprise.  Greg Mankiw, chairman of Bush’s council of economic
advisers, said on his blog last week that Republicans should
focus on preventing tax rate increases and be willing to trade
tax breaks for reduced tax rates or permanent extensions of the
lower rates that expire at the end of 2012.  ‘Often Murky’  “The distinction between spending and taxation is often
murky and sometimes meaningless,” wrote Mankiw, an economics
professor at  Harvard University .  Former Reagan administration economist Martin Feldstein has
also called for caps on deductions and credits.  President  Barack Obama  has called for what he considers a
balanced approach that would include eliminating or curtailing
tax breaks. The more tax provisions that Republicans view as
spending-like, the closer the two parties can come to an
agreement.  Republican Senator Tom Coburn’s public spat with Norquist
highlighted the tension on the definitional question. Coburn
forced the Senate to vote June 16 on repealing the tax credit
for ethanol without an offsetting  tax cut , and 32 other
Republicans agreed.  Offsetting Tax Cut  Some in that group, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , backed Coburn while saying they also were
supporting a separate amendment that included an offsetting tax
cut and never reached a vote.  “We have to be honest and recognize that if you are going
to eliminate systematically a host of deductions and keep the
money or spend it for new programs, then you’ve raised taxes,”
said Senator Jeff Sessions of  Alabama , who is the top Republican
on the Budget Committee. “It just is unless we’ve changed the
English language.”  Republican  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  said the ethanol credit
was an “egregious” example that warranted a special exception
to a general rule that still holds.  “I do think the notion of offsetting revenue increases
against decreases is an important part of our philosophy,” he
said. “But I think you can get caught up in these things and
not put in place good policy.”  Still others say a broader look at targeted provisions in
the  tax code  is warranted.  ‘Off the Table’  “For me, certainly tax rate increases are off the table,”
said Senate Finance Committee member John Cornyn, a Texas
Republican. “But I think we’ve seen in things like the ethanol
subsidies, we ought to look at those sorts of things across the
board.”  Cornyn approvingly cited the work of the commission led
last year by former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles
and former Senator Alan Simpson. The group recommended
eliminating tax breaks and using some of the proceeds for
deficit reduction.  The distinction between spending and taxes is real,
Hennessey said, because tax cuts, even targeted ones, let people
keep more of their money.  “By relabeling this as a spending cut, they’re trying to
create a moral equivalence to suggest that raising a dollar of
taxes is the same as a dollar of spending, but it’s not,” he
said. “They have the same effect on the deficit, but they’re
different.”  Spending vs. Taxes  In an August 2010 speech, House Speaker John Boehner of
 Ohio  adopted the idea that spending is embedded in the tax code.  “We need to acknowledge that what  Washington  sometimes
calls tax cuts are really just poorly disguised spending
programs that expand the role of government in the lives of
individuals and employers,” he said at the City Club in
 Cleveland .  Asked how Boehner defines a tax increase, spokesman  Michael Steel  said in an e-mail: “In general, Boehner supports
simplifying the tax code to lower rates and make America’s
economy more competitive. Our bottom line is always jobs. But no
one expects comprehensive tax reform to be part of the debt
limit debate.”  Even those who focus on tax expenditures have trouble
determining which ones most resemble spending and which are most
similar to tax rate increases.  No Firm List  “If there was an agreed-upon list, you’d be done,” said
Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the  Congressional Budget
Office  who is now president of the American Action Forum, a
Washington group that favors smaller government.  Donald Marron, a Bush administration economist who now
directs the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in Washington,
 estimates that  about two-thirds of tax expenditures in 2007, or
$600 billion, were like spending, equal to about 4.1 percent of
gross domestic product.  The other definitional problem with taxes stems from the
fact that dozens of tax provisions, such as the ethanol break
and lower rates, are scheduled to expire in the next few years.  Democrats, similar to congressional scorekeepers, often
assume the planned expiration of a tax break as part of their
baseline projection, which makes extending current rates look
like a tax cut. Republicans tend to focus on current tax rates
as a baseline, which means any decision to let tax breaks lapse
on schedule is a tax increase.  “You always have to measure an agreement relative to
something, and there’s not agreement on that,” Holtz-Eakin
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  