-- 
Debt Dispute Forces U.S. Senate’s Reid to Delay Vote on Mission in Libya

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-05T21:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/debt-dispute-causes-senate-to-drop-libya-vote.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  set aside an effort to debate a resolution authorizing U.S.
military involvement in  Libya  after Republicans clamored instead
for a focus on the  U.S. debt .  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, acted today after a parade of
Republicans took to the Senate floor to complain that the
chamber had canceled a week-long recess ostensibly to debate the
dispute over raising the government’s debt limit and were
instead being asked to vote on President Barack Obama’s
intervention in Libya’s civil war.  Reid canceled the recess late last week after Obama said
lawmakers should stay in  Washington  until Republicans and
Democrats can agree on extending the $14.3 trillion debt limit,
which Treasury officials say is needed before Aug. 2 to avoid a
possible default.  “Regardless of how one feels about the Libyan resolution,
that’s not what we need to be doing this week,” said Senator
 Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican and the party’s ranking
member of the Senate Budget Committee.  Procedural Vote  Several Senate Republicans said a procedural vote related
to the resolution that Reid had scheduled for today, which
required support from 60 lawmakers to pass, would have failed
because of the push to discuss spending limits and deficit
reduction.  “Momentum just continued to build” against Reid’s agenda
plan, Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, told reporters
after the Libya resolution was pulled from the floor.  The bipartisan resolution, approved last week by the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, backs Obama’s deployment of U.S.
warplanes to support NATO-led bombardment of Libya. Obama’s
refusal to seek direct congressional authorization of the U.S.
role in the mission has sparked dissent among lawmakers, with
the House last week defeating a resolution to authorize it.  Debating the Foreign Relations panel’s resolution would be
“burning a week’s time on what’s totally irrelevant to what’s
happening in Libya, and certainly irrelevant to what’s facing
our country,” Corker said in a floor speech.  The procedural vote Reid had scheduled for today would have
limited debate on the Libya resolution, setting the stage for a
final vote on the measure later this week. His change of course
doesn’t bar him from bringing up the resolution at a later date.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican who co-sponsored
the resolution, said he hoped the measure would be taken up next
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  