-- 
Derek Jeter’s Race to 3,000th Hit With Yankees Subject of HBO Documentary

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-05T18:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/derek-jeter-s-race-to-3-000th-hit-with-yankees-subject-of-hbo-documentary.html
Derek Jeter ’s march to his 3,000th
hit as a  New York  Yankee will be the subject of a Major League
Baseball-produced documentary that will air on Time Warner
Inc.’s  HBO Sports .  Jeter, 37, who came off the disabled list yesterday after
recovering from a right-calf injury, is six hits short of
becoming the 28th Major League Baseball player and first in a
 Yankee s uniform to reach the milestone.  “Hopefully, fans will enjoy getting to see a sneak peek at
the journey,” Jeter said in a statement. “It has been a lot of
fun working with HBO Sports and MLB Productions to capture this
milestone in a special and unique way.”  The one-hour special will be titled “Derek Jeter 3K,” and
will be shown after hundreds of hours of film are edited, HBO
spokesman Kevin Flaherty said.  Cameras have been following Jeter at home and at the park.
The special will include footage from MLB Productions archives
from his early days with the Yankees through his five World
Series championships, according to a release from MLB.  It will include interviews with Yankees co-owner  Hal Steinbrenner ,
General Manager Brian Cashman, manager Joe Girardi, former
manager  Joe Torre , teammates Curtis Granderson and  Mariano Rivera , and fiancee Minka Kelly, Flaherty said.  “The buzz we’ve all seen during the buildup to this
milestone is a clear indication of how Derek transcends the game
on the field,” Chris Tully, Major League Baseball senior vice
president, broadcasting said in a statement. “This is an ideal
occasion for us to document what he’s going through on a day-to-
day basis.”  Jeter went 0-for-4 last night after completing a two-game
rehabilitation with New York’s minor-league affiliate in
Trenton,  New Jersey . He got his 2,994th hit on June 13 against
the Cleveland Indians and was voted to the American League All-
Star team for the 12th time two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  