-- 
Derek Jeter Fails to Get Nearer 3,000th Hit on Return as Yankees Lose 6-3

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-07-05T13:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/derek-jeter-fails-to-get-nearer-3-000th-hit-on-return-as-yankees-lose-6-3.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to show Indians have won five of
past 18 games against Yankees in Cleveland.)  Derek Jeter  went 0-4 for the 11th
time this season in his return from a three-week injury layoff
as the  New York Yankees  lost 6-3 to the  Cleveland Indians .  Jeter reentered the lineup at Progressive Field in
Cleveland last night for the first in a three-game series
against the Indians, the same team he strained his right calf
against after getting his 2,994th hit on June 13. New York went
14-4 during his absence.  The 37-year-old Yankees captain, who was voted to the
American League All-Star team for the 12th time two days ago, is
seeking to become the 28th player in Major League Baseball
history with 3,000 hits and the first to reach the milestone in
a Yankees uniform.  “I was nervous at the beginning,” Jeter told reporters.
“Three weeks is definitely a long time to be out. I felt better
as the game went on.”  New York  dropped to  50-33  and the Indians improved to 45-38
with their fifth win in their past 18 meetings in Cleveland with
the Yankees. Cleveland is first in the American League Central
division, one game ahead of the  Detroit Tigers , while New York
leads the  Boston Red Sox  by 1 1/2 games atop the AL East.  Jeter, who was hitting a career-low .260 over 262 at-bats
this season when he injured his calf, batted first last night
after completing a two-game rehabilitation with New York’s
minor-league affiliate in Trenton,  New Jersey .  He reached first base in the opening inning on an error by
third baseman Lonnie Chisenhall and advanced to second when
Indians pitcher Josh Tomlin walked  Curtis Granderson .  Two innings later Jeter sent a fly ball to center field and
he grounded out in the sixth with the game still scoreless.  Six-Run Inning  A Nick Swisher double scored Mark Teixeira and Robinson Cano in the seventh. Cleveland made it 2-1 in the bottom of the
inning on a two-out single by Shelley Duncan that scored Grady Sizemore. The Indians then went 4-2 ahead when Austin Kearns
followed with a three-run homer, his first since Aug. 22, when
he was with the Yankees.  Jeter lined out in his final at-bat in the eighth before
Granderson hit his 23rd home run of the season to make it 4-3.  The Indians closed out the scoring in the bottom of the
eighth on a two-run homer by Carlos Santana, his 13th of the
season. The teams meet again today and tomorrow.  If he fails to reach 3,000 hits in  Cleveland , Jeter will
have a chance to get to the mark at Yankee Stadium in four games
against the  Tampa Bay Rays  beginning July 7, New York’s last
series before the All-Star break.  A.J. Burnett gave up four runs, all earned, in seven
innings to drop to 8-7. Tomlin improved to 10-4 after
surrendering two earned runs in seven innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  