-- 
Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Economy Concern; Wheat, Rice Advance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-07-05T12:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/dollar-strengthens-as-asian-stocks-snap-five-day-rally-wheat-rice-jump.html
Treasuries rose, snapping a five-day
losing streak, and the dollar strengthened on concern the global
economic recovery is flagging. Wheat and rice advanced, while
 Brent crude  increased for the first time in three days.  The gain in the 10-year Treasury drove the yield three
basis points lower to 3.15 percent at 8:30 a.m. in New York on
the first day of trading this week. The Dollar Index climbed 0.3
percent, while the Swiss franc appreciated 0.8 percent against
the euro. Brent rallied 0.8 percent, wheat jumped 3.5 percent
and rice increased 1.8 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added
0.1 percent, while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped 0.2 percent.  European services and manufacturing growth were revised
lower, with a composite index falling to 53.3, from an earlier
reading of 53.6, London-based Markit Economics said today. The
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged, saying the nation’s growth pace may be weaker than
previously forecast. China still faces “large” inflationary
pressure and the central bank will maintain a “prudent” monetary
policy, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday.  “There are still a lot of concerns in the global
economy,”  Stephen Halmarick , the Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “People are still fairly
cautious.”  Factory Orders  The five-year Treasury yield declined three basis points,
and the two-year yield fell two basis points. A Commerce
Department report today may show orders placed with factories
rebounded 1 percent in May after falling in April by the most in
almost a year. The drop in index futures indicated the  S&P 500 
may fall after its biggest weekly rally in almost two years.  The dollar appreciated 0.5 percent versus the euro to
$1.4468, while the franc strengthened against all of its 16
major counterparts monitored by Bloomberg. The Australian
currency depreciated 0.3 percent versus the dollar. The pound
gained 0.7 percent versus the euro after a report showed a gauge
of U.K. services growth for June exceeded economists’ forecasts.  The yield on the Greek two-year note jumped 77 basis
points, snapping a five-day decline, while the German two-year
yield fell three basis points. The Greek 10-year yield rose six
basis points, driving the difference with bunds six basis points
wider to 1,349 basis points. The cost of insuring Greek debt
jumped 33 basis points to 1,911, according to CMA.  Italy  The Italian 10-yield increased seven basis points after the
cancellation of a news conference today in which Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  and other ministers were due to detail
the government’s planned 47 billion euros ($68 billion) in new
austerity measures. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index
of credit-default swaps on 15 governments climbed five basis
points to 227.  Europe’s Stoxx 600 gained for a seventh day. Celesio AG,
Europe’s largest drug wholesaler, climbed 4.5 percent after
analysts at CA Cheuvreux and WestLB AG raised their
recommendations on the stock. CSM NV slumped 8.2 percent after
the world’s biggest maker of bakery ingredients forecast
declining earnings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.1 percent,
following a five-day advance. Bank of Communications Co. sank
0.7 percent and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.
slipped 0.5 percent in  Hong Kong  after Moody’s Investors Service
said non-performing loans in  China  may rise to as high as 12
percent of total credit. Default swaps on Chinese government
debt climbed four basis points to 84, the biggest increase in
more than a week.  Vietnam , Hungary  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.1 percent as China’s
Premier Wen Jiabao said inflationary pressures are under
control. Vietnam’s VN Index rallied 1.3 percent, the most in two
weeks, after the central bank cut borrowing costs for the first
time since October.  Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s largest refiner, sank 3.4 percent to
the lowest level since Dec. 21, sending the benchmark BUX Index
to a 0.7 percent drop, on reports that  Croatia  asked for the
extradition of Chairman Zsolt Hernadi over alleged bribery
charges. Turkey’s lira slid 0.6 percent versus the dollar after
the central bank said the inflation outlook was “positive.”  Brent crude added 90 cents to $112.29 a barrel in  London 
and oil in  New York  advanced 0.8 percent to $95.70. Wheat
futures in  Chicago  climbed for the first day in three and rice
gained for a third consecutive day.  Thailand , the biggest rice
exporter, will buy the grain from farmers under a program of the
incoming government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at   psillitoe@bloomberg.net  