-- 
Euro Drops as Moody’s Cuts Portugal Debt Ratings to Junk; Dollar Advances

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-05T21:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/dollar-rises-as-china-inflation-concern-spurs-safety-demand-euro-declines.html
The euro fell for the first time in
seven days against the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service
cut  Portugal ’s government bond rating to junk and said banks
rolling over Greek bonds may incur impairment charges.  The dollar advanced versus most of its major counterparts
on speculation China’s efforts to tame inflation and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis will damp demand for higher-yielding
assets. The  European Central Bank  is forecast by economists to
raise  interest rates  at its meeting this week, and a report may
show the U.S. unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent.  “It’s just another reason to sell the euro,” John Doyle,
a strategist in  Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc., said of the Portugal downgrade. “It continues
to drill down and reiterate the story that the euro debt crisis
is still a huge problem.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.4429 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
from $1.4539 yesterday, when it touched $1.4578, the highest
level since June 9. The euro dropped 0.4 percent to 116.97 yen,
from 117.47. The greenback climbed 0.3 percent to 81.07 yen,
from 80.80.  The 17-nation euro extended its drop after Moody’s cut
Portugal’s long-term ratings to Ba2, two levels below investment
grade. The reductions stem partly from “the growing risk that
Portugal will require a second round of official financing
before it can return to the private market,” Moody’s said today
in a statement.  There is also “the increasing possibility that private
sector creditor participation will be required as a pre-
condition,” the ratings company said.  Moody’s on Rollover  Europe’s currency slid earlier after Moody’s said in a
report dated yesterday that banks agreeing to roll their Greek
 government bonds  into new securities may incur impairment
charges on debt maturing through June 2014 that they still hold.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday the bond-rollover plan
would likely qualify as a distressed exchange and prompt a
“selective default” grade on Greek securities.  Greece ’s Prime Minister George Papandreou secured passage
last week of 78 billion euros ($113 billion) of additional
budget cuts and revenue measures needed to meet bailout targets.  Sweden’s krona appreciated 0.3 percent to 9.0744 versus the
euro after the Scandinavian nation’s Riksbank raised the
benchmark repurchase rate for the seventh time in a year,
increasing it by a quarter-percentage point to 2 percent. The
krona declined 0.5 percent to 6.2894 versus the dollar as the
downgrade of Portugal spurred demand for a refuge.  Stronger Franc  The Swiss franc, a traditional haven from economic turmoil,
rallied against all of its major counterparts, appreciating 0.9
percent to 84.05 centimes versus the dollar and climbing 1.6
percent to 1.2130 against the euro.  China  is likely to raise rates to combat consumer-price
increases that may have reached 6.2 percent in June, said the
Economic Information Daily, citing market estimates. That
followed comments by the People’s Bank of China yesterday that
the country still faces “large” inflationary pressure.  The Australian dollar weakened against the greenback after
the South Pacific nation’s central bank left borrowing costs
unchanged. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its cash rate
target at 4.75 percent for a seventh straight meeting as signs
of slower growth from Europe to China dimmed prospects for an
acceleration in hiring at home.  ‘Pressure’ on Aussie  “You’d expect local bond yields to adjust a little lower,
and therefore interest-rate spreads will compress and put some
mild damping pressure on the Australian dollar,” said  Richard Grace , chief currency strategist in Sydney and international
economics head at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia .  Australia’s currency fell 0.4 percent to $1.0693 after
touching $1.0790 on July 1, the highest level since May 11. The
Aussie was little changed at 86.69 yen.  The yen dropped versus the dollar after  Japan ’s Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government may run out of money
as early as October unless a bill authorizing bond sales is
passed in parliament.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.5 percent to 74.649. The gauge slid yesterday
to 74.111, the lowest level since June 10.  U.S. employers added 100,000 jobs in June after an increase
of 54,000 in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department’s July 8 report.  A day before that, the ECB will probably increase its main
refinancing rate to 1.50 percent from 1.25 percent, according to
all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated last week that
policy makers are in a state of “strong vigilance,” a phrase
he has used before tightening monetary policy.  “The rate hike is pretty much a done deal in the market,”
said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  