-- 
Dubai’s Majid Al Futtaim Delays Plan to Sell Bonds, Seeks Better Pricing

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-05T08:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/dubai-s-majid-al-futtaim-delays-plan-to-sell-bonds-seeks-better-pricing.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, the
Dubai-based owner of the City Center shopping malls, delayed
plans to sell bonds until it can secure a better price.  “The interest in the company is great, but at the moment
the price isn’t matching what we had in mind,” Daniele Vecchi,
group treasurer for the company, said in a phone interview
today. “We will always be open to a transaction at the right
price.” The company planned to sell five-year bonds to help
refinance borrowings and fund expansion, Vecchi said last month.  Majid Al Futtaim announced a $2 billion medium-term note
program on June 14, filing a prospectus with the London Stock
Exchange.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the company a rating of
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade ranking. Five-year U.S.
interest rate swaps rose 29 basis points to 2.038 percent on
July 4 from the year’s low on June 24 on concern about a Greek
debt default. The rate eased to 2.02 percent today.  “We are watching the market and we will be printing a bond
only at the right price,” Vecchi said, declining to specify
what constitutes the right price.  The builder and owner of shopping malls across the Middle
East plans to invest $3.5 billion expanding in  Egypt , Lebanon,
Syria and the United Arab Emirates. Its shopping mall in  Beirut 
will be completed in October 2012 and it is proceeding with
plans to build a mall in Cairo at a cost of 2.8 billion dirhams
($762 million).  Barclays Capital , Emirates NBD PJSC and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  were to arrange the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  