-- 
The Sorrow and the Pity of Another Liquidity Trap: Brad DeLong

-- B y   B r a d   D e L o n g
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/the-sorrow-and-the-pity-of-another-liquidity-trap-brad-delong.html
There is only one real law of
economics: the law of supply and demand. If the quantity
supplied goes up, the price goes down.  Back in the third quarter of 2008, the public held about
$5.3 trillion of U.S. Treasury bills, notes and bonds. As the
recession hit,  tax revenue  plummeted, and  government spending 
rose, that total reached $9.4 trillion by mid-2011.  We’re on target to have $10.7 trillion outstanding by mid-
2012 -- doubling the Treasury debt held by the public in just
four years. Supply and demand tells us that a steep rise in
Treasury borrowings should produce a commensurate fall in
Treasury bond prices and thus higher interest rates -- and that
increase should crowd out other forms of interest-sensitive
spending, slowing productivity growth.  Yet the market has swallowed all these issues without so
much as a burp. By all accounts, it’s smacking its lips in
anticipation of the next tranches.  In the years of the Clinton budget surpluses -- remember
those? -- the U.S. government was repaying $60 billion of debt
each quarter. The  Bush administration  worked hard to make that
surplus evaporate. It succeeded.  From 2002 to 2007, the Treasury issued, on average, $70
billion of debt per quarter. Like many watching this shift, I
concluded that this expanded supply would exert substantial
pressure on interest rates to rise.  Treasury Demand  The demand for Treasuries was inordinately high, in part
because the supply of alternatives was low. Lacking  confidence ,
corporate executives held back investment, reducing private
issues of bonds. In addition,  China  and other emerging
economies, eager to keep their currency values low, directed
dollars earned from exports into U.S. Treasury debt. Reinforcing
this demand, wealthy individuals around the world purchased
Treasuries as a hedge.  Thus by late 2007, the 10-year  U.S. Treasury  rate was
exactly where it had been when the Clinton surpluses ended at
the close of 2001. “How long could this go on?” we wondered.
Eventually the market’s appetite for Treasury bonds at high
prices and low interest rates had to reach its limit, right?
Supply and demand isn’t just a good idea -- it’s the law.  Discovering the Limit  At the end of 2008, as the  economy  collapsed and the pace
of net Treasury debt increases quintupled, it seemed we were
about to discover that limit. I presumed we had a little time
for expansionary fiscal policy to boost the economy -- a year,
maybe 18 months -- before the  bond-market  vigilantes would
arrive. They would demand higher interest rates on Treasury
bonds, which would begin seriously crowding out the benefits of
fiscal stimulus. The U.S. government would have to react,
pivoting from fighting joblessness, via deficit spending, to
reassuring the bond market via long-run tax increases and
spending cuts to Medicare and Medicaid.  But it didn’t happen in 2009. It didn’t happen in 2010. And
it isn’t happening in 2011. There are no signs from asset prices
that the market is betting heavily that it will happen in 2012.
Looking at the yield curve, it appears the market intends to
swallow every single bond that the Treasury will issue in the
foreseeable future -- and at high prices. The prices of
inflation-protected bonds suggest that the market expects the
new Treasury issues to be devoured without any acceleration in
inflation.  Keynes Disciple  Although I worked for three years in the Clinton Treasury
Department, and am a card-carrying member of the economist
guild, I predicted none of this. Like most of my peers, I was
wrong. Yet the most interesting thing is that I could have --
should have -- been right. I had read economist John Hicks; I
just didn’t quite believe him.  Hicks, one of the clever young Brits dotting i’s and
crossing t’s in the writings of John  Maynard Keynes  in the
1930s, was responsible for the workhorse formulation of
Keynesian economics -- the IS-LM model -- that has been the bane
of many an intermediate macroeconomics student. It was his
version of the IS-LM model that formalized and elevated a key
insight: that interest rates paid by creditworthy governments
would remain low after a financial crisis. This formulation
holds even in the face of enormous budget deficits that greatly
expand the supply of government bonds.  A financial crisis initiates a sudden flight to safety
among bondholders -- widening interest-rate spreads, diminishing
the private sector’s desire to sell bonds to raise capital and
encouraging individuals to save more and consume less as they,
too, hunker down. Thus bond prices rise, and interest rates
drop. As rates fall, firms see that they can get capital on
attractive terms and so issue more bonds; households see the low
interest rate earned on their savings and lose some of their
desire to save. The market heads toward equilibrium.  Safeguarding Wealth  But something else happens on the path to equilibrium. The
decline in interest rates and the rise in savings are
accompanied by an increased desire among businesses and
households to safeguard more of their wealth in cash. As a
result, the speed with which cash turns over in the economy, the
velocity of money, falls. And as the velocity of money falls,
total spending falls, workers are fired, and their savings
evaporate with their incomes.  Thus the equilibrium turns negative, with high unemployment
and low capacity utilization.  In responding to a small financial disruption, the  Federal
Reserve  can inject more money into the economy by buying bonds
for cash, increasing the amount of cash so that even at the
lower velocity of money we retain the same volume of spending.
This eases the decline in interest rates, spending, employment
and production into a decline in interest rates alone.  Little Difference  But when rates become so low that there’s little difference
between cash and short-term  government bonds , open-market
operations cease having an effect; they simply swap one zero-
yielding government asset for another, with their hunger to hold
more safe, liquid assets unsatisfied.  This is the liquidity trap.  In this situation we need deficit spending. The government
spends and borrows, creating more of the safe, cashlike assets
that private investors want. As these bonds hit the market,
people who otherwise would have socked their money away in cash
-- diminishing monetary velocity and slowing spending -- buy
bonds instead. A large, timely government deficit thus short-
circuits the adjustment mechanism, avoiding the collapse in
monetary velocity.  Hicks’s conclusion: As long as output remains depressed and
there is slack in the economy, printing more bonds will have
negligible effect in increasing interest rates.  Special Case  I had read Hicks. I even knew Hicks. But I thought that his
era, the Great Depression, had passed. Sitting in my first
graduate economics class in 1980, I listened to Marty Feldstein
and  Olivier Blanchard  -- two of the smartest humans I am ever
likely to see -- assure me that Hicks’s liquidity trap was a
very special case, into which the economy was unlikely to wedge
itself again. Yet it did.  On my shelf is a slim, turn-of-the-millennium volume by
 Paul Krugman  titled  “The Return of Depression Economics.”  In
it he argued that we mainstream economists had been too quick to
ditch the insights of Hicks -- and of economists Walter Bagehot
and Hyman Minsky. Krugman warned that their analysis was still
relevant, and that if we dismissed it we would be sorry.  I am sorry.  (Brad DeLong, a former deputy assistant secretary of the
U.S. Treasury, is a professor of economics at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, where he is chair of the political
economy major. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer on this story:
Brad DeLong at  delong@econ.berkeley.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 