-- 
Heart Procedure to Clear Arteries May Be Misused 12% of Time, Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-07-05T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/heart-procedure-to-clear-arteries-may-be-misused-12-of-time-study-finds.html
A procedure used to clear clogged
arteries is done inappropriately in more than one in 10 patients
getting elective treatment, according to a study in the  Journal
of the American Medical Association .  The report is the first to examine whether the procedure
known as  angioplasty  meets new guidelines for appropriate care.
It found almost everyone needing urgent care to restore blood
flow to the heart, such as those having a heart attack, received
proper treatment, while 12 percent of those getting elective
care might not have needed the procedure.  Most patients who were treated inappropriately had mild
disease, few symptoms or weren’t taking medicines that may have
helped them avoid the surgery, said senior author John Spertus,
clinical director of outcomes research at  St. Luke’s Mid America
Heart Institute  in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . Sales of stents used
to hold open the arteries, made by  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , plummeted in the past
four years after studies suggested they were being overused.  “Some hospitals had very large inappropriate rates, where
as many as 1 in 5 cases didn’t have enough evidence to support
it,” Spertus said in a telephone interview. “That’s an
opportunity for hospitals to reflect on their decision-making
process and consider if some of the patients they treat with
angioplasty might be better treated with medicines or bypass
surgery,” he said.  There are about 600,000 angioplasty procedures done each
year in the U.S., the researchers said. The analysis was
conducted on more than 500,000 patients treated at 1,091
hospitals across the nation from July 2009 to September 2010.
The study found 71 percent of the patients were treated for
urgent conditions including heart attacks or severe chest pain.
In those cases, 99 percent of the care was appropriate.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the pioneer in drug-coated heart stents,
said last month it plans to stop selling the devices after it
failed to keep up with rivals in the $4 billion global market
and competition eroded prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  