-- 
Heating Oil Futures Advance as U.S Factory Orders Rebound in May

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-05T19:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/heating-oil-futures-advance-as-u-s-factory-orders-rebound-in-may.html
Heating oil advanced as orders with
U.S. factories rose in May, indicating manufacturing may be
strengthening and demand for transportation fuels will improve.  Heating oil, traded as a substitute for diesel, gained as
much as 2.2 percent after the Commerce Department reported that
bookings for manufacturers’ goods rose 0.8 percent, after a
revised 0.9 percent decline in April. Demand for durable goods
that are meant to last at least three years increased 2.1
percent, while unfilled orders climbed the most since September.  “The market will look at the improvement in the indexes as
a sign that the economy continues to recover although perhaps at
a slow pace,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil for August delivery rose 3.21 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $2.9566 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Futures gained even as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was
little changed and the dollar rose against the euro for the
first time since June 24. A stronger dollar typically reduces
the investment appeal of commodities.  “It was a strange rally in that it was a very strong rally
occurring without help from the dollar or the stock market,”
said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron
Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut .  The rise in durable goods orders, which account for more
than half of total factory demand, was bigger than the 1.9
percent increase estimated by the government June 24.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, rose 1.6
percent after a 0.4 percent drop in April.  Commodity Rally  Heating oil’s gain was part of a broad rally in raw
materials. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19
commodities rose for the first time in three sessions, gaining
1.5 percent.  “The market is just going up with other commodities and
the expectation of stronger demand and the perception that we
overdid the downside,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Gasoline for August delivery rose 0.48 cent to settle at
$2.9774 a gallon on the exchange.  Gasoline advanced less than heating oil on speculation that
demand won’t improve as the summer progresses. Consumption of
the motor fuel fell to a three-week low in the week ended June
24, according to an Energy Department report.  “People expected that demand was down over July 4 and that
it will be down year over year in July and August as the higher
prices have impacted demand,” Lipow said.  Refinery Units  Supplies may climb as refineries return units to production
and imports of the motor fuel rise. Gasoline imports in the week
ended June 24 were 34 percent below a year earlier while
stockpiles in the East Coast, or Padd 1 region, were 8.1 percent
below the same period in 2010, department data shows.  PBF Energy Partners LP’s refinery in  Delaware  City,
Delaware, is being restarted this month for the first time since
November 2009 when then-owner Valero Energy Corp. shut it
because of lack of demand.  North Atlantic Refining’s 115,000-barrel-a-day refinery in
Newfoundland has been shut since May 5 for planned repairs. The
refinery is scheduled to be restarted by the end of this month,
two weeks later the company had planned.  “Last week’s import number was very low, and I don’t think
that level was sustainable,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of
trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .
There is the expectation of more inventories with Canadian
refineries expected to come back up, and “we’re expecting the
restart of Delaware City,” he said.  Fuel Stockpiles  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably were unchanged last week,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts in a survey by
Bloomberg News. Supplies of industrial, trucking and home-
heating fuels rose 800,000 barrels, according to the survey. The
department is scheduled to report on inventories on July 7, a
day later than usual because of the July 4 Independence Day
holiday.  Regular gasoline at the pump fell 0.3 cent to $3.562 a
gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices were 31 percent
higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  