-- 
ECB Unlikely to Accept Greek Defaulted Debt Collateral, Commerzbank Says

-- B y   E m i l y   B l e w e t t
-- 
2011-07-05T14:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/ecb-unlikely-to-accept-greek-defaulted-debt-collateral-commerzbank-says.html
The  European Central Bank  is unlikely
to accept any default-rated Greek bonds as collateral, and thus
the French proposal to roll over Greek securities announced last
week will probably be withdrawn, according to Commerzbank AG.  The euro will slide as much as 6 U.S. cents versus the
dollar if the ECB takes on the “burden” of accepting Greek
securities deemed in default by credit-rating companies as
collateral,  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank, said by phone today.  Last week,  Standard & Poor’s  said both options in a French-
led proposal to swap banks’ maturing Greek securities for new
ones would likely put Greece into “selective default.” The
ECB’s financial lifeline to  Greece ’s banks may be at risk of
collapse if the central bank is no longer able to accept Greek
debt as collateral for those loans.  “If it falls back to a strategy for crisis circumstances,
the ECB will go against signals” it has sent to the market,
Leuchtmann said. Having received a “signal” from S&P’s
statement, an alternative to the French plan is likely, said
Leuchtmann.  Commerzbank would lower its year-end forecast for the euro,
currently at $1.45, by 5 or 6 cents if the ECB accepts the
default-rated government bonds, said Leuchtmann.  In May of last year, the euro tumbled nearly 10 cents
versus the dollar after the ECB altered its collateral rules to
accept Greek bonds rated junk, or below investment grade. The
17-nation currency rallied this year on prospects for higher
 interest rates .  The Financial Times reported last night that the ECB would
keep accepting Greek debt as collateral unless the four credit-
rating companies it uses, including S&P, Moody’s Investors
Service, DBRS Inc. and  Fitch Ratings , declare a default. The FT
cited a senior finance official it didn’t identify. The ECB
declined to comment on the report.  A finding of default by even one of the credit-rating
agencies may be enough to prompt the ECB to reject Greek bonds,
said  Lutz Karpowitz , a colleague of Leuchtmann at Commerzbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Blewett in London at 
 eblewett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  