-- 
Egypt Debt Burden Spurs Muslim Brotherhood Call for Austerity: Arab Credit

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-07-05T09:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/egyptian-debt-spurs-islamist-call-for-austerity-arab-credit.html
Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood is
campaigning for September’s parliamentary elections on a
platform to trim the country’s  budget deficit .  The group, which formed the Freedom and Justice party to
compete for as many as half of the parliament’s seats, says in
its economic plan that it will help bring investors back after
an uprising that killed at least 846 people and toppled
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. The Brotherhood was the
biggest opposition group under Mubarak, who routinely warned its
ascent to power would frighten foreign investors.  “It’s always better for any country to build on the basis
of investment and not loans,” Khairat el-Shater, 61, deputy
leader of the Brotherhood, said in an interview in Cairo.  The average yield on public debt is forecast to rise to
12.5 percent in the fiscal year that started July 1, from an
estimate of 10.7 percent last year, according to the  Finance
Ministry . Interest payments of 106 billion Egyptian pounds
($17.8 billion) account for 22 percent of spending, up from 20
percent last year, making it the third-biggest item after
subsidies and wages.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Egypt ’s
international debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points
to 286 on July 1, after surging to as high as 398 basis points
on March 16, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global
Emerging-Market Index. Middle Eastern debt yields are on average
328 basis points more than Treasuries, the data show.  Nervous Investors  Egypt’s spending on debt exceeds the combined budgets for
education, health care and housing. The Finance Ministry
estimates interest payments will jump 23 percent in the current
fiscal year, even after reducing its budget gap target to 8.6
percent of gross domestic product from about 11 percent.  Founded in 1928, the same year Mubarak was born, the  Muslim
Brotherhood  has influenced Islamist movements across the globe.
As conditions change in the Arab world’s most-populous country,
the group is emerging from almost six decades of suppression to
offer its vision on how to govern.  “A lot of investors have been very nervous of the
prospects of a government with a strong Brotherhood
representation,” said Elijah Zarwan, a Cairo-based senior
analyst at the International Crisis Group research group. “The
Brotherhood is aware of this and they are trying to reassure
foreign investors by saying ‘look, we are businessmen, we are
business owners and professionals.’”  The Finance Ministry aims to cut the debt-to-GDP ratio to
81 percent this fiscal year. The ratio probably rose to 83
percent in the fiscal year that ended in June, from 79 percent
the previous year, according to ministry figures. That compares
with 55 percent in Jordan and 49 percent in  Morocco , according
to International Monetary Fund data.  More Misery  “The wide budget deficit has impaired the state’s ability
to spend on basic services, a matter that affected the quality
of those services in a way that has increased the misery of the
poor,” the Freedom and Justice party says on its Facebook page.  Egypt has already decided to lower international borrowing,
turning down a $3 billion loan from the IMF -- a move that was
applauded by the Islamists. Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  has
said the government will finance the deficit through domestic
borrowing and aid from Arab countries.  The United Arab Emirates yesterday pledged to support Egypt
with $3 billion. The funds will be earmarked for small- and
medium-sized companies and housing projects, the U.A.E. official
WAM news agency reported.  The turmoil that accompanied the end of Mubarak’s three-
decade rule pushed yields on one-year treasury bills up by 254
basis points, or 2.54 percentage points, to almost 13 percent,
compared with a yield of 0.19 percent on similar U.S.
Treasuries, according to data on Bloomberg.  Domestic Borrowing  The debt and deficit are “outliers among peers and a key
rating weakness,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on July 1. It
cut Egypt’s rating one level in February to BB, two levels below
investment grade. “The policy stance of the new government on
fiscal consolidation and structural reforms will be the key to
Egypt’s future credit profile,” Fitch said.  The cost of protection against an Egyptian default was
unchanged at 315 basis points today, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit default
swaps on Morocco are at 170 and at 234 points for Bahrain, CMA
data show.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond maturing in
April 2020 fell 1 basis point today to 5.69 percent, according
to Bloomberg prices. It has risen 24 basis points since Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled his country on Jan. 14,
triggering Egypt’s revolt 11 days later.  New Talks  The economy may expand 3.2 percent this fiscal year,
according to the Finance Ministry, the slowest pace in about a
decade.  The Brotherhood used to field candidates in elections as
independents. In 2005, it formed the biggest opposition bloc in
parliament after capturing about a fifth of the seats. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said on June 30 that the U.S. was “re-
engaging” with the group in an effort to promote democracy. The
group said it was ready for talks based on “mutual respect.”  Parties formed after Mubarak’s ouster, including one set up
by Coptic Christian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , have been
campaigning to delay the elections, saying holding the vote in
September will only benefit the well-organized, 83-year-old
Islamist group. The military, which has taken interim power from
Mubarak, has rejected these requests.  The Brotherhood is also proposing to cut spending, sell
state-run media, link subsidies to  job creation  and slow
inflation. Mona Mansour, co-head of research at CI Capital, a
Cairo-based investment bank, points out that the government
under Mubarak also planned to adjust subsidies. “What is key is
how these goals and objectives will be implemented,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 