-- 
Temasek Holdings Raises $3.63 Billion Selling Stakes in Bank of China, CCB

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-06T09:12:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/temasek-holdings-raises-3-63-billion-selling-stakes-in-bank-of-china-ccb.html
Temasek Holdings Pte raised HK$28.2
billion ($3.63 billion) selling stakes in  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of  China  Ltd., hours after Moody’s Investors
Service said the credit outlook for lenders may sour.  Singapore’s state-owned investment company sold about
HK$18.8 billion of stock in Bank of China, the nation’s third-
largest lender by assets, and about HK$9.4 billion of second-
ranked Construction Bank at discounts of at least 3 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of China and Construction Bank slumped in Hong Kong,
leading the nation’s lenders lower for a second day after
Moody’s said loans to local governments may exceed official
estimates. Construction Bank has more than doubled and Bank of
China gained over 30 percent since Temasek bought the stakes
before their initial public offerings more than five years ago.  “The selldown is part of Temasek’s consolidation of their
share holdings in Chinese banks,” said Stanley Li, an analyst
at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. in  Hong Kong  who rates Bank
of China and Construction Bank as “hold.” “This may reflect
some of its concerns about the banks.”  Bank of China dropped 3.6 percent, the most in a month, and
traded at HK$3.72 at the close of trading in Hong Kong. Beijing-
based Construction Bank fell as much as 3.2 percent.  Temasek continues to hold “substantial positions” in
Chinese banks,  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek in
Singapore, said in an e-mail. “This sale is part of our
portfolio rebalancing, which we do from time to time.”  Trimming Stakes  Foreign investors including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have
trimmed more than $20 billion in holdings in Chinese lenders
since 2009 to bolster capital as global regulators tightened
requirements following the credit crisis.  Temasek, which has focused on emerging markets investments,
will probably say in its annual report that the value of its
assets rose to about S$200 billion ($163 billion) in the 12
months to March 31, according to Victoria Barbary, a senior
analyst at Monitor Group in  London , and Song Seng Wun, an
economist at CIMB Research Pte. in  Singapore . That would surpass
the S$186 billion record reached a year earlier.  Fullerton Financial Holdings Pte, a unit of Temasek, sold
5.19 billion Bank of China shares for HK$3.63 each, 6 percent
less than yesterday’s closing price in Hong Kong. Cairnhill
Investments (Mauritius) Pte and Crescent Investments (Mauritius)
Pte, both controlled by Temasek, sold 1.5 billion Construction
Bank shares for HK$6.26 each, or a 3.4 percent discount.  Debt Concern  The extra 3.5 trillion yuan ($540 billion) of local
governments’ liabilities reported by Moody’s yesterday, coming
on top of the national audit office’s findings last week of 10.7
trillion yuan in debt, may fuel concern that lenders will be
unable to absorb losses on defaults when the economy cools.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, may
sell some of its almost $22 billion stake in Construction Bank,
three people briefed on the plans said last month. The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender was the second-biggest shareholder
in Construction Bank at year end, with Temasek being the third-
largest investor, according to Bloomberg data.  A lockup on 12.4 billion Hong Kong-listed Agricultural  Bank
of China Ltd. (3988)  shares held by investors including Standard
Chartered Plc and Qatar Investment Authority expires this month.
The Chinese bank’s listing raised $22.1 billion in the world’s
largest initial public offering in July 2010.  Temasek, set up in 1974, bought $1 billion of stock in
China Construction Bank’s initial public offering in 2005. The
IPO price was HK$2.35. It also purchased a 5.1 percent stake in
the Chinese lender from China SAFE Investments Ltd. in August
the same year, according to its annual report that year.  Offer Price  Fullerton Financial offered the shares in Bank of China for
HK$3.60 to HK$3.67 each, the term sheet showed. Temasek owned
about 10.5 billion shares, or 12.5 percent of Bank of China’s
Hong Kong-listed stock, according to a Dec. 31 filing. It paid
about $1.5 billion for a 5 percent stake in the lender before
its IPO in June 2006.  Cairnhill Investments and Crescent Investments offered
about 1.5 billion shares in China Construction Bank for HK$6.22
to HK$6.35 each. Temasek held 7 percent, or 16.9 billion Hong
Kong-listed shares, of Construction Bank, according to filings.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  led the sales by Temasek’s units, according
to the offering term sheets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 