-- 
Temasek’s Assets Set to Top Peak After ‘Trailblazing’ in Emerging Markets

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-06T09:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/temasek-s-assets-set-to-top-peak-after-trailblazing-in-emerging-markets.html
Temasek Holdings Pte’s assets
probably reached a new peak after making “trailblazing” bets
in emerging markets that outperformed global equities for a
second year.  The  Singapore  state  investment company  may say the value of
its assets rose to about S$200 billion ($163 billion) when it
reports results for the 12 months to March 31, surpassing the
S$186 billion record a year earlier, according to Victoria Barbary at Monitor Group and Song Seng Wun at CIMB Research Pte.
Temasek trimmed its stakes in two of  China ’s three biggest banks
yesterday, after raising its holdings in the world’s fastest
growing major economy in the past year.  “It’s much more diverse, looking at the frontiers and
broader range of emerging markets than we’ve previously seen as
compared with other sovereign wealth funds,” said Barbary, a
senior analyst at  Monitor Group  in London. “They’re quite
trailblazing on that front.”  Temasek spent more in emerging markets including China,
 India ,  Pakistan ,  Brazil  and  Mexico , as developing nations led
the global economy’s recovery from its worst recession since
World War II. Developing economies accounted for 60 percent of
the number of direct investments made by sovereign wealth funds
last year, up from 53 percent in 2009, according to Monitor
Group, which collects data on the funds.  ‘Fairly Strong Showing’  “It’s just really a matter of time before it will reach
that milestone” of S$200 billion in assets, said Song, an
economist at CIMB Research in Singapore. “It should be a fairly
strong showing.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 16 percent in the
12 months ended March 31, outpacing the 11 percent gain in  MSCI
World (MXWO)  Index of developed nations.  Globally, sovereign fund assets climbed 11 percent from a
year earlier to almost $4 trillion, London-based research firm
Preqin Ltd. said in March. The market value of Norway’s
sovereign fund increased 17 percent to 3.08 trillion kroner
($575 billion) last year.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state investment
company, said in January the net asset value of its investments
increased to a record 75 billion ringgit ($25 billion) at the
end of 2010 from 53.8 billion ringgit a year earlier.  Mapletree  Temasek is set to publish its annual report after Mapletree
Investments Pte posted its results on May 25, one of its last
units to release its financial statement. The property company
said net income surged 90 percent to S$747 million in the 12
months to March 31 from a year earlier, as rents improved at its
Singapore commercial properties and it earned more from new real
estate in  Japan  and  Vietnam .  Temasek raised HK$28.2 billion ($3.63 billion) selling
stakes in China Construction Bank Corp. and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
two of the nation’s three biggest banks. The investment company
sold about HK$18.8 billion of shares in  Bank of China  and about
HK$9.4 billion in an offering of China Construction Bank stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This sale is part of our portfolio rebalancing, which we
do from time to time,” Temasek said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Temasek continues to hold substantial positions in
Chinese banks.”  In 2010, Temasek was the most active sovereign firm, making
38 investments, according to  Monitor Group . Asian investments
outside of Singapore and Japan made up 46 percent of Temasek’s
portfolio as at March 31, 2010, up from 43 percent the year
before, according to its annual report last year.  Succession Plan  The company, which aborted the appointment of Charles “Chip” Goodyear as chief executive officer in 2009, is seeking
a successor to CEO Ho Ching, 58.  Last year, Temasek named Executive Director Simon  Israel 
president, along with Gregory Curl, once a candidate for CEO of
Bank of America Corp., and former Singapore Exchange Ltd. head
Hsieh Fu Hua. Dilhan Pillay Sandrasegara, formerly the managing
partner of Singapore-based law firm Wong Partnership LLP, joined
Temasek as head of  portfolio management  in September. Israel
then retired from his executive and board roles effective July
1.  “There are constant rumors about their leadership and they
need to sort that out,” Barbary said. “It would be good for
them to create certainty at the top there. It would be a good
thing for investors to know, to have the last word on the
subject.”  China Holdings  Temasek continued to increase its holdings in China in the
past year, including shares in  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) ,
even as the world’s fastest-growing major economy wrestled with
price increases driven by higher food, fuel and labor costs.
About 43 percent of Temasek’s $4.6 billion in direct investments
announced in its recently ended financial year were in China,
according to Monitor Group.  “Chinese inflation and overexposure to that market might
be an issue for them,” Barbary said. “Given that they have to
report every year, they’re going to have to make sure that the
portfolio is very well balanced. With this increased emerging-
market expenditure, they’ve got a lot more volatility.”  China’s stocks underperformed in the first half on concern
government measures to cool inflation will slow the economy. The
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, fell 1.6 percent in the period, compared with a
0.5 percent gain in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index.  Agricultural Bank of China, which last year completed the
world’s largest initial public offering, gained 38 percent from
its debut in  Hong Kong  on July 16 through March 31.  ‘Rising Tide’  Seatown Holdings Pte, the investment unit that Temasek
started in 2009, should contribute to gains as last year’s
“rising tide” boosted returns, said CIMB’s Song. Seatown,
funded with more than S$4 billion from Temasek, invests in
various assets worldwide.  Temasek faces a “much more challenging environment” this
year, Song said. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index and emerging-market
measure lost as much as 9 percent from this year’s high on May 2
amid concern a slowing U.S. economy,  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis and China’s steps to curb inflation will crimp earnings.  “Long term, the sectors and approaches an entity like
Temasek is taking -- concentrated stakes in faster-growing
emerging markets -- should position them well,” said Rachel Ziemba, senior analyst at Roubini Global Economics LLC in
 London . “But increasingly we see more downside risk to the
global outlook than perhaps we did a couple of months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  