-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Decline for First Time in Six Days on China Concern

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-07-05T21:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-as-china-banks-drop-on-moody-s.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in six days after Moody’s Investors Service said the
credit outlook for  China ’s banking industry may decline and U.S.
factory orders didn’t rise as much as economists’ forecast.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.3 percent to
1,166.2 as of 5 p.m. in  New York , halting a five-day advance,
the longest winning streak in three months.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
Index dropped 1.3 percent on concern interest rates are set to
rise again in China, the country’s largest trading partner.
Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  slid 0.5 percent, and the
Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent.  Chinese banks’ loans to local governments are about 3.5
trillion yuan ($541 billion) more than estimated, Moody’s said
today. Orders placed with U.S. factories increased at a slower
pace than economists forecast, according to the Commerce
Department.  “China remains at the forefront of investors’ minds given
its increasingly large contribution to global growth,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in global equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Any slowdown in the rate of
growth has heightened flow-on effects to growth expectations,
not only in China but globally.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 1.3 percent this
year, compared with a 5 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks.  Chinese Banks  China may experience lower economic growth in the second
half, Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran, the Singapore-based global
chief investment officer at Bank Julius Baer & Co., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. A transition to a
consumption-led economy is taking “a lot longer” than
expected, while inflation will remain high, he said.  Additional Chinese bank liabilities, coming on top of the
national audit office’s findings last week of 10.7 trillion yuan
in local government debt, may stoke concerns that banks will be
unable to absorb losses on defaults should property prices drop.
Non-performing loans could reach as much as 12 percent of total
credit, Moody’s estimated.  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  lost 1
percent.  Brazil’s Vale SA declined 1.5 percent as concern mounted
regarding China, the company’s top export market. Separately,
Jinchuan Group Co. offered $1.3 billion for Metorex Ltd.,
topping a bid from the world’s largest iron ore producer.  Chile’s Lan Airlines SA and Brazil’s Tam SA, Latin
America’s largest carriers by sales, gained 2.2 percent and 4.6
percent respectively on speculation Chile’s antitrust tribunal
will approve the Santiago-based company’s $4.1 billion takeover
of its Brazilian rival.  Russia’s  Micex index (INDEXCF)  climbed for a sixth day, the longest
winning streak since December. Oil rose 2.1 percent in New York.  The Turkish lira weakened 0.7 percent, the most since June
23, after the central bank said the need for monetary tightening
is lessening because growth will slow and the outlook for
inflation is “positive.”  Vietnam Rate Cut  Vietnam’s VN Index gained 1.3 percent after the central
bank cut borrowing costs. The central bank cut the repurchase
rate yesterday by one percentage point to 14 percent, according
to an e-mailed statement.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 0.8 percent. The Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index declined 0.4 percent  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 291, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose two basis
points to 196.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 