-- 
Ence Bets on Biomass Power in Spain to Prepare Americas Growth

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-07-05T07:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/ence-bets-on-biomass-power-in-spain-to-prepare-americas-growth.html
Grupo Empresarial Ence SA (ENC) ,  Europe ’s
largest producer of pulp from eucalyptus, will invest in biomass
renewable energy in  Spain  to prepare for expansion in the U.S.
and  Latin America  as it diversifies from cellulose products.  Ence, which  won financing  last month to build a 50-megawatt
biomass-fueled power plant in southern Spain, will focus on
energy in its domestic market in the next three years and
prepare for “huge” growth worldwide, especially in the U.S.,
 Argentina  and  Brazil , to offset the more cyclical cellulose
market, Chief Executive Officer Ignacio de Colmenares said.  “Spain will be a test to show capital markets what we’re
able to achieve and will serve as a launch pad for our expansion
abroad,” de Colmenares said in an interview at Ence’s
headquarters in  Madrid . “We see huge growth opportunities in
the biomass industry in those additional regions, which will
make Ence a much bigger business.”  Ence dates back to the government’s establishment of three
cellulose makers in 1957. The pulpmaker, which hasn’t been
state-owned since 2001, started investing in renewable energy
after pulp prices dropped in 2008, the CEO said. Ence already
generates and sells 230 megawatts of electricity, including 180
megawatts fueled by biomass from fast-growth trees or forest and
paper-production waste, and 50 megawatts from gas cogeneration.  Buyback  Ence rose as much as 1.4 percent to 2.82 euros and was up
1.1 percent as of 9:38 a.m. in Madrid trading. The stock has
increased 18 percent this year in the fifth-biggest gain on
Spain’s  Ibex Medium-Cap Index (IBEXC) , which has advanced 0.1 percent.
Ence said in a filing late yesterday that it bought back 9.7
million of its shares, or a 3.8 percent stake, from investor
group Atalaya de Inversiones SL to hold as treasury stock.  The manufacturer’s planned 143 million-euro ($207 million)
biomass power plant in the Spanish town of Huelva, including
forest investment, received pledges of  101.3 million euros  in
funding from seven banks in June. The project, scheduled to
start operating in the fourth quarter of 2012, was the first of
its kind in Spain to receive such financing, de Colmenares said.  The Huelva plant is the first step in Ence’s plan to add
210 megawatts of capacity that will include two 20-megawatt
projects, for which the paper maker is seeking 80 million euros
in financing by the end of 2011, and six more sites by 2013.
Ence aims for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization from renewable energy to triple to 120 million
euros in 2015, or 50 percent of group Ebitda, from 40 million
euros, or 22 percent, last year.  Pulp Price Forecast  Ence exports 85 percent of the 1.2 million tons of pulp it
makes yearly, mainly to other European markets, the CEO said.
The company, whose competitors include Brazil’s  Fibria Celulose
SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer, and Suzano Papel &
Celulose SA and Setubal, Portugal-based Portucel-Empresa
Produtora de Pasta & Papel SA, expects a “slight” decline in
cellulose prices in mid-2011, to $850 to $860 a ton in July from
$880 a ton in June.  Demand from  China  for pulp has slipped after customers
there overbought during the first few months of the year, while
a number of manufacturers in Europe are suspending production
for maintenance reasons during the summer, allowing them to
reduce inventories, de Colmenares, 50, said in the July 1
interview.  “Overall prices remain at good levels and we are not
concerned about it,” he said. “Prices will climb back again or
will be maintained for the rest of the year.”  First-quarter net income more than doubled to 16.2 million
euros from 6.71 million euros a year earlier. Second-quarter
earnings continued that rate of gain, the CEO said.  “We see stable earnings growth for the rest of the year,”
the executive said. Ence reported its highest profit in 10 years
in 2010, with net income of 64.7 million euros compared with a
154.6 million-euro loss in 2009. “This year we’ll achieve that
again and we’ll slightly beat it,” de Colmenares said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 