-- 
Lenzing of Austria May Lose EU Duty on Furfuraldehyde From China

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-05T08:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/lenzing-of-austria-may-lose-eu-duty-on-furfuraldehyde-from-china.html
The European Union said it may end a
tariff on a chemical substance from China used to make
lubricating oils and foundry molds two months after renewing the
levy to help  Austria ’s  Lenzing AG (LNZ)  compete with cheaper imports.  The EU said it would review the need for the 16-year-old
duty on furfuraldehyde because the prices of imports from China
have increased. The levy of 352 euros ($509) a metric ton is
meant to punish Chinese exporters for selling furfuraldehyde in
 Europe  below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The EU, which re-imposed the anti-dumping duty in May for
five years because of the threat of a recurrence of “injury”
to the European furfuraldehyde industry from dumping, today also
left open the possibility of lowering the import tax after a
review that will last as long as 15 months.  “The investigation will assess whether there is a need for
the continuation, removal or amendment of the existing
measures,” the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade
authority in Brussels, said in the  Official Journal . “The
continued imposition of measures at the existing level appears
to be no longer necessary.”  Furfuraldehyde, which comes from agricultural waste, is
used as a selective solvent in petroleum refining for the
production of lubricating oils and as a raw material for
processing into furfuryl alcohol, used to make synthetic resin
for foundry molds.  Lenzing and Slovenia-based  Tanin Sevnica dd , which together
account for more than half the EU’s production of
furfuraldehyde, asked in January 2010 for extended trade
protection. Three months later, the EU opened a probe that led
to the five-year renewal in May.  The EU introduced the duty against  China  in January 1995,
reimposed the levy for four years in December 1999, kept it in
place after December 2003 while conducting a review of the
expiration and then prolonged the measure for five years in
 April 2005 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  