-- 
Disney’s ESPN Signs 12-Year Wimbledon Rights Agreement, Ending NBC’s Run

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-05T17:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/espn-gets-wimbledon-rights-for-12-years.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN acquired
television rights to the Wimbledon tennis tournament, ending
NBC’s run of showing the tournament after 43 years.  ESPN announced the 12-year agreement with the All England
Lawn Tennis & Croquet Club today in an e-mailed statement. Terms
of exclusive U.S. television rights to the tennis season’s third
Grand Slam tournament weren’t disclosed. The deal starts in
2012.  ESPN and ABC Sports President George Bodenheimer said in
the release that the network was “thrilled to be given
continuing responsibility for honoring Wimbledon’s rich
tradition.”  “Over the next 12 years, we’ll work closely together to
move coverage of this great event forward with live coverage on
television and using all the latest technologies and screens,”
Bodenheimer said.  Since 2003, ESPN networks have aired roughly 100 hours
annually from Wimbledon, according to the release. ESPN expects
that number to increase to more than 140 hours with the new
agreement, including live coverage of the men’s and women’s
finals and semifinals, previously televised by NBC.  “We are delighted to be extending our partnership with
ESPN, in a move which will consolidate our U.S. media rights
under the auspices of a single partner,” Ian Ritchie, chief
executive of the All England Club, said in the statement.  More Coverage  Coverage on ESPN3.com, ESPN’s online channel, will also
expand, to more than 750 hours, the release said. ESPN3.com
aired the men’s and women’s finals and semifinals on delay this
year.  “We are proud of our 43-year partnership with the All
England Club, and while we would have liked to have continued
our relationship, we were simply outbid,” Comcast Corp.’s NBC
said in an e-mailed statement.  Wimbledon is the latest major sports event to move to cable
from  network television , joining the Bowl Championship Series
games on ESPN and Turner Broadcasting’s coverage of every other
college basketball Final Four starting in 2016.  ESPN’s bid for Wimbledon was attractive because it offered
the tournament more coverage on a variety of platforms, without
interference from affiliates or news programming, Neal Pilson,
president of Pilson Communications, said in a telephone
interview.  “ESPN can devote almost an unlimited amount of time to
Wimbledon, allowing it to show all the matches live, allowing it
to show matches in the early morning, throughout the day, and it
can do that because it’s an all-sports network with multiple
channels and multiple platforms,” said Pilson, a former
president of  CBS Sports .  Pioneering Coverage  NBC pioneered live coverage of the Wimbledon final in the
UI.S. in 1979, when it began airing the finals live as part of
its “Breakfast at Wimbledon” segment. Pilson said that
decision, which drew some criticism at the time, started a trend
that 32 years later led to ESPN winning the rights.  “The idea was a good one, smart television, put it at nine
o’clock in the morning,” Pilson said. “But eventually
Wimbledon came to realize that it’s not just the finals, it’s
also the second-week programming and first-week programming that
should be live all the time.”  ESPN debuted on Sept. 7, 1979, and one week later showed
its first tennis telecast, a Davis Cup match between  Argentina 
and the U.S. The network has television rights to all four Grand
Slam tournaments, having aired the Australian Open since 1984,
the  French Open  since 2002, Wimbledon since 2003 and the  U.S.
Open  since 2009.  Olympic Victory  Last month, NBC successfully bid $4.4 billion for rights to
the Olympics through 2020, beating bids from ESPN and News Corp.
Pilson said ESPN’s network of channels and other platforms might
not have been as influential in those discussions because the
Olympics are more of an entertainment property, where results
are not absolutely critical for the enjoyment by the consumer.  The  Super Bowl , Stanley Cup Final, National Basketball
Association Finals and  World Series , all result-oriented events,
remain under contract with broadcast television networks. Pilson
said the increasing number of major events doesn’t mean all will
make the jump to cable, which reaches about 100 million homes
against the broadcast networks’ 117 million homes.  “The broadcast networks still have a tremendous amount of
economic power and reach,” he said.  NBC’s losing Wimbledon after 43 years was the end of an era
in sports broadcasting, a partnership similar to CBS’s 56-year
coverage of golf’s  Masters Tournament , Pilson said.  “NBC has been a creative and very loyal partner with
Wimbledon, and they’ve done a wonderful job over the years, but
times are changing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  