-- 
Estonia’s Credit Rating Raised to A+ by Fitch on Economy, Public Finances

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-07-05T11:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/estonia-s-credit-rating-raised-to-a-by-fitch-on-economy-public-finances.html
Estonia ’s credit rating was raised by
 Fitch Ratings , which cited economic growth, improved public
finances and the country’s adoption of the euro on Jan. 1.  The Baltic nation’s rating was raised one step to A+, the
fifth-highest investment grade, with a stable outlook, Fitch
said today in a statement from  London . The rating is the second-
highest in eastern  Europe , behind the Slovenia at AA and on a
par with the Czech Republic and Slovakia.  “The upgrade reflects Estonia’s solid economic growth
performance, exceptionally strong public finances, declining
external debt ratios and signs of increasing stabilization in
the banking sector,” Michele Napolitano, a Fitch analyst, said
in the statement.  Estonia’s $19 billion economy expanded 8.5 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, the fastest growth rate in
the European Union, as exports rose. The country endured the
bloc’s second-deepest recession in 2008-09, behind  Latvia , when
gross domestic product shrank almost 20 percent.  The government implemented austerity measures equal to 9
percent of GDP in 2009, preventing the budget shortfall from
ballooning and keeping the country on course to adopt the euro.
Estonia had the EU’s only budget surplus, 0.1 percent of GDP,
and lowest public debt, 6.6 percent, last year.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on Estonia to positive
from stable on April 21, indicating the company is more likely
to raise the country’s rating than leave it unchanged or reduce
it. S&P rates Estonia A, its sixth-highest investment grade.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the country one step lower at
A1, with a stable outlook.  ‘V-Shaped Recovery’  Estonia’s economy may expand 4.8 percent this year and 4.2
percent in 2012, Fitch estimates.  Estonia is “experiencing a strong ‘V-shaped’ recovery”
and growing “robustly without generating macroeconomic
imbalances,” Fitch said in the report.  Any indication of “overheating,” including accelerating
inflation or widening balance of payment imbalances, may
increase the likelihood of a rating cut, the company said.  “Euro area membership has reduced markedly the risks of a
balance of payment crisis as the large currency mismatches in
banks’ loan portfolios have now been neutralized,” Fitch said
in the statement.  Risks in the banking industry are declining, with capital
adequacy ratios improving and asset quality stabilizing, Fitch
said.  Credit-Default Swaps  While Estonia doesn’t have any outstanding bonds, investors
trade credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a borrower’s
credit worthiness, on the country’s debt. The five-year Estonian
CDS trades at 85.75 basis points, compared with 85.54 for the
 Czech Republic , according to CMA Datavision prices.  Declining wages and prices during the crisis shows the
economy’s flexibility, Fitch said.  “This flexibility is an important asset for a small
country in a currency union, enabling it to adjust after a loss
of competitiveness,” according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  