-- 
Metinvest to Increase Steel Output 61% After MMK Ilyich Deal

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-07-05T14:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/metinvest-to-raise-steel-output-61-after-mmk-ilyich-asset-deal.html
Metinvest, Ukraine’s largest
steelmaker, plans to increase production by 61 percent this
year after combining assets with competitor Mariupolsky
Metallurgical Zavod of Ilyich and modernizing its plants.  The steelmaker expects to produce as much as 15 million
metric tons of the alloy in 2011, Chief Financial Officer Sergiy Novikov said in a telephone interview today from the eastern
Ukrainian city of Donetsk, where the company is based.  Metinvest and Mariupolsky Metallurgical Zavod of Ilyich,
known as MMK Ilyich, are merging assets to create a venture with
annual output capacity of 20 million tons of steel. Metinvest,
owned by Ukraine’s richest businessman  Rinat Akhmetov , agreed to
control 75 percent of the venture and buy shares in MMK Ilyich
when it announced the deal last year. It’s among global steel
producers seeking to expand as Asian demand for the alloy grows.  The company, also a miner of  iron ore , will concentrate on
increasing steel production and is “a bit more conservative in
terms of iron-ore prospects,” Novikov said. “Going beyond 2013
we do see a shift more to the steel segment.”  Underpinning that shift is investment in revamping its
plants. Metinvest is completing a spending plan with Munich-
based equipment engineer  Siemens AG (SIE)  for the replacement of parts
at its Yenakievo,  Azovstal (AZST)  and Illych steel mills as it seeks to
create “modernized and efficient facilities,” Novikov said.  Coal for Gas  That investment program will be about $5 billion to $8
billion through 2017 or 2018, he said. Improvements in
technology may also allow Metinvest to reduce consumption of
natural-gas to fuel its furnaces, using coal instead, he said.
Prices for Russian gas are set to rise to about $400 per 1,000
cubic meters in the fourth quarter from $297.  Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization surged 82 percent to $2.55 billion last year, and
Metinvest expects further gains, Novikov said. Ebitda was about
$2 billion in the first half of this year, he said.  The earnings boost may help to fund acquisitions, Novikov
said, declining to comment on possible targets. Metinvest is
also returning cash to shareholders, paying out $685 million in
dividends in 2010. Payouts for 2011 won’t exceed $800 million,
according to the CFO.  While Metinvest doesn’t foresee any “substantial” funding
needs this year, it may consider a refinancing program to
replace loan facilities that have become “very expensive in the
current market,” Novikov said. The company is looking at
different options, including Eurobonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 