-- 
MetLife, Genworth Units Said to Be Subpoenaed in N.Y. Probe

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-05T14:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/metlife-genworth-units-said-to-be-subpoenaed-in-new-york-probe.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Genworth Financial
Inc. (GNW)  units are among nine companies subpoenaed last month as
part of New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s probe of
the life  insurance industry ’s handling of so-called abandoned
property, a person familiar with the matter said.  The probe is seeking to determine whether the companies do
enough to determine whether someone has died and benefits are
due, the person said.  About 35 other states are looking into whether the
insurance industry is adequately handling abandoned property
such as unclaimed life-insurance proceeds.  New York State may invoke the powerful Martin Act, a
statute that does not require proof of intent to defraud, the
person said. It also can bring false claims accusations based on
the companies’ representations to the state comptroller and the
state treasury, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is under investigation.  The probe has been going on for several months, the person
said. The subpoenas seek documents and information related to
the companies’ procedures around abandoned property.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman’s
office, declined to comment.  John Calagna , a MetLife spokesman, declined to comment.
Simon Locke, a spokesman for Prudential, declined to comment in
a phone interview.  The subpoenas were previously reported in the Wall Street
Journal.  In addition to MetLife and Genworth, companies and units
subpoenaed include AXA Equitable Funds Management Group LLC; The
Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America; John Hancock Insurance
Agency Inc.; MassMutual Asset Finance LLC; New York Life LLC;
Prudential Insurance Agency LLC; and TIAA-CREF Insurance Agency
LLC, according to the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State Supreme Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 