-- 
MetLife Among Insurers Pressed by New York on Death Payments

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-05T22:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/metlife-among-insurers-pressed-by-new-york-on-timeliness-of-death-payments.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU) , the largest U.S. life insurers, are among firms ordered by
a New York regulator to use current Social Security
Administration data to determine when death payments are due.  The New York Insurance Department is requiring the 172 life
insurers and fraternal benefit societies licensed in the state
to make payments based on the data and report on the results for
six months beginning in September, according to a statement
today from the regulator. The department said it is working to
make the requirement permanent.  State regulators are intensifying a probe into unpaid
benefits after Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said
in May that insurers may be keeping at least $1 billion in
unclaimed benefits owed to policyholders, beneficiaries or
states. MetLife and Prudential are among nine firms subpoenaed
in June as part of  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s
probe, a person familiar with the matter said today.  “MetLife has enhanced its processes and procedures,
including by using the Social Security Death Master File as a
safety net to catch claims that are not reported to us in the
normal course,”  John Calagna , a spokesman for the insurer, said
in an e-mail. It made “extensive efforts over the years to
locate customers,” he said.  Proof of Death  Liability for  life insurance  begins when the company
receives proof of death, which is different than what happens in
the annuity business, according to testimony by Todd Katz,
executive vice president of insurance products for  New York- 
based MetLife, at a hearing on unclaimed benefits in May. If
annuities continue to be paid out to deceased recipients, the
insurer may have to reclaim those payments, he said.  “The department is concerned that life insurers may not
be adopting and implementing reasonable standards for
investigating claims and locating beneficiaries,” the New York
insurance regulator said in today’s statement.  Life insurers are generally required to pay claims after
being notified of a policyholder’s death and receiving a valid
death certificate. If insurance companies aren’t notified of a
death, they usually are required to hold the funds until the
insured would be about 100 years old, plus an additional three
or five years, depending on the state, before turning the money
over to the state as unclaimed property.  Ordered to Report  Insurers based in New York will need to report on policies
they sell nationwide unless directed otherwise by another state
regulator, according to the insurance department’s letter. Firms
based outside New York need to provide information on policies
issued in the state.  Simon Locke, a spokesman for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential, declined to comment on the subpoena or the New York
regulator’s statement.  Among companies subpoenaed last month by the New York
attorney general are  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , AXA Equitable
Funds Management Group LLC; The Guardian Life Insurance Co. of
America; John Hancock Insurance Agency Inc.; MassMutual Asset
Finance LLC; New York Life Insurance Co. and TIAA-CREF Insurance
Agency LLC, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the investigation is current.  The subpoenas were reported earlier in the Wall Street
Journal.  Axa SA (CS)  received a subpoena for information and documents
concerning the use of the Social Security death master file and
is “committed to cooperating fully,” Chris Winans, a spokesman
for the company, said in a phone interview.  Insurers Cooperate  Spokesmen for Genworth, Guardian and New York Life
confirmed the subpoenas and said the firms will cooperate with
requests for information. TIAA-CREF will “fully cooperate with
any official request for information,” spokesman John McCool
said in an e-mail.  Mark Cybulski, a spokesman for MassMutual, declined to
comment. John Hancock representatives didn’t return e-mails and
calls for comment.  Insurers say they already work to locate beneficiaries.  Genworth has “compliant and robust practices to determine
when claim payments are due,” Al Orendorff, a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  MetLife fell 66 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $43.72 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Prudential
declined 60 cents, or almost 1 percent, to $64.17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 