-- 
Vale May Lift Metorex Bid After Jinchuan Offer

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-07T16:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/metorex-gets-firm-intention-from-china-s-jinchuan-to-make-offer-for-group.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph of July 6 story to use
estimated 2011 Ebitda.)  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, may raise its bid for  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  after Jinchuan
Group Co. offered $1.36 billion to acquire the African copper
company, analysts said.  Jinchuan, the biggest Chinese nickel producer, offered 8.90
rand ($1.31) yesterday for each share of Johannesburg-based
Metorex, 21 percent more than Vale’s 7.35-rand bid on April 8.
Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , has until July 15 to match or
beat Jinchuan’s offer, Metorex said.  “There’s room for Vale to come back with a better price,
but that would depend on how bullish they are on the outlook for
copper,” said Stephen Meintjes, head of research at Imara SP
Reid in Johannesburg. “Jinchuan must have a very clear idea of
where copper prices are heading.”  Copper-industry acquisitions are increasing after prices
for the metal almost doubled in two years. Vale may increase its
bid because the price is low relative to its market value and
cash generation, said Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst in Rio
for hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  Copper reached a 10-week high of $9,565 a metric ton
yesterday on speculation that slowing growth will allow monetary
tightening to ease in  China , the largest metals buyer. Copper
for delivery in three months traded at $9,510.25 as of 5:52 p.m.
in  London .  No Bidding War  “We have our limit on price and we will not go to a
bidding war,” Vale Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti
said in a London interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee, before Jinchuan’s announcement.  Metorex, which controls almost 5 million tons of copper
resources in Africa, fell 0.4 percent to 8.65 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg after gaining 8 percent yesterday, when it
closed at the highest price in 2 1/2 years.  Jinchuan’s offer values Metorex at 9.1 billion rand, the
companies said. It’s priced at 5 times Metorex’s projected 2011
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of
1.83 billion rand, according to an estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with Vale’s bid of 4 times. Vale has a
market value of about 265.6 billion reais ($169.7 billion).  “The Jinchuan bid is a good buck higher,” Peter Major,
senior portfolio manager at Cadiz Specialised, said by phone
from  Cape Town  yesterday. “I think Jinchuan will get this one,
and I doubt Vale will come back.”  ‘Irrevocable Undertakings’  Vale traded little changed at 46.30 reais in Sao Paulo
trading as of 1:58 p.m. local time. The stock has lost about 4
percent this year.  “Metorex has not yet approved, recommended or entered into
any agreement in relation to the Jinchuan offer,” the company
said. Jinchuan has received “irrevocable undertakings” from
shareholders representing 8 percent of the stock, Metorex said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Jinchuan and Standard
Bank Group Ltd. and One Capital Advisory are advising Metorex.
Jinchuan said its cash offer is backed by a South Africa-
registered bank guarantee.  Metorex controls the Ruashi open-pit mine in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and the Chibuluma copper development in
Zambia. It has an estimated 4.74 million tons of copper
resources, including 1.8 million tons at Congo’s Lubembe
project, the company said in April.  ‘Impressive Operator’  “Jinchuan has had a longstanding offtake relationship with
Metorex and we know them to be an impressive operator,”
Jinchuan Chairman Yang Zhiqiang said in an e-mailed statement.
The company wants to “strengthen” its operations in Zambia and
Congo as it builds an African base-metals business, he said.  Jinchuan last year bought Vancouver-based Continental
Minerals Corp. for C$432 million ($448 million) and Toronto-
based nickel producer Crowflight Minerals Inc. for $140 million.  This year, the Gansu-based company acquired 45 percent of
Wesizwe Platinum Ltd., a Johannesburg-based platinum explorer,
with the China- Africa  Development Fund. Metorex represents “a
unique combination of copper and cobalt assets,” Yang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 