-- 
European Union Parliament Backs Restrictions on Naked Credit Default Swaps

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-05T13:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/eu-parliament-endorses-curbs-on-naked-credit-default-swaps.html
European lawmakers called for
restrictions on traders’ use of credit-default swaps to profit
from defaults on sovereign debt they don’t own.  The European Union Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , also
voted in favor of a ban on short selling of  government bonds  in
the EU unless traders have at least “located and reserved” in
advance the securities they intend to sell.  “Today we are sending a very strong political message,”
Pascal Canfin, a French lawmaker who is responsible the
legislation in Parliament, said after the vote. Negotiations on
the measures with governments in the 27-nation region will
continue next week, he said.  Politicians including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  have claimed that naked short-
selling and credit-default swaps worsened the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, and have called for EU curbs.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, said last year such
trades may lead to “disorderly markets and systemic risks.”  The Parliament is seeking tougher curbs on short selling
and sovereign CDS than those supported by most EU governments.  The assembly called for a ban on the buying and selling of
credit-default swaps on European Union nations’ debt, unless the
buyer either owns the underlying security or another asset whose
market price moves in close tandem with it. That would allow
investors to take out insurance if they know that a default
would harm their non-sovereign holdings such as shares in
companies in the defaulting nation.  Greek Crisis  Greece ’s fiscal crisis shows “how urgent and necessary
legislation in this field is,” Canfin said in an e-mailed
statement. “Traders dealing in Greek CDS are throwing oil on
the fire, with their only goal being that of making money.”  The Alternative Investment Management Association, which
represents  hedge funds , has warned that a naked CDS ban could
“push up government borrowing costs.”  Finance ministers from the 27-nation region agreed in May
that traders should be allowed to short sell government bonds
and stocks if they have a “reasonable expectation” that they
can obtain the underlying securities. They also rejected calls
from  Germany  for a ban on sovereign CDS.  Emergency Powers  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , which co-
ordinates the work of national regulators in the 27-nation EU,
should be given emergency powers to temporarily ban short
selling or trades in CDS on sovereign debt in the EU, the
Parliament said.  These powers would apply if national authorities didn’t
take sufficient action to address the threat.  “The idea that regulators may just turn around at any
point and say you may no longer take a short position in this
category is fundamentally antithetical to good risk
management,” Bob Penn, a financial regulation partner at law
firm Allen & Overy LLP in  London , said in a telephone interview.  Investors may reconsider what they hold in their portfolios
if they believe there is a possibility that they will not be
able to hedge their risks, he said.  The Parliament also signaled support for measures to force
some trading of over-the-counter derivatives through
clearinghouses in a bid to safeguard financial markets.  The assembly approved proposals to empower ESMA to decide
on the type of derivatives that should be centrally cleared.
Traders that flout the rules would face fines or restrictions on
trading.  Negotiations  The Parliament said members of its economic and monetary
affairs committee should negotiate with governments on both the
derivatives law and the law on short selling with a view to
holding further votes once a deal has been reached.  The EU assembly and national governments must agree on the
measures before they can be adopted. A deal with governments on
the derivatives law could be reached by October, Werner Langen,
a German lawmaker, told reporters.  Lawmakers also voted on legislation to bolster protection
for fund investors and to update oversight rules for so-called
bancassurers, financial companies with bank and insurance arms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  