-- 
EU Stress Tests ‘Missing the Point,’ Credit Suisse Analysts Say

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-07-05T09:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/eu-stress-tests-missing-the-point-credit-suisse-analysts-say.html
European regulators’ stress tests on
91 of the region’s banks are in practice assessing government
bailout systems rather than the lenders themselves, analysts at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said.  “Although exercises looking at the sensitivity of
individual banks are not wholly without value, they are largely
missing the point,” analysts led by  Daniel Davies  wrote in a
note to clients today. “Everyone can do arithmetic on balance
sheets. The information that the markets need is whether there
is a well-organized and well-capitalized structure in place to
recapitalize the failures.”  Five or six Spanish savings banks may fail the tests and
need as much as 12 billion euros ($17.4 billion), the analysts
said. That would require the Spanish bailout fund, known as
FROB, to borrow additional money in the six months after the
results, the analysts said. The fund has about 12 billion euros
in cash, and can boost its capacity to about 99 billion euros.  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region are inadequately capitalized with a
second round of stress tests. The European Banking Authority
toughened this year’s tests after the 2010 assessments showed
seven banks had capital shortfall totalling 3.5 billion euros, a
10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  “What the stress tests need to deliver is proof that the
new European financial infrastructure can be made to work in a
real-world test,” the analysts wrote. “This can only be done
by finding some banks in  Europe  to be in need of capital, and
then recapitalising them: precisely what was not done in 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  