-- 
European Stocks Are Little Changed; Celesio Rises as CSM Slides

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-07-05T16:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-csm-may-slip.html
European stocks were little changed,
after the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index posted six days of
gains.  Celesio AG (CLS1) , Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, surged 2.8
percent after analysts raised their recommendation on the stock.
 CSM (CSM)  NV slumped more than 7 percent, its largest drop in 2 1/2
years, after saying first-half earnings will decline because of
higher raw-material costs.  The Stoxx 600 climbed less than 0.1 percent to 275.62 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  as more than half its companies
retreated. The index surged 4.4 percent during the previous six
trading days after Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity
package, qualifying the country for further aid. The measure
still slipped 1.1 percent in the second quarter on concern that
Greece will fail to repay all its debt.  “The situation in Greece was rotting the environment for
stocks,” said Bruno Ducros, a  fund manager  at CamGestion in
Paris, which oversees about $3.6 billion in stocks. “But we can
have a better second half. There are better macro elements and
growth that is a bit stronger in the U.S.”  A Commerce Department report today showed that U.S. factory
orders climbed 0.8 percent. That missed the average economist
estimate for an increase of 1 percent. The Commerce Department
revised the size of April’s slide to 0.9 percent.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index decreased 0.6 percent.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.1 percent and Germany’s DAX
Index retreated 0.1 percent.  Asian shares retreated earlier today as Moody’s Investors
Service said that Chinese banks have lent about 3.5 trillion
yuan ($541 billion) to local governments more than the national
auditor had estimated. The credit outlook for the industry might
decline, Moody’s said.  “The Chinese audit agency could be understating banks’
exposure to local governments,” Yvonne Zhang, a vice president
at Moody’s, said in the report. The “apparent absence of a
clear master plan to deal with this issue” may exacerbate
problems and the state might leave lenders to manage part of the
souring loans on their own, it said.  Greek Debt Rollover  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings may enable European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to support a private
investor rollover of Greek debt by saying a default rating would
be partial and temporary.  Trichet put  Greece ’s fate in the hands of ratings companies
when bank officials began saying in May that the ECB, which has
lent 98 billion euros ($142 billion) to Greek banks, would
refuse to accept the nation’s bonds as collateral if any
“burden sharing” by private investors produced a default
rating.  Celesio climbed 2.8 percent to 14.44 euros. The stock was
raised to “outperform” from “underperform” at CA Cheuvreux
and to “add” from “neutral” at WestLB AG.  CSM plunged 7.5 percent to 20.14 euros, extending
yesterday’s 5.4 percent slump. The world’s largest maker of
bakery ingredients said first-half earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization and before one-off costs will drop to
about 80 million euros, lower than last year’s first-half
earnings because of the increased cost of raw materials.  PagesJaunes, Carrefour  PagesJaunes Groupe (PAJ)  tumbled 8.2 percent to 5.67 euros. The
directory company said it expects to miss its full-year revenue
and gross operating margin forecast. Second-quarter orders fell
short of its projections due to “social unrest” among its
sales force in France.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-largest retailer by sales,
traded in Paris excluding the value of its Distribuidora
Internacional de Alimentacion SA unit which started trading in
 Madrid  today. Carrefour stock closed at 24.15 euros. Dia ended
at 3.20 euros, lower than the reference price of 3.50 euros set
in a regulatory filing for the initial public offering.  Aixtron SE, a maker of equipment used to produce light-
emitting-diode screens, sank 5.4 percent to 23.18 euros. HSBC
Holdings Plc cut its price estimate for the shares to 33 euros
from 38 euros and said that consensus estimates for the
company’s second quarter are too high.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  climbed 3.8 percent to 1,301 pence. The
London-based explorer, which has more licenses in  Africa  than
any other  oil company , raised its full-year production target
and said it plans to expand into  Sierra Leone  and  Kenya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  