-- 
Dollar Weakens on Prospects Jobs Data to Keep Fed on Hold; Kiwi, Peso Gain

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-06T05:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/euro-trades-near-one-week-low-on-region-s-debt-crisis-slow-u-s-recovery.html
The dollar weakened against most of
its major counterparts on speculation the U.S. jobless rate will
remain elevated, delaying any tightening in monetary policy by
the  Federal Reserve .  The greenback fell for the seventh time in eight days
against the euro as economists said figures this week will show
U.S. companies added 100,000 workers in June, less than the
200,000 cited by some analysts as the minimum needed to bring
down unemployment. New Zealand’s currency strengthened as gains
in Asian stocks boosted demand for higher-yielding assets. The
Philippine peso climbed to a nine-week high after Fitch Ratings
forecast the economy will expand this year and next.  “We’re likely to see the dollar weak until we get the Fed
indicating it needs to tighten,” said  Joseph Capurso , a
currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia ,
the nation’s biggest lender. “The fundamentals of interest-rate
differentials remain crucial to currency directions.”  The dollar fell to $1.4454 per euro as of 6:17 a.m. in
 London  from $1.4429 in  New York  yesterday. The greenback dropped
to 80.87 yen from 81.07 yen. The 17-nation euro was at 116.88
yen from 116.97.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, declined 0.2 percent to 74.521.  Swaps traders are betting the Fed will raise its target
rate by 22 basis points over the next 12 months, down from this
year’s high of 54 basis points in April, a Credit Suisse AG
index showed. Another index forecasts 83 basis points of
tightening by the  European Central Bank  for the same period.  U.S. Employment  U.S. employers hired 100,000 workers last month, after
adding 54,000 in May, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Labor Department report July 8. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, the analysts predicted.  Payroll increases of around 200,000 a month are needed for
a sustained decline in the unemployment rate, according to  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg , Florida.  Demand for the euro was limited before Greek bondholders
meet with officials in Paris today to discuss their role in a
second rescue for the debt-stricken nation.  European Union leaders are aiming for investors to
voluntarily roll over 30 billion euros ($43 billion) of Greek
bonds to support official loans by the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund . Talks between lenders and euro-area officials
started last week in Rome under the auspices of the Institute of
International Finance, a banking-lobby group.  IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  will chair today’s
meeting in Paris, the group said in an e-mailed statement.  Euro Uncertainty  “So many stakeholders are involved in  Europe ’s debt
crisis, such as an international entity, a central bank, private
financial firms, rating companies and policy makers,” said
 Daisaku Ueno , president of Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd.
in Tokyo, a unit of  Japan ’s largest online currency broker. “We
don’t know who will say what, or when. The euro can’t be on an
uptrend.”  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Portugal’s long-
term government bond ratings to Ba2, two levels below investment
grade. The reductions stem partly from “the growing risk that
Portugal will require a second round of official financing
before it can return to the private market,” Moody’s said in a
statement.  The ECB will probably increase its main refinancing rate to
1.50 percent tomorrow from 1.25 percent, according to all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Kiwi, Peso  New Zealand ’s dollar rose to 82.88 U.S. cents from 82.51
yesterday, when it fell as low as 82.34, the least since June
29. The currency gained 0.2 percent to 67.02 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares gained 0.3
percent today. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials rose 1.5 percent yesterday.  The Philippine peso climbed to its strongest level since
May 3 after Fitch forecast as much as 6 percent growth in 2011
and 2012. The rating agency said today its outlook on Philippine
banks is stable, “underpinned by an improving domestic economy
and relatively low asset quality risk.” Growth was 4.9 percent
in the first quarter, the weakest pace since the final three
months of 2009.  “The Fitch comments are validating the improved macro
fundamental story that’s been making the rounds the past few
weeks,” said Radhika Rao, a Singapore-based economist at
Forecast Pte.  The peso strengthened for a seventh day against the
greenback and gained 0.5 percent to 42.835 per dollar, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 