-- 
European Services, Manufacturing Growth Weakened in June

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-05T09:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/european-services-manufacturing-growth-slows-more-than-estimate.html
European services and manufacturing
growth slowed more than estimated in June, as the region
grappled with a worsening debt crisis.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 53.3 from 55.8 in May,
London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the biggest
drop since November 2008. Markit had initially reported a drop
to 53.6. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  European finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro
($12.6 billion) loan payout to  Greece  earlier this month to
avert the region’s first sovereign default and restore investor
confidence. While countries from Spain to Ireland are stepping
up spending cuts, clouding growth prospects, an export boom in
 Germany  helped drive the region’s recovery. The  European Central
Bank  has signaled it will raise borrowing costs on July 7.  The economy “faces fiscal tightening increasingly kicking
in across the region, higher  interest rates , heightened
sovereign-debt tensions and currently slowing foreign demand,”
said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in  London . “The ECB could hold off from acting for some
time to come after the signaled July interest rate hike.”  Double-Dip Recession  A manufacturing gauge fell to 52 from 54.6 in May, Markit
said on July 1. That’s the lowest in 18 months. The services
indicator dropped to 53.7 from 56 in the previous month, the
weakest pace since October.  Euro-region gross domestic product probably rose 0.6
percent in the second quarter after increasing 0.8 percent in
the previous three months, according to  Chris Williamson , chief
economist at Markit. The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, was
the only nation showing a PMI “consistent with strong quarterly
GDP growth in June,” while indicating “modest growth rates”
in France and Spain with a risk of a double-dip recession in
Italy, he said.  “However, the further loss of momentum in June bodes ill
for the third quarter and suggests that growth may weaken
further unless order books improve,” Williamson said in a
statement today. “Particularly concerning is the lack of growth
of manufacturing order books, as demand for goods has provided
the impetus to the recovery so far.”  The ECB lowered its 2012 euro-region growth forecast last
month to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent and projected the economy
to grow 1.9 percent this year. President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said on June 30 that it’s up to governments to tackle the debt
crisis, signaling policy makers are ready to raise the benchmark
interest rate further to fight price pressures.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will probably increase its
main lending rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent, according
to all 54 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB will
publish its decision on July 7 at 1:45 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  