-- 
Europe Crisis Clouds Malaysia Rate Call

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-07-05T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/europe-crisis-clouds-malaysia-rate-call-as-inflation-quickens.html
Europe ’s debt crisis and signs of a
slowdown in global growth are complicating  Malaysia ’s decision
on  interest rates  as a pickup in inflation coincides with
dimming prospects for export gains.  Bank Negara Malaysia will raise its benchmark overnight
policy rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent at its fourth meeting
of the year, according to 10 of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The rest expect no change. The central bank will
release its policy decision at 6 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur tomorrow.  The likely discussion tomorrow may echo debates across the
Asia-Pacific region, which has led global growth and where
policy makers have enacted the steepest increases in borrowing
costs. While  India , South Korea and  Thailand  opted to raise
their key rates last month,  China  and the  Philippines  asked
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves instead.  “The rates call is 50-50,” said Matthew Circosta, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Bank Negara Malaysia
will be mulling global worries against domestic inflation
pressures.”  European finance ministers have authorized an 8.7 billion-
euro ($12.6 billion) loan payout to  Greece  by mid-July, pulling
the country back from the brink of default and gaining time to
hammer out a formula for ending the debt crisis. Economic growth
in the U.S. slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in the first
quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three months and the
 unemployment rate  has climbed back above 9 percent.  Over Adjustment?  Malaysia’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
more than two years in May as consumer prices rose 3.3 percent.
 Bank Negara  has raised the benchmark rate by a percentage point
since the beginning of March 2010 to curb inflation, most
recently a quarter-point increase at the last meeting in May.  Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last month central banks
around the world should be wary of an “over adjustment” in
their response to faster inflation. Malaysia has raised rates
four times and doesn’t want to overreact, she said in an
interview with Reuters Insider.  Banks are charging each other 30 basis points more than the
benchmark policy rate for three-month loans, according to the
Kuala Lumpur Interbank Offered Rate, signaling expectations for
higher interest rates and bank reserve requirements. Interest-
rate swap forwards show traders are pricing in 43 basis points’
increase in lending rates between September and June next year.  The Malaysian ringgit has jumped more than 6 percent
against the dollar in the past year, and reached 2.9598 against
the U.S. currency on May 2, the strongest level in 13 years. It
traded at 3.0088 as of 6 p.m. local time yesterday.  Power Prices  Officials may also consider increasing the statutory
reserve requirement level to 4 percent from 3 percent, nine of
14 economists predict. The central bank last raised the reserve
requirement in May, saying it was a “pre-emptive” measure to
manage a “significant” buildup of liquidity.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government allowed
national power distributor Tenaga Nasional Bhd. to raise
electricity charges for the first time in almost three years in
June, adding to price pressures for business and consumers.  “Inflationary pressures are expected to continue to
climb,” said Daniel Wilson, an analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “Demand-side pressures
will be fuelled by a tightening labor market and positive
consumer sentiment. We believe the proactive  Bank Negara
Malaysia  will hike rates.”  Consumer prices may climb 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this
year from 1.7 percent in 2010, the central bank said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  