-- 
ETFs Face U.K. Serious Fraud Office Review

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/exchange-traded-funds-marketing-said-to-face-u-k-fraud-prosecutor-review.html
U.K. fraud prosecutors are reviewing
how exchange-traded funds are marketed and whether they have the
proper tools to prosecute any wrongdoing in the industry, a
person directly involved with the probe said.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes white collar
crime, hired a consultant to interview bankers and lawyers to
determine whether there is a risk that sales of the products may
involve criminal conduct in the future. The Financial Services
Authority and the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
have warned of a lack of transparency in the ETF market.  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks. They became more popular in the aftermath
of the 2008 selloff that wiped $37 trillion from global equity
markets because they carry lower fees than other funds, require
lower initial investment than futures, can be traded throughout
the day and cover most indexes.  Terry Smith , chief executive officer at London-based inter-
dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc, has said the products often
fail to track the underlying asset whose behavior they’re
designed follow, are exposed to a provider going bankrupt and
vulnerable to short-selling.  The mixture of “people buying things they don’t
understand, complex structures, synthetic structures with
counterparty risk, and huge short selling without enough assets
in the underlying ETF” to meet demand makes the products sound
like “something that we’ve been through before,” Smith said.  Question Marks  “From the investor’s point of view, I think there are
question marks over whether synthetic ETFs really are
appropriate for all types of the retail marketplace,” FSA Chief
Executive Officer  Hector Sants  said June 24.  Sam Jaffa, a spokesman for the SFO in  London , declined to
comment. Rachel Cohen, a spokeswoman at the FSA, declined to
comment other than to refer to Sants’s previous remarks. No
specific companies or products have been targeted in the probe
at this point, the person said.  “There are a lot of myths surrounding ETFs,” said Alan Miller, founder and chief investment officer of SCM Private,
which manages ETFs. “The average ETF has higher levels of
transparency, better performance and lower risk than the average
mutual funds.”  All the synthetic ETFs that Miller holds are 110 percent
collateralized, he said. That compares well with the
transparency of the absolute-return fund sector, which has
“shocking” transparency, said Miller, the former chief
investment officer of New Star Asset Management Group Plc.  Opaque Funding  At a meeting of the interim financial policy committee in
June, the group warned that FSA bank supervisors should
“monitor closely the risks associated with opaque funding
structures, such as collateral swaps or similar transactions
employed by exchange-traded funds,” according to  a record  of
the meeting.  Some parts of the ETF market “warrant closer surveillance
by regulatory authorities,” the Financial Stability Board, a
group of global regulators and central banking officials, said
in April.  “Work is under way nationally and internationally to
assess whether recent innovations and the related increase in
complexity in some segments of the ETF market add to financial
system risks,” the FSB said, adding authorities would review
whether regulations are needed to address potential shortcomings
in transparency at the funds, or in how they manage risk.  Mimic Performance  ETFs are typically designed to mimic the performance of
benchmark gauges such as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Unlike
mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs are
listed on an exchange and bought and sold throughout the day.
Global ETF assets grew to $1.37 trillion as of February from
$74.3 billion in 2000, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest money manager.  “IShares remains concerned that as the market evolves, the
diversity of products and their product design on offer from
other providers is not always consistent,” said Joe Linhares,
head of iShares  Europe , BlackRock’s European ETF division. “We
welcome any regulatory initiative to ensure standards such as
robustness, disclosure and transparency” across the sector.  The SFO began a broad probe in 2009 into whether banks sold
credit-default swaps and collateralized debt obligations with
flawed valuations. The review didn’t result in a prosecution,
and the agency wants to ensure it is more prepared if there is a
crisis in the ETF market, the person said.  The agency is looking more closely at ETFs because they
have similar characteristics to the CDOs that helped spark the
financial meltdown in 2008, according to the person. Like CDOs,
the quality of the underlying assets in synthetic ETFs can be
unclear and there is the potential for firms to improperly sell
assets that are being heavily short sold, the person said.  SFO director  Richard Alderman  is seeking legislation to
create a corporate criminal liability enabling prosecutors to
enforce fraud laws against companies or banks, the person said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 