-- 
FDIC Settlement Talks With Ex-Washington Mutual Officers Fail, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-05T23:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/fdic-settlement-talks-with-ex-washington-mutual-officers-fail-lawyer-says.html
Ex- Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Kerry Killinger and two other former bank
officials ended talks with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
on settling a lawsuit, a lawyer said.  Killinger, former Chief Operating Officer Stephen Rotella
and David Schneider, the bank’s former home-loans president,
asked a judge to dismiss the FDIC’s suit after the negotiations
failed, according to Barry Ostrager, a lawyer for Rotella and
Schneider.  “There are presently no settlement discussions and the
defendants stand on their motions to dismiss,” Ostrager said
today in an e-mail, referring to all three defendants.  In 2008, regulators seized Seattle-based  Washington  Mutual
Bank, once the nation’s biggest savings and loan, and sold it to
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.  The FDIC sued the Washington Mutual Inc. officials in
March, claiming they took extreme risks with the bank unit’s
home-loans portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses. The
FDIC accused the executives of disregarding the bank’s long-term
safety and fixating on rewarding themselves. The men received
more than $95 million in compensation from January 2005 to
September 2008, the FDIC said.  ‘Fully Disclosed’  The settlement negotiations were revealed in a June 16
court filing, when both sides said they were “diligently
working” to resolve remaining disputes. Lawyers said in some
instances the settlement terms required the approval of third
parties.  “The FDIC is essentially suing my clients for making
business decisions that were fully disclosed, monitored,
approved and transparent to the FDIC,” Ostrager said in the e-
mail. “There is no legal basis for seeking to retroactively
impose financial liability upon bank executives for making
business decisions of a type that were common and
unobjectionable at the time.”  Barry Kaplan, a lawyer representing Killinger, confirmed
that the settlement negotiations have “not succeeded at this
point,” and declined to comment further.  In his motion to dismiss the suit, Killinger claims the
FDIC and Office of Thrift Supervision had on-site examiners at
Washington Mutual who knew about and approved “in real time”
the business decisions the FDIC is now challenging.  In its lawsuit, the FDIC “says nothing about the worldwide
economic crisis that would have led to the failures of virtually
all large banks but for unprecedented government intervention
that was not extended to WaMu,” lawyers for Killinger wrote.  David Barr , an FDIC spokesman, said the agency declined to
comment.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington ( Seattle ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  