-- 
Fenugreek May Be Cause of E. Coli Outbreaks

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-05T14:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/fenugreek-seeds-are-likely-cause-of-e-coli-outbreaks-efsa-says.html
One batch of fenugreek seeds imported
from  Egypt  is the most likely common link between E. coli
outbreaks in Germany and France, the  European Food Safety
Authority ’s task force said today.  The European Union will  temporarily ban imports  of
“certain types” of seeds from Egypt and withdraw, sample and
destroy seeds from one Egyptian exporter after the EFSA
established the link, the European Commission said in a
statement.  “We have trade data that confirms that the single lot is
the most likely common source,” Lucia De Luca, a spokeswoman
for the EFSA, said by phone. “Of course, we cannot exclude
other lots that could be implicated.”  Investigators identified the link to fenugreek, a clover-
like plant that is a common ingredient in curry, after finding
it was served at an event attended by patients in Begles,
 France , on June 8. Consumers shouldn’t eat sprouts or sprouted
seeds unless they have been cooked thoroughly, the EFSA said.
The first cases of an E. coli strain that has infected more than
4,200 people and killed 49 in 13 European nations were reported
in Germany two months ago.  The EFSA is looking at trade information and conducting
microbiological tests to trace the spread of the seeds across
 Europe , De Luca said. The report said that about 15,000
kilograms (16.5 tons) of implicated seeds were imported from
Egypt by a German company, which De Luca declined to name.  Tracing the Path  Tracing the seeds’ path through Europe may take weeks, and
the number of countries that have received suspected lots “is
much larger than previously known,” according to the EFSA
report.  The German importer sent seeds to distributors in  Germany 
and in the U.K., which sent batches to France, the EFSA said.
One German distributor, for example, sold fenugreek seeds from
the suspected lot to 70 different companies in Germany and 11
other European countries. Officials in the U.K. Health
Protection Agency will meet today to discuss the outbreak.  Eleven of the French cases had attended an open day at a
children’s community center on June 8, according to a June 29
 report  by the EFSA and the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control. Nine of the 11 patients reported eating
fenugreek, mustard and rocket sprouts at the event, the report
said.  U.K. Distributor  The U.K. Food Standards Agency is testing samples of the
three varieties of seeds sold by Thompson & Morgan (UK) Ltd. The
tests are part of a probe into the French outbreak, the 156-
year-old company, based in Ipswich,  England , said in an e-mail
June 30.  Although there has been no established link, Thompson &
Morgan has temporarily withdrawn from sale five sprout-seed
varieties, including fenugreek, according to a statement on its
 website . The company’s own supplier sourced the Egyptian seed,
and this sprouting seed was then exclusively supplied into
France, according to the e-mail.  The current E. coli epidemic is more deadly than previous
outbreaks because the pathogen produces a poisonous byproduct
called Shiga toxin and has the ability to stack together and
stick to the gut, according to a study led by Helge Karch,
director of the Hygiene Institute at the University of Muenster,
last month. The unusual combination of traits makes it more
likely for infected people to develop a potentially fatal kidney
complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, they
said.  The same type of E. coli, called O104, sickened a patient
in  South Korea  in 2004. Genetic studies of that bacterium showed
it’s unrelated to the pathogen in Europe, scientists at the
National Institute of Health in Chungcheongbuk-do said in a
 letter  in the July edition of Emerging Infectious Diseases
journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  