-- 
Fiat Raises $2.2 Billion After Greek Vote in First Bond Sale Since March

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-07-05T12:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/fiat-raises-2-2-billion-after-greek-vote-in-first-bond-sale-since-march.html
Fiat SpA (F)  is raising 1.5 billion euros
($2.2 billion) in its first bond sale for more than three months
as borrowing costs tumbled following  Greece ’s austerity vote.  Fiat is selling 900 million euros of three-year bonds that
will be priced to yield 6.125 percent and 600 million euros of
seven-year notes that will yield 7.375 percent, according to a
banker involved in the deal. The Turin, Italy-based carmaker is
rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the highest speculative-
grade rating, and one level lower at BB by  Standard & Poor’s .  Companies are returning to the  bond market  after Greek
lawmakers approved spending cuts on June 29 that pave the way
for the nation to get its second bailout. The extra yield
investors demand to hold European  junk bonds  rather than
government debt fell to 557 basis points, from 570 at the end of
last month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield
Constrained Index shows.  “Following the passage of the Greek austerity bills, Fiat
now finds itself well positioned to take advantage of the
rebound in investor sentiment,” Brian Studioso, a CreditSights
Inc. analyst, wrote in a client note. “Fiat held a roadshow in
mid-June, but uncertainties regarding Greece led to Fiat holding
off until now.”  High-yield, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by S&P.  Banco Santander SA, Citigroup Inc., Mediobanca SpA, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG are
managing the sale, Fiat’s first since it issued 1 billion euros
of bonds due 2016 in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  