-- 
Ford, Toyota Criticize EPA Ethanol-Blend Fuel Proposal

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-06T00:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/ford-gm-toyota-criticize-u-s-regulator-s-ethanol-blend-fuel-proposal.html
Automakers including Chrysler Group
LLC,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  criticized an
Environmental Protection Agency proposal to allow gasoline
containing as much as 15 percent ethanol in all cars and trucks
in the U.S., saying its use may void warranties.  Twelve automakers released letters today sent to
Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican,
saying the EPA proposal to sell so-called E15 fuel may damage
engines and fuel-supply systems in vehicles made to run on
gasoline with lower ethanol content. The EPA last week announced
an orange and black label to be used at pumps selling blends
containing 15 percent ethanol.  “While Chrysler has been a strong advocate of renewable
fuels, we have concerns about the potential harmful effects of
E15 in engines and fuel systems that were not designed for use
of that fuel,” Jody Trapasso, Chrysler’s senior vice president
of external affairs, wrote in a June 23 letter to Sensenbrenner,
vice chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space and
Technology.  Sensenbrenner, in a letter today to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, said the decision to allow the fuel to be used in cars
may sacrifice  fuel efficiency  as well as cause engine damage and
void warranties.  “In difficult economic times, consumers need to get more
miles from a gallon of gas and extend the lives of their cars,”
Sensenbrenner wrote.  Adverse Impact Considered  The EPA allowed the use of E15 fuel after working with the
U.S. Energy Department to “ensure any increase would not have
an adverse impact” on vehicles made since model year 2001, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  “The administration will continue to take steps, guided by
science and the law, to reduce our reliance on foreign oil and
increase our use of home-grown fuels,” the agency said in the
statement.  The other companies that sent letters were  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ;  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes Benz; Honda Motor Co.;
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ;  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ;  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ; Nissan
Motor Co.;  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ; and Volvo Car Corp., owned by China’s
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  