-- 
Ex-Flextronics Manager Shimoon Pleads Guilty in Insider Case

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-06T04:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/former-primary-global-consultant-shimoon-to-plead-guilty-in-insider-probe.html
A former  Flextronics International
Ltd. (FLEX)  executive, pleading guilty in a nationwide insider trading
probe, admitted he passed inside information while working as a
consultant to two expert networking firms.  Walter Shimoon, 39, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan to two counts of conspiracy and one count of
 securities fraud . Shimoon told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
that he passed illegal tips while working as a consultant for
 Primary Global Research LLC  and Broadband Research LLC.  Shimoon faces as long as 30 years in prison at his
sentencing, scheduled for July 8, 2013. Rakoff told Shimoon, who
is cooperating with prosecutors, that the sentencing may be
moved to an earlier date.  In questioning by Rakoff, Shimoon said he had passed tips
about a Flextronics supplier,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) , to a
man named “Nick,” who worked for one of Primary Global’s hedge
fund clients. Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps identified
that man as Nicholas Caputo of Kingdom Ridge Capital LLC, an
asset management firm in  White Plains ,  New York .  Caputo, who hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages and e-mails to his office
after regular business hours yesterday.  Kingdom Ridge said in an e-mailed statement that it has
always complied with relevant laws, rules and regulations.  Plea Agreement  In a plea agreement signed by Shimoon, prosecutors said he
provided illegal tips to Primary Global and its clients from
mid-2008 to 2010.  Shimoon told Rakoff he was paid $200 an hour, for a total
of $18,000, for his work for Primary Global. He passed illegal
tips involving Flextronics, OmniVision and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , according
to prosecutors.  Shimoon also admitted passing inside information while
working for Broadband Research, for which he was paid a total of
$27,500. In the plea agreement, prosecutors said he provided
inside information to Broadband Research, to the firm’s founder
and principal, John Kinnucan, and to Broadband Research clients.  Prosecutors said Shimoon, as a Broadband Research
consultant, passed confidential information about Flextronics,
OmniVision, Apple and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Nathaniel Burney, a lawyer for Kinnucan, said his client
didn’t do anything wrong. Kinnucan hasn’t been charged.  Kinnucan, whose Portland, Oregon-based firm provides
research on technology companies to  hedge funds  and mutual funds,
told clients in October that federal officials had asked him to
secretly tape a conversation with a  fund manager  whom he didn’t
name. Kinnucan said at the time that he refused to cooperate.  ‘Blessed’ by SEC  Kinnucan said yesterday in a phone interview that he didn’t
pass illegal information to his clients.  “The kind of information I provided to my clients is
exactly what is provided by the large investment banks,”
Kinnucan said. “These practices have been blessed by the SEC.”  Kinnucan said he didn’t cover Flextronics for his clients.
He said he has e-mails from clients saying the information
Shimoon provided on Apple and OmniVision was “worthless.”  “They were saying Walter Shimoon doesn’t know what he’s
talking about,” Kinnucan said. “It’s a joke.”  Shimoon was arrested in December with three other
defendants. Also charged with Shimoon were former Primary Global
executive James Fleishman; Mark Anthony Longoria, who worked at
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ; and Manosha Karunatilaka, a former
account manager at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Longoria and Karunatilaka have pleaded guilty. Fleishman is
scheduled to be tried next month on two counts of conspiracy.  In a parallel lawsuit, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged Shimoon spoke with people from at least 11
hedge funds over 14 months and leaked stock tips to some of them.  Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy June 20 in
Manhattan federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  