-- 
Merkel Rival Trittin Heads to U.S. as German Greens Surge

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-06T07:58:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/german-greens-co-leader-trittin-heads-to-u-s-to-raise-profile.html
German Green Party co-leader Juergen Trittin is traveling to  New York  and  Washington  next week to
meet with Obama administration officials as he burnishes his
profile ahead of a possible run for the Chancellery in 2013.  Trittin, a former environment minister in  Gerhard Schroeder ’s Social Democrat-led coalition with the Greens from
1998 to 2005, said he plans to meet with members of the  United
Nations Security Council  and officials from the Pentagon, State
Department, the Senate and the White House. Talks with U.S.
Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice have been confirmed during his
five-day trip beginning July 11, a party official said.  “The U.S. is our most relevant ally in the world,”
Trittin, who co-chairs the Greens caucus in the lower house of
parliament, or Bundestag, said in an interview in his Berlin
office yesterday. “Contacts between the Congress and the
Bundestag, between the German Bundestag and the administration,
are a normal necessity.”  Trittin’s visit underscores the Green surge in the past 18
months as the former environmental protest party has capitalized
on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s weakness. After party in-fighting
and flip-flops on  Greece  and nuclear power, Merkel’s coalition
trails the Greens and Social Democrats in polls by as many as 12
percentage points. Spiegel magazine described Trittin, 56, as
the “key figure” in German politics in this week’s edition.  ‘Being Affluent’  “The rise of the Greens is very serious, it’s here to
stay,” said  Jan Techau , director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Brussels and a former analyst at the
German Council on Foreign Relations. “The Greens’ program is in
line with center-left German mainstream thinking. They’re open,
liberal but don’t want to change the system. They wash their
yogurt containers and recycle everything but they’re not afraid
of being affluent.”  Support for the Greens fell 1 percentage point to 23
percent in a weekly Forsa poll today. That’s still more than
double the 10.6 percent it won at the last federal election in
September 2009. With the  Social Democrats  also at 23 percent,
the allies are 1 point short of the necessary support to form a
coalition if elections were held now, according to Forsa.  While Merkel’s Christian Democrats are still the most
popular party, with 33 percent backing after 33.8 percent in
2009, they are dragged down by a collapse in support for their
Free Democratic allies to 5 percent, the threshold to win
parliamentary seats, from 14.6 percent in 2009.  Nuclear-Exit Architect  Trittin, the architect of the Schroeder government’s policy
to exit nuclear power, said voters were switching to the Greens
long before Merkel’s decision to close Germany’s 17 reactors by
2022 as a result of the Fukushima meltdown in  Japan  in March.
Green support soared to as high as 28 percent after Fukushima.  The Greens are winning support for their education and
economic policies as well as on energy, tackling “bread-and-
butter issues that were long the domain of regional politics,”
he said. That approach helped them enter four state parliaments
at regional elections this year, including Baden-Wuerttemberg,
home to Porsche SE and SAP AG, which became the first state to
be ruled by a Green prime minister after the party ended 58
years of uninterrupted rule by Merkel’s CDU in a March vote.  The Greens are the only mainstream German party that is
retaining its core support while picking up younger voters,
women voters and those disaffected with Merkel’s CDU, as well as
traditional SPD backers, he said. The Greens, whose 2009
election result was their best ever, aim to “completely remove
this government” at the next federal ballot in 2013, he said.  “The main problem is and remains the chancellor’s lack of
orientation,” Trittin said in his office overlooking the
Tiergarten. “Leadership doesn’t always have to mean beating
your fist on the table; leadership is primarily offering a
direction for the country. I can’t see any of that.”  Following Fischer  As a university student in the mid-1970s in Goettingen, a
western city with cobblestone streets, Trittin was a member of
the Kommunistische Bund, a non-violent Communist group that
rallied against fascism and nuclear power. A Greens member since
1980, he has outlasted all his party rivals, including Joschka Fischer, the former foreign minister and vice chancellor in
Schroeder’s government.  Described by Spiegel as a potential foreign minister “at
least,” Trittin will focus on foreign and security policy
during his U.S. trip. He said that he wants to discuss the
“common problem” shared by  Germany  and the U.S. of withdrawing
from  Afghanistan  as well as a mandate for international troops
to keep the peace between  Sudan  and the former South Sudan. On
 Libya , he is critical of the German government’s abstention in
the UN vote authorizing military action to protect civilians.  Germany should have “tried to hold the family of NATO
together,” he said. “It would be easier for Germany to
influence the real development in Libya and around if they had
said yes, and said they’re not willing and not able -- both
would be true -- to deploy troops at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  