-- 
Germany’s High Court Won’t Review Economics of Greek Bailout, Judge Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-07-05T08:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/germany-s-high-court-won-t-review-economics-of-greek-bailout-judge-says.html
A German high court judge hearing a
challenge to the country’s participation in a multi-billion-euro
rescue package for  Greece  said the court’s role isn’t to review
economics.  The court won’t consider the economic strategy to tackle
the sovereign debt crisis, Presiding Judge Andreas Vosskuhle
said at a hearing in Karlsruhe,  Germany , today.  Germany’s highest constitutional court is hearing oral
arguments in three cases challenging the country’s role in the
Greek bailout and the euro-area rescue fund last year. The cases
were filed by academics and a lawmaker who have unsuccessfully
turned to the court before to try to block Germany’s
participation in European Union treaties.  “ Europe ’s future and the right economic strategy to tackle
the sovereign debt crisis isn’t debated in Karlsruhe,”
Vosskuhle said. “That’s the task of politicians, not of judges.
But the Federal Constitutional Court must consider the limits
that the constitution sets the political realm. Self limitation
by law is the foundation of the democratic constitutional state
-- above all in a crisis situation.”  While European leaders work on additional steps to avoid a
Greek default, the court is reviewing two packages from May of
last year. The cases target Germany’s share of the 110 billion-
euros in loans for Greece from euro-region governments and the
 International Monetary Fund  as well as participation in a
separate euro rescue fund that sought to halt the spread of
Greece’s debt crisis.  The 750 billion-euro rescue fund includes 440 billion euros
in guarantees from euro-area governments, 60 billion euros comes
from the European Commission -- the EU’s executive arm -- and
250 billion euros from the IMF.  Germany, as Europe’s largest economy, is the biggest
contributor to the euro-region bailouts. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  is scheduled to appear in court to defend the
plan.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 