-- 
Spanish, Italian Yield Spread Over Bunds Widens as Greece Concern Lingers

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T15:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/german-10-year-government-bonds-rise-before-euro-region-retail-sales-data.html
Spanish and Italian bonds fell,
increasing the additional yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of German bunds, on concern  Greece ’s debt
crisis may continue to harm its euro-area peers.  Portuguese 10-year bonds also sank as the Financial Times
reported commitments from banks to reinvest funds from maturing
securities into new Greek debt may fall short of policy makers’
target. German two-year notes snapped a run of six declines as
data showed retail sales in the euro region declined the most in
more than a year in May. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said Greece’s banks are willing to roll over bonds as
part of a rescue plan.  “There’s ongoing uncertainty about if or how we can get
out of this mire,” said Steven Mansell, an interest-rate
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “If we do get any
pronounced tightening of periphery spreads, we would look to
position against that.”  The yield on Spanish 10-year debt climbed nine basis points
to 5.48 percent as of 4:33 p.m. in London, pushing the
difference in yield, or spread, with bunds nine basis points
wider to 247 basis points. The 5.5 percent Spanish security
maturing in April 2021 fell 0.635, or 6.35 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,446) face amount, to 100.105.  Spain  is scheduled to sell
bonds maturing in 2014 and 2016 on July 7.  The yield on equivalent-maturity Italian bonds also
advanced nine basis points to 5 percent, widening the spread
over bunds to 199 basis points. Yields on Portuguese 10-year
debt increased 12 basis points to 11.03 percent. Greek two-year
note yields jumped 86 basis points to 26.98 percent.  Rollover Plan  Yield spreads to bunds widened for the first day in six
yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  said a bond-rollover plan may
place Greece in “selective default.”  Finding a voluntary mechanism to save Greece 30 billion
euros of payments is “critical,” the French banking federation
said in a June 24 debt proposal. Informal clearance from rating
agencies that the strategy won’t trigger a downgrade to default
for Greece was a condition of the plan.  Greek banks are willing to roll over their bonds, Finance
Minister Venizelos said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Athens  today. “The Greek banks are ready to
participate,” he said.  Bunds Preferred  Banks that agree to exchange their Greek  government bonds 
for new securities may incur impairment charges on debt maturing
through June 2014 that they continue to hold, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Ten-year bund yields were little changed at 3.01 percent
today, while the two-year German yield fell two basis points to
1.64 percent. The yield on 30-year German bonds fell three basis
points to 3.67 percent.  Carmignac Gestion, a Paris-based fund with more than 50
billion euros under management, is only buying long-dated German
bonds because the debt crisis makes securities from the other 16
euro nations too risky, said Rose Ouahba, head of the fund’s
fixed-income team.  Retail sales in the 17-nation euro region dropped 1.1
percent in May from the previous month, the European Union’s
statistics office said today. That’s the biggest decline since
April 2010 and greater than the 1 percent fall projected by the
median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The services and manufacturing index based on a survey of
euro-area purchasing managers fell to 53.3 from 55.8 in May,
London-based Markit Economics said today. Markit had initially
reported a drop to 53.6. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Lawmaker Pressure  Austria sold 1.65 billion euros of bonds due in 2013 and
2022 today, while  Belgium ’s borrowing costs for three-month and
six-month treasury bills rose to the highest level in 2 1/2
years in separate auctions today.  European Parliament lawmakers called today for restrictions
on traders’ use of  credit derivatives  to profit from defaults on
sovereign debt they don’t own. The assembly also voted in favor
of a ban on short-selling government bonds unless traders have
at least “located and reserved” in advance the securities they
intend to sell.  German government bonds handed investors a 0.03 percent
loss this year, compared with a gain of 2.3 percent for U.S.
Treasuries and 1.9 percent for U.K. gilts, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 15 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  