-- 
German Growth May Beat Forecast to Curb Deficit, Ministry Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-05T14:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/german-growth-may-beat-forecast-to-curb-deficit-ministry-says.html
German economic growth may outstrip
the government’s forecast this year, helping  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition comply with European Union rules ahead of
time, the  Finance Ministry  said.  Growth in  Europe ’s biggest economy may beat the forecast
2.6 percent and will increasingly be driven by domestic demand
in 2011, with  consumer spending  and corporate investments making
“noticeable” contributions, the ministry said in a document
prepared for a meeting of Merkel’s Cabinet in Berlin tomorrow.
Ministers are due to sign off on the finance plan to 2015 then.  Germany’s federal government will contribute 4.3 billion
euros ($6.2 billion) annually over five years to help finance a
permanent euro backstop from 2013, a measure that will boost net
borrowing without pushing up the deficit in a definition used
for measuring compliance with EU rules, the ministry said.  The overall  budget deficit  will drop below 2 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 3.3 percent in 2010, it
said. That means Germany will meet EU rules obliging deficits to
be less than 3 percent of GDP two years earlier than it has to
under procedures initiated by the European Commission.  The government will make “clearly bigger progress at
consolidation than expected so far” thanks to the “very
positive economic development,” the ministry said. Net
borrowing will stay below thresholds that mustn’t be overshot to
adhere to the so-called debt brake in Germany’s constitution
from 2016, it said.  There is little leeway for measures such as tax reductions
that would place lasting burdens on the budget, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s ministry said. The government should give
priority to borrowing reductions and create safety buffers in
case the budget plan has to be revised, it said.  German debt will drop to around 75.5 percent of GDP by 2015
from 83.2 percent last year, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 