-- 
Thailand Equity Movers: Total Access, Vinythai, Univentures

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-05T05:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/glow-energy-hemaraj-total-access-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in  Thailand  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 12:30 p.m. break in
Bangkok.  The SET Index slipped 0.34 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 1,089.94, halting a four-day, 7.9 percent gain.  Total Access Communication Pcl (DTAC)  , Thailand’s
second-biggest mobile phone company, fell 2.1 percent to 58
baht, set for the steepest decline since June 23. The commerce
ministry will ask the police to further investigate the
shareholding structure of Total Access to determine whether it
is in breach of foreign ownership laws.  The ministry found “some grounds” for further
investigation, though it doesn’t have the power to complete the
probe, Permanent Secretary for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said
yesterday. Total Access said in an e-mailed statement that the
company is confident it complies with all relevant laws and
regulations in Thailand.  Vinythai Pcl (VNT)  , a Thai maker of polyvinyl chloride
resin, gained 4.1 percent to 17.7 baht, heading for the highest
close since April 29. The company was rated “buy” in new
coverage at Asia Plus Securities Pcl, which said rising demand
from China and  Japan  will boost the company’s sales. The
brokerage has a share-price estimate of 22 baht.  Univentures Pcl (UV)  , a property developer and zinc
oxide producer, jumped 6.8 percent to 3.14 baht, bound for the
largest increase since July 7. Kittiratt Na-Ranong, former
president of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and founder of
Univentures, is the top candidate for the post of finance
minister in Yingluck Shinawatra’s government, Kao Hoon reported,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Kittiratt didn’t answer calls or respond to  text messages 
to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 