-- 
Google Left Searching for New Patent Assets After Nortel Loss

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-05T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/google-left-searching-for-new-patent-assets-after-nortel-loss.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s loss in bidding for the
$4.5 billion portfolio of Nortel Networks Corp. patents last
week means the Internet-search company will be looking to buy
other inventions to build a bulwark against lawsuits targeting
its Android system, patent brokers said.  “There are a lot of phenomenal portfolios for sale,” said
Dean Becker, chief executive officer of ICAP Patent Brokerage in
 Palm Beach ,  Florida , the world’s largest patent seller. “Every
operating company is in the market because of the expense,
distraction and the potential financial risk of patent
litigation.”  Google, with $36.7 billion in cash and securities as of
March, is ramping up efforts to obtain patents to create what it
calls a disincentive for companies to sue amid “an explosion”
in litigation. Last week’s Nortel auction, the biggest of its
kind, followed Google’s $900 million offer in April to buy the
more than 6,000 patents owned by the Canadian phone-equipment
maker that filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009.  While Google took itself out of the running as bidding
prices rose, the company will keep searching for opportunities,
mainly for patents related to smartphone technology, said Ron Epstein of Epicenter IP Group LLC, a  Redwood City , California-
based patent brokerage not involved in the auction.  “Assuming they were willing to spend at least the $900
million of their initial offer to achieve the result they were
after, they’re going to get there,” Epstein said in an
interview. The Nortel portfolio was viewed as “a unique asset
that could never be repeated. That’s just not true,” he said.  Oracle, Apple Lawsuits  Winning the Nortel portfolio, which went to a group led by
Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , would have boosted
Google’s patent holdings almost ninefold from at least 701
today, according to U.S. Patent & Trademark Office records. The
increase would have given  Mountain View , California-based Google
more ammunition against lawsuits, which have increased since the
world’s largest Internet-search company moved into areas such as
mobile and desktop operating systems to broaden sales.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has sued Google directly, and Apple has gone
after makers of phones that use Google’s Android mobile
operating system, including  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung Electronics
Co.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also has demanded licensing revenue from
makers of products that run on Android, and has filed a trade
complaint seeking to block U.S. imports of Barnes & Noble Inc.’s
Android-based Nook reader.  The Android system introduced in 2007 is an open source
program that relies on some nonproprietary features Google
didn’t create and allows outside developers to modify the code.  Best Defense  “They find that, as you enter markets where there are
other smart people spending lots of R&D dollars, you are going
to use other people’s innovations,” Epstein said. “When it
comes to buying access to the innovations, you need a coin to
trade for that. They find that, ‘Damn, I’m going to have to
obtain my own portfolio, so I can engage in the innovation
negotiation market.’”  While the company wouldn’t comment for this story, Google
executives have criticized the challenges of patent lawsuits.  In an April 4 blog posting, Google General Counsel Kent Walker described “an explosion of patent litigation, often
involving low-quality software patents” and said the Nortel bid
was going to discourage lawsuits against Google.  “One of a company’s best defenses against this kind of
litigation is (ironically) to have a formidable patent
portfolio,” Walker said in the  blog post .  In a July 1 e-mail he called the announcement of Google
being outbid “disappointing for anyone who believes that open
innovation benefits users and promotes creativity and
competition.”  ‘Questionable Patents’  The winning group included some Apple competitors-turned-
partners: Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., according to a Nortel statement.  In Oracle’s patent- and copyright-infringement lawsuit in
federal court in  San Francisco , the enterprise-software company
claims Google copied technology related to the Java programming
language and is seeking as much as $6.1 billion. Separately,
Skyhook Wireless Inc., which makes location-finding software for
the iPhone and other mobile devices, has accused Google of
interfering with Skyhook contracts and infringing its patents.  Google hasn’t filed any countersuits against Oracle or
Skyhook. Instead it’s basing its defenses mainly on challenging
the patents or denying infringement. The company has also urged
changes through court filings and by lobbying Congress to make
it easier to challenge patents.  “Questionable patents do not foster innovation,” Google
 wrote  in a February filing on behalf of Microsoft’s failed bid
to make it easier to invalidate patents at trial. “Instead,
they block and impair others from innovating.”  Buying Patents  Google has increased its patent portfolio as well,
receiving as many as 282 patents last year, up from 3 in 2004,
according to a search of the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office’s
database. It’s received 141 so far this year as of the June 28.  The number of Google patents obtained in 2010 was about
half of the 563 Apple received last year, and a fraction of
Microsoft’s 3,121, according to figures compiled by the
Intellectual Property Owners Association.  In all, 701 patents have been assigned to Google over the
years, with the most recent one for “detecting and rejecting
annoying documents.” Another from March is for  Google Doodles ,
which alters the name of the company to match a day’s theme.  Google is typical of young technology companies that, early
on, try to avoid patents only to find they can’t compete
effectively without them, Epstein said. The company is often
compared with Microsoft, which 10 years ago ranked 44th among
companies receiving U.S. patents, and has been No. 3, behind
International Business Machines Corp. and Samsung, for the past
two years.  Google has “the same arrogance that Microsoft had,” said
Ron Laurie, managing director of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC in
 Palo Alto ,  California , which counsels companies on purchasing
intellectual property. “They had this combination of thinking
patents were from the devil, while they were on a mission from
God. After getting attacked so often, they started getting it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  