-- 
Greek Banks Ready for Debt Rollover as Investors Meet to Discuss Aid Plan

-- B y   N i c o l e   I t a n o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-06T06:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/greek-banks-ready-to-take-part-in-rollover-venizelos-says.html
Greek banks are willing to roll over
their  government bonds  as part of a European Union aid plan,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said, as debt-holders meet
in Paris today to discuss their role in rescuing the country.  “The Greek banks are ready to participate,” Venizelos
said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Athens. “We must respect absolutely the voluntary character of
this procedure. This is very sensitive and I give a very crystal
clear answer on this topic.”  EU leaders are insisting private investors contribute to a
new aid package for Greece after last year’s 110 billion-euro
($159 billion) rescue failed to stop the spread of  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Participation by Greek banks and pensions funds is key
to the success of a plan for investors to roll over as much as
30 billion euros of maturing bonds into longer-term securities.  About 20 banks and insurance companies are meeting in Paris
to discuss the role of bondholders in a new Greek aid plan, said
the  Institute of International Finance , a banking-lobby group
hosting the gathering. Talks began last week in  Rome  under the
auspices of IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara , a former U.S.
Treasury official.  The next rescue package for Greece is more likely to
succeed if it includes a plan to retire outstanding debt through
organized buybacks, Dallara said yesterday. A buyback fund of
about 50 billion euros could reduce Greece’s outstanding debt as
a proportion of gross domestic product by as much as 20 percent,
he said by phone.  Collateral Question  Creditors and EU officials are looking for a way to
structure the plan in such a way as to avoid a default rating
that could prompt the  European Central Bank  to refuse to accept
Greek bonds as collateral.  Standard & Poor’s  said on July 4 that
it would likely cut Greece to selective default if the rollover
being discussed went ahead.  Greece must avoid having rating companies cut the country
to “selective default,” Venizelos said yesterday, hours before
 Portugal ’s credit rating was cut to below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service on concern the country will follow
Greece in seeking a second international bailout.  “We must take the opportunity but not the risk,”
Venizelos said. “It is very, very important to organize
something safe because the Greek problem is always a European
problem, a worldwide problem and financial stability in  Greece 
is a key point for financial stability in the  euro zone .”  Role of Ratings  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that too much weight
shouldn’t be placed on the ratings companies alone, and that the
so-called troika of the International Monetary Fund, the ECB and
the European Commission “don’t surrender our ability to make
judgments.” She spoke yesterday to reporters in Berlin.  Under a French-designed plan used as a basis for talks with
investors, creditors would roll over 70 percent of bonds
maturing by mid 2014 into new 30-year Greek securities backed by
AAA-rated collateral. Under a second option, banks and insurers
could roll over into new five-year bonds with no guarantee.  A meeting of euro-area finance ministers on July 11 will be
an opportunity for a “deeper discussion” of the rollover plan,
Venizelos said. That’s the same day Venizelos is due to appoint
the board members of an agency overseeing Greece’s 50 billion-
euro state-asset sales program, which is key to the country’s
second financing package.  EU-IMF Loans  Discussions on loans from the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund , the third part of the new aid package for the
country, can only begin after details of private-sector
involvement are thrashed out, he said.  Delays in completing the new rescue plan have been weighing
on Greek banks. Deposits at the nation’s lenders fell by the
most in more than a year in May as speculation about a possible
default and the deepening recession fueled withdrawals. Deposits
fell 2.5 percent from the previous month to 191.9 billion, the
Bank of Greece said yesterday.  Venizelos dismissed criticism of the privatization plan as
unrealistic, saying he’s targeting 1.7 billion euros in revenue
from state-asset sales by the end of September. Under the new
aid plan, Greece should be ready to return to tap markets for
financing in the second half of 2014.  “I can respect the timetable,” he said, referring to his
stint as the minister in charge of preparations for the  Athens 
Olympics in 2004. “I can make delivery on time.”  Greece will meet its goal of achieving a primary surplus
next year and in following years, which is “the first condition
for the reconstruction of our economy and for the return of
Greece to the markets as soon as possible,” Venizelos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Itano in Athens at 
 nitano1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 