-- 
Greece Needs Long-Term Plan, Not Gimmicks, Economist Sachs Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-05T19:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/greece-needs-long-term-plan-not-gimmicks-economist-sachs-says-tom-keene.html
The Greek debt crisis will persist if
euro-zone policy makers don’t “get realistic” and focus on a
long-term approach instead of short-term gimmicks, according to
Columbia University’s Jeffrey Sachs.  Greece  is taking actions to service its debts, stay in the
euro and avoid a financial or banking panic. Its European
counterparts aren’t taking the appropriate steps, said Sachs,
a Columbia professor and the author of “The End of Poverty:
Economic Possibilities for Our Time.”  “The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and
the  International Monetary Fund  have so far been saying, ‘here,
take a little bit and get back to the markets in 24, 36 months’
-- that’s not going to happen,” Sachs said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “So either
we have a real, longer-term framework, or Europe is going to
find that it can’t push Greece any further.”  EU leaders have asked investors to shoulder part of the
latest aid package for Greece after last year’s 110 billion-euro
($159 billion) rescue failed to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Participation by Greek banks and pensions funds is important to
the success of a plan for investors to roll over as much as 30
billion euros of maturing bonds into longer-term securities.  “Right now, we’re on a short-term rollover basis, which is
very unrealistic,” Sachs said.  Portugal’s long-term government bond ratings were cut today
to Ba2, or junk, from Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service. The
outlook is negative.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou last week won the
backing of his country’s parliament to implement the 78 billion-
euro austerity package needed to qualify for further financial
assistance from the European Union. Greek citizens rioted in the
streets, protesting the austerity measures.  Christine Lagarde , who started today as managing director
of IMF, should say there will be no more short-term gimmicks and
force a discussion of a long-term fix to Greece’s debt problems,
Sachs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  