-- 
Microsoft, Google, Viacom, UAL, Warner Music: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-05T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/microsoft-google-viacom-ual-warner-music-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
were sued for allegedly violating a Louisiana company’s patent
covering mapping technology that helps computer users see
locations in three dimensions.  Officials of  Transcenic Inc.  contend in a lawsuit that
executives of Google, owner of the world’s biggest search
engine, and Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker,
infringe patents for technology that helps capture 3-D images of
map locations.  The companies’ misuse of the mapping technology “has
injured Transcenic and Transcenic is entitled to recover damages
adequate to compensate for such infringement,” the closely held
Lake Charles, Louisiana-based company said July 1 in a suit
filed in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Patents covering computer-mapping software have sparked
litigation against Google, Microsoft and other companies in
federal courts around the U.S. GeoTag Inc. has filed patent-
infringement suits against 300 entities, many of which use
mapping technology made by Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
or  Mountain View , California-based Google to show store
locations.  Jay Nancarrow, a Google spokesman, couldn’t immediately
comment July 1.  Kevin Kutz , a Microsoft spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  Transcenic argues computer programs such as Google’s Street
View and Microsoft’s Streetside allow users to see 3-D images of
their destination rather than the traditional birds-eye view of
a map grid.  Google’s Street View system also has become a target for
lawsuits alleging the company is violating residents’ privacy
rights by collecting data from individual Wi-Fi networks. A
federal judge in  California  June 30 said a wiretapping suit over
the system could proceed.  Both Google and Microsoft have placed “infringing systems
into action or service” and obtain “beneficial use” of those
systems, lawyers for Transcenic said in the suit.  The patent-infringement suit also names  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and its
MapQwest unit as defendants. Sandy Drayton, an AOL spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return a phone call for comment on the suit.  The case is Transcenic Inc. v. Google Inc., 11-cv-582, U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Gets Mixed Ruling in S3 Chip Patent Case Before ITC  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  received a mixed ruling in the patent-
infringement case brought by closely held S3 Graphics Co. over a
type of chip used to play video games on mobile devices.  Apple violates two S3 patents and was found to not have
infringed two others, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge
James Gildea said in a notice posted July 1 on the Washington-
based agency’s website. The findings are subject to review by
the six-member commission, which can block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents.  S3, whose Texture Compression feature is used in Nintendo
Co.’s Wii and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation portable gaming systems,
claimed Apple was infringing four patents. The Fremont,
California-based company’s image compression technology allows
for access to encoded large color and 3-D image files to present
lifelike animation in video games.  The ITC complaint targets Apple’s Macintosh computer,
iPhone, iPad tablet and iPod Touch as well as video games for
those devices. Cupertino, California-based Apple makes its
products overseas and imports them into the U.S. for sale.  The ITC will decide within 60 days whether it will review
the judge’s decision. The case is scheduled to be completed by
Nov. 1, according to information on the commission’s website.  Apple is involved in more than a dozen patent cases at the
ITC, a quasi-judicial trade agency that has become a de facto
arbiter for disputes over  intellectual property  rights.  The commission June 30 ordered a judge to take a second
look at a case brought by Eastman Kodak Co. over an image
preview feature in mobile phones. The ITC also said in a
separate case that Apple wasn’t violating patent claims brought
by Taiwanese chip designer Elan Microelectronics Corp. over
touch-controlled screens,  The case In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices with
Image Processing Systems, 337-724, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Viacom Sued by Connecticut Disc Jockey Over ‘DJ Paulie’ Marks  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  was sued for trademark infringement by a
Connecticut disc jockey who objects to names used in connection
with a character from MTV’s “ Jersey Shore ” reality television
program.  Paul Lis of South Windsor, Connecticut, began broadcasting
as “ DJ Paulie ” in 1971. He’s also used the name for his own
record label, and for public appearances, he said in the
complaint filed June 30 in federal court in Hartford,
Connecticut.  Lis said as DJ Paulie he was commissioned to write and
produce “September Mourn,” the official 9/11 memorial
fundraising song for the U.S. Postal Service to benefit the
victims’ families. He has several registered U.S. trademarks for
the term “DJ Paulie” for disc jockey services.  When Viacom’s MTV Networks began airing the “Jersey
Shore” reality show, he said his trademarks were tarnished by
the association the public made with a character on the show. He
claims “Jersey Shore” shows a “debauched lifestyle suggestive
of loose morals, violence, intoxication and liberal profanity,”
and says it’s the exact opposite of the reputation he’s “spent
decades cultivating.”  From the time the show began to air in late 2009, it had
“an immediate negative impact” on his DJPaulie.com website,
and “destroyed national advertiser interest” in an Internet
radio show he performs, Lis said in his pleadings. He accused
Viacom of placing content on the Internet with metatags using
the spelling of DJ Paulie to direct traffic to sites associated
with one of the “Jersey Shore” characters.  Paul DelVecchio Jr. , a performer on “Jersey Shore,”
promotes himself on the show as a disc jockey under the name
“DJ Pauly” and “DJ Pauly D.” according to court papers. Lis
said he’s harmed by this, and by applications DelVecchio has
filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to register “DJ
Pauly D” as a trademark.  Viacom didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Lis claims he’s suffered damage to a $2 million business
investment and asked the court for an order barring the use of
the names “DJ Paulie” and “DJ Pauly” or similar names by
Viacom and other defendants, including DelVecchio himself.  Additionally, he seeks awards of money damages, extra
damages to punish the defendants for their actions, and for
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Lis is represented by  Jose Rojas  of the  Rojas Law Firm  of
Hartford.  The case is Paul Lis DJ Paulie Broadcasting LLC v. Paul
DelVecchio Jr., 3:11-cv-01057-AWT, U.S. District Court, District
of Connecticut (Hartford).  Warner Music  Withdraws ‘Digger’ Application After Complaint  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ’s Warner Music Australasia
application has withdrawn its application to register “The
Diggers” as an Australian trademark, Melbourne’s Herald Sun
newspaper  reported .  Australia ’s Minister of Veterans’ Affairs Warren Snowdon
had objected, saying it was “inappropriate” for the music
company to register a mark associated with those who had served
in his nation’s military, according to the Herald Sun.  Tony Harlow, managing director of Warner Music Australasia
told the Herald Sun his company backed down on its application
to register the name -- together with the image of a saluting
soldier -- for an album project.  “The project will not proceed without such protection,”
Harlow said and the newspaper reported.  UAL Wins U.K. Trademark Dispute with Bangladeshi Air Carrier  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s United Airlines won a
U.K. trademark dispute with a Bangladeshi air carrier, Aviation
International News Online  reported .  A U.K. court said in a June 24 ruling that  United Airways
(BD) Ltd.  of Bangladesh infringed the Chicago-based carrier’s
trademarks and must change its name and repaint its aircraft,
according to AIN.  United Airways was also ordered to place notice on its
website -- www.uabdl.com -- that it infringed the United
Airlines trademarks, AIN reported.  In addition to  London , the Bangladeshi airline serves
international destinations also served by United, including,
Dubai,  Kuala Lumpur , Kathmandu, Kolkata, Jeddah and Bangkok,
according to AIN.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Stephens Media’s Righthaven Blames Former In-House Counsel  In Stephens Media Group’s copyright suit against the
Democratic Underground, counsel for the company that says it has
the right to pursue infringement actions against those who post
stories from Stephens’ newspapers, has now blamed some of its
problems with the case on “former in house counsel.”  In a June 14 ruling, U.S. District Judge Roger L. Hunt said
that Righthaven LLC, the named plaintiff in the case, didn’t
have standing because it didn’t truly own the copyright it was
trying to enforce.  Judge Hunt then gave Righthaven two weeks to show why it
shouldn’t be sanctioned “for this flagrant misrepresentation”
about its ownership of the Stephens copyrights.  In a June 29 filing with the court, Righthaven said its in-
house counsel “failed to consider” copyright law’s requirement
that an enforcer have a direct pecuniary interest in the case.
Righthaven said in a footnote that two of the lawyers originally
associated with the case “are no longer employed by
Righthaven.”  In May, Righthaven added  Dale Cendali  of  Chicago ’s  Kirkland
& Ellis  LLP to its outside legal team.  Cendali may be best known for her successful representation
of Harry Potter’s U.S. publisher  Scholastic Corp. (SCHL)  in a trademark
case. She also represented the Associated Press in the
copyright-infringement case involving the photo of President
Obama against artist  Shepard Fairey .  When she was with Los Angeles-based O’Melveny & Myers LLP,
she represented the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance
in a trademark suit involving the name of the late Martha
Graham. Cendali moved from O’Melveny to Chicago-based Kirkland &
Ellis in March 2009.  The case against the Democratic Underground is Righthaven
LLC v. Democratic Underground LLC, 2:10-cv-01356-RLH-GWF, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Olivo Leaves Ward & Olivo for New Contingent-Fee Patent Practice  John W. Olivo, a founding partner of Ward & Olivo of
Marshall, Texas, has begun his own independent contingent-fee
patent practice, according to a firm  statement .  His Olivo Patent Group and Olivo Law Group will represent
plaintiffs in patent-infringement actions, in partnership with
Birmingham, Alabama’s  Heninger Garrison Davis LLC .  Olivo previously practiced at the now-defunct New York IP
specialty firm of Pennie & Edmonds. Before he was a lawyer,
Olivo was an electrical engineer with RCA Astro-Electronics.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Lafayette College and a law degree from New York Law
School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 