-- 
Tiger Woods Says He’ll Skip British Open Because of Knee, Ankle Injuries

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-05T16:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/tiger-woods-says-he-ll-skip-british-open-because-of-knee-ankle-injuries.html
Tiger Woods  will skip next week’s
British Open as he tries to recover from knee and ankle
injuries.  Woods, the winner of 14 major golf championships, made the
 announcement  on his website.  “Unfortunately, I’ve been advised that I should not play
in the British Open,” Woods said. “I am only going to come
back when I’m 100 percent ready. I do not want to risk further
injury. That’s different for me, but I’m being smarter this
time. I’m very disappointed and want to express my regrets to
the British Open fans.”  Woods, 35, has spent the past seven weeks recovering from
left knee and Achilles’ tendon injuries sustained at the  Masters
Tournament  in April and aggravated at the Players Championship
in May. He missed the  U.S. Open  last month and sat out last
week’s AT&T National outside Philadelphia.  The British Open, the third major championship of the
season, is scheduled for July 14-17 at Royal St. George’s Golf
Club in Sandwich on the English coast, 77 miles (124 kilometers)
southeast of  London . Woods is a three-time winner, most recently
in 2006.  “I know how disappointed Tiger is not to be able to play
in the Open this year,” Peter Dawson, chief executive officer
of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of  St. Andrews , said in a
 statement . “Naturally, we are sorry that a player of his
caliber isn’t able to join us at Royal St. George’s, but we wish
him well in his recovery and hope to see him back soon,
competing in front of the fans that love to see him play the
game.”  Dufner In  Jason Dufner of the U.S. will replace Woods in the field
after Australian Brendan Jones, who was first on the reserve
list, was unable to take the spot because his wife is expecting
a baby, the R&A said.  Woods last played in a tournament on May 12, when he pulled
out of the  Players Championship  after nine holes.  “In hindsight, I probably shouldn’t have competed at the
Players, but it’s a big event, and I wanted to be there to
support the tour,” he said. “I’ve got to learn from what I did
there and do it right this time and not come back until I’m
ready.”  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009. He’s
fallen to No. 17 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  after
holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 