-- 
Germany Revives Greece Debt-Swap Proposal as Banks Recommend Buyback Plan

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-06T09:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/iif-s-dallara-urges-european-officials-to-consider-greek-debt-buyback-plan.html
Germany  revived a proposal for a debt
swap to lengthen Greek bond maturities as the chief of the
biggest group of international financial companies recommended
buybacks of outstanding Greek securities.  The competing ideas underscore how investors and government
officials are struggling to devise a role for creditors in a
bailout of Greece without triggering a default.  The financial firms will discuss a proposal from French
banks to roll over 70 percent of bonds maturing by mid-2014 into
new 30-year Greek securities backed by AAA-rated collateral.
European Union leaders want creditors to voluntarily roll over
about 30 billion euros ($43 billion) of Greek bonds to support
official loans by the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  “We’re going to discuss a range of options there,
including variations on the original French proposal as well as
options relating to buybacks,” said  Charles Dallara , managing
director of the  Institute of International Finance . The
Washington-based IIF represents more than 400 of the world’s
biggest banks and insurers, including Deutsche Bank AG and BNP
Paribas SA and has led the investor talks.  Germany dropped the idea of a bond swap two weeks ago in
the face of opposition from the  European Central Bank  after
rating companies said it would probably be termed a default.  Discussions have become possible again after the rating
firms indicated that the French model would also create a so-
called rating event, a German government official said by phone
in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because negotiations
on Greek debt are private.  Credit Event  While a swap might create a rating event, the German
government sees it as limited to a short time, the official
said.  The proposal was first outlined by Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  in a June 6 letter to ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet, the IMF’s then-acting chief,  John Lipsky , and
fellow euro-area finance ministers. In it, Schaeuble said
maturities on Greek bonds should be extended by seven years to
give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy.  In Dallara’s view,  Greece ’s next rescue package is more
likely to succeed if it includes a plan to retire outstanding
debt through organized buybacks.  A buyback fund of about 50 billion euros, for example,
could reduce Greece’s outstanding debt as a proportion of gross
domestic product by as much as 20 percent, Dallara said by phone
yesterday. He spoke en route to Paris, where he will meet with
about 20 banks and insurance companies today to discuss the role
of bondholders in the new package.  Buybacks Rejected  European authorities ruled out using bailout funds to
retire Greek debt in March, a blow to Trichet, who pushed to
give the EU’s 440 billion-euro rescue facility the power to buy
debt in the open market and to finance buybacks. One year after
the 110 billion-euro bailout that aimed to end the region’s debt
crisis, Greece is in danger of defaulting without a new rescue
package.  Dallara, 62, said a buyback would work best if frontloaded
because debt could be bought more cheaply and on a large enough
scale to bolster market confidence. Such a program could use a
market-related pricing mechanism and target a range of
maturities, he said. A Greek buyback agency might operate
alongside the IMF program, which could fund the effort or
otherwise reassure creditors, he said.  ‘Manageable Profile’  “Put that together with the primary surpluses which Greece
intends to run from 2014 on, and you begin to see a much more
manageable profile of the stock of Greek debt from around 2016
onward,” Dallara said.  Greek government debt will rise to 158 percent of GDP this
year from 143 percent in 2010, according to EU forecasts.  Financial companies held informal meetings in Paris
yesterday to prepare for today’s IIF talks. Deutsche Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , who also chairs the IIF,
joined Schaeuble in Berlin on June 30 to announce an agreement
by the country’s banks and insurers to roll over Greek debt
holdings.  Greek banks are willing to roll over their  government bonds 
as part of an EU rescue plan that will keep the country out of
financial markets for three years, Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
 Athens  yesterday. He also said Greece must avoid having rating
companies cut the country to “selective default.”  Greek banks are participating in the debt reduction talks,
Dallara said.  “We understand their concerns,” Dallara said. “Obviously
we need to be quite sensitive to their concerns in light of the
essential requirement of sustaining ECB funding to them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  