-- 
Milan’s Soccer Teams Won’t Spend Heavily in the Player Transfer Window

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-05T12:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/milan-soccer-teams-won-t-spend-heavily-for-rest-of-summer-transfer-window.html
Italy ’s top two soccer teams, AC
Milan and  Inter Milan , are likely to limit their spending during
the remainder of the summer transfer window, according to club
officials.  Champion AC Milan has already recruited defenders Philippe Mexes and Taye Taiwo as well as attacking midfielder Stephan El
Shaarawy and may add one more midfielder, director Umberto Gandini said. He dismissed media links with  Manchester City ’s
Carlos Tevez. Inter, which had won five straight titles before
coming second last season, will only recruit new players if some
are sold first, Chief Executive Officer Ernesto Paolillo said.  “We have to sell, then after we have sold we will see what
Inter will buy,” Paolillo said in a telephone interview today.
“First move will be selling and not buying.”  Both teams are trying to limit operating losses in an
effort to meet new financial control criteria established by
European soccer’s governing body,  UEFA . Clubs that don’t meet
the “financial fair play” guidelines risk being suspended from
the  Champions League , the continent’s top club competition.  Seven-time European champion AC Milan announced in April
that its annual loss widened to 69.8 million euros ($101
million) from 9.8 million euros as broadcasting revenue and
income from player sales declined. Inter’s accounts show it lost
500 million euros in the three seasons to 2009.  “Absolutely, we are thinking of financial fair play,”
Paolillo said. “That’s why we will start selling, otherwise we
will not buy anything.”  Paolillo declined to give a figure for how much three-time
European Cup winner Inter is trying to raise or how many players
it’s trying to move on. “We don’t give any indication to the
market because if we give indication the market is not good for
us,” he said.  Carlos Tevez   One player linked with both teams is Argentine striker
Tevez. He issued a statement yesterday saying he wanted to quit
the U.K. and media reports said he may move to Milan.  Gandini said “there is no interest from us on Tevez,” and
Paolillo declined to speak about any individual players.  Milan’s pursuit of an extra midfielder depends on a ruling
from the country’s soccer authorities on the number of non-
European Union players teams can have in their squads, Gandini
said.  The transfer window closes on Aug. 31. 