-- 
Lagarde Will Earn a Net $467,940: IMF

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-05T19:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/imf-says-lagarde-s-annual-salary-is-467-940-net-correct-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
its new managing director,  Christine Lagarde , will receive an
annual salary of $467,940 net of income taxes and told her to
“observe the highest standards of ethical conduct.”  The IMF released the terms and conditions of Lagarde’s
employment today, her first day on the job. She was scheduled to
meet with IMF management and directors and to hold a town hall
meeting with staff today. She will hold a news conference
tomorrow at the fund’s headquarters in  Washington .  “As managing director, you are expected to observe the
highest standards of ethical conduct, consistent with the values
of integrity, impartiality and discretion,” according to her
employment conditions. “You shall strive to avoid even the
appearance of impropriety in your conduct.”  Lagarde, 55, a former French finance minister, will also
receive an annual allowance of $83,760 net of income taxes,
according to the IMF’s terms and conditions.  The requirements on ethics did not appear in the contract
of her predecessor,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned in May
after being charged with sexual assault.  Strauss-Kahn pleaded not guilty, and Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. still has to decide whether to drop the
prosecution because of lies told by the hotel maid who accused
him of sexual assault.  Lagarde’s salary compares with Strauss-Kahn’s $450,380 at
the time he resigned, with an allowance of $80,620, according to
the IMF.  The managing director’s salary “is tied to the Washington
D.C. consumer price index,” Gita Bhatt, an IMF spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. “On that basis, it reflects a 3.9% increase
from her predecessor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  