-- 
Investors Can’t Seize Argentine Assets Held at Fed, Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-05T21:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/investors-can-t-seize-argentine-assets-held-at-fed-appeals-court-rules.html
Bondholders with judgments against
 Argentina  can’t seize $105 million of Argentine central bank
assets held at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , a federal
appeals court ruled.  A three-judge panel in New York ruled today that the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act bars NML Capital Ltd. and EM
Ltd., which hold almost $2.4 billion in judgments against
Argentina, from collecting funds belonging to Banco Central de
la Republica Argentina.  The decision overturns an April 2010 ruling by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa permitting the seizure. The appeals
court, while citing Argentina’s “appalling record of keeping
its promises to its creditors,” vacated Griesa’s order and sent
the case back to his court for further proceedings.  The judgments stemmed from Argentina’s 2001 default on $80
billion owed to foreign creditors. The republic hasn’t made
principal or interest payments since the default, the court
said. EM and NML chose not to participate in debt-restructuring
proposals made by Argentina, according to the opinion.  The decision “is wrong,” NML said in a statement. “We are
deeply disturbed by the potential consequences of such broad and
unwarranted immunity, which will enable foreign nations to abuse
the U.S. Federal Reserve system in order to advance their own
unscrupulous efforts.”  Further Appeal  NML said it is considering whether to pursue a further
appeal in the case.  “My client is pleased with the result,” said Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer for the Republic of Argentina.  Joseph Neuhaus, an attorney for Banco Central de la
Republica Argentina, declined to comment. EM lawyer David Rivkin
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act limits legal actions
against foreign governments. The law specifically protects the
assets of a central bank “held for its own account,” the court
said, in an opinion written by U.S. Circuit Judge Jose Cabranes.  The court said Argentina’s central bank is entitled to the
protection regardless whether it is independent from its parent
state. The court also held that, while Argentina waived its
right to invoke sovereign immunity to shield its assets, the
foreign sovereign immunities law bars EM and NML from collecting
from Argentina’s central bank.  Today’s ruling comes in the second appeal in the case. The
appeals court earlier ruled against an attempt by EM and NML to
seize the funds on different legal grounds.  ‘Fraud and Injustice’  In his April ruling, Griesa said Argentina’s use of funds
from its central bank “contributed to fraud and injustice
perpetrated by the republic on the bondholders.” He said
Argentina used the funds “to pay billions of dollars to get rid
of debts which the republic wished to be rid of” while refusing
to pay bond debt.  “Argentina’s record in global bond markets has given new
meaning to the concept of caveat emptor,” Cabranes wrote in the
opinion today. “Even when the Argentine people offer a
substantial premium to those adventurous souls who risk a loan
to the country, for many investors, the experience of being a
creditor to the republic has been a profile in disappointment.”  The case is NML Capital v. Banco Central de la Republica
Argentina, 10-1487, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 