-- 
Israel Halts Palestinian Corpse Transfer to Confirm Terrorism Involvement

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-05T16:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/israel-halts-palestinian-corpse-transfer-citing-gilad-shalit.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
halted a planned transfer of the remains of 84 Palestinians
while the government tried to confirm whether they’d been
involved in terrorist attacks and debates whether it could hurt
efforts to free a captive soldier.  The move, announced by the army and the  Palestinian
Authority  yesterday, triggered criticism that it may damage
Israel’s bargaining position in talks to free Gilad Shalit, a
soldier captured by Palestinian militants five years ago from a
tank outside the  Gaza Strip .  “I stopped this dialogue on transferring the bodies in
order to be sure that we’re not handing over bodies that
shouldn’t be handed over, both for reasons connected to Shalit
and other considerations,” Barak said today in an e-mailed
statement. The defense minister later released a second
statement with the names of 10 Palestinians on the list whose
bodies he said would not be transferred.  Israel  and the Palestinian Authority have been negotiating
for years over hundreds of corpses of Palestinian militants that
the Israeli army keeps at a temporary burial site in the West
Bank. Hamas, which controls Gaza, has been negotiating with
Israel indirectly over the past five years to free Shalit in
return for the release of hundreds of Palestinians from Israeli
jails. The group is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  List of Remains  Palestinian Authority spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said in a
telephone interview that the Israeli Defense Ministry had handed
over a list of the 84 bodies and the Palestinian Ministry of
Civil Affairs had announced the remains would be transferred. He
said the Palestinian ministry hadn’t been formally notified by
Israel that the transfer had been halted.  Among the remains that won’t be released are those of
Hanadi Jaradat, a female suicide bomber whose 2003 attack on a
restaurant in Haifa left 21 Israelis dead, Barak said. The
remains of seven members of Hamas and two other Palestinians who
carried out attacks that killed large numbers of Israelis also
won’t be handed over, he said.  Further negotiations on the fate of the remains wouldn’t
include those who came from Gaza, Barak said. A  list  of the 84
Palestinians published by the Ma’an  news agency  includes 11
people described as Gaza residents, with the rest coming from
the  West Bank .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 