-- 
Israel Inflation-Linked Bonds Rise on Higher Electricity Prices

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-05T17:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/israel-inflation-linked-bonds-rise-on-higher-electricity-prices.html
Israeli inflation-linked bonds rose,
pushing yields to the lowest level in three weeks, after the
utility authority said it may increase electricity prices
following the halt in natural-gas supplies from  Egypt .  The yield on the consumer price-linked bond due October
2019 dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point to 2.35
percent, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the lowest level
since June 14. The yield spread between inflation-linked bonds
due October 2019 and fixed-rate notes of similar maturity
widened to 279 basis points today from 261 on May 15, the lowest
level this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders boosted inflation expectations after the  Israel 
Public Utility Authority said it’s considering raising
electricity prices by 20 percent following the third explosion
on the Egyptian natural-gas export pipeline in five months,
Nurit Palter, a spokeswoman with group said yesterday by
telephone from  Jerusalem .  “The spread between the CPI-linked bonds and fixed bonds
is expected to widen on bets inflation will accelerate as
electricity prices are set to increase,” Ehud Itzhakov, a bond
trader at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone.  Electricity prices have declined 16 percent in the past 12
months, according to the authority, due to increased use of
natural gas. A 20-percent increase in power prices would add 1
percentage point to inflation, Amit Mor, chief executive officer
of Eco Energy Ltd., an Israel-based financial and strategic
consulting firm, said yesterday.  Israel Electric  Israel Electric Corp. said it will use coal and other
energy sources to compensate for the loss of Egyptian gas,
adding that it doesn’t know how long the supply interruption
will last.  The benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 rose, pushing the yield down three basis points to 5.14
percent, the lowest since June 28.  Inflation in May accelerated to 4.1 percent as housing
costs increases and fuel and food prices climbed, the Jerusalem-
based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said June 15. Consumer
prices, which exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target since the beginning of the year, will slow to 2.9 percent
in the next 12 months from 4.1 percent in May, the  Bank of
Israel  said June 27, citing the average of forecasters in a
survey.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  left the benchmark
lending rate unchanged on June 27 after 10 increases in two
years to 3.25 percent aimed at bringing inflation back into the
target range. The bank will probably keep rates on hold in its
meeting next month, according to the median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Interest-Rate Swaps  The spread between Israel’s five-year interest-rate swaps
and similar maturity U.S. notes fell to 256 basis points, the
smallest gap since May 18, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as
investors reduced bets the central bank will raise rates in his
next meeting.  The shekel weakened for a second day, falling 0.6 percent
to 3.4113 per dollar. The dollar strengthened versus most of its
major counterparts on speculation  China ’s efforts to tame
inflation will cool growth and damp demand for riskier assets.  “The dollar is gaining across the world on concern about
the pace of recovery of the global economy ,” Yaniv Hevron,
head of macro-strategy at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based Excellence
Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said by telephone.  Morgan Stanley & Co . boosted its forecast for Israel’s
economic growth, saying that gross domestic product will climb
4.8 percent this year and 4 percent next year, according to an
e-mailed report dated July 1. It previously had projected gains
of 4.3 percent in 2011 and 3.5 percent in 2012.  “Without doubt the Israeli economy remains one of the most
robust and well managed among both the developed and the
emerging market economies,”  Tevfik Aksoy , Morgan Stanley’s
London-based head of economics for the region wrote in the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  