-- 
Israel Looking Into Making Sunday Day of Rest

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-05T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/israeli-proposal-to-make-sunday-day-of-rest-may-benefit-retail.html
Israel ’s government is examining a
proposal to shift the weekend to the western Saturday and
Sunday, a step that may benefit financial markets and retail and
leisure companies.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu this week appointed
Eugene Kandel, head of the National Economic Council, to look
into the implications of changing the weekend from Friday and
Saturday. The proposal would make Friday a half-day of work.
Many in Israel use Friday to prepare for the Jewish Sabbath,
which begins at sundown. Working and traveling is forbidden on
the Sabbath according to Jewish law and most stores and many
restaurants are closed for the Sabbath.  “The main creator of jobs in Israel today is not the
manufacturing sector but trade and services,” said Uriel Lynn,
president of the Israeli Chambers of Commerce. “If Sunday is a
full holiday when people can go out with their families to shop
and enjoy themselves, it will create more jobs in trade and
services.”  The proposal’s main advocate is Minister for Regional
Development Silvan Shalom, who says financial markets would
benefit from being coordinated with the major Western economies
rather than Israel’s Muslim neighbors, who mostly have a Friday
and Saturday weekend. Opposing the measure is Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz, who says it is important for Jews and Muslims to
have Friday off and civil service expenses would increase on
Sunday if it were a day off.  Shalom said work hours could be increased during weekdays
to make up for some of the lost work hours. Lynn said that
holiday time off could be reduced.  ‘Coordinated Trading’  The proposed new weekend would “enable coordinated trading
in currency, foreign equities, commodities, mutual funds and
other financial instruments connected with international
markets,” according to a report prepared by Shalom’s office.  The tourist industry would also benefit from Sunday off,
according to Ami Federman, president of the Hoteliers
Association and vice chairman of Dan Hotels Corp., the country’s
largest lodgings chain.  Israel’s economy grew an annualized 4.7 percent last year,
compared with a 2.9 percent expansion in the  United States  and
1.7 percent in the European Union.  Some say the economic benefits of the proposal are
exaggerated.  “While there might be some benefit in people having more
time for shopping, especially for the Jewish religious sector,
at the end of the day the average family’s budget will still be
the same,” said Tal Shirizly, an analyst at  Tel Aviv ’s Psagot
Investment House Ltd. who covers Golf & Co., one of Israel’s
biggest clothing chains.  Textile Companies  Golf & Co. has declined 28 percent in the past 12 months
while clothing chain  Fox Wizel Ltd. (FOX) , has increased 136 percent.
Israeli textile companies trade on average at 26 times 2010
earnings compared with 43 times on average in Western Europe.
Fox trades at 7.9 times 2010 earnings, while Golf trades at 11
times.  While Sunday’s trading volume on the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange is lower than other days due to fewer foreign traders,
a half-day on Friday would mean shorter overall trading hours.  Israelis also enjoy an advantage in being able to react to
other markets and trade on a day when few of them are open, says
Elah Alkalay, vice president for business development at IBI-
Israel Brokerage & Investment Ltd.  “I can’t see how this would be fabulously great for the
economy in general,” she said.  The proposal would also affect the almost 17 percent of
Israel’s population that is Muslim.  “Many  Muslim countries  in the world have moved to a Sunday
weekend,” Shalom told Channel Two television when asked if a
Sunday shift would be fair to Muslims who would have to work on
Friday, the Islamic prayer day. “Globalization is important and
they want to be connected to the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew J.
Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 