-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ to Send ‘Smoke Signal’ to World on Equity Trading Road Trip

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-07-06T06:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/mitsubishi-ufj-to-send-smoke-signal-to-world-on-japan-equities.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
plans to dispatch a group of traders abroad in September to tap
investors for its Japanese equity business after hiring 12
stocks specialists from rival  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   Traders and algorithm developers will travel in Asia,
Europe and the U.S. to meet with 60 investors in their first
such trip, said Akihiro Kiyomi, deputy head of the equity group
at  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. , a brokerage
unit of Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank.  Mitsubishi UFJ, ranked first in managing local debt sales
this year, aims to narrow the gap with rivals including Nomura
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in stock trading and managing
share sales. The bank seeks to add overseas clients by offering
products such as electronic trading as  Japan ’s stock market and
economy show signs of recovery from a record earthquake.  “Overseas clients have no idea about Mitsubishi’s trading
ability,” Kiyomi, 48, who oversees about 180 employees, said in
an interview in Tokyo. “For starters, we’ll send up a smoke
signal by visiting them and promoting Mitsubishi as a trading
partner.”  Kiyomi and about four colleagues plan to visit cities
including  Hong Kong , Singapore, London,  New York ,  San Francisco 
and Boston to meet institutional investors including hedge funds
and pension managers during the one-month trip, he said.  Electronic Trading Rivalry  Japanese banks have been competing to provide computer-
driven algorithmic trading for clients. Mizuho hired 16 people
for electronic trading from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
2008. Mitsubishi UFJ hired the 12 equity-trading staff,
including Kiyomi, from Nomura between February and April.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, an investment banking joint
venture formed by Mitsubishi UFJ and Morgan Stanley in May 2010,
is ranked seventh in managing sales of Japanese equity and
equity-linked products this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The banking group holds the top position for
underwriting Japanese bonds in 2011, the data show.  The Japanese bank has a majority stake in Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley. The Wall Street firm owns most of a separate
joint venture, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.1 percent to 10,082,
a seventh day of gains, marking the longest winning streak in
almost two years. Industrial production climbed the most in more
than 50 years in May and a central bank survey last week showed
companies expect profits to rebound later this year.  Build Client Base  Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co. , the parent of
Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS) , earned 21.7 billion yen ($268
million) from stock brokerage commissions and 6.9 billion yen of
equity underwriting fees for the year ended March 31. Income
from equity products amounted to 31.7 billion yen, or 20 percent
of the company’s total fees and commissions.  Strengthening equity trading services will also boost the
firm’s investment banking business by building up a base of
clients to potentially purchase shares underwritten by the
company, Kiyomi said. “We will be able to bolster our market
placement ability, which is a condition for the selection of
underwriters,” he said.  Kiyomi joined Nomura Securities Co. in 1986 after
graduating from  Tokyo Metropolitan University . He worked for
Nomura’s U.S. unit for about seven years, and became the head of
equity sales trading in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  