-- 
Liverpool Wants Newcastle’s Enrique After Missing Out on Clichy: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-05T09:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/liverpool-wants-newcastle-s-enrique-after-missing-out-on-clichy-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Liverpool Wants Enrique  Liverpool will try again to sign Newcastle’s Jose Enrique
after missing out on  Gael Clichy ,  the Sun  reported.  The Reds were interested in the Spanish left-back but
switched their attention to Clichy as they thought they’d get
a better deal.  Manchester City signed the Arsenal defender for 7 million
pounds ($11.3 million) yesterday, and Enrique would cost
Liverpool about 8 million pounds, the Sun said.  Nasri for Overseas?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has made it clear that he’d
sell Samir Nasri to an overseas club rather than to one of his
top rivals in the Premier League, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Wenger is still determined to persuade Nasri to stay and
sign a new 90,000 pounds-a-week contract.  Bellamy Sought  Stoke has joined the race to sign  Craig Bellamy  from
Manchester City on a season-long loan,  the Guardian  reported.  Celtic, Sunderland and Blackburn Rovers are also
interesting in signing the Welshman, who spent last season with
Cardiff.  Plea on Cahill  Bolton manager Owen Coyle said clubs interested in signing
defender  Gary Cahill  need to make a concrete offer if they’re to
be taken seriously,  the Mirror  said.  Clubs including Manchester City and Tottenham are
interested in Cahill, the newspaper added.  “There are big clubs after him, but it is up to them to
come on and back that up,” Coyle said. “If they don’t, I hope
they move on somewhere else and leave the boy alone.”  Newcastle Target  Newcastle has offered about 7 million pounds for Paris
Saint-Germain’s Turkish international striker Mevlut Erdinc, the
 Telegraph  reported.  He’s a favorite of chief scout Graham Carr, and has been
regularly watched by manager Alan Pardew and assistant John
Carver, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 