-- 
Nikkei 225 Rises for Sixth Day, Extending Longest Win Streak Since Quake

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-05T07:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/japan-stocks-little-changed-after-five-day-rally-tokyo-electric-advances.html
Japanese stocks advanced for a sixth
day, keeping alive the longest winning streak for the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average since the country’s March earthquake and tsunami,
as Tokyo Electric Power Co. advanced.  Tokyo Electric climbed 5.1 percent after the utility said a
self-contained cooling system is now running properly at its
crippled nuclear plant. Bank of Yokohama Ltd. rose 1.5 percent
after Nomura Holdings Inc. raised the lender’s rating, saying it
was oversold after the March 11 disaster. Askul Corp., an online
office equipment retailer, tumbled 8.3 percent after posting a
loss because of damage to inventory and warehousing.  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.1 percent to 9,972.46 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, after adding 4 percent in the past five trading
days amid optimism  Greece  will avoid default. Stocks have risen
as companies including Toyota Motor Corp. said supply chains are
recovering more quickly than anticipated from  Japan ’s disaster.  The Topix index rose 0.1 percent to 865.18 today. The gauge
hovered around the breakeven point after a measure of daily
stock winners and losers rose to a level that suggests to some
investors the market is overbought. The 25-day Toraku index rose
yesterday to 125. A number above 120 indicate shares may have
risen too much.  ‘Clearly Overheated’  “Japanese stocks are clearly overheating,” said Norihiro
Fujito, head of equity research in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  Markets from Tokyo to  New York  gained in the past week as
Greece satisfied European requirements for getting more bailout
money, averting a default that the  International Monetary Fund 
said could “spill over,” destabilizing the region’s banking
system. Shares also gained after U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
accelerated in June.  “There’s less concern about the global economy,” said
 Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion. “Investors
are feeling some relief about Greece and there’s less concern
that the  U.S. economy  is going to get worse.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 5.6 percent in the
five days since June 24, the gauge’s longest winning streak
since January. U.S markets were closed yesterday for the
Independence Day holiday.  Radioactive Water  Tokyo Electric climbed 5.1 percent to 413 yen today, the
biggest gain on the Nikkei 225. The utility said yesterday a
self-contained cooling system is operating without interruption
at three Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors damaged in the March
disaster. The use of a recirculation system means fresh water
doesn’t have to be added, allowing the utility to cut the amount
of radioactive water flowing out of the plant.  Insurers and banks, large  Tokyo Electric  shareholders, were
the biggest support for the Topix among its 33 industry groups.
Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., the utility’s second-largest
shareholder, gained 3.1 percent to 123,300 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. rose 0.7 percent to 2,586 yen. One of the
bank’s units owns 2.2 percent of Tokyo Electric, according to
Bloomberg data.  Bank of Yokohama rose 1.5 percent to 416 yen and Fukuoka
Financial Group Inc. advanced 1.8 percent to 349 yen after
Nomura raised its investment rating on the regional banks to
“buy” from “neutral,” saying they’re cheap. The Topix index
that tracks bank shares has fallen 9.4 percent since the March
11 quake, outpacing a 7.1 percent drop on the broader index.  Sakura Report  “Investors are taking another look at bank shares because
there’s an expectation loan demand is going to pick up,” said
Hisashi Watanabe, a group manager of Securities Investment
Department at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. Watanabe said the
quake hasn’t hurt corporate earnings as much as investors had
expected and companies will start borrowing and investing more.  Lenders and insurance companies also got a boost after the
 Bank of Japan  yesterday raised its economic assessment for seven
of the country’s nine regions, as the nation recovers from its
worst earthquake on record. Tohoku, the northern area that was
hardest hit, was among regions where conditions are improving,
the central bank said yesterday in its quarterly  Sakura Report ,
the equivalent of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book.  Among stocks that declined, Askul tumbled 8.3 percent to
1,267 yen, after posting a net loss of 1 billion yen ($13
million) in the fiscal year ended May 20. The online retailer
said it booked charges for inventory and warehouses that were
damaged by the quake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 