-- 
Japan Stocks Cap Longest Winning Streak in 2 Years as Reports Show Rebound

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-06T10:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-as-signs-of-recovery-boost-oil-price.html
Japanese stocks advanced for a
seventh day, with the benchmark index completing its longest
winning streak in two years, as exporters and banks climbed amid
easing concern over Europe’s debt crisis and reports signaled
stronger economic recoveries at home and in the U.S.  Nippon Paper Group Inc. led increases by producers of
cardboard and pulp, rising 5.2 percent today, after saying it
will increase prices.  Japan  Petroleum Exploration Co., the
country’s second-biggest oil driller by sales, gained 3.8
percent after crude prices rose. Nintendo Co. rose 3.1 percent
after a report the game maker is expanding into smartphone
games.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 1.1 percent to
10,082.48 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The gauge has advanced
5.3 percent in the past seven days, reaching its highest level
since March 11, the day an earthquake and tsunami devastated
Japan’s northeast coast. Shares rose as factory production
rebounded in May and a report showed companies plan to increase
investment in plant and equipment at almost twice the estimated
rate this year.  “Japanese stocks that are sensitive to the global economy
are picking up and the fact that they’ve beaten May highs shows
they’re starting to get over the effects of the earthquake
disaster,” said Nobuyuki Kashiwabara, a  fund manager  at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. “There’s less and less worry about a
double-dip recession in the U.S.”  Markets from Tokyo to New York advanced last week after a
report showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in June.
The gain in the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
added to evidence global manufacturing is recovering from
supply-chain disruptions following Japan’s March disaster.  Manufacturing Recovery  Stocks also gained in the past week as  Greece  qualified for
more bailout money to help pay off bonds coming due this month
and avert a default. The cash-strapped nation still needs more
loans to help it survive through next year. A default could hurt
European banks, which hold the country’s debt.  Japan’s Topix index, which includes a broad range of
smaller companies not included on the exporter-heavy Nikkei, has
climbed to within 11 percent of this year’s high on Feb. 21,
after dropping as much as 21 percent following the quake. The
gauge advanced 1 percent to 873.51 today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3
percent. The index slipped 0.1 percent yesterday, ending a five-
day winning streak, after Moody’s Investors Service cut
 Portugal ’s long-term government bond ratings to Ba2, or junk,
from Baa1. Portugal is the second euro country rated non-
investment grade by Moody’s, joining Greece.  U.S. Factory Orders  Japanese shares rose today after a report on U.S. factory
orders suggested manufacturing in the world’s biggest economy is
recovering from a slowdown. Orders increased 0.8 percent in May,
helping to recover ground lost a month earlier when bookings
fell 0.9 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a 1
percent gain.  Papermakers had the biggest increase among the 33 Topix
industry groups today after Nippon Paper said it will increase
prices on printing paper by at least 10 percent to pass on
higher fuel costs. Nippon Paper jumped 5.2 percent to 1,910 yen.
Hokuetsu Kishu Paper Co. gained 4.9 percent to 518 yen, while
Oji Paper Co. climbed 2.3 percent to 409 yen.  Energy-related shares gained as oil rose for a second day
in  New York  on speculation crude inventories declined in the
U.S. Futures for August delivery gained 0.9 percent today, after
advancing 2.1 percent yesterday.  Japan Petroleum climbed 3.8 percent to 3,920 yen, while
larger rival Inpex Corp. added 1.7 percent to 598,000 yen.
Mitsui & Co., a trading house that counts commodities as its
biggest source of profit, gained 2.2 percent to 1,440 yen.
Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest commodities trader by revenue,
rose 1.2 percent to 2,072 yen.  Nintendo climbed 3.1 percent to 15,900 yen. Shares advanced
after CBS said on its Bnet.com. website that the company will
release a Pokemon game for Apple Inc.’s iPhone later this
summer. Nintendo spokesman Yasuhiro Minagawa denied the report,
saying the game will be released by Pokemon Co., an independent
company that is 32 percent owned by Nintendo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 