-- 
JPMorgan, Customers at Impasse in Overdraft Fee Accord Talks

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T21:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/jpmorgan-customers-at-impasse-in-overdraft-fee-talks-mediator-reports.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and consumers
who sued the bank over claims of excessive overdraft fees have
reached an impasse in settlement talks, a mediator said.  Two mediation sessions held between the company and the
plaintiffs’ committee on March 17 and June 28 failed, the
mediator, Thomas E. Scott, said July 1 in a report filed in
federal court in Miami.  “Following the second effort, the undersigned has decided
to declare an impasse at this time,” according to the document
signed by Scott.  Consumers sued accusing JPMorgan and more than a dozen
other banks of illegally charging excessive fees for overdrafts.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender by assets, agreed
to pay $410 million in February to settle the lawsuits against
it. The bank didn’t admit any liability in the cases.  Los Angeles resident Andrea Luquetta sued JPMorgan in 2009
claiming the bank’s overdraft fees were excessive, unfair and
deceptive. The suit named JPMorgan and Washington Mutual Bank
Inc., which JPMorgan acquired in 2008. The case is now part of
multidistrict litigation in the Miami court.  Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the report.  Jeremy W. Alters , a plaintiffs’ attorney, didn’t
immediately reply to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  FDIC Enforcement  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. last week began
enforcing rules aimed at reducing overdraft fees. The FDIC rules
followed industrywide regulation approved by the  Federal Reserve 
last year requiring banks to obtain customers’ permission to
enroll them in overdraft programs. The FDIC rules impose daily
limits on overdraft fees charged to customers.  Consumers incur overdraft fees when they debit sums beyond
what they have in an account and their balance dips below zero.  The case is In Re: Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
1:09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  