-- 
Citigroup Hires JPMorgan’s John Novak After Revamp of Trading Operations

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-05T19:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/jpmorgan-s-novak-resigns-as-head-of-u-s-cash-equities-sales-trading-team.html
Citigroup Inc., the New York-based
bank that reorganized its trading desk this year, hired  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s John Novak for its equities unit.  Novak, head of U.S. cash equities sales trading, resigned
today from JPMorgan, said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for
the New York-based bank. He will be a sales trader and report to
Citigroup U.S. head of cash equity sales trading Dan Sanders
after a mandatory 90-day period of “garden leave,” said
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citi spokeswoman.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit reshuffled
trading operations this year, promoting  James Forese  to head of
securities and banking in January. The equities unit is run by
Derek Bandeen, who appointed Mike Pringle as head of trading in
April. The bank, the third-largest in the U.S., said first-
quarter equities-trading revenue fell 12 percent to $1.1 billion
from the year-earlier period.  Average daily equity-trading in the second quarter on the
largest U.S. exchanges fell 31 percent from a year earlier and
9.6 percent from the prior period. Equity trading at JPMorgan
generated $1.4 billion, or 17 percent, of the investment bank’s
$8.2 billion in revenue in the first quarter. Analysts including
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s  Glenn Schorr  cut JPMorgan’s second-
quarter earnings estimates in part because of “sluggish”
trading.  Novak, who reported to Adam Englander in the investment
bank, joined JPMorgan in 1996, according to his profile on
 LinkedIn . He graduated from Lehigh University in 1992, according
to the profile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 