-- 
Kan Proposes $25 Billion Earthquake Budget That May Pave Way for His Exit

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-07-05T00:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/kan-proposes-25b-extra-budget-for-rebuilding.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
proposed a 2-trillion yen ($25 billion) extra budget, spending
that would fall short of what’s needed to rebuild after a record
earthquake and the worst nuclear accident in more than 20 years.  The spending plan, to be submitted to parliament, is half
the size of outlays allocated in May. The government won’t rely
on new bond sales to fund the package because it will use
leftover funds from last year’s budget, according to a statement
released in Tokyo today.  Kan scaled back the size of the package because of rising
calls from ruling and opposition lawmakers for him to step down.
With government estimates putting damage from the March 11
temblor at 16.9 trillion yen, analysts are focused on subsequent
budgets and how those spending plans may exacerbate the nation’s
debt burden, already the world’s largest.  “The political outlook is increasingly uncertain,” said
 Chotaro Morita , chief strategist at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd.
in Tokyo. “We don’t know how and when someone will replace Kan
and when the third extra budget can be passed.”  The second supplementary budget allocates 275 billion yen
for nuclear-related issues including financial support to Tokyo
Electric Power Co. and radiation monitoring for Fukushima
residents for 30 years. Some 800 billion yen will be set aside
for reconstruction and 546 billion yen will be distributed to
local governments in stricken areas.  Kan has said he also wants to win approval for bond sales
and a law to promote renewable energy, before quitting. Some
seventy-two percent of people surveyed said he should resign by
the end of August, a Yomiuri Newspaper poll showed.  The premier will seek approval for the budget before the
diet session is scheduled to finish at the end of August. He
won’t be able to use the entire 1.45 trillion yen leftover funds
from last year’s budget unless it is authorized by parliament.  The economy has already shown signs of emerging from a
slowdown after the quake, with industrial production surging the
most in more than 50 years and companies saying last week they
expect profits to recover in the second half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  