-- 
Nestle Plans to Invest $1.4 Billion in Africa, Buy Local

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-07-05T12:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/nestle-plans-to-invest-1-42-billion-in-africa-to-maintain-strong-growth.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, said it plans to spend 1.2 billion Swiss francs ($1.4
billion) by 2015 to expand production capacity in Africa, where
sales growth is outpacing that of Europe and  North America .  “We are very bullish about the African continent,” Frits van Dijk, executive vice-president who heads the company’s
business in  Asia , Africa, Oceania and the  Middle East , said in
an interview in Nairobi, Kenya, today. “The continent will soon
have a billion people, and while admittedly income levels are
very low, they are rising” alongside economic growth.  While the company’s sales in Africa are increasing at
“strong double-digits” to $3.5 billion last year, replicating
the trend across emerging markets, revenue in developed nations
is growing “at 2 percent or less,” Van Dijk said.  Rising household expenditure in sub-Saharan Africa may help
the region’s economy grow almost three times faster than  Europe ,
with expansion projected at 5.5 percent this year and 5.9
percent the next, from 4.9 percent in 2010, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in April. Nestle’s sales in Africa, which
account for about 3 percent of global group revenue, are
expected to surge from a low base, Van Dijk said.  “More and more people are coming from the very lowest
income levels, into what we call the emerging consumers
category,” Van Dijk said. “For the first time they can afford to
buy basic packaged-food and beverage products.”  Factory Revamps  Nestle is investing 150 million Swiss francs to boost
production volumes in eastern and central Africa, including
revamping factories in Kenya and  Zimbabwe , the company said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The company opened its second plant in  Nigeria , built at a
cost of 90 million francs, earlier this year, while construction
of a new facility in the Democratic Republic of Congo is
complete, and two more are planned in Mozambique and  Angola . The
company is focussing on internal growth on the continent, though
it may consider acquisitions, Van Dijk said.  “We are continuously studying projects and looking at
opportunities, but the bulk of our growth is coming from
internal growth through innovation and renovation,” he said.  Nestle has reduced the size of items in its product range
to boost sales in Africa, acknowledging that about 46 percent of
people live in extreme poverty on less than $1.25 a day and more
than two out of every 10 people are under-nourished, according
to United Nations data. It’s introducing smaller packaging, such
as Maggi seasoning powder, which is sold in  Kenya  by the cube
for as little as 2 shillings (2 U.S. cents), and single-serving
Nescafe instant coffee packets at about 5 shillings apiece.  Nutrition  The company is also adding micronutrients to its processed
foods to address nutritional deficiencies and is continuing to
expand its purchases of ingredients from domestic farms as part
of a strategy to support the agricultural industry.  Tea from Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of the black
variety of the leaves, is used in Nestea iced tea made at
Nestle’s Nairobi plant, while the company is working with dairy
farmers in the East African nation to bring the quality of milk
to an acceptable standard to buy, the statement said.  Nestle is willing to take on manageable investment risks in
 Africa  in exchange for the rewards, Van Dijk said.  The company’s two factories and research and development
center in the  Ivory Coast  were hit by a four-month political
crisis following a disputed November presidential vote in which
2,000 people died. Nestle is now scaling up production and
“recovering what we lost earlier in the year,” Van Dijk said.
The West African nation is the world’s biggest cocoa producer.  “If we would not be willing to take risk we would lose out
on a lot of opportunities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 