-- 
Netflix Gains on Plan to Expand in Latin America, Caribbean

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-05T20:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/netflix-surges-on-plans-to-expand-in-latin-america-caribbean.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the DVD rental and
film-streaming service, rose the most in more than five months
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after announcing plans to expand
in Latin America and the Caribbean.  Netflix surged $21.64, or 8.1 percent, to $289.63 at 4 p.m.
New York time, the biggest gain since Jan. 27. Shares of the Los
Gatos, California-based company have added 65 percent this year.  Netflix will begin streaming video in 43 countries in the
region this year, including  Mexico , according to a statement
today. The company needs to expand globally for continued growth
and to generate funds for additional film rights.  “This announcement significantly expands Netflix’s total
addressable market in  Latin America  and likely makes our ending
subscriber estimates for 2012 of 42.7 million somewhat
conservative,” Anthony J. DiClemente, an analyst with  Barclays
Capital  in New York, wrote today in a research note. He has an
“overweight” rating on the shares.  Through 2015, Latin America will have the fastest growth in
the broadband connections that are required for online movie
services such as Netflix, according to a November 2010 report by
consulting firm Analysys Mason in  London .  The countries offer Netflix potential access to 325 million
households, according to George Askew, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  Washington  who rates the stock “hold.” The
service will be offered in Spanish, Portuguese or English,
Netflix said.  Content Costs  Analysts have expressed concern over rising content costs
at Netflix, including the potential price to renew a streaming
accord with Liberty Media Corp.’s Starz cable networks. The
existing Starz accord costs about $25 million a year,  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with, BTIG LLC, estimated in January.  On June 1, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said it
“wouldn’t be shocking” to pay as much as $300 million a year
to renew that agreement.  “We acknowledge investor concern around rising content
costs, but we believe viral subscriber growth, international
expansion and disciplined content acquisition mitigate this
risk,” wrote DiClemente.  Netflix subscribers in the U.S. and  Canada  pay $7.99 a
month to watch television shows and movies via the Internet.
Some plans allow customers to receive DVDs in the mail. Netflix
began allowing U.S. customers to watch videos online in 2007 and
started offering the option in Canada last year.  U.S.-Centric  As of March 31, 97 percent of its customers were located in
the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is expanding into many countries at once to get
the scale necessary to pay Hollywood studios and other content
providers for streaming rights to older movies and television
shows,  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott, said
in an interview.  To sustain 30 percent growth, Netflix will need to reach 59
million subscribers globally by the end of 2013, up from more
than 23 million today, said Wible, who has a “sell” rating on
the stock.  “To hit that benchmark, you’d have to have 53 million in
the U.S. and about 6 million internationally,” Wible said.  Netflix said on April 26 its push outside the U.S. will
lead to international operating losses of as much as $70 million
in the second half, up from $50 million seen earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  