-- 
News Corp. Phone-Hacking to Be Debated in Parliament as Ford Withdraws Ads

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-06T08:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/news-corp-hacking-allegations-to-be-debated.html
U.K. lawmakers will debate calls for
an urgent public inquiry into phone-hacking by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News of the World as allegations mounted that the newspaper
tapped the voicemails of murder victims and their families and
paid police officers for stories.  Members of the House of Commons agreed to the emergency
debate demanded by  Chris Bryant , a lawmaker from the opposition
Labour Party, who is one of more than two dozen people suing the
News Corp. tabloid over phone-tapping. The three-hour debate
will be held in Parliament in London this afternoon.  “The only way we can get to the full truth is to have a
public inquiry led by a judge,” Bryant told lawmakers
yesterday. “The News of the World is not just a paper out of
control, that’s not just a paper believing it’s above the law,
it’s a national newspaper playing God.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called the allegations
“really appalling,” and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said yesterday it will
stop placing advertisements in the News of the World and will
use other media. RWE AG’s Npower unit and Deutsche Telekom AG’s
T-Mobile division in the U.K. said they’re reviewing their
advertising in the tabloid.  Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive officer of News
International, vowed yesterday to “vigorously pursue the
truth” while denying any knowledge of phone-tapping.  Murder Victims  Since the first reports on July 4 that the newspaper
deleted messages from the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler in 2002, British media made further allegations of
illegal practices at the News of the World. Detectives
investigating phone-hacking have contacted the parents of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, two girls who were murdered in
eastern  England  in 2002, the Press Association newswire cited
police as saying yesterday.  Families of the victims of the July 7, 2005, terror
bombings in London have been told they may have been the target
of phone hacking. Graham Foulkes, whose son David died in the
attack, said he had been contacted by police yesterday.  “It fills you with horror,” Foulkes told  BBC  Radio 4,
describing his feelings on learning that messages left in the
wake of the bombing could have been intercepted. “We were in a
very dark place. We were using the phone and frantically trying
to get information. The thought that these guys may have been
listening to that is just horrendous.”  Foulkes said he wanted to confront Murdoch directly. “I
would very much like to meet him face to face and have a very
in-depth discussion with him about responsibility and the power
that he has and how it should be used appropriately.”  E-Mails  The BBC reported that News International, the  News Corp. (NWSA) 
unit that publishes the newspaper, passed e-mails to the police
that showed  Andy Coulson , a former editor, authorized payments
to police officers worth tens of thousands of pounds.  “The e-mails in question were passed to police some time
ago,” Simon Greenberg, News International’s corporate affairs
director, told Radio 4, while refusing to confirm their
contents. He said the company was “shocked and appalled” at
the newest allegations.  The four-year-old phone-hacking scandal previously centered
on celebrities, politicians and sports stars. Coulson, who
resigned from the newspaper in 2007 when a reporter was jailed
for phone hacking, went on to work for Cameron as director of
communications. He quit in January, just before News
International began handing information to the police. He has
always denied any knowledge of illegality.  ‘Pursue the Truth’  Brooks is under pressure herself, having been editor of the
News of the World in 2002. In 2003, she told a parliamentary
committee that the paper had paid police officers for
information in the past.  New York-based News Corp. is already facing a trial in
January, when a court will decide how much the company should
pay in damages to Bryant and four others alleged to be phone-
hacking victims, including actor Jude Law. News International
has apologized and agreed to pay about 100,000 pounds ($160,630)
to settle claims brought by actress  Sienna Miller  and another
20,000 pounds to former soccer player Andy Gray.  The leader of the opposition  Labour Party ,  Ed Miliband ,
called on Brooks to “consider her position” yesterday.
Business Secretary Vince Cable told  BBC television  that “those
people who were responsible have got to take the consequences.”  Takeover Review  The allegations come the same week Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  holds a further consultation on News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-
pound bid for the 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t already own. News Corp. already owns four of the
U.K.’s largest newspapers. Cable said the takeover review
“really doesn’t have anything to do with the hacking inquiry,”
while Cameron said the BSkyB decision must be made in line with
the law.  News Corp. rose 7 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $18.13 in  New
York  yesterday. BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-television
broadcaster, fell 7 pence or 0.8 percent to 838 pence at 9:21
a.m. in  London  today, valuing the company at 14.7 billion
pounds.  “I have to tell you that I am sickened that these events
are alleged to have happened,” Brooks said in a memo to staff.
“If the allegations are proved to be true then I can promise
the strongest possible action will be taken as this company will
not tolerate such disgraceful behavior.”  Bryant accused the newspaper of “systematic criminality”
and said London’s Metropolitan Police had “lied time and time
again to Parliament.”  The previous police probe didn’t look at evidence of
illegality beyond the hacking of phones belonging to members of
the royal household. Senior officers have since defended their
decision not to expand their investigation,  “They had all this information in their hands in 2006 and
they did nothing with it,” Bryant said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  