-- 
News Corp. Under Fire for Phone Hacking

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-05T17:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/news-corp-to-probe-report-murder-victim-s-phone-was-hacked.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. came
under pressure from U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  to respond
to “really appalling” allegations that its News of the World
tabloid hacked into the voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl.  News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks,
then the newspaper’s editor, should “consider her position,”
opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said. Brooks vowed to
“vigorously pursue the truth” after reports that a private
detective working for the tabloid gained access to Milly
Dowler’s phone messages after she was abducted in March 2002.  “If they are true, this is a truly dreadful act, and a
truly dreadful situation,” Cameron told reporters at a press
conference in Kabul today with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .
It’s “quite, quite shocking that someone could do this, knowing
that the police were trying to find this person and trying to
find out what had happened.”  The allegations widen a four-year-old phone-hacking scandal
at the News of the World previously centered on celebrities,
politicians and athletes. More than two dozen people are suing
New York-based News Corp., which has apologized and offered to
settle some of the cases after journalists linked to the
newspaper were arrested as part of a police probe. The House of
Commons will hold an emergency debate on phone-hacking tomorrow.  ‘False Hope’  Dowler’s body was not found for six months after she was
murdered. The case received widespread media coverage at the
time and again last month when her killer, Levi Bellfield, was
sentenced to  life imprisonment . According to a Guardian
newspaper report, the private detective,  Glenn Mulcaire , is
alleged to have deleted voicemail messages on Dowler’s phone,
giving her parents “false hope” she might still be alive and
thereby complicating the police investigation.  “Doing something illegal, the phone hacking in the first
place, was bad enough,” said Charlie Beckett, director of the
media institute Polis at the London School of Economics. “But
if you’re doing it and then interfering with the course of
justice, that’s a double crime.”  Brooks was editor of the News of the World when the alleged
interception of Dowler’s voicemail messages took place.  Andy Coulson , who resigned as director of communications for Cameron
in January, was deputy editor.  The newspaper printed a story based on a voicemail left on
Dowler’s mobile phone on April 14, 2002, when she had been
missing from her home in Surrey, southwest of  London , for more
than three weeks.  ‘Pursue the Truth’  Brooks wrote to the Dowler family to say News International
will “vigorously pursue the truth,” the company said. She also
wrote to Surrey Police.  “I have to tell you that I am sickened that these events
are alleged to have happened,” Brooks said in a memo to staff.
“If the allegations are proved to be true then I can promise
the strongest possible action will be taken as this company will
not tolerate such disgraceful behavior.”  In her memo, Brooks said she’s “determined to lead the
company to ensure we do the right thing and resolve these
serious issues.” She said it was “inconceivable that I knew,
or worse, sanctioned these appalling allegations.”  Mulcaire and a former News of the World royal editor,  Clive Goodman , were given jail terms in January 2007 for plotting to
hack into royal aides’ telephone messages.  ‘Playing God’  Lawmakers in the House of Commons agreed today to hold a
three-hour debate after one of them, Labour’s  Chris Bryant ,
demanded a judicial inquiry into both the newspaper, which he
accused of “systematic criminality,” and London’s Metropolitan
Police, which he said had “lied time and time again to
Parliament.”  Bryant said the News of the World was “not just a paper
out of control, that’s not just a paper believing it’s above the
law, it’s a national newspaper playing God with a family’s
emotions.”  The previous police probe didn’t look at evidence of
illegality beyond the hacking of phones belonging to members of
the royal household. Senior officers have since defended their
decision not to expand their investigation,  “They had all this information in their hands in 2006 and
they did nothing with it,” Bryant said.  Business Secretary Vince Cable told  BBC television  that “a
lot of people should be examining their consciences because it’s
an appalling state of affairs and those people who were
responsible have got to take the consequences.”  ‘Uncomfortable’  Brooks’s position in overseeing News International’s probe
into phone-hacking may be compromised, according to Beckett at
the London School of Economics.  “It’s very strange that the person who’s liaising with the
police on this, is somebody who was responsible at the time in a
different capacity and much closer to the actual event,”
Beckett said. “Shouldn’t they be finding somebody else to do
the task of handling the investigation? If she’s now materially
involved, it just seems to me that’s uncomfortable to put it
mildly.”  News Corp. (NWSA) , which bid 7.8 billion pounds ($12.6 billion)
for the 61 percent in  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it
doesn’t already own, is awaiting a government review into
whether the deal would give Murdoch too much influence. News
Corp. already owns four of the U.K.’s largest newspapers.  Takeover Clearance  News Corp. rose 0.4 percent to $18.13 at 1:40 p.m. in  New
York . BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-television broadcaster,
declined 0.6 percent to 845 pence in London, valuing the company
at 14.8 billion pounds.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it will stop placing advertisements in
News of the World and will use alternative media within and
outside the News International.  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Npower unit and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile in the U.K. also said they’re 
reviewing their ad plans.  Cameron said today the decision to approve the takeover
must be made in line with the law, and that he won’t be
intervening in Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt’s deliberations. A
second consultation over additional conditions imposed on the
deal will run through July 8.  Cable, who had to give up oversight of media takeovers last
year after being quoted as saying he had “declared war” on
Murdoch, said today the takeover review “really doesn’t have
anything to do with the hacking inquiry.”  “The two issues shouldn’t be conflated,” he told the BBC.  ‘Lie to Us’  Simon Greenberg, corporate affairs director of News
International, told Sky News that he and another director met
with the Metropolitan Police earlier today. A spokesman for the
police declined to comment.  “There’s only so much we can do when people lie to us,”
Peta Buscombe, who chairs the Press Complaints Commission, a
voluntary regulatory body set up by publishers, told BBC
television. “Words can’t describe how angry I am about this.
Clearly we were misled.”  The parents of two schoolgirls murdered in Cambridgeshire,
eastern  England , in 2002, have also been contacted by detectives
investigating phone-hacking, the London-based Times newspaper
cited police as saying.  News Corp. faces a trial in January, when the court will
decide how much the company should pay in damages to five phone-
hacking victims. Bryant, actor Jude Law, soccer agent Sky Andrew
and interior designer Kelly Hoppen are among those leading the
lawsuit against the News of the World.  The claim of former professional soccer player Paul Gascoigne will now be included in place of sports commentator
Andy Gray, who settled with the News Corp. in June.  News Corp.’s U.K. unit has apologized and agreed to pay
about 100,000 pounds to settle claims brought by actress  Sienna Miller  and another 20,000 pounds to Gray.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 