-- 
Nigeria’s Diamond, Skye, UBA Banks Are Rated ‘Outperform’ at FBN Capital

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-05T09:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/nigeria-s-diamond-skye-uba-banks-are-rated-outperform-at-fbn-capital.html
United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) ,  Nigeria ’s
fourth-biggest lender by market value, was rated “outperform”
in new coverage by FBN Capital, which initiated monitoring of
the West African nation’s nine biggest banks with a “stable-to-
positive” outlook.  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  and  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK)  were also rated
“outperform,” analysts including Lagos-based Olubunmi Asaolu
and Tunde Abidoye wrote in an e-mailed report dated yesterday.  “Nigerian banks are in their most healthy state since 2009
when a home-grown, non-performing loans crisis and the global
recession threatened the stability of the entire banking
system,” they wrote. Prices of the stocks may rise by an
average of 34 percent by the end of the year and 65 percent for
lenders rated “outperform,” according to the analysts.  The central bank provided 620 billion naira ($4 billion) to
eight of the nation’s 24 lenders after loans to equity
speculators contributed to 700 billion naira of non-performing
debt, according to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
in Abuja. Governor Lamido Sanusi fired the chief executives of
the distressed lenders and set up Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, or Amcon, to buy bad debts from the banks to help
recapitalize them.  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , Nigeria’s largest lender by market value,
is FBN Capital’s preferred pick out of the investment bank’s
“neutral”-rated banks that also include  Guaranty Trust Bank
Plc (GUARANTY) ,  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) ,  First City Monument Bank Plc (FCMB) ,  Fidelity
Bank Plc. (FIDELITY)   Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB)  was rated “underperform.” None
of the lenders FBN Capital covers were rescued by the central
bank.  2012 Growth Estimate  The Bloomberg NSE Banking Index that comprises the 10
biggest Nigerian lenders has slumped 63 percent in three years.  “We expect sector earnings to return to double-digit
growth in 2012, though not to the extent seen in 2005 to 2007,”
the analysts wrote. This year’s earnings “are still likely to
be volatile due to one-off items stemming from gains and losses
arising from sale of assets as banks move to comply with the
CBN’s plans to overhaul the universal banking model and non-
performing loan sales to Amcon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  