-- 
Nokia Cuts Smartphone Prices as Share Drops, CCS Insight Says

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-05T16:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/nokia-reduces-smartphone-prices-in-europe-as-share-drops-ccs-insight-says.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by units shipped, cut its smartphone prices in
Europe by as much as 15 percent at the beginning of this month,
according to analyst firm CCS Insight.  “We’ve absolutely seen the drops,”  Ben Wood , a London-
based analyst with CCS, said in an interview. “They’re under
aggressive pressure from entry-level players and equally their
customers in the channels know they’re in a strong negotiating
position.” Reuters reported the price drop earlier today,
sending the stock down as much as 3.1 percent.  The Espoo, Finland-based company is trying to keep up sales
of its older Symbian smartphone lines as it readies the first
models based on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 software for
the fourth quarter. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop
announced the shift in February, adding that the company still
expects to sell another 150 million Symbian smartphones. Nokia
spokesman  Doug Dawson  said price cuts are routine in the
company’s business and he had no comment on the reports.  “All the major houses cut prices two to six times a year,
typically in small adjustments,” said  Neil Mawston , a London-
based analyst at  Strategy Analytics . “For a company like Nokia,
anything above 5 percent is an above-average adjustment. With
revenue declining sharply because of unusually weak demand,
they’ve got to make these large price cuts.”  During the past 10 years, Nokia’s average annual price cut
has been about 9 percent, he said.  Nokia shares fell 1.5 percent to close at 4.37 euros in
Helsinki trading.  ‘Whatever It Takes’  “Nokia’s going to do whatever it takes to make sure users
remain and that they’re able to move across to the new platform,
so it makes sense to incentivize the older products,” said
 Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at research firm Gartner Inc.’s
Egham, U.K. unit. “Nokia has to do what it has to do to keep it
interesting for the operators -- which is basically taking the
risk of subsidy away from the operators.”  Many operators have subsidized mobile-phone purchases in
the past to attract customers or lock them into a long-term
contract. The practice is starting to disappear in highly
competitive markets such as  Denmark .  Nokia has lost more than 25 percentage points of market
share in smartphones, the most lucrative and fastest growing
category of mobile phones, since Apple Inc. introduced the
iPhone in June 2007, according to Gartner figures. Its
smartphone market share for the first quarter was 25.5 percent,
according to Gartner.  Operating Margin  Nokia said May 31 that the adjusted operating margin for
the main handset business in the second quarter “could be
around breakeven” as competition and pricing pressures
increased in  China  and  Europe . The pressure was both on
smartphones and low-end phones, CEO Elop said. The company
scrapped its forecast for the year.  Nokia will report a second-quarter net loss, according to
the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as of
today.  “You could think of the price cuts as a Symbian tax now
that Symbian is no longer as fashionable as some other lines,”
such as Google Inc.’s Android operating system, said CCS
Insight’s Wood. “And of course the iPhone stands by itself,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  