-- 
NYSE Euronext’s European Dark Pool Starts Trading Swiss Stocks

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/nyse-euronext-s-european-dark-pool-starts-trading-swiss-stocks.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s SmartPool European
dark pool began offering trading in Swiss stocks as it
challenges the Swiss exchange for business.  SmartPool will offer trading of the 20 biggest Swiss stocks
and the 30 largest midcaps from today, Lee Hodgkinson, chief
executive officer of London-based SmartPool and head of European
sales and relationship management at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said in an
interview. Transactions will be cleared by EuroCCP, the European
division of U.S. clearinghouse Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The Swiss exchange entered a partnership with the
electronic brokerage Nyfix Inc. to offer trading of large blocks
of Swiss stocks in 2007, a project put together by Hodgkinson
who at the time worked for the exchange and ran the SWX Europe
Ltd. platform from Zurich. In 2009 NYSE hired Hodgkinson to run
SmartPool and, separately, agreed to buy Nyfix.  “We inherited the service and it came to conclusion at the
end of June and so now we’re trading Swiss stocks” on our own
system, Hodgkinson said. “We have expanded the range of
securities to the Swiss midcaps and will be seeking to add new
customers from Switzerland.”  SmartPool, a dark pool the world’s largest stock exchange
owns with  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, HSBC Holdings Plc and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , began trading European stocks in February 2009. The system
offers shares listed on the U.K.’s  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) ,
Germany’s DAX Index, the Netherlands’ AEX All-Share Index and
France’s CAC All-Share Index. Dark pools match orders
anonymously and don’t publish prices.  SIX Group, operator of the Swiss stock exchange, and
Liquidnet Holdings Inc., a trading platform used by institutions
such as mutual funds to buy and sell large blocks of shares,
have said they will link to allow members of both to trade
European and Swiss markets. Members of the Zurich-based Swiss
exchange will get access to Liquidnet’s pool to trade 3,600
securities in  Switzerland , the U.K., France, Germany and the
Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  