-- 
Obama Has Tools to Turn Words Into Action in Middle East: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/obama-has-tools-to-turn-words-into-action-in-middle-east-view.html
In a May 19  speech  at the State
Department, President  Barack Obama  promised that the U.S. would
use all its “diplomatic, economic and strategic tools” to
promote reform across the  Middle East  and support transitions to
democracy.  We couldn’t agree more.  Over the past six months, the Arab Spring has wrought the
overthrow of authoritarian regimes in Tunisia and  Egypt , an
armed insurgency in  Libya , and uprisings in Bahrain and Syria.
These seismic shifts have crucial implications for the U.S. and
the world, yet the administration has too often appeared to have
been caught flat-footed by events.  The president’s statement raised expectations for greater
engagement that would be followed by concrete achievements. That
hasn’t happened, and the failure to act could easily translate
into disillusionment, especially now that the difficulty of
creating democratic societies in the region is becoming more
apparent.  There are signs that a window of opportunity could be
closing. In  Tunisia , where the revolts began with the ouster of
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January, the switch to a
representative government has stalled. In Egypt, protesters have
returned to the streets, frustrated by the slow pace of economic
and political change.  The outcome isn’t clear in either country. But it is
apparent that Washington can no longer rely on Cairo to follow
its lead on issues such as  Iran  and the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.  Losing Ground  There are signs that the  Muslim Brotherhood  is ascendant,
while the secular so-called Facebook activists who led the
demonstrations that brought down President  Hosni Mubarak  are
losing ground. The U.S. has reached out to Islamic parties, and,
so far, the Arab Spring has been remarkably free of anti-
American sentiment. But that could change if the president
doesn’t follow through on his promises.  Given the need to act quickly, the administration shouldn’t
spend time inventing new and potentially controversial programs.
And in an atmosphere of budget cutting and political
polarization in  Washington , support for building Arab
democracies can only be a bipartisan effort.  Despite its mistakes in  Iraq , the administration of
President  George W. Bush  deserves credit for its broader effort
to make democratic reform in the Middle East a U.S. priority.
Obama could garner bipartisan support for a program of his own
by building on that foundation.  Renewed Partnership  For example, the president should increase funding for the
Middle East Partnership Initiative, a highly successful Bush
administration program that was created and nurtured by Vice
President Dick Cheney’s daughter Elizabeth.  MEPI gives small grants and political support to private
Middle East groups that are working to strengthen civil society,
empower Arab women and youth, encourage economic reform, and
promote democratic change. The program has proved to be a cost-
effective way to promote democratic values.  For example, the Movement for Justice and Development, a
group working to encourage democratic change in  Syria , used a $6
million MEPI grant to set up a satellite TV channel that has
been broadcasting anti-government programming into the country
since 2009. It has offered coverage of the protests there that
undoubtedly isn’t available from the tightly controlled state
media.  Envoy Needed  Most of all, the president should create a new high-level
post to lead the U.S. government’s efforts to support democratic
reform in the Middle East. The envoy needs to have the authority
and resources to expand MEPI and similar U.S. initiatives. Obama
should also follow through on the May 27 pledge by the  Group of
8  countries to provide increased economic support and debt
relief for the region and make sure that the developed nations
fulfill their promise to back $20 billion in lending from
international development banks.  Obama provided the model for such a post in his first week
in office, when he named two powerful representatives,  Richard Holbrooke  for  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  and former Senator George Mitchell for Israeli-Arab peace talks. After Holbrooke’s death
in December, his responsibilities were split among several State
Department officials. Mitchell resigned May 13, and a
replacement hasn’t been named.  The window of opportunity for the U.S. to affect the
construction of a democratic Middle East is closing fast. By
appointing a prominent individual respected by Democrats and
Republicans, the president can send a strong signal of new U.S.
priorities in the aftermath of the Arab Spring.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 