-- 
Obama Sets Debt Meeting, Opposes Mini Deal

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-05T22:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/obama-sets-july-7-talks-with-lawmakers-to-urge-long-term-deficit-solution.html
     July 5 (Bloomberg) --President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
has “a unique opportunity to do something big to tackle our
deficit,” and that he opposes a short-term measure that would
raise the country’s debt limit without addressing more basic
fixes to the government’s finances.  “I don’t think the American people sent us here to avoid
tough problems,” Obama told reporters at the White House today.
“That’s, in fact, what drives them nuts about  Washington , when
both parties simply take the path of least resistance. And I
don’t want to do that here.”  He said in a White House briefing that he asked
congressional leaders from both parties to meet on July 7 for
talks on the debt.  “It’s my hope that everybody is going to leave their
ultimatums at the door, that we’ll all leave our political
rhetoric at the door, and that we’re going to do what’s best for
our economy and do what’s best for our people,” Obama said.
“This should not come down to the last second.”  The president repeated his calls for a “balanced
approach” to a deficit solution that includes both spending
cuts and revenue increases.  Timeline  The Obama administration and congressional leaders are
working to complete a deal on a long-term budget reduction
package by July 22 as part of a plan to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit. The Treasury Department has said that its borrowing
authority expires Aug. 2 and could result in a first-ever U.S.
default on its obligations.  Obama’s comments came as Democrats were intensifying a
showdown with Republicans over whether tax increases should be
part of a deficit-cutting deal before the Aug. 2 deadline.  House Speaker  John Boehner  responded to Obama’s comments by
saying Obama’s proposals for new sources of revenue wouldn’t
muster enough support to pass Congress.  “I’m happy to discuss these issues at the White House, but
such discussions will be fruitless until the president
recognizes economic and legislative reality,” Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement.  Taxes on Rich  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has scheduled a vote for
later this week to demonstrate support in the Democratic-
controlled chamber for raising taxes on Americans who earn $1
million a year or more. His resolution calls on those taxpayers
to “make a more meaningful contribution to the deficit-
reduction effort.”  The measure is part of a broader Democratic offensive,
begun last week, to highlight taxes and tax expenditures
benefiting the wealthy in an attempt to turn public opinion
against Republicans, who say revenue increases would hurt the
economy and shouldn’t be part of any debt deal.  “Democrats are willing to compromise,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said on the Senate floor today. “But compromise does
not mean allowing our Republican colleagues to put the wants of
a few millionaires and billionaires ahead of needs of this
nation.”  In a rebuttal to Reid, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said that “in the middle of a
jobs crisis,” Democrats “want to raise taxes that we know will
kill even more jobs.”  Senator Kelly Ayotte, a New Hampshire Republican, dismissed
the Reid resolution as “just a political stunt.”  Corporate Jets  The Democrats and the White House stepped up their push for
tax increases when Obama, during a June 29 news conference,
accused Republicans of siding with corporate jet owners over
assistance for children and the health care for the elderly.  In negotiations led by Vice President  Joe Biden  that
collapsed two weeks ago, the White House had proposed $400
billion in revenue increases, including ending tax breaks for
corporate jets and oil and gas companies and phasing out
deductions for Americans earning more than $500,000 a year,
according to participants, including Maryland Democratic
Representative  Chris Van Hollen .  Such a strategy gambles on Republicans dropping their
objections to tax increases at the risk of a backlash from tax
opponents, said Ed Lorenzen, a senior adviser at the Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan education and
policy center in Washington that examines fiscal policy.  “The dangerous part is that everyone seems to be hardening
their positions and ramping up their rhetoric,” Lorenzen said
before Obama’s remarks today.  Political Rhetoric  “What’s hard to know is whether this rhetoric is posturing
to satisfy the base or, more likely, both sides are really just
locking themselves in,” Lorenzen said.  The Senate canceled its July 4 recess this week to continue
working on a debt-ceiling deal by the Aug. 2 deadline. An
agreement will have to be reached by some point between July 15
and July 22 in order to write a bill and comply with
congressional rules requiring advance publication before
consideration, according to the White House.  There are few signs the two sides have bridged their
differences since the Biden effort fell apart. Obama held one
meeting with McConnell on June 27, after which neither side
reported progress in resolving their differences.  “I think it’s too late,” said Bill Hoagland, a former
Republican staff director of the Senate Budget Committee. It’s
more likely, he said, that lawmakers will agree to a short-term
debt hike coupled with commensurate spending cuts that buys time
to complete work on a larger measure when they return from their
August recess.  Short-Term Agreement  Doing that is an idea both the White House and Republican
House leaders have rejected. Still, some lawmakers have signaled
they could accept a short-term deal.  “The big problems aren’t going to go away if you cut a
mini-deal -- all it does is delay the moment of truth,” Senator
 John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, said July 3 on “Fox News
Sunday.” “If we can’t, then we’ll take the savings we can get
now and we will re-litigate this as we get closer to the
election.”  McConnell, in his floor speech, renewed his call for Obama
to come to  Capitol Hill  to meet with Republicans on the debt
ceiling -- an invitation the White House initially rejected last
week. Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said Republicans simply
wanted to “restate their maximalist position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  