-- 
Obama Appoints Gay Vet to West Point Board

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-05T23:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/obama-appoints-gay-vet-to-west-point-board.html
President Barack Obama today
appointed an openly gay Army veteran,  Brenda S. “Sue” Fulton , to
the Board of Visitors at the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,
 New York .  Fulton, who will be the board’s first openly gay member,
graduated from West Point in 1980 as a member of the first class
to admit women. She served for five years in the Army Signal
Corps and was honorably discharged with the rank of captain.  She is the executive director and co-founder of  Knights Out ,
an organization of gay and lesbian West Point graduates and
supporters, the White House said in a statement announcing her
appointment.  “I’m proud to have the opportunity to support the cadets
who will lead our Army in the coming years,” Fulton said in a
news release issued by  OutServe , an association of lesbian and
gay military personnel. “And I’m pleased that the president is
clearly setting the stage for a post-‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’
military with appointments like this. It is my honor to continue
to serve the Academy and the Army that I love.”  The  West Point Board of Visitors , the oldest currently
operating board appointed by the president, is composed of seven
members of Congress and six presidential appointees. Former U.S.
Representative Patrick Murphy, an Army veteran and a vocal
advocate for repealing the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy
banning gays from serving openly in the military, was recently
appointed to the board.  “Sue’s appointment demonstrates the commitment our nation’s
most hallowed institutions have to equal treatment of everyone -
- a quintessential American value,” OutServe spokesman Jonathan
Hopkins, a West Point graduate and a former Army captain, said
in a written statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 