-- 
Moderate Heat May Return to the U.S. East Coast Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-05T11:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/moderate-heat-may-return-to-the-u-s-east-coast-next-week.html
Heat will taper off in the U.S. East
and Midwest this week, then return with temperatures in the low-
90s Fahrenheit (30s Celsius) by early next week, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  The hot weather won’t be as intense as it was in June,
Rogers said. Highs reached 95 in  New York ’s Central Park, 99 in
Philadelphia and 100 in Baltimore on June 9, according to the
 National Weather Service .  Temperatures today are forecast to reach 90 under sunny
skies in Central Park, according to the weather service office
in Upton, New York. High temperatures of 84 are expected in
Boston, 93 in Philadelphia and 91 in  Washington .  “The South and the interior West continue to see the most
persistent heat opportunities over the next two weeks,” Rogers
said in a note to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand. Predictions
of above-normal or below-normal temperatures may prompt traders
to buy or sell gas futures.  Rogers’s 11- to 15-day forecast calls for warmer-than-
normal weather from Alberta, Canada, through the U.S. Rocky
Mountains and into Texas, with a pocket of hot air over Idaho.
The South will also warm up in the same July 15 to July 19
period.  There’s no threat of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes on the
horizon, Rogers said. Rogers and some computer models suggest
some kind of system may develop near the coast of North and
South Carolina later this week.  In July 2008, Tropical Storm Cristobal developed in the
same region and brought heavy rain to the coast of  North
Carolina , according to the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 