-- 
Mol Falls to Lowest in 2011 After Denied Extradition Report

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-07-05T15:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/mol-falls-to-lowest-in-2011-after-denied-extradition-report-2-.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
fell to the lowest this year after Hungarian daily  Nepszabadsag 
reported that  Croatia  had requested the extradition of Mol
Chairman Zsolt Hernadi. Croatia’s Prosecutor General denied the
report.  The shares dropped as much as 4.6 percent to 19,935 forint,
the lowest intraday price since Dec. 22, and traded 3.6 percent
weaker as of the 5 p.m. close in Budapest. More than 500,000
shares changed hands, about 380 percent of the three-month
average. Mol led a 1.1 percent retreat in the benchmark BUX
index.  Croatia’s Prosecutor General today denied a report by
Nepszabadsag that an extradition request for Hernadi had been
issued. The information “is not correct,” Martina Mihordin,
spokeswoman for the Prosecutor General, said today in an e-
mailed statement. The article said Croatia wants to question the
Mol executive over an alleged payment of 10 million euros ($14
million) to former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader in
exchange for management rights in  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d.  Mol has been the subject of “unjustified” political
attacks in Croatia, Gyorgy Mosonyi, chairman of Mol’s
supervisory board, told a meeting with business leaders in
Budapest today. The 21.2 percent stake the Hungarian government
acquired in Mol this year may help protect the company from the
political attacks, Mosonyi said. He declined to comment further
on the case.  Persistent Attacks  “I’m concerned that if these attacks persist, INA’s
operations could become affected as well,” Attila Vago, an
analyst at Concorde Zrt. in Budapest, said over the phone. “As
long as these uncertainties remain, Mol’s share price will
continue to underperform its industry peers.”  Croatian prosecutors are investigating whether Sanader
accepted bribes from Mol’s Hernadi in exchange for control of
the INA subsidiary, Croatian newspaper Vecernji list reported
last month, citing unidentified officials in  Austria .  “There has not been any payment, or agreement on any
possible payment, with not a single one of the players and
decision-makers of Croatian politics,” Mol spokesman Domokos Szollar said in an interview on June 21.  Hungary’s Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today his
government will oppose calls by the Croatian cabinet to change
existing contracts between Mol and INA.  Croatia is seeking to review 2003 and 2009 agreements
signed by Mol and the former government in Zagreb giving the
Hungarian refiner control over INA, Croatian Economy Minister
Djuro Popijac said on June 2.  “The selling pressure on the stock in recent weeks may
recommence,” because of the Croatian case, analysts at Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt. in Budapest led by Akos Kuti wrote in a
research report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  