-- 
Lonmin Considers Building Third Furnace in Effort to Boost Platinum Target

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-05T16:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/lonmin-considers-building-third-furnace-in-effort-to-boost-platinum-target.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, started a prefeasibility study on a third
furnace as part of preparations for possible expansion beyond
its current 2015 production target.  The furnace would have a power capacity of 10 megawatts,
the same size as the No. 2 unit currently under construction,
Natascha Viljoen, the executive president of Lonmin’s processing
division, said in a speech near Rustenburg in northwestern  South
Africa  today. The company may decide in the next 18 months
whether to build the third furnace, she said.  Lonmin plans to spend about $400 million a year to boost
output at its biggest mine, Marikana, to 950,000 ounces of
platinum annually by 2015 as it bets demand for the metal will
improve. The producer targeted 750,000 ounces in the year to
Sept. 30, 2011, before a strike and safety incidents cut that by
30,000 ounces.  Lonmin suspended its Limpopo mine in 2009, halted expansion
projects and cut staff after a six-year commodity rally ended in
2008, sending platinum and other metal prices plummeting.
London-based Lonmin and rivals Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  mine the metal in South Africa,
which has more than three-quarters of the world’s reserves of
the metal, used in devices that cut vehicle emissions and to
make jewelry.  Lonmin plans to restart development work at its Limpopo
mine  over the next few months, Executive Vice President of
Mining Mark Munroe said in an interview today. Asked whether
that is in preparation for restarting production, he said:
“We’re keeping our options open.”  The company’s view on the outlook for platinum demand is
“fairly robust,” Munroe said.  Lonmin’s No.1 furnace, which was rebuilt about 6 months
ago, is performing well and is more predictable, with
temperatures that are under control, said Frans de Beer, vice
president for smelting in a speech today.  Lonmin fell 14 pence, or 1 percent, to 1,437 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  