-- 
Ontario Commission Probing Emerging-Market Stocks Amid Sino-Forest Review

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-06T13:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/ontario-regulator-probing-emerging-market-stocks-amid-sino-forrest-plunge.html
Canada ’s main securities regulator,
which is already reviewing Sino-Forest Inc., said it has begun a
“targeted review” of companies that operate in emerging
markets and trade on the country’s exchanges.  The Ontario Securities Commission will examine the
disclosures, auditing and underwriting of Ontario companies
listed on Canadian markets that have a significant emerging-
markets presence, the OSC said in a statement yesterday, a month
after research company Muddy Waters LLC asserted Sino-Forest
manipulated financial data. The OSC didn’t mention the Chinese
timber company, which is based in  Hong Kong  and Mississauga,
Ontario, in its statement.  The OSC is likely to focus on China-oriented companies in
its investigation, said  James Cole , who oversees C$750 million
($776 million) as a Calgary-based  money manager  for Portland
Investment Counsel Inc.  “I would say two words -- it could be one hyphenated:
Sino-Forest,” Cole said when asked why the OSC has begun the
probe. “There’s nothing like locking the barn door after the
horse is gone.”  Sino-Forest, whose executives have denied the Muddy Waters
assertions, have plunged 74 percent since the day before the
company founded by short seller Carson Block released its June 2
report. A Bloomberg index of 50 other China-focused companies
traded in Canada has declined 9.6 percent since June 1.  The OSC is “investigating matters related to Sino-
Forest,” Wendy Dey, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in
an e-mail on June 8.  Reviewing Issuers  Chinese and U.S. officials will meet next week to discuss
giving American securities regulators the right to investigate
companies within China for the first time, said two Chinese
officials with direct knowledge of the plans.  Representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  will meet with
counterparts from the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
Beijing from July 11 to 12, said the officials, who asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  The Ontario securities regulator will decide after its
review what law changes might be necessary to protect investors,
the commission said. It didn’t say how long it expects the probe
to last. The review will examine the disclosure of “certain
issuers” and the vehicles through which these companies have
accessed the Ontario market.  ‘Protect Investors’  “This targeted review is part of our ongoing effort to
protect investors and strengthen market integrity,” OSC
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Howard Wetston said in the
statement. “Issuers who access our market, and the advisers who
support them, have important responsibilities to investors and
we will take regulatory action as warranted to ensure these
responsibilities are met.”  The Toronto-based regulator didn’t mention any countries or
other companies in its statement. Dylan Rae, an OSC spokesman,
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment yesterday.  Sino-Forest fell 61 cents, or 12 percent, to C$4.68 at 9:44
a.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares more than
doubled in the previous five trading sessions.  Sino-Forest climbed 30 percent on July 4 after Wellington
Management Co., the Boston-based investment firm that manages
$663 billion, said in a regulatory filing it owned an 11.5
percent stake.  A tour for analysts of Sino-Forest’s operations in  China 
planned for this month has been postponed, the company said in a
 letter  to investors and analysts that was posted on its Website.
Many analysts who cover the company wouldn’t be able to attend
until after a review of Muddy Waters’ allegations by an
independent committee, Sino-Forest said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 