-- 
U.S. Factory Orders Rose 0.8% in May as Manufacturing Shows Recovery Signs

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-05T14:20:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/orders-to-u-s-factories-rose-0-8-in-may.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
increased in May, indicating manufacturing may rebound from a
slowdown in economic growth in the first half of 2011.  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods rose 0.8 percent, less
than forecast, after a revised 0.9 percent decline in April that
was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Demand for durable goods
that are meant to last at least three years increased 2.1
percent, while unfilled orders climbed the most since September.  Manufacturing is showing signs of recovering from parts
shortages linked to the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , at the
same time commodity costs ebb and growing economies overseas fuel
exports. The improvement in orders supports the view of Federal
Reserve officials, who last month said the economic slackening
likely reflects temporary restraints.  “We’re kind of moving back toward recovery from the
weakness of the Japanese supply-chain disruptions,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , who correctly forecast May orders. “As we move
forward, you’ll see manufacturers getting right back on track to
a solid pace of growth.”  Economists forecast factory orders would rise 1 percent,
according to the median of 60 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from 0.3 percent decline to a 2.1
percent increase.  Stocks held losses after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index falling 0.2 percent to 1,336.94 at 10:17 a.m. in
 New York . Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 3.14 percent from 3.18 percent late on
July 1.  Durable Goods  The rise in durable goods orders, which make up more than
half of total factory demand, was bigger than the 1.9 percent
increase estimated by the government June 24.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, rose 1.6
percent after a 0.4 percent decrease in April.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, increased 1.8 percent after a 1.5 percent
decrease in April.  Factories showed a 0.9 percent rise in unfilled orders in
May, the biggest gain since September and reflecting increases
for machinery, computers and electrical equipment.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, fell 0.2 percent, reflecting a decline in the value of
crude oil, today’s report showed.  Factory Inventories  Factory inventories increased 0.8 percent in May, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.34 months at the
current sales pace, up from 1.33 months in April.  Other recent reports have shown manufacturing, which makes
up 11 percent of the economy, may be starting to recover after it
dwindled beginning in March.  Factories unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in June,
the  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index showed
last week. In May, output at U.S. factories climbed 0.4 percent
on rising demand for machinery and computers, Fed data showed
June 15. Autos and parts production fell 1.5 percent compared
with a 6.5 percent plunge in April.  In Japan, industrial output increased in May by the most
since 1953, led by carmakers that restored operations, government
figures showed June 29.  Even with the earthquake, unrest in the  Middle East  and
higher commodity prices, manufacturing “has been the rock in the
system,” Thomas L. Williams, executive vice president and
operating officer at  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , said June 16 during a
conference in  Chicago . “I still feel that way. I’m not worried
about a double-dip recession as far as what I’m seeing.”  The Cleveland-based maker of components used in construction
equipment and aircraft is focusing on growth in  Asia , where it is
on track to triple sales to $3 billion, Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  