-- 
Osaka Securities Exchange Jumps on Report of Takeover Bid by Tokyo Bourse

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-07-05T08:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/osaka-securities-exchange-jumps-on-report-of-takeover-bid-by-tokyo-bourse.html
Osaka  Securities Exchange Co.,
operator of  Japan ’s second-largest exchange, surged the most in
almost two years after the Asahi newspaper reported the Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc. is seeking a takeover.  Osaka Securities Exchange jumped 8 percent to close at
390,000 yen on the Jasdaq Securities Exchange, the biggest gain
since August 2009. The number of stocks traded today totaled
7,044, almost nine times the 12-month average, and the highest
since May 2007.  “It seems both want to be the lead company and that’s
slowing the merger talks between them,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “Japan is lagging as exchanges globally are expanding
and streamlining their operations. The role of the exchanges,
which is to attract more investors to Japanese markets, is
critical.”  The report of the bid follows a wave of international
bourse merger attempts that has seen deals worth more than $20
billion announced since October.  Tokyo  Stock Exchange president
Atsushi Saito said in June that a merger between Japan’s two
largest exchanges would “create synergies.” Tokyo, home to
Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp., would gain access to Osaka’s
derivatives trading system, where Nikkei 225 Stock Average
futures trade.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange offered to purchase its Osaka
rival and make it a subsidiary, the Asahi newspaper said. The
Osaka bourse is resisting the bid, the newspaper said.
Outstanding shares of the Osaka exchange are valued at 105.3
billion yen ($1.29 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fumihiro Yada, Osaka Securities Exchange’s spokesman, said
in a telephone interview today that no facts were confirmed on
the report, while the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s spokesman Satoshi Mimura said nothing has been decided on the bid.  “Considering the global competition among exchanges, the
merger should be welcomed by investors and market
participants,” said Tsuyoshi Segawa, a strategist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It seems retail investors looking for
some news jumped at the report and bought the shares, setting
aside the possibility of the merger.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 