-- 
Most Ratings Upgrades Since 2007 Fueled by Rising Exports: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-07-05T22:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/most-ratings-upgrades-since-2007-fueled-by-rising-exports-mexico-credit.html
Mexican companies are winning the
most credit-rating upgrades versus downgrades since 2007 as a
surge in the nation’s exports boosts sales.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings raised the ratings and outlooks of Mexican companies 23
times while lowering them 16 times in the first six months of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio is
the highest since the second half of 2007, when it was more than
7-to-1. In  Russia , the ratio was about 3-to-2 in the first half
of 2011 and it was more than 10-to-1 in  Brazil .  U.S. demand for everything from cars to oil helped fuel an
increase of 25 percent in Mexican exports in May from a year
ago. Companies will probably continue to receive rating
increases as a weakening in the U.S. expansion that has driven
up yields on Mexican debt in past month proves temporary, said
Miguel Angel Aguayo, a fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-IXE. The average yield on corporate debt rose 25 basis
points since June 1 to 6.37 percent yesterday, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We can expect in the next quarters also to see new
upgrades,” Aguayo said in a telephone interview from  Mexico 
City. “It may not be at the speed we saw them in the first
semester of this year.”  Moody’s raised  Kansas City  Southern de Mexico SA’s credit
rating by one level in June to Ba2, two levels below investment
grade, after boosting it in May, citing the prospect for higher
sales and profits. The country’s largest rail company said net
income rose to $33.5 million in the first quarter from $11.1
million a year ago as sales increased 14 percent.  ‘Taking Advantage’  The yield on Mexico City-based Kansas City Southern de
Mexico’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 47 basis points this year
to 6.04 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Similar-maturity  government bonds  yield 4.04 percent.  William Galligan and Ginger Adamiak, Kansas City, Missouri-
based investor relations officers with Kansas City Southern,
didn’t immediately respond to phone calls and e-mails sent
outside of regular business hours.  “It’s about taking advantage of the situation the country
is in,” said Marisol Vazquez Mellado, chief financial officer
of Grupo KUO SAB, in a telephone interview from Mexico City.
“Companies have been capitalizing on it -- the companies that
started putting in the work and did it correctly.”  CFO’s View  S&P lifted the ratings of Grupo KUO, a maker of auto parts,
to BB from BB-, on June 24. The Mexico City-based company’s
sales rose 13.5 percent in the first quarter to 6.3 billion
pesos ($542.6 million).  The upgrade reflects KUO’s efforts to trim leverage,
Vazquez Mellado said. KUO cut its ratio of net debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 1.69
times in the first quarter, from 1.92 times in the fourth
quarter of 2010.  Mexican exports totaled $31.1 billion in May after touching
a record in March, according to the national statistics
institute. The U.S. buys 80 percent of exports from the country,
which is  Latin America ’s second largest economy.  “It’s natural that better economic performance in the U.S.
as well as Mexico has had a positive effect on the corporate
sector,” Jose Coballasi, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in
Mexico City, said in a phone interview. “The ratings actions
we’re seeing are upgrades that reflect fundamental questions of
each of the companies.”  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points
to 126, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 106, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 11.6355 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January rose one basis point to 4.95 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate in
February. Mexican central bankers led by Governor Agustin Carstens held the lending rate at 4.5 percent last month, the
only major Latin American country to keep borrowing costs
unchanged in the past year.  Ratings companies are unlikely to continue raising the
credit rankings of Mexican companies as growth in the country’s
economy slows amid a flagging recovery in the U.S., said Araceli Espinosa, a corporate debt analyst at  Scotia Capital  in Mexico
City.  U.S. Outlook  Mexico’s economy grew 2.4 percent in April, the slowest
pace since December 2009. Federal Reserve officials last week
cut their 2011 and 2012 growth forecasts for the  U.S. economy ,
the destination for about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports. The
world’s biggest economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9
percent this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to
3.3 percent, based on the median range of projections.  “The U.S. economy is in a slow recovery and as a
consequence, Mexico will be slow too in economic activity,”
Espinosa said in a telephone interview.  ‘Another Look’  Industrias Penoles SAB, Mexico’s largest silver producer,
had its rating raised to BBB, the second-lowest investment
grade, from BBB- by S&P on June 2. The Mexico City-based
company’s first-quarter sales jumped 51.8 percent to 20.8
billion pesos.  Celia Ortega, a Penoles investor relations officer, didn’t
return an e-mail and a telephone message seeking comment.  The yield on Penoles’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell six
basis points in the past month to 5.12 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The companies’ flows, their balance sheets are
changing,”  Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5
billion of debt at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “That makes the  ratings
agencies  take another look at them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  