-- 
House to Debate Trade Accords Minus Worker Aid

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-05T17:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/house-panel-sets-debate-on-obama-s-trade-accords-without-u-s-worker-aid.html
The House Ways and Means Committee
said it will consider three U.S. free-trade agreements on July 7
and won’t deal with the Obama administration’s request to renew
aid for workers who lose jobs to overseas competition.  The panel led by Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, released draft legislation today without extending
the Trade Adjustment Assistance program that President  Barack Obama  and Senate Democrats have sought to incorporate in bills
to implement deals with  South Korea , Colombia and  Panama .  Republican senators boycotted a June 30 Senate hearing on
the accords, balking at the administration’s demands on worker
aid as part of the trade-agreement consideration. The move set
back efforts by Obama and business groups to get the long-
delayed accords completed before a recess in August.  “Last week, they used procedural maneuvers to not even
have this discussion, when somebody tried to force something
down somebody else’s throat,” said Stephen Kho, a lawyer who
worked in the U.S. Trade Representative’s office for nine years
and helped negotiate the Korea accord. “This encourages the
other side to do the same thing. In the area of free-trade
agreements, this is worse than anything I’ve seen.”  Jim Billimoria, a spokesman for Camp, said the committee
will hold a “non-markup of the three pending trade
agreements.”  ‘Important Step Forward’  The meeting is “an important step forward” for the
agreements, while the decision on worker aid is “at odds” with
Obama’s plan to seek action on both issues, U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk said today in an e-mail.  “The administration remains committed to advancing the
renewal of a robust Trade Adjustment Assistance program that is
the product of a bipartisan process, together with the pending
trade agreements,” Kirk said.  Draft legislation to renew aid for workers displaced by
overseas competition as part of the U.S.-South Korean agreement
will be made available to the House committee along with bills
to implement the deals with  Colombia  and Panama, the trade
office said in the e-mail.  The Senate Republicans’ refusal to meet last week denied
the party and the White House a bipartisan victory they said
they wanted on deals supporters say may increase exports by $12
billion a year and boost the struggling U.S. economy. A separate
South Korean free-trade deal with the European Union went into
effect July 1, putting U.S. producers of autos, pharmaceuticals
and scientific equipment at a disadvantage in the Asian economy.  Republican Pressure  After pressure from Republicans to move ahead on trade,
Obama reworked agreements that his predecessor,  George W. Bush ,
made with South Korea, Panama and Colombia. Obama won backing
from business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for
the deals, support the administration has been unable to win on
health-care and environmental regulations.  Legislation to implement the trade bills is covered by
fast-track protection, which provides that once the bills are
submitted to Congress by the president they can’t be amended and
must receive up-or-down votes.  Before the administration submits legislation, committees
in the House and Senate conduct “mock markups,” which let
lawmakers seek to amend provisions. The Senate hearing last week
was intended to be the first such session.  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus bill in 2009, it
was expanded to include service workers such as call-center
employees. Those added benefits expired in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  