-- 
How to Make States’ Public Pension Funds Solvent: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/how-to-make-states-public-pension-funds-solvent-edward-glaeser.html
Last week, Atlanta’s City Council
voted  unanimously  to address a $1.5 billion public-pension
liability by increasing worker contributions and reducing
benefits. Florida also increased public-worker contributions.  These are steps toward solvency, but the structural forces
that create our public-pension problem remain in place.  The best way forward is for the public sector to follow
private companies and switch from defined-benefit plans to
defined-contribution plans. We are in the midst of a great
debate over our national budget, but states and cities are also
in  financial trouble , despite their much tougher balanced-budget
rules. Among the states’ biggest problems is an unfunded pension
liability, which economists Robert Novy-Marx and  Joshua Rauh 
calculate at more than  $2.4 trillion .  Nancy’s Law (named by me, after my spouse) is that the
three most mind-numbing words in the English language are
“unfunded pension liability.” My wise wife regularly warns me
that my columns on public pensions push the outer envelope of
dullness, but I’m always interested in exploring new frontiers.  In fact, the public-pension problem derives from the
dullness of the subject. Because no one can pay much attention
to costs far in the future, our political debate favors public
pensions.  Rate of Return  Because these costs are routinely undercounted, big pension
deals don’t look expensive. When states estimate the size of
their pension liabilities, they typically assume an 8 percent or
higher rate of return on existing assets, or an interest rate of
about 8 percent to evaluate future cash flows.  Assuming such high returns should make it relatively easy
to meet future commitments, though state financing falls short
even under such rosy scenarios. Novy-Marx and Rauh  argue  that a
more sensible approach would be to discount future liability
using the U.S. Treasury bill rate, because only Treasury bills
offer the security to meet presumably fixed pension liabilities.  They compare the projected cost of financing under
different scenarios and  find  that “the difference between assets
and liabilities is therefore $1.26 trillion under taxable muni
discounting and $2.49 trillion under Treasury discounting.” The
almost 100 percent difference is a reflection of how easy it is
to obfuscate when it comes to pensions.  Unsurprisingly, politicians prefer costs, like pensions,
that are easy to hide. That tendency helps neither workers nor
taxpayers.  Today or Tomorrow  The problem with public pensions isn’t that teachers or
firefighters or police officers are overcompensated. These are
tough jobs. The problem is that public workers get too little of
their pay while they work and too much when they retire.
According to a  new paper  by  Maria Fitzpatrick  of  Stanford
University : “Schools and other public sector employers
contribute nearly three times as much per hour worked to the
pension benefits of their employees as their counterparts in the
private sector.”  Many public workers would vastly prefer to get more money
today in exchange for lower pension payments, Fitzpatrick finds
in the study, “ How Much Do Public School Teachers Value Their
Retirement Benefits? ”  In 1998, Illinois upgraded the pensions that teachers would
get on future earnings and gave these employees an opportunity
to increase their pension payout based on past earnings.
Teachers had the option of making a one-time payment equal to 1
percent of their salary per year of service prior to 1998, up to
a maximum of 20 percent.  Upgrade Offer  The returns of taking the deal were quite high, Fitzpatrick
wrote. “The average price of the upgrade offered to employees
with 25 years of experience in 1998 was $15,245 while the
expected costs of providing them with the extra retirement
benefits if they all purchased would have been $94,166.”  Yet even given those extremely generous terms, plenty of
teachers preferred to have more money immediately: “More than 20
percent of these employees do not purchase more retirement
benefits even when offered them at just 16 cents on the dollar.”
Using a sophisticated statistical procedure, she determines that
“averaging along the entire demand curve, employees in [ Illinois 
Public Schools] are willing to trade just 30 cents for a
dollar’s worth of future benefits.”  This work suggests that we should offer cash to public
workers in exchange for giving up some of their future benefits.
If public workers really only value their pensions at 30 cents
on the dollar, then a deal where we paid workers 65 cents today
to reduce the net present value of their benefits by a dollar,
would essentially make both public workers and taxpayers 35
cents richer.  Home-Firm Bias  Our defined-benefit system also means that undercompensated
state-appointed investment officials are managing multibillion-
dollar portfolios. Unsurprisingly, they make mistakes, sometimes
for very understandable political reasons. Rauh co-wrote a study
with  Yael Hochberg  that examines the private-equity investments
of public pensions and finds that they display a substantial
home bias. On  average , state pensions invest more than 12
percent of their private-equity funds with in-state firms.  Twenty-three percent of  Tennessee ’s public pension
investments in private equity go to in-state firms. Out-of-state
public pensions place less than 0.2 percent of their funds in
Tennessee. These in-state investments seem to reflect politics
rather than economics. The net internal rate of return for out-
of-state private-equity investments is 4 percent; the return for
in-state investments is 0.4 percent.  Lost Opportunities  If Hochberg and Rauh are right, then pension funds are
forgoing billions by parking their money with local investors.  Moving forward, the natural solution is to switch to
defined-contribution 401(k)-style plans. The biggest virtue of
these plans is that their cost is immediately obvious, which
eliminates the hidden cost bias that pushes toward excessive
pensions.  Because many public employees don’t have the cushion
provided by Social Security, we might need a hybrid system that
provides them with some base benefit, but beyond that there is
no reason why public workers shouldn’t have the same type of
retirement benefits as private workers.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Edward L. Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 