-- 
Palm Oil Extending Drop to Nine-Month Low May Cut Food Costs

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-07-05T10:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/palm-oil-extending-decline-to-lowest-in-nine-month-may-reduce-food-costs.html
Palm-oil  prices may extend their
decline to the lowest level in more than nine months as supply
climbs in Malaysia, the second-largest producer, potentially
helping trim global food costs.  The tropical oil may tumble 7.9 percent to 2,800 ringgit a
metric ton ($931) by Sept. 30, a level last seen in early
October, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of eight analysts. Inventories climbed 5.8 percent to 2.03
million tons in June in Malaysia and output increased 2.3
percent to 1.78 million tons, a separate survey of three
analysts and two plantation companies showed.  Cheaper prices of palm oil used in instant noodles,
margarine and soaps may cool global commodity costs, curbing
inflation that has spurred more than two dozen countries to
increase  interest rates  this year and containing expenses for
Unilever and Nestle SA. Food prices tracked by the  United
Nations  increased nine times in the past 11 months and in May,
stayed near their record reached in February.  “The velocity of CPO production is unbelievable,” said
 Dorab Mistry , director of Godrej International Ltd., referring
to crude palm oil. He correctly predicted last year that prices
would climb to more than 3,000 ringgit. “I have never seen
anything like this in Malaysia.”  Malaysian Supply  Palm oil climbed to 3,967 ringgit on Feb. 10, the highest
level in almost three years, as global demand outstripped supply
before reversing to close at 3,040 ringgit today, a 20 percent
decline this year. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities tumbled 7.8 percent last quarter as wheat dropped 20
percent, cotton slumped 41 percent and oil retreated 11 percent.  Production from  Malaysia  may reach 17.6 million tons this
year from 17 million tons in 2010, said Plantation Industries
and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok in March. The palm-oil
board may increase its forecast to between 18 million and 18.5
million tons, Ong Chee Ting and Chai Li Shin, analysts at
Maybank Investment Bank Bhd., said in a report on June 28.  “In the near-term we may see some weakness in production,
as sometimes in the festive season they have less harvesting,
but it should come back after July-August,” Arhnue Tan, senior
investment analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn., said from Kuala
Lumpur. Muslims observe a day-long fast during the month of
Ramadan, which precedes the Eid festival and may start on Aug. 1.  Soybean-Oil  Premium  Monthly production may climb as high as 2 million tons and
stockpiles may reach 2.2 million tons, Tan said. Inventories of
that size would be the highest since December 2009, according to
board data. The peak production season is from June to October.
The palm-oil board is scheduled to publish its estimates for
production, stockpiles and exports last month on July 11.  Production climbed 14 percent to 1.74 million tons in May
from April, the highest level in 19 months, the board said.
Output jumped 15 percent to 4.69 million tons in the three
months through May from 4.08 million tons in the year-ago period.  Global exports of 17 oils and fats will climb 4.6 percent
to 70.3 million tons in the year through September 2012 from the
year ago, Oil World said June 28. Palm oil may represent almost
56 percent of shipments, the Hamburg-based researcher said.  “While palm oil inventory is currently ample, the supply
of soybean oil and rapeseed oil is tight, providing some floor
to the price,” Maybank analysts Ong and Chai said.  That pushed the premium of soybean oil over palm oil to
$243.26 a ton on June 27, the highest since January 2009.  Indonesia  Production  These large discrepancies would probably spur so-called
price-sensitive countries to shift away from soybean oil and
rapeseed oil to the tropical oil, RHB Research Institute Sdn.,
said in a report dated June 30.  Supply from Indonesia, the world’s biggest grower, is
expected to keep expanding at 10 percent to 12 percent each year,
the nation’s trade minister Mari Pangestu said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television on June 13.  The country may produce 25.4 million tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1, up from 23.6 million a year earlier, according
to U.S. government estimates.  “Production is expected to keep on increasing from now
because the weather condition is being supportive and extraction
is happening well,” Vimala Reddy, an analyst at Karvy Comtrade
Ltd., said from the Indian city of Hyderabad, referring to the
oil removal rate from fresh-fruit bunches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpaskiam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 