-- 
Immucor to Be Acquired by TPG Capital for $1.97 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-07-05T20:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/tpg-capital-agrees-to-purchase-immucor-for-27-a-share-or-1-97-billion.html
Immucor Inc. (BLUD) , the leading maker of
tests to screen blood before transfusions, agreed to sell itself
to private-equity firm TPG Capital for $1.97 billion.  The offer of $27 a share is 30 percent more than Immucor’s
closing price on July 1, the last trading day before the deal
was announced, the Norcross, Georgia-based company said in a
statement today. Immucor said that under the agreement it may
solicit higher bids from other suitors through Aug. 15.  Immucor holds about 55 percent of the $1.2 billion market
for blood reagents and equipment that ensure the safety of
transfusions, said David Turkaly, a Susquehanna Financial Group
analyst in New York. While sales growth has slowed as hospitals
demand better prices, the company still offers industry-topping
operating margins of 39 percent as well as steady cash flows, he
said.  “It’s a great franchise, it’s got awesome margins and it’s
a cash machine that has no debt,” Turkaly said today in a
telephone interview. “They have the best mousetrap, the best
product for typing and screening blood, which is why they have a
dominant share of the market.”  Immucor jumped $6.26, or 30 percent, to $26.99 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. It was the stock’s
biggest one-day advance since December 2001.  Robust Exploration  In a regulatory  filing , the company said it expects the
sale, unanimously approved by its board of directors, to close
in the second half of 2011. No layoffs are planned. The deal was
the result of a “long and robust exploration” in which “many
options were explored with no transaction,” Immucor said.  “We believe partnering with TPG Capital will facilitate
the level of investment necessary to sustain and enhance
Immucor’s franchise for many years to come,” the company said.  TPG, which manages about $48 billion in assets, said in a
statement that it was attracted by Immucor’s “impressive
platform, loyal customer base and a strong leadership
position.” Michael Freitag, an Immucor spokesman, and Lisa Baker, a spokeswoman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, declined
to comment further.  There have been 2,295 announced or completed acquisitions
for health-care products makers in the last five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The companies sold for
an average size of $212.6 million and an average premium of 35
percent. The largest deal was Novartis AG’s purchase of Alcon
Inc. for $25.85 billion in 2008.  Other Offers  Immucor likely tried to auction itself off before the
announcement and has the best deal it can find, said Dan Leonard, a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New York, who covers
medical diagnostics companies.  The company generated $329 million in revenue in the year
ended May 2010 and was expected to bring in $330 million this
fiscal year, based on a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts. Its
sales and profit growth have slowed due to pricing pressure from
clients and a U.S. investigation into alleged price-fixing,
Leonard said.  Immucor sold after seeing “they could get a 30 percent
premium or they could continue trying to grow a business that
hasn’t been growing in the last few quarters,” Leonard said.  The U.S.  Justice Department  closed a criminal probe into
reagent-pricing without filing charges, Immucor and  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson, the No. 2 blood-
screening company, said in filings in January and November. The
Federal Trade Commission is also investigating the allegations.
Mitchell Katz, an FTC spokesman, declined to comment in a
telephone interview.  Earnings Climb  In April, Immucor said per-share earnings climbed to 32
cents in the three months ended Feb. 28 as revenue from its
instruments to screen blood and other products rose 4 percent.  “The amount of blood testing and an aging population is a
natural driver for increased blood demand,” Michele Howard, an
Immucor spokeswoman, said in an interview. The higher volume of
transfusions being done is raising demand for Immucor’s
products, she said.  Joshua H. Levine became the company’s chief executive
officer last month after Gioacchino de Chirico announced he was
stepping down following 18 years with the business. The timing
of the leadership change and the sale was coincidental, Howard
said.  TXU, Caesars  TPG Capital, created in 1992 and run by  David Bonderman  and
James Coulter, has participated in several of the biggest
leveraged buyout deals ever, including the record-setting $43.2
billion takeover of TXU Corp. in 2007. TPG, which houses most of
its executives in  San Francisco , also is an owner of Caesars
Entertainment Corp. and retailer J. Crew Group Inc.  The Immucor deal would be among the firm’s largest since the
leveraged buyout boom and subsequent bust, and follows last
year’s purchase, with  Carlyle Group , of Australian hospital
operator Healthscope Ltd. In 2009, TPG bought IMS Health Inc., a
provider of market data for drugmakers and analysts, for $5.2
billion.  Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as financial adviser to Immucor,
while King & Spalding LLP provided legal advice. Ropes & Gray
LLP were legal advisers to TPG Capital, which received financial
advice from Citigroup Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 