-- 
Philippine Inflation Quickens to Fastest Pace in 26 Months

-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-05T05:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/philippine-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-pace-in-26-months-2-.html
Philippine inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in 26 months after utility and transport costs
rose, adding to the case for further monetary tightening.
 Government bonds  dropped.  Consumer prices increased 5.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since April 2009, according to data
released by the  National Statistics Office  in  Manila  today using
2006 as a base year. Inflation was 4.6 percent using 2000 as a
base year, compared with the 4.7 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  Policy makers from  China  to  India  have raised interest
rates and ordered lenders to set aside more cash as reserves
after higher food and oil costs stoked inflation. Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas will ensure that inflation is kept at “low and
stable levels,” Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  “Price pressures are on the rise, suggesting second-round
effects of commodity prices are gathering momentum helped by
resilient domestic consumption,” said Radhika Rao, an economist
at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “There will be some form of
tightening at the July meeting, though it would be a very close
call between a rate or a reserve-requirement hike.”  Benchmark five-year bonds fell, snapping a five-day rally.
The peso weakened for the first time in six days to 43.088 per
dollar at the noon trading break in Manila.  Policy Review  The central bank will gauge in the coming weeks whether it
needs to further raise banks’ reserve requirement or increase
the benchmark policy rate, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said
yesterday.  Bangko Sentral ordered lenders to set aside more money as
reserves and held its benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent
last month after raising it twice this year. Policy makers next
meet on July 28 to decide on interest rates.  The  Philippines ’ $161 billion economy expanded 4.9 percent
in the second quarter, the weakest pace since 2009.  Philippine housing, fuel, electricity and water prices
climbed 5.8 percent in June after a 5 percent gain in May, based
on 2006 prices, today’s report showed. Transport costs rose 6.8
percent, up from 6.6 percent in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  