-- 
Aquino Signals 13% Gain for Philippine Stock Index

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 
2011-07-05T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/philippine-president-signals-13-gain-for-stock-index-at-record.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
signaled a 13 percent gain for the country’s benchmark stock
index amid rising investor confidence in the nation that drove
the equity gauge to a record yesterday.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index may reach 5,000 this
year, Aquino said yesterday, citing an estimate obtained from a
stock-exchange official. That compares with the gauge’s close of
4,439.61. The measure has rallied 19 percent from a five-month
low on Feb. 24 on optimism the economy will weather interest-
rate increases to curb inflation. Aquino’s comment was made
following a “very informal exchange” with bourse officials,
its President Hans Sicat said by phone yesterday.  “It’s a symbol of the confidence of the business community
in the growth of the economy,” Aquino told reporters yesterday
in  Manila . “I think this will continue to improve.”  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index surged 27 percent in
the first year that Aquino served as president, outpacing a 24
percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Aquino, 51,
took office on June 30, 2010 after wooing voters with the
promise of pursuing tax evaders and fighting corruption.  Aquino has lined up $16 billion worth of projects to build
hospitals, roads, airports and railways to boost economic growth.
The president wants private investors to pay for these projects
as he aims to cut a  budget deficit  that has hounded the country
for 22 of the past 26 years.  No Official Forecast  The benchmark index can advance to 5,000 as earnings and
economic growth accelerate while inflation eases by the end of
the year, according to  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist
at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest
lender by assets.  “We didn’t make any official forecast,” the bourse’s
Sicat said. “What we communicated informally and over drinks to
the president was if all the economic elements and support from
government will happen and barring any external negative events,
we are hopeful that we can get there to 5,000.”  The Philippine economy may expand between 5 percent and 5.5
percent this year while corporate earnings growth will range
from 10 percent to 12 percent, Ravelas said.  Credit-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service helped drive a 7.2 percent gain in the
benchmark  stock index  in the past three weeks. Fitch raised the
country’s debt rating to one step below investment grade on June
23, a week after Moody’s upgraded the  Philippines  to two levels
below investment grade.  “The two credit rating upgrades that the nation has
obtained show that government’s commitment to fiscal prudence
has gained ground and credibility,” Ravelas said.
“Fundamentally, things look good that a climb to 5,000 is very
feasible for the index.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  