-- 
Pimco Mortgage REIT Agrees to Slash Fee If New Fund Loses Money

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-05T17:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/pimco-reit-agrees-to-slash-fee-if-residential-mortgage-fund-loses-money.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
seeking to raise $600 million for a fund that would invest in
residential mortgages, agreed to slash its management fee should
the fund suffer losses.  Pimco REIT Inc., which filed for an initial public offering
in April, disclosed last week that its annual management fee
would decline to 1.0 percent from 1.5 percent if the fund loses
money over a one-year period.  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s prior filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission didn’t call for any change in the fee, which is based
on  shareholders’ equity .  Pimco and its New York-based rivals Avenue Capital
Management and Angelo, Gordon & Co. are among investment firms
creating real estate investment trusts, or REITs, that could
help provide home loans if government-sponsored enterprises
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  curtail financing. The rush to seize
this opportunity is creating a glut of mortgage REITs, forcing
some to make concessions to attract capital from institutions.  “Investors have complained that you shouldn’t be able to
earn a fee if the entity is losing money,” said Merrill Ross, a
REIT analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc., a regional brokerage
based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “But no one has ever offered this
as a resolution before.”  The potential for such losses was displayed in June, when
credit markets tumbled following the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York ’s attempt to sell mortgage bonds acquired in the 2008-2009
rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  The New York Fed
halted the bond sales because of “prevailing market
conditions,” it said in a June 30 e-mail.  Fund Raising Slows  Mortgage REITs led by  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and
 American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  raised almost $6 billion through
share sales in December, January and February, helping to
bolster the market for mortgage-backed securities.  Fund raising has become more difficult. AG Mortgage
Investment Trust Inc., a REIT run by Angelo Gordon, priced a
$110 million IPO last week after cutting the offering’s size
from earlier estimates of as much as $300 million. Angelo Gordon
agreed to pay the $6.4 million underwriting fee for the IPO, an
expense that typically would have been borne by the REIT itself
in prior years.  “It’s a tough market to get these REITs out because there
are a lot of them out there,” said Bose George, a mortgage REIT
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in New York. “But if the GSEs
become a smaller part of the market, which presumably they will,
there is enormous opportunity.”  Management Fees  As government-sponsored enterprises,  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac own or guarantee more than half of all U.S. home loans. The
companies, which the government chartered to inject capital into
the housing market, were taken under federal control in 2008
amid mounting losses from failing subprime mortgages.  Pimco will levy a management fee equaling 1.5 percent of
the REIT shareholders’ equity, or three times the 0.50 percent
of net assets that some of the firm’s mutual funds, such as
Pimco Mortgage-Backed Securities, charge institutional
investors. The fund will also pay part of its profits, based on
a formula in the offering documents, as a performance fee to the
management company.  Pimco revised the terms of the management fee in a June 29
SEC filing, saying it would be cut to 1 percent of shareholder
equity should cumulative core earnings be negative for any four
quarters ending with the period in which the fee is due to be
paid. The fee would stay at 1 percent until the fund was
profitable for four consecutive quarters.  For the fund’s first year the management fee will be held
at 0.5 percent, the amended filing said. The REIT’s investments
will include bonds backed by commercial and residential
mortgages, according to the filing.  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, declined to comment.  Scott Simon , who will co-manage Pimco REIT, also declined
to comment. Before joining Pimco in 2000, he was co-head of
mortgage-backed securities pass-through trading at Bear Stearns
Cos., according to Pimco’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  