-- 
Poland to Keep Rates at 2 1/2-Year High After Four Increases Since January

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-07-05T08:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/poland-to-keep-rates-at-2-1-2-year-high-after-four-increases-since-january.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
leave interest rates at a 2 ½-year high during a meeting that
starts today as policy makers wait to see whether four increases
in the last six months are enough to tame inflation.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will keep the seven-day interest
rate at 4.5 percent after raising it in each of the last three
months and January, according to all 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The decision will be announced after 12 p.m. tomorrow
in Warsaw.  “The Monetary Policy Council’s view is that the recent
hikes should be enough for inflation to start reversing soon and
rates are likely to stay unchanged for the next few months,”
Marcin Mazurek, an economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said
yesterday in an interview.  Policy makers have raised the benchmark rate by 1
percentage point this year as they battle inflation that
accelerated to 5 percent in May, double their target. The
 European Central Bank , Hungary and  Russia  have also raised rates
to prevent the rise in global food and oil costs from fueling
broader inflation expectations.  Poland’s central bankers said after last month’s decision
that they would pause to see whether monetary policy tightening
from the record-low rates of 2009 and 2010 will slow consumer-
price growth.  No Panic  “It makes sense to treat seriously what we announced after
the rate meeting,” Governor  Marek Belka  said in a June 17
interview with Poland’s Radio 1. “It makes sense for us to wait
and see what happens. We aren’t panicking.”  Belka said after the June rate meeting that the central
bank was “still in the tightening cycle” and further rate
increases couldn’t be ruled out if the prospects worsened for
inflation slowing to the bank’s target.  Three-month forward-rate agreements, used to lock in
 interest rates  in the future, are trading 31 basis points higher
than the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate. The spread
has narrowed 7 basis points since June 15, when the May
inflation data were released.  “The council will probably need more convincing signals of
strengthening wage pressures before it resumes tightening,”
said  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in
Warsaw.  Average corporate wages rose 4.1 percent in the 12 months
through May, down from 5.9 percent in April, and corporate-
employment growth slowed for a third month to 3.6 percent.  ‘Room to Wait’  “We have room to wait for the effects of four rate hikes,
and I don’t expect anything that could force me to vote for a
fifth one before the end of this year,” council member Andrzej Bratkowski said June 15. “If we keep on raising rates as long
as inflation exceeds the target, we would overshoot.”  Polish companies and households expect the inflation rate
to be 4.2 percent in 12 months, according to a June 30 survey by
the  central bank , down from 4.3 percent in May.  “Waning expectations for fast inflation as well as for
monetary policy tightening in the global economy eliminate
arguments for rate hikes,” economists at PKO BP in Warsaw wrote
yesterday in an e-mailed comment. “The central bank will prefer
to wait a few months for better evaluation of inflation trends
in the second half after worsening data from labor market and
slower production growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  