-- 
Portugal Cut to Junk by Moody’s Roils Spain, Italy Bonds as Risk Remains

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-07-06T11:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/portugal-possibly-following-greece-in-bailout-leads-to-moody-s-rating-cut.html
Portugal ’s downgrade to junk status
and wrangling over the role of investors in a new Greek bailout
package fueled concern about the solvency of the region’s high-
debt nations, sending their bonds tumbling.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds over German bunds surged 148 basis points to a euro-era
record 949 after Moody’s slashed yesterday its credit rating
four levels to Ba2, below investment grade. The yield on  Italy ’s
10-year bond reached the highest in almost three years, while
Ireland’s 2-year yield topped 15 percent for the first time.  “It’s a reminder that the sovereign debt crisis does not
end with Greece and that risks remain with other nations in
addition to  Greece ,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12
billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in  New York .  Moody’s decision may further strain relations between the
rating companies and European Union policy makers, who are
trying to ensure their plan for investor involvement in a Greek
bailout doesn’t trigger a default. Moody’s said that Portugal
may need a second aid package and that the Greek plan makes it
more likely the EU will require creditors to contribute to that
effort, increasing the risk of holding Portugal’s debt.  Portugal saw its financing costs rise at a sale of 848
million euros ($1.2 billion) of three-month bills today. The
notes were priced to yield 4.926 percent, more than what  Germany 
pays to borrow for 30 years, up from 4.863 percent at the
previous sale.  Default Threat  Talks on investor involvement in the new Greek package are
bogging down after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both
indicated they would cut Greece to default if the EU went ahead
with a plan to ask creditors to roll over expiring Greek bonds
into new debt. The  European Central Bank  had pushed the approach
as a way to avoid a default rating that might force bank to
refuse Greek bonds as collateral, crippling the nation’s lenders
that rely on the ECB for their funding.  “The agency sees the participation of the private sector
in the Greek debt restructuring as a factor implicitly impacting
Portuguese ability to return to the capital markets,” Stefan Kolek, corporate credit strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote
today. “The agency utters what many were fearing: that a
participation of the private sector will increase  risk aversion 
in the market.”  Debt Swap  With the credit companies saying a rollover would be
default, Germany has revived an approach initially opposed by
the ECB to ask investors to voluntarily swap their Greek debt
into longer-maturity securities. The Institute for International
Finance, which represents more than 400 banks and insurers and
is participating in the talks, has also called for buying back
Greek bonds in the secondary market to reduce its debt load.
That idea was rejected by the EU in March, when it set up a
bailout mechanism that was only allowed to buy bonds at auction.  The IIF is hosting a meeting of banks and insurers in Paris
today to discuss the proposals for private sector involvement in
the Greek aid plan.  The competing ideas underscore how investors and government
officials are struggling to devise a role for creditors in a
bailout of Greece without triggering a default. The wrangling
has pushed back a new aid package, which EU officials had said
would be wrapped up by a meeting of euro-region finance chiefs
on July 11-12, until September.  That delay may threaten the International Monetary Fund’s
contributions to the current Greece aid plan. The IMF has held
up its 3.3 billion share of a 12 billion-euro payment due this
month until the EU figures out how to ensure Greece remains
fully funded.  Influencing Policy  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the ratings companies
shouldn’t be allowed to exert excessive influence on
policymakers.  “As far as the rating agencies are concerned, I think it’s
important that we -- and by this I mean primarily the troika,
the IMF, the European Central Bank and the EU commission --
don’t surrender our own ability to judge,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Austria ’s Chancellor Werner Faymann yesterday said he would
move to create a European rating company. The sovereign debt
crisis has shown the rating companies lack “local knowledge”
and “empathy” for the European condition, he said.  Return to Markets  Moody’s said that Portugal may remain shut out of financial
markets beyond 2013 and possibly need a second bailout. It also
based its  credit rating  cut on risk that the nation won’t be
able to fully achieve its deficit-reduction target in the three-
year aid plan. The rescue, which took effect two months ago, set
goals for a budget deficit of 5.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year, 4.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013.
The country had the fourth-biggest deficit in the euro region
last year at 9.1 percent of GDP.  Portugal said Moody’s decision ignores the effects
of additional revenue measures passed last week. There
is a “broad political consensus” backing the execution of the
measures that were agreed upon with the EU, ECB and IMF, the
Portuguese  Finance Ministry  said yesterday in  Moody’s rating cut came a month after the country swore in
a new government that pledged to implement the latest austerity
plan to keep the aid funds flowing. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos
Coelho  inherits an economy that the European Commission
forecasts will contract 2.2 percent this year and 1.8 percent in
2012 with a debt that will top 101 percent of GDP this year.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  