-- 
Portugal Government-Bond Ratings Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Financing Risk

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-05T20:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/portugal-s-bond-ratings-are-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-with-a-negative-outlook.html
Portugal’s  credit rating  was cut to
below investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service on concern
the country will need to follow  Greece  in seeking a second
bailout. The euro dropped for the first time in seven days.  The long-term government bond ratings were lowered to Ba2,
or junk, from Baa1, and the outlook is negative. Discussions to
involve private investors in a new rescue plan for Greece make
it more likely that the European Union will require the same
pre-conditions in the case of Portugal, Moody’s said in a
statement.  “That’s very significant because not only does it affect
current investors, but it is likely to discourage new private
sector lending going forward, and therefore reduce the
likelihood that a country like  Portugal  will be able to regain
access to the capital markets at a sustainable cost,”  Anthony Thomas , a senior analyst at Moody’s in  London , said in a
telephone interview today.  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.4417 at 3:54 p.m. in New
York from $1.4539 yesterday, when it touched $1.4578, the
highest level since June 9.  Treasuries rose, snapping a five-day losing streak, while
stocks fell. The rally in 10-year U.S. Treasuries drove the
yield down 0.06 percentage point to 3.12 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,338.02.  Portugal is the second euro country rated non-investment
grade by Moody’s, joining Greece, after winning a 78 billion-
euro ($113 billion) international bailout in May.  ‘Risks Remain’  “It’s a reminder that the sovereign debt crisis does not
end with Greece and that risks remain with other nations in
addition to Greece,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12
billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in  New York .  Portugal this year joined Ireland and Greece in turning to
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  for emergency funding
after their budget deficits ballooned. Moody’s today said it
also based its credit rating cut on risks that Portugal won’t be
able to fully achieve its deficit-reduction target.  Moody’s said the first driver of its decision was “the
increasing probability that Portugal will not be able to borrow
at sustainable rates in the capital markets in the second half
of 2013 and for some time thereafter.”  Portugal said the decision by Moody’s ignores the effects
of an extraordinary income tax charge that was announced last
week. There is a “broad political consensus” backing the
execution of the measures that were agreed upon with the
European Union,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund as part of the aid program, the Portuguese Finance Ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Europe  is inching toward a goal of getting banks to roll
over 30 billion euros of Greek bonds, instead of opening a hole
for the official lenders to fill. French banks, with the biggest
holdings in Greece, worked out a rollover formula that is
serving as an example elsewhere, with two options for
bondholders to replace their maturing securities.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe at   jketrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  