-- 
Pound Strengthens Against Euro After U.K. Services Data Exceeds Forecasts

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-05T15:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/pound-strengthens-against-euro-after-u-k-services-data-exceeds-forecasts.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro and the dollar after a report showed a measure of U.K.
service industries exceeded economists’ forecasts in June,
alleviating concerns about the recovery.  Sterling advanced versus all but one of 16 major peers
monitored by Bloomberg. A gauge of U.K. services growth based on
a survey of companies rose to 53.9 from 53.8 in May, Markit
Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in a report. The median forecast of 26
economists polled by Bloomberg predicted a decline to 53.5. A
level above 50 indicates expansion.  “The focus from the market right now is very much on the
growth numbers, and positive data outcomes will tend to be
supportive of sterling,” said Chris Scicluna, deputy head of
economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in London.  The pound appreciated 0.5 percent to 89.89 pence per euro
as of 4:39 p.m. in London, the first time in three days that it
has traded stronger than the 90 pence level. Sterling was little
changed at $1.6090 for a third consecutive day of gains.  The pound has slumped this year against 12 of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg as Conservative Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s austerity measures to shrink the  budget deficit 
crimp growth and inflation squeezes incomes at the fastest pace
since the 1970s. Efforts to eliminate the bulk of the fiscal
shortfall by 2015 involve the deepest spending cuts since World
War II and more than 300,000 state-employee job losses.  Short-Sterling Futures  Barclays Capital today reduced its pound forecasts on
“very disappointing” economic growth, according to a client
note written by London-based foreign exchange strategists  Paul
Robinson  and Sara Yates. The bank now expects the pound to fall
to 93 pence per euro in one month, from an earlier prediction 89
pence before slipping to 95 pence in three months time, compared
with a previous prediction of 87 pence, the note said.  Worsening economic growth has prompted traders to reduce
bets on higher rates, with the implied yield on short-sterling
futures expiring in March falling to 1.01 percent today, down
from an intraday high of 2.13 percent on Feb. 15. That’s the
highest implied yield since May 18, 2010. Short-sterling futures
are used by analysts to gauge the future trajectory of borrowing
costs between banks.  The  Bank of England  will keep its main rate unchanged at
0.5 percent on July 7 when it announces its next monetary-policy
decision, according to all 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Borrowing Costs  Investors are betting the central bank won’t raise
borrowing costs until after next May, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc show. As recently as February, traders were
betting on a rate increase in May of this year, the data showed.  Ten-year gilts rose for a second day, lowering yields by
four basis points to 3.32 percent. Yields on two-year notes were
little changed at 0.81 percent.  Britain sold 3.25 billion pounds of 3.75 percent bonds due
September 2021 at an auction today, the U.K. Debt Management
Office said. Investors bid for more than twice the amount
offered, DMO data showed.  The U.K. plans to sell 1.1 billion pounds of inflation-
linked securities maturing in September 2027 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  