-- 
Qaddafi Seeks Exit Guarantees: Russian Envoy

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-07-05T15:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/qaddafi-seeks-security-guarantees-to-relinquish-rule-russian-envoy-says.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  will
have to receive security guarantees to relinquish his four
decades of rule over the North African nation, said  Mikhail Margelov , Russia’s envoy for negotiating Qaddafi’s departure.  “Qaddafi will be interested in getting guarantees about
his personal security,” Margelov said in a phone interview from
Harare today after holding talks with  Zimbabwe ’s President
 Robert Mugabe .  Qaddafi is willing to surrender power in exchange for
security guarantees, Moscow-based Kommersant reported today,
citing an unidentified high-level Russian official. President
Dmitry Medvedev yesterday discussed an African Union plan to
resolve the conflict in Libya with his South African counterpart
 Jacob Zuma  and North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary
General Anders Fogh Rasmussen in Russia’s resort of Sochi.  “The meeting was very effective because Mr. Zuma set out
his vision of how to achieve a political solution in Libya,”
 Dmitry Rogozin , Russia’s ambassador to NATO and a participant in
the talks, said by phone today from  St. Petersburg .  NATO must end its campaign against Qaddafi’s forces to
allow the political process to go forward, Rogozin said.  Unfreezing Assets  Countries including  France  have signaled they may meet
Qaddafi’s conditions by unfreezing his assets and providing
immunity from the United Nations war tribunal in The Hague if he
cedes power peacefully, Kommersant reported.  “It’s clear that many countries will be ready to be quite
flexible toward Qaddafi to convince him to give up all his
political posts and his family to give up their economic
influence,” Margelov said.  The Libyan leader is also demanding that his son Saif al-
Islam Qaddafi take part in the elections that would follow his
resignation, according to Kommersant.  Qaddafi will not be able to stay in  Libya , Mustafa Abdul
Jalil, the head of the National Transitional Council of the
rebels, said yesterday. Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the
council, had separately said that the rebels would tolerate the
presence of Qaddafi in Libya were the leader to resign and face
prosecution.  The next step under the African Union-sponsored peace plan
is for high-ranking Libyan rebel and government representatives
to agree on how to negotiate a final settlement, according to
Margelov.  Personal Security  “The question of his personal security must be guaranteed
by the Libyans themselves,” he said. “No one is demanding that
Qaddafi leave Libya. He can stay in his country, of course, if
there is an agreement on both sides.”  Rasmussen said yesterday that the alliance would continue
its offensive in Libya until it meets the goals sanctioned by a
United Nations resolution that authorized military action to
protect civilians.  NATO has set three objectives: a complete halt to attacks
on civilians by government forces, the withdrawal of those
troops to barracks and access to humanitarian aid for the people
of Libya, Rasmussen said in Sochi.  Russia , which abstained from the UN Security Council vote
in March that backed the NATO-led military action in Libya, has
repeatedly criticized the alliance for going beyond its UN
mandate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  