-- 
TransCentury of Kenya to List Shares in Nairobi, CEO Says

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-05T11:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/transcentury-of-kenya-to-list-shares-in-nairobi-ceo-says-1-.html
TransCentury Ltd. , a Kenyan investor
in power and transport projects, plans to list its shares on the
country’s bourse at 50 shillings each, giving it a market value
of 13.4 billion shillings ($151.2 million), Chief Executive
Officer Gachao Kiuna said.  The shares, which will be listed without first being
offered to the public for sale, will start trading on July 14,
he told reporters today in the capital, Nairobi.  “The listing is part of the long-term strategy to enable
the company to develop attractive sources of funding” for its
projects, “which are capital-intensive,” Kiuna said.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange , sub-Saharan Africa’s worst-
performing bourse this year, is targeting five listings by the
end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Peter Mwangi said on
April 1. CFC Insurance Holdings Ltd.’s listing on April 21 was
the East African nation’s first in 28 months.  TransCentury has raised $35 million as part of a $75
million Eurobond program, Kiuna said. The company is looking at
opening operations in  Nigeria , he said, without giving further
detail. TransCentury plans to start power production from
geothermal sources in the next two years.  Its investments include a 34 percent stake in Rift Valley
Railways, the operator of the Kenya-Uganda railway line.
TransCentury also produces  power lines  and owns South Africa’s
 Kewberg Cables & Braids (Pty) Ltd.  and a 61 percent stake in
 East African Cables Ltd. (EACL) , the region’s biggest cable
manufacturer. A transformer factory in  Tanzania  makes switch
gears used in power facilities.  The company wants to focus on the power industry, which
promises growth potential because only 16 percent of  Kenya ’s
population has access to electricity, Kiuna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  