-- 
RBA Readies Downgrade to 2011 Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-05T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/rba-readies-downgrade-to-2011-growth-as-rate-rise-risk-eases.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
signal that it’s preparing a cut in its forecasts for growth
reduces the chance Governor  Glenn Stevens  will add to the
developed world’s highest borrowing costs before year-end.  Stevens held the overnight cash rate target at 4.75
percent in Sydney yesterday, the seventh straight meeting of
inaction. He said the economy is unlikely to reach the RBA’s
forecast of 4.25 percent growth this year as a resumption of
coal exports from flooded mines takes longer than expected.  The central bank’s language brings it closer to the  bond
market , where interbank cash rate futures indicate a cut is
more likely this year than the increase priced in a month ago.
An extended pause would avert a bigger hit to retailers and
the housing industry, which have been subdued by 175 basis
points of rate increases from October 2009 to November 2010.  “This isn’t a central bank preparing the market for
higher rates any time soon,” said Roland Randall, an
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “In the
unlikely event that we see a shocking rise in core inflation
the RBA would pull the trigger. More likely, we will see the
RBA hold off.”  Dollar’s Drop  The Australian dollar fell against all its major
counterparts following the decision, trading at $1.0697 as of
5:58 p.m. in Sydney yesterday from $1.0734 in  New York  a day
earlier. Interbank cash-rate futures were pricing in a 46
percent chance of a rate cut in December. A month ago, they
reflected 78 percent odds Stevens would raise rates by a
quarter percentage point by the end of that month.  Stevens said in a June 15 speech that rates probably
have to climb “at some point” as “the underlying rate of
inflation is more likely to rise than fall.” Yesterday, he
said consumer-price growth is expected to be near the RBA’s 2
percent to 3 percent target range in the next year.  Global commodity prices dropped in the three months
ended June 30 for the first time in four quarters on concern
 China ’s own attempt to slow inflation will curb demand for
raw materials, the driver of Australia’s biggest mining boom.  Non-manufacturing industries in China, Australia’s
biggest trading partner, expanded at the weakest pace in four
months in June, a report showed this week.  Market Volatility  “The dampening effects of high commodity prices on
income and spending in major countries have both contributed
to the slowing” in global growth, Stevens said yesterday.
“The banking and sovereign debt problems in  Europe  have also
added to uncertainty and volatility in financial markets over
recent months.”  Paul Brennan , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Sydney, highlighted the tentativeness in the statement’s
language on the medium-term economic outlook, using the
qualifying phrase “if the world economy grows as expected.”  The Australian dollar has strengthened 27 percent in the
past 12 months as investors bet Stevens will have to raise
rates as mining companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. boost
hiring to meet demand from  Asia . In contrast, the U.S.
Federal Reserve has held its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008.  “Cautious behavior by households and the high level of
the  exchange rate  are having a noticeable dampening effect,”
Stevens said yesterday. “Growth through 2011 is now unlikely
to be as strong as earlier forecast. Over the medium term,
overall growth is still likely to be at trend or higher, if
the world economy grows as expected.”  Economic Contraction    Australia ’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast
slashed coal exports. The nation’s recovery may be more
prolonged after a report last month showed the number of
full-time jobs fell by 79,200 in May and April, the biggest
two-month decline in more than two years. The jobless rate
held at 4.9 percent.  “A gradual recovery from the floods and cyclones over
the summer is taking place, though the resumption of coal
production in flooded mines continues to proceed more slowly
than initially expected,” Stevens said. “The recovery will
boost output over the months ahead, and there will also be a
mild boost to demand from the broader rebuilding efforts as
they get under way.”  Spending Weakens  Household spending accounts for 55 percent of
Australia’s economy, and a report this week showed retail
sales unexpectedly dropped 0.6 percent in May from a month
earlier, the second drop in three months.  The RBA had expressed concern that higher consumption
would clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages
caused by mining investment that the government estimates
will reach A$76 billion ($81 billion) this fiscal year.  The RBA said in quarterly forecasts released on May 6
that consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent this year and
 core inflation , which excludes the most volatile prices, will
reach 3 percent.  Those estimates “can now be hidden away in a back room
at the RBA, unmentioned and deliberately forgotten,” said
Sean Keane, an analyst in Auckland at financial advisory
group Triple T Consulting and former head of Asia-Pacific
rates trading at Credit Suisse Group AG. Forecasts to be
released in August “are likely to look very different,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  