-- 
RBA Holds Key Rate at 4.75%, Sees 2011 Growth Slower Than Prior Forecast

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-05T05:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/rba-holds-key-rate-at-4-75-sees-2011-growth-slower-than-prior-forecast.html
The  Reserve Bank of Australia  left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged and said the nation’s
growth pace may be weaker than previously forecast, triggering
the local currency’s biggest drop in about three weeks.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent in Sydney for the seventh straight meeting, as
forecast by all 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. He
said in a statement that inflation is expected to near the RBA’s
2 percent to 3 percent target in the next year.  Stevens’s decision to extend a pause in raising rates
reflects slowing expansions from  Asia  to  Europe  that dimmed
prospects for an acceleration in hiring at home by mining
companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. Stevens said a European
debt crisis had “added to uncertainty” about the outlook for
the world economy.  “The statement highlights the importance of the global
growth picture to the RBA’s policy deliberations and the
implications for domestic growth,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of
Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Sydney. She said she plans to change her forecast for
the next rate rise to late in the fourth quarter, from August.  The Australian dollar fell against all its major
counterparts after the decision, trading at $1.0682 as of 3:30
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0734 in New York yesterday.  2011 Growth  “Growth through 2011 is now unlikely to be as strong as
earlier forecast,” Stevens said in today’s statement,
retreating from the RBA’s May 6 prediction that the economy will
expand 4.25 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1999.  Australia ’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in the northeast slashed
coal exports. The nation’s recovery may be more prolonged after
a report last month showed the number of full-time jobs fell by
79,200 in May and April, the biggest two-month decline in more
than two years. The jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  “A gradual recovery from the floods and cyclones over the
summer is taking place, though the resumption of coal production
in flooded mines continues to proceed more slowly than initially
expected,” Stevens said. “The recovery will boost output over
the months ahead, and there will also be a mild boost to demand
from the broader rebuilding efforts as they get under way.”  Dollar’s Rise  The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper inflation. The local currency has risen 27 percent in the
past year and reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  That appreciation mirrors rising global demand for
Australian  iron ore , coal and other resources, with the RBA’s
commodity price index advancing about 40 percent in May from a
year earlier in U.S. dollar terms.  The RBA said in its May 6 forecasts that consumer prices
will rise 3.25 percent this year and core inflation, which
excludes the most volatile prices, will reach 3 percent.  “CPI inflation is expected to be close to target over the
next 12 months,” Stevens said today. “In underlying terms,
inflation has been in the bottom half of the target range,
though a gradual increase is expected over time.”  Household spending accounts for 55 percent of Australia’s
economy, and the central bank has sought to restrain consumption
with 175 basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to
November, letting investment in mining drive growth. A report
yesterday showed retail sales unexpectedly dropped 0.6 percent
in May from a month earlier, the second fall in three months.  Employment ‘Falling’  “The  Reserve Bank  finally gets it,” said  Craig James , a
Sydney-based senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
the nation’s biggest lender. “You only lift interest rates if
you feel that a strongly performing economy will generate
inflationary pressures. And that is clearly not the case at
present. Employment has been falling, home prices are going
backwards and consumers refuse to spend.”  The economy of  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
is also slowing. China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded
at the weakest pace in four months in June, a report showed
yesterday.  The RBA had expressed concern that higher consumption would
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining investment that the government estimates will reach
A$76 billion ($81 billion) this fiscal year.  European finance ministers agreed over the weekend to
disburse 8.7 billion euros ($12.6 billion) of loans to  Greece 
under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout by July 15, rewarding
Greek Premier George Papandreou for pushing an extra austerity
plan through parliament.  A default by Greece is “almost certain” and may help push
the  U.S. economy  into a recession,  Alan Greenspan , the former
U.S. Federal Reserve chairman, said in a June 16 interview with
 Charlie Rose  in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  