-- 
Treasuries Advance as Portugal Cut to Junk; 3-Month Bill Rate Below Zero

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-05T21:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/treasuries-rise-as-stock-declines-increase-demand-for-safety-of-u-s-debt.html
Treasuries rose, snapping a five-day
rout, as Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s long-term
government bond ratings to junk, fueling demand for the safety
of  U.S. government debt .  Rates on three-month Treasury bills fell below zero for the
first time since 2008 as Moody’s reduced the ratings to Ba2,
from Baa1. The outlook is negative. Treasuries gained earlier
after a report yesterday showed deteriorating credit prospects
for  China ’s banks and  Standard & Poor’s  said a debt-rollover
plan for Greece may prompt a “selective default” rating.  “It’s fear and concern over the spillage or contagion” of
Greece’s sovereign-debt crisis, said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury
trader at Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “Portugal was on
thin ice as well as Greece.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.12 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
3.125 percent securities maturing in May 2021 increased 1/2, or
$5 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/32.  Three-month Treasury bill rates tumbled to negative 0.0051
percent in their first descent below zero since December 2008.  “Today people came to the conclusion that this situation
in  Europe  is not going away any time soon,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. “It extended the bill rates on the flight to quality.”  U.S. 10-year note yields rose on July 1 to 3.22 percent,
the highest level since May. Yields on 30-year bonds fell two
basis points today to 4.37 percent. Two-year yields slid five
basis points to 0.43 percent, the lowest level since June 28.  Portugal  Bailout  Portugal won a 78 billion-euro ($113 billion) international
bailout in May as it struggles to repair its finances. The
Iberian nation joined Ireland and Greece in turning to the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  for emergency
funding after their budget deficits ballooned.  Treasury 10-year yields climbed the most last week in
almost two years, 32 basis points, as Greek lawmakers approved
budget cuts needed for a second bailout from the European Union
and International Monetary Fund.  The extra yield 10-year notes offer over two-year debt
widened to as much as 2.73 percentage points on July 1, the most
in two months. It narrowed to 2.69 percentage points today.  Chinese Banks  In a report yesterday, Moody’s said Chinese banks’ loans to
local governments are about 3.5 trillion yuan ($540 billion)
more than the national audit office’s estimate, and the
industry’s credit outlook could decline.  The data spurred speculation the banks will be unable to
absorb losses on defaults should property prices drop. Moody’s
estimated that local governments’ debt is about a third more
than the audit office’s findings last week of 10.7 trillion
yuan. Non-performing loans could reach as much as 12 percent of
total credit, it said.  “If Chinese banks are having issues right now, they won’t
be out buying stocks and securities outside of the country,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.  Treasuries also rose after S&P said in a statement the
rollover plan for  Greece  that’s serving as the basis for talks
between investors and governments may put the debt-strapped
nation in default.  “People are saying the Greek-default issue is not off the
table yet, so the market is getting a bid,” Franzese said.  ‘Less Value’  The rollover proposal would qualify as a distressed-debt
restructuring because it offers creditors “less value than the
promise of the original securities,” S&P said in a statement.  Banks agreeing to roll their Greek  government bonds  into
new securities may incur impairment charges on debt maturing
through June 2014 that they continue to hold, Moody’s said in
another report dated yesterday.  Bond bears say yields will rise as the economy improves,
damping Treasuries’ refuge appeal. U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly accelerated in June, the  Institute for Supply
Management  reported on July 1.  Treasuries remained higher today after a Commerce
Department report showed orders placed with U.S. factories
increased 0.8 percent in May, less than the 1 percent forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, from a revised 0.9 percent decline
in April.  “It’s an indication that the manufacturing sector is in
the process of gaining lost momentum,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist Jefferies & Co. Inc., a primary
dealer. “The number is pretty much on track, so we are seeing
some hopeful signs the economy will be doing somewhat better in
the third quarter.”  Remain in Range  The U.S. 10-year note yield will likely remain in a range
of 2.75 percent to 3.5 percent following the end last week of
$600 billion of Treasury purchases by the Fed in a round of
quantitative-easing to spur the economy, according to Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc.
in New York.  “The big-picture view is that you want to remain in
bonds,” Pellicciaro said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Fast Forward” with Julie Hyman. “The deleveraging process
that is happening in the private sector is profound and will
keep growth rates low and debt issuance low. These are decent
things for bonds.”  The central bank said June 22 policy meeting it will
continue to reinvest principal payments from its securities
holdings to strengthen economic growth. That may mean purchases
of as much as $300 billion of government debt over the next year
without adding money to the financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  