-- 
Consuming Less Salt Doesn’t Lead to Lower Mortality Rate, Researchers Say

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/reducing-salt-in-diet-fails-to-lower-death-rate-in-trials-researchers-say.html
No strong evidence exists that
advising people to eat less salt or putting them on a low-salt
diet reduces their death rate or cuts cardiovascular events, an
analysis of seven studies found.  The report combined the results of seven previous
randomized clinical trials that looked at the effects of
lowering salt consumption in 6,250 people with normal and high
 blood pressure . While patients in the reduced-salt groups
lowered their blood pressure, there was no significant
difference in mortality rates, according to the analysis
published yesterday in the  American Journal of Hypertension .  Public health authorities in most developed countries
recommend reducing salt intake by roughly half. Still, the
number of patients in the trials wasn’t large enough to exclude
“clinically important effects” of reduced salt on mortality,
wrote Rod S. Taylor, a University of Exeter researcher and the
study’s lead author.  “They found that we don’t have sufficient evidence to know
whether it would be good or bad,” Michael Alderman, an
epidemiologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New
York and editor in chief of the hypertension journal, said in a
telephone interview. The study isn’t “a game-changer, I just
think it reminds us that we don’t have the evidence we need.”  British researchers wrote in yesterday’s report that while
the inconclusive findings “are consistent” with the idea that
lowering salt consumption is beneficial, the results don’t
provide good evidence to support the theory that advising people
to eat less salt will save lives.  Alderman said in a telephone interview he is skeptical of
widespread calls for large reductions of sodium intake. He said
he has been an unpaid adviser in the past to the Salt Institute,
an industry trade group.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 