-- 
Tariffs ‘Distort’ Renewable Energy Market, Alberta Minister Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-07-06T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/renewable-tariffs-distort-market-alberta-energy-minister-says.html
Feed-in tariffs, incentives that have
helped drive renewable energy development in  Germany , the U.K.
and more than 40 other nations, “distort” markets and there
are no plans to use them in Alberta, the Canadian province’s
energy minister said.  “We do not support feed-in tariffs,” which offer above-
market rates for power generated from renewable sources, Ronald Liepert said in an interview in Calgary. “It’s clear that when
you start going the route of feed-in tariffs, you start to
distort the market.”  Feed-in tariffs have been used for more than a decade in
much of  Europe  to promote the development of renewable energy
and have helped make Germany the world’s largest producer of
solar power. Electricity and heat generated from sunshine, wind
and biofuels must compete on price with fossil fuels, without
government incentives, Liepert said.  “It just isn’t economic yet,” he said yesterday. “It has
to get to the point to where it can compete. But if someone
wants to come into  Alberta  and put up the capital for solar,
wind, whatever, they’re welcome to do that.”  A feed-in tariff program “can cost a lot or a little,
relative to the underlying cost of generation from any
technology,” said  Nathaniel Bullard , a policy analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  San Francisco .  “In recent years, Germany has successfully drawn down the
levels of its feed-in tariffs in line with decreasing
fundamental costs for systems,” he said. “The biggest
challenge in setting feed-in tariff rates is that rates are set
on a legislative timeline, while fundamental costs change on the
market’s timeline.”  National Energy Policy  Alberta is home to the world’s third-largest reserves of
crude in addition to coal and natural gas, and has almost 1
gigawatt of installed wind-power capacity, the most in  Canada .  The western province is also working with other Canadian
regions and the federal government to craft a national  energy
policy . Ontario, the nation’s most populous province, is the
only one that has a large-scale feed-in tariff policy.  Canada’s energy plan will involve coordinating policies on
energy consumption, transmission and eventually  carbon
emissions , Liepert said. Canada has committed to reducing carbon
dioxide emissions by 17 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels, in
line with a target set by U.S. climate change negotiators at
United Nations talks.  “There is no way you can develop energy policy without
environment being intertwined,” Liepert said. “Maybe even a
year from now or two years from now I can envision this being a
joint energy and environment initiative.”  Cap-and-Trade  A system of cap-and-trade, which limits the total emissions
of  greenhouse gases  and allows emitters to trade permits to
pollute, has “fallen off the back burner” in the U.S. A tax on
carbon has “worked well” in Alberta, where large emitters are
charged C$15 ($15.58) a ton. The money goes into a fund to
support clean energy technology.  Taxes on carbon may be a solution for a federal energy
strategy, Liepert said. “There’s no reason why we can’t pursue
that at a national level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  