-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Comments on Rate Decision (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 4 5 8 ]   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   [ ]
-- 
2011-07-05T04:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/reserve-bank-of-australia-comments-on-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, but the
pace of growth slowed in the June quarter. The supply-chain
disruptions from the Japanese earthquake and the dampening
effects of high commodity prices on income and spending in major
countries have both contributed to the slowing. The banking and
sovereign debt problems in  Europe  have also added to uncertainty
and volatility in financial markets over recent months.  A key question is whether this more moderate pace of growth
will continue. Commodity prices have generally softened of late,
though they remain at very high levels. Despite the challenging
international environment, the central scenario for the world
economy envisaged by most forecasters remains one of growth at,
or above, average over the next couple of years. A number of
countries have tightened monetary policy but, overall, global
financial conditions remain accommodative and underlying rates
of inflation have tended to move higher.  Australia ’s terms of trade are now at very high levels and
national income has been growing strongly, though conditions
vary significantly across industries. Investment in the
resources sector is picking up strongly in response to high
levels of commodity prices and the outlook remains very positive.
A number of service sectors are also expanding at a solid pace.
In other areas, cautious behaviour by households and the high
level of the  exchange rate  are having a noticeable dampening
effect. The impetus from earlier Australian Government spending
programs is now also abating, as had been intended.  A gradual recovery from the floods and cyclones over the
summer is taking place, though the resumption of coal production
in flooded mines continues to proceed more slowly than initially
expected. The recovery will boost output over the months ahead,
and there will also be a mild boost to demand from the broader
rebuilding efforts as they get under way, but growth through
2011 is now unlikely to be as strong as earlier forecast. Over
the medium term, overall growth is still likely to be at trend
or higher, if the world economy grows as expected.  Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and
the  unemployment rate  has been little changed, near 5 per cent.
Most leading indicators suggest that this slower pace of
employment growth is likely to continue in the near term.
Reports of skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to
the resources and related sectors. After the significant decline
in 2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the
downturn.  Credit growth remains modest. Signs have continued to
emerge of some greater willingness to lend and business credit
has expanded this year after a period of contraction. Growth in
credit to households, on the other hand, has slowed. Most asset
prices, including housing prices, have also softened over recent
months.  Year-ended CPI inflation is likely to remain elevated in
the near term due to the extreme weather events earlier in the
year. However, as the temporary price shocks dissipate, CPI
inflation is expected to be close to target over the next 12
months. In underlying terms, inflation has been in the bottom
half of the target range, though a gradual increase is expected
over time.  At today’s meeting, the Board judged that the current
mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained
appropriate. In future meetings, the Board will continue to
assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation. 