-- 
Trichet Says Euro Nations Could Support Lenders Through ELA

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-05T16:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/trichet-says-euro-nations-could-support-lenders-through-ela.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said national central banks could support lenders
through emergency liquidity programs if needed.  “National central banks of the Eurosystem can temporarily
provide Emergency Liquidity Assistance against eligible
collateral,” Trichet said in a letter to Andreas Moelzer, a
member of the European Parliament, published on the ECB’s
website today. It’s “an exceptional crisis-management tool to
support illiquid, but solvent financial institutions.”  European officials are seeking ways to contain the Greek
debt crisis from spreading after earlier this month authorizing
an 8.7 billion-euro ($13 billion) loan payout to the country.
While the ECB has provided the region’s banks with unlimited
liquidity, Trichet has called on governments to step up efforts
to cut budget deficits and help restore bank lending.  Ireland, which received a bailout last year, is currently
using an ELA facility. The country had provided domestic banks
with 49.5 billion euros of aid by the end of December 2010,
according to its annual report published in May.  Trichet said that the widening of collateral eligible in
non-standard monetary policy operations is “fully in line
with” the bank’s primary mandate to maintain  price stability .  Unconventional measures have “supported the flow of credit
to the economy in extraordinarily difficult circumstances,”
Trichet said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB on July 7 will probably raise its
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent,
according to all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  