-- 
Sweden’s Riksbank Raises Main Rate to 2%

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-07-05T08:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/riksbank-raises-main-rate-to-2-as-price-pressure-gains-1-.html
Sweden ’s central bank raised its
benchmark repurchase rate for the seventh time in a year and
repeated a pledge to continue tightening policy as the country’s
economic expansion withstands  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Policy makers raised the seven-day rate a quarter of a
percentage point to 2 percent, the Stockholm-based Riksbank said
today said in a statement. The move was expected by all 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank maintained its
outlook for the pace of continued rate increases.  “The Swedish economy is growing at a good rate, although
international developments are marked by uncertainty,” the bank
said in a statement. “Consumer price inflation is high at
present as a result of rising mortgage rates. Underlying
inflationary pressures remain low, but are expected to increase
as economic activity strengthens.”  The largest Nordic economy expanded at the fastest pace in
the European Union last year, helping to push headline inflation
to 3.3 percent in May and to exceed the bank’s 2 percent target
for a sixth consecutive month. The economic rebound, spurred by
a surge in exports, has sent unemployment lower and may
encourage an acceleration in wage growth, Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg said on June 16. The jobless rate was 7.9 percent in May,
compared with a 9.8 percent peak in June 2009.  Krona Gains  “They still project two more increases this year and the
path after that is completely unchanged,” said Roger Josefsson,
chief economist at Danske Bank A/S in  Stockholm , by phone.
“They’re doing the right thing. The normalization of the rate
is good. Low rates over a long period of time will hurt the
economy.”  The krona traded 0.4 percent higher at 9.0665 at 9:52 a.m.
in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona was little changed
at 6.2585.  “We are still expecting the krona to continue to
strengthen against the euro, but at a slower pace,” said  Carl Hammer , chief foreign-exchange strategist at Stockholm-based SEB
AB. The bank targets 8.90 to the euro by September, he said.  “The Swedish economy is stable despite increased
uncertainty globally,” the bank said.  The repo rate will reach an average 2.3 percent in the
fourth quarter, 2.9 percent in the third quarter of 2012, and
3.4 percent in the same period of 2013, it said today. The
economy will expand 4.4 percent this year after last year’s 5.7
percent rebound, the bank said. Growth will slow to 2.2 percent
in 2012 and reach 2.5 percent in 2013, it said.  Reservations Entered  Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson
entered reservations against the decision to raise rates. They
also argued in favor of a lower rate path, the bank said. The
bank comprises six board members, including Governor Stefan
Ingves.  Headline inflation will exceed the bank’s target through
2013, it said. Consumer price growth adjusting for the impact of
mortgage costs will be 1.6 percent this year, 1.7 percent in
2012 and reach 2.1 percent in 2013, the bank estimates.  “The labour market situation is also continuing to develop
positively, which means that the rate of wage increase is
rising,” the bank said.  Inflation by that gauge slowed to 1.7 percent in May from
1.8 percent in April,  Statistics Sweden  said on June 14.  ‘Simply Too Low’  “Sweden’s economy is doing very well and the rate is
simply too low given the economic outlook,” Jussi Hiljanen,
chief rate analyst at SEB AB in Stockholm, said before the
decision. “The labor market has developed better than
expected” and “households’ inflation expectations have
increased quite a bit.”  Sweden on April 13 raised its economic growth forecast for
2012 and 2013, when it sees 3.8 percent and 3.6 percent growth
respectively. Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt’s government,
which won a second four-year term in September, plans to reduce
taxes for a sixth consecutive year in 2012 while Finance
Minister Anders Borg on June 22 said he’s prepared to stimulate
the economy further if the European debt crisis dents demand.  Households’ expectations for consumer price increases over
the next 12 months rose to 3.3 percent in June from 3.1 percent
previously, according to a survey by the National Institute of
Economic Research. Expectations of more rate rises this year
have sent Sweden’s krona 22 percent higher against the dollar
and 6 percent against the euro in the past year. The currency is
only “starting to approach” a fair value, Riksbank Deputy
Governor Lars Nyberg said in a June interview.  Exports Resilient  The currency’s surge has yet to suppress export demand.  Sweden’s  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of ball
bearings, reported record quarterly profit at the start of 2011
as sales to all regions grew.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Scania AB (SCVB) , two of
Europe’s biggest commercial-vehicle makers, also said profits
surged as heavy-truck demand rebounded. Sweden has weathered
Europe’s debt crisis as exporters shift focus to emerging
markets. About 44 percent of its exports went to countries
outside the EU in May, the statistics office said on June 27.  Germany ’s economic expansion helped growth in the euro
region accelerate at the fastest pace in almost a year in the
first quarter, as demand in the largest euro-area economy offset
austerity measures from Ireland to  Spain .  The Riksbank’s rate increases and the introduction of a cap
on the size of  mortgage loans  have also cooled credit growth
after property prices exceeded pre-crisis levels. Household
borrowing slowed to an annual 6.9 percent in May, the lowest
level in at least eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  