-- 
Ringgit Drops From One-Month High as Exports Cool; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-07-05T09:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/ringgit-drops-from-one-month-high-as-exports-cool-bonds-gain.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit fell for the first
time in six days after export growth cooled and on concern
 China ’s policy tightening will slow spending in the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest overseas market.  The government reported today that shipments from Malaysia
rose 5.4 percent in May from a year earlier, compared with 11.1
percent in April and the 11 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Chinese  interest rates  are
likely to be increased this weekend after the central bank said
yesterday inflationary pressure remains high, the Economic
Information Daily reported today, without citing anyone.  “A China slowdown will have many repercussions for
exporting countries like Malaysia, so we are seeing a bit of
profit-taking at the moment,” said Nik M. Khairul, a currency
trader at Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “There’s a
policy dilemma over the inflation and manufacturing trends in
the region.”  The ringgit slipped 0.3 percent to 3.0088 per dollar as of
4:57 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 2.9950 yesterday, the strongest
level since June 6.  Malaysia shipped 17.4 percent of its goods to China and
 Hong Kong  in the first five months of this year, the trade
ministry report showed today. Manufacturing in Asia’s biggest
economy expanded in June at the slowest pace since February 2009,
according to a China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
report published July 1.  Malaysia’s five-year bonds gained, pushing yields down from
a four-week high. The rate on the 4.262 percent debt maturing in
September 2016 dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 3.51 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 