-- 
Russia’s RTS Futures Decline on Gazprom Rating, U.S. Stock Drop

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-07-05T22:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/russia-s-rts-futures-decline-on-gazprom-rating-u-s-stock-drop.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling shares may snap their longest winning streak in
seven months, after OAO Gazprom was reduced to “hold” from
“buy” at Troika Dialog and as U.S. stocks declined.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.2 percent yesterday.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, declined 0.7
percent to 203.62 rubles by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow
yesterday after Troika Dialog changed its rating on the stock,
citing higher taxes, the outlook for gas prices and a rise in
 capital spending . The American depositary receipts fell 1.2
percent, the most since June 23.  “Gazprom is the biggest stock in the market, and people
expect a challenging tax environment for the company,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said in a telephone interview.
“There is some caution.”  The  Finance Ministry  proposed on June 15 doubling the
mineral extraction tax next year for Gazprom with further
increases to follow.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, gained 0.2 percent yesterday. The ADRs of
OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer, gained 0.3
percent.  U.S. stocks fell after a Moody’s Investors Service
downgrade of  Portugal ’s debt rekindled concern the global
economy will slow. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1
percent to 1,337.88.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market stocks fell after Moody’s said the credit
outlook for  China ’s banking industry may decline. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index retreated for the first time in six days,
declining 0.3 percent to 1,166.20.  “The Russian stock market is undervalued,” Evgeny Gavrilenkov, the Moscow-based chief economist at  Troika Dialog ,
and Anton Strouchenevski, an economist at Troika Dialog, said in
an e-mailed report yesterday. “There is a simple correlation
between the RTS Index and the oil price.”  Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter. Oil and
natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.
Considering current  oil prices , stocks on the country’s RTS
index should be trading 15 percent to 20 percent higher,
Gavrilenkov and Strouchenevski said in the report.  Oil Advances  Oil rose 2.1 percent as data showed orders placed with U.S.
factories increased in May, indicating manufacturing may rebound
from a slowdown. China’s services industries expanded at the
second-fastest pace this year as new orders and employment
climbed. A purchasing managers index in China was 54.1 in June
compared with 54.3 in May, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said in a statement yesterday. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Crude for August delivery gained $1.95 to $96.89 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
price since June 14. Futures have gained 34 percent in a year.  Brent oil for August settlement advanced $2.01, or 1.8
percent, to $113.40 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Russia’s Micex Index of 30 stocks rose 0.2 percent to
1,709.99 in Moscow yesterday, climbing for a sixth day, the
longest winning streak since December. OAO Tatneft, the oil
producer based in the Tatarstan region, gained 1.8 percent. The
dollar denominated RTS Index advanced 0.2 percent to 1,953.07.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  