-- 
Russia Increases Market Credibility With Depository, Reid Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T08:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/russia-increases-market-credibility-with-depository-reid-says.html
David Reid, an analyst at the $244
million Eastern European Trust, comments on  Russia ’s plan to
lift curbs on domestic stock trading and lure foreign investors.
He spoke in a phone interview yesterday.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government to
lift restrictions on listings of Russian securities abroad by
Sept. 1, the Kremlin said in a July 1 statement. The president
also instructed the government to enable foreigners to open
depository accounts in Russia and to create a central depository
in the country.  On the new trading rules:  “Releasing the cap on depositary receipt levels enables
Russian companies to access the international capital markets
more easily and makes it easier for foreign investors to invest.
The central depository for the  stock exchanges  is very
important.”  “Russia will have an infrastructure for their stock market
that will be run along international norms for things like
settlement. Many investors are restricted from investing in the
domestic Russian market because of these non-standard settlement
procedures. They’re moving a long way to making the stock market
more credible.”  On government reforms:  “The steps that are being taken by Medvedev and the wider
government seem to be making an impact on the current corporate
culture. There does appear to be a general movement in a
positive direction. The government is looking for alternative
ways to boost the growth of the economy and they’ve settled on
the fact that investment spending and foreign investment is a
really crucial area for them to target. That’s positive for
foreign investors looking to deploy money in Russia, which has
many opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 