-- 
S. African Shares to Gain 10% to 15% By Yearend on Economy, Investec Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-07-05T16:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/s-african-shares-to-gain-10-to-15-by-yearend-on-economy-investec-says.html
South African equities may rise as
much as 15 percent this year as the global economy starts to
improve and concern eases that  China  may curb growth to control
inflation, according to Investec Asset Management.  The Cape Town-based money manager has reduced the cash
element and raised the equities portion in its Discovery
Balanced Fund to 70 percent from a “neutral” weighting of 65
percent six weeks ago, Chris Freund, an Investec Asset
Management portfolio manager, told reporters in Johannesburg
today. African securities account for 76 percent of the fund.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks has gained 4.1
percent since  Greece ’s parliament on June 29 approved an
economic austerity plan, key to avoiding a default, and after
U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in
June. Inflationary pressures in China are under control, Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said in comments posted on the government’s website
today.  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rose for
an eighth day in the longest winning streak since November 2009.  “Markets were looking for an excuse to bounce and did so
last week on the back of the Greek parliament voting in favor of
further austerity measures,” Freund said. “People are so
defensively positioned that if we start to get some strong data
consistently then the market is going to rally quite hard. I
personally think we are good for another 10 to 15 percent this
year from this point.”  The South African benchmark equity index closed at
32,254.24 as of 5:30 p.m. in Johannesburg. The gauge is up 0.4
percent for 2011 and is 2.5 percent lower than its record-high
close of 33,094.06 set on Feb. 14.  Risks  The  Discovery Balanced Fund (DISBALA)  has gained 2.5 percent so far
in 2011 and 17 percent from a year ago, ranking in the 84th and
91st percentiles, respectively, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  While a number of risks remain, including the U.S. housing
market and slower Chinese and European growth, equity valuations
globally are not “overcooked,” said Freund, who manages 25
billion rand ($3.7 billion) in pension fund portfolios and
mutual funds, including the Discovery Balanced Fund.  Freund is also raising the portion of South African bond
holdings. He didn’t give further details. His biggest equity
holdings in South Africa include  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , Compagnie
Financiere Richemont SA, BHP Billiton Plc,  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , Mondi Plc,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
 Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  and  Imperial Holdings Ltd. (IPL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  