-- 
SABMiller Raises Latin American Volume Goal Amid Focus on Affordability

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-07-05T13:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/sabmiller-s-latin-america-unit-to-beat-sales-goal-amid-affordability-focus.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the maker of Grolsch
and Peroni, said its Latin American unit will sell more beer
than planned over the next three to five years as it focuses on
brews that more consumers can afford.  The company predicts volume growth of 5 percent to 8
percent in the region, up from a previous forecast of 4 percent
to 6 percent, Karl Lippert, SABMiller’s president for Latin
America, said today at a conference in  London . Revenue per
hectoliter will increase by 2 percent to 4 percent, down from a
previous forecast of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent.  SABMiller is focusing on an “affordability strategy,” as
about 56 percent of the company’s consumers in  Latin America 
have income at or below the minimum wage, Lippert said.  “These countries are sitting with very high prices” for
beer when compared historically with the rest of the world,
Lippert said. “We’re looking for opportunities to democratize
beer.”  SABMiller rose 30 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 2,320 pence at
2:28 p.m. in London trading.  The Latin American unit was the largest contributor to
sales and profit for London-based SABMiller last year. The
brewer, which sells beers including Cusquena and Aguila in the
region, reported growth of 11 percent in so-called organic
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization last year,
outpacing  Europe , while lagging behind the group average of 12
percent. Lager volume was level with the prior year.  Colombia  Growth  SABMiller has focused on its affordability plan in
Colombia,  Honduras  and  El Salvador , selling beer in larger
bottles at slightly cheaper prices to appeal to drinkers in
bars, or selling multipacks of cans for consumers to drink at
home, which has been successful so far, Lippert said. The
company maintained its margin growth target of an increase of 60
to 100 basis points.  The volume of beer sold in Colombia slid last year after
the country’s government increased the value-added tax on beer
to 14 percent from 3 percent in February 2010, prompting
SABMiller to increase prices. Widespread flooding also hurt beer
sales in the country. The company said Colombia accounts for
more than half its sales in the region. Colombia saw “double-
digit” growth last month as the weather improved, Lippert said.  Argentina  Team  Latin America’s gross domestic product is forecast to grow
4.8 percent between 2010 and 2015 on a compound annual growth
rate basis, the company said, in line with its African markets
and outpacing its  North America ,  South Africa  and central and
eastern European units.  Latin American countries in which SABMiller operates have
average alcohol consumption of 38 liters a person, compared with
77 liters in North America, the company said.  In November, SABMiller bought Cerveceria Argentina S.A.
Isenbeck, the third-largest brewer in Argentina, entering a
market dominated by Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the biggest
beermaker in the world. The integration was “tough at the
start” but has “settled down with a good team there,” Rob Priday, president of the company’s Peruvian unit, said today.  The acquisition spurred speculation that the company may
also seek to enter  Brazil , the third-biggest beer market in the
world, including a possible acquisition of Primo Schincariol
Industria de Cervejas & Refrigerantes, Brazil’s second-biggest
brewer. Diageo Plc, the maker of Guinness stout, dropped plans
to bid for the brewer, two people familiar with the matter said
July 1.  Brazil  “There is of course some stuff on the table” in Brazil,
Lippert said today. “You’d expect us to look,” he said,
referring to Schincariol. He declined to comment further.  First-quarter trading in Latin America has been positive,
driven by “very good” performances in Colombia,  Peru , Honduras
and El Salvador, Lippert said. The company’s fiscal year ended
on March 31.  SABMiller today declined to comment on its pursuit of
 Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  after its A$9.5 billion ($10 billion) bid
was rebuffed June 21 by the Melbourne-based brewer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 