-- 
Saudi Arabia Lending Expands at Fastest Pace in Persian Gulf: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-05T20:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/saudi-arabia-lending-expands-at-fastest-pace-in-persian-gulf-arab-credit.html
Saudi Arabian bank lending is
climbing the most among the six Gulf Cooperation Council nations
this year as growth in the biggest Arab economy accelerates.  Bank credit to the private sector expanded 4.6 percent in
the five months through May, according to data from the  Saudi
Arabian Monetary Agency  this week. The rate ranged from a 4
percent drop in Bahrain to a 2.7 percent increase in the other
five GCC countries.  Higher oil production to compensate for a drop in output
from  Libya  and increased government spending to counter the
political unrest in the region are boosting the economy of the
world’s largest exporter of crude, according to John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist at  Banque Saudi
Fransi (BSFR) , a lender part-owned by Credit Agricole SA.  “There is a recovery under way, the retailers, the family
businesses, they are all benefiting, which is spurring lending
from the banks,” Sfakaniakis said. Saudi Arabia’s economy
“didn’t have the excesses that some of the other countries in
the region had, like the real-estate bubble in Dubai,  Abu Dhabi 
and even Qatar” to which the banks were exposed, he said.  The $130 billion spending plan announced by  King Abdullah 
Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud in February and March after protests
toppled rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  will help boost economic
growth this year to 5.3 percent from 3.8 percent in 2010,
according to  National Commercial Bank ,  Saudi Arabia ’s biggest
bank by assets.  Slower Growth  Saudi bank lending had slowed in the previous two years
after two family-owned businesses defaulted on at least $15.7
billion of loans and the economy was hurt by the global credit
crunch.  Five months of political unrest have shaken the  Middle East 
as citizens demand civil rights, higher  living standards  and the
ouster of autocratic regimes. Yet Saudi Arabia, the self-
proclaimed leader of the Gulf states, hasn’t been affected by
the events, sending troops to end protests in Bahrain and
stifling demonstrations in its own  Eastern Province .  The cost of insuring Saudi debt against default was
unchanged at 94.5 basis points on July 4, and is down from a
three-month high of 117 on May 6, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
The cost of insuring Bahrain’s debt fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 225. Default swaps for Lebanon were at
350 basis points.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  $100 Billion Package  King Abdullah announced a package of about $100 billion on
March 18 which included funds to build 500,000 homes and for
military and religious groups that backed the government’s ban
on domestic protests. Unrest spread across the Middle East and
North Africa, leading to armed conflict in Libya and protests in
Syria, Bahrain and Oman. Banque Saudi Fransi raised its 2011
state expenditure forecast by 25 percent to $225 billion after
the announcements.  Saudi banks led by  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , the kingdom’s
biggest publicly traded lender, and second-ranked  Al Rajhi 
“have been conservatively building up capital buffers during
the crisis and now that the economic environment is turning they
can start to lend again,”  Khalid Howladar , a vice-president at
Moody’s Investors Services said in an e-mail. “The recent
social measures have given people a boost in confidence and
spending power which is facilitating more borrowing.”  Faster Growth  Saudi Arabia’s economy may grow 6 percent this year,
compared with an initial estimate of 4.3 percent, Saudi central
bank Governor Muhammad al-Jasser said in a speech June 8. Growth
had slowed to 0.2 percent in 2009 from 4.2 percent in the
previous year.  Oil production rose 3.2 percent to 9.21 million barrel per
day in June from May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The kingdom will boost output to 10 million barrels a day in
July, Al-Hayat newspaper reported June 6, citing senior
officials.  Saudi bank credit to the private sector grew 5.7 percent in
2010 after declining 0.04 percent in 2009, according to data
from the central bank. In 2008, it jumped 27.1 percent.  Average yields on conventional bonds in the GCC have
declined 31 basis points this year to 4.97 percent, according to
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional Bond Indices.  Qatar, Bahrain  Bank lending in Qatar is expected to accelerate from next
year as  government spending  on infrastructure for the 2022
soccer  World Cup  kicks in, according to Janany Vamadeva, a
Dubai-based analyst at HC Securities. Kuwait’s banks still have
problems with loan defaults and need to book provisions, while
political unrest in Bahrain has hurt lending, she said.  In the United Arab Emirates , the second-largest Arab
economy, lending is also recovering as Dubai government-owned
companies agree with lenders on delaying debt repayments. Dubai
World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned holding
companies, reached a deal with about 80 creditors in March to
restructure about $25 billion of loans. Property prices in
Dubai, the second-biggest of seven states that make up the
U.A.E., had fallen by about 60 percent from their peak in 2008.  U.A.E. bank lending grew 1.3 percent in 2010 after rising
2.4 percent in 2009. Loans had jumped more than 30 percent
annually between 2005 and 2008. The U.A.E. 3-month interbank
interest rate, the rate at which banks lend to each other, has
dropped 27 percent since April to 1.5475 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
3-month interbank rate was at 0.63625 percent yesterday.  “In the U.A.E., interbank  interest rates  are coming down
but taking time, although they are still much higher than in
Saudi Arabia,”  Simon Williams , an economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in an interview. “The U.A.E. banking system is
normalizing, it’s just further behind on the cycle than in Saudi
Arabia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  