-- 
Scene Last Night: Fireworks, Kelly Rutherford, Halsey’s Party

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-05T08:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/scene-last-night-fireworks-kelly-rutherford-in-hamptons-halsey-s-party.html
Andrew Lazzaro, global chief branding
officer at the media agency  OMD , hosted a fireworks viewing
party last night.  The spectacular perch: the 65th-floor terrace of his
midtown Manhattan apartment.  Guests were pretty much at eye level as they watched
colorful pom-poms, smiley faces and even planets light up the
sky, courtesy of Macy’s. Forget about Beyonce, who performed on
a barge tied to Liberty Island: Lazzaro led everyone in a
spirited rendition of “The Star Spangled Banner.”  The party began with a feast including Mexican, blue cheese
and mango burgers, grilled corn on the cob and baked potatoes
with cheddar and bacon.  When the show was over, Lazzaro lit up a fire pit and
brought out the fixings for s’mores.  Roberto Alfonso Felipe, a bespoke tailor, and Yolanda
Alegria, a senior manager for international taxes at Ernst &
Young, were among the marshmallow roasters.  Call to Arms  Fake soldiers in Revolutionary garb fired their muskets and
got the party started at  Halsey House  in Southampton, New York,
Saturday night.  Built in the mid 17th-century by colonial farmer Thomas Halsey, the house is run by the Southampton Historical Museums
and Research Center.  The party celebrated America’s independence, while raising
a little money for maintenance.  “The design is efficient,” said Tom Edmonds, the
organization’s executive director, standing in the yard with
about 100 other guests. “The central chimney kept the heat
inside.”  Edmonds, splendid in pink tie, blue blazer and black-
leather sandals, is in charge of five properties and a wildlife
preserve. His big project this summer is raising $320,000 to
save the Sayre Barn, built in 1739.  A silent auction featured tunics by Gretchen Scott Designs
and ties by Vineyard Vines. Guests included U.S. Representative
Tim Bishop, Southampton’s mayor, Mark Epley and Mildred Brinn, a
former chairman of the Parrish Art Museum.  History Buffs  Schmidt’s Market of Southampton provided a raw bar and
sushi. Dennis Schmidt, who owns the market, and who served in
the U.S. Navy during the  Vietnam War , is chairman of the Museums
and Research Center’s board.  “I’m a history buff, so getting involved was a natural for
me,” Schmidt said.  Cynthia Schaffner, who counts herself an 11th-generation
descendant of the man who built the home, arrived with her
husband.  “We were married here,” said Schaffner, a researcher of
decorative arts in the American Wing at the  Metropolitan Museum 
of Art. As for the 12th generation: the Schaffners’ daughter,
Hilary Schaffner, is a curator who has opened a gallery in  East
Hampton  with artist Ryan Wallace. Halsey McKay is working with
emerging artists. Chris Duncan’s sewn photo collages and taped
works on paper will be on view July 8 through July 31.  Shopping at Lazypoint  Whitney Fairchild, a former designer for  Ralph Lauren  and a
founding chairman of the New York Botanical Garden’s Winter
Wonderland ball, stopped in Saturday morning at Lazypoint
Variety Store in Amagansett.  Claudja Bicalho, who worked for surfer-designer Tracy
Feith, opened the pop-up store in May for a second season.  She welcomed visitors in a slinky white crocheted dress she
had made in  Brazil . “The ladies knit them in one piece,” she
said, as Fairchild tried on a crocheted tunic.  The store is in a cozy stand-alone space just down the
street from the muffin utopia, Mary’s Marvelous. Tables are
filled with swim shorts, beach wraps and purple purses. Draped
on the neck of a carved wooden figure is a chunky clear-beaded
necklace.  Fairchild admired a linen cowl-neck blouse studded with
white tassels by the Australian label Easton Pearson ($810).  Watermill Polo  “I love polo,” said Kelly Rutherford, who plays Blake
Lively’s mom on “Gossip Girl.” “There’s so much grace in
it.”  Dressed in white, she admired Nic Roldan and others
competing on the polo field at the Watermill,  New York  home of
high-end building contractor Michael Borrico.  In the warm afternoon light, Rutherford then caught sight
of something cuter: 15-month-old Adli Abdel-Misih, dressed in a
yellow button-down shirt, striped tie and shorts.  “If you want to take a break, I’ll hold him,” she told
Adli’s dad, Rami Abdel-Misih, who works in finance.  The party and polo match on Saturday were a benefit for
Rally for Kids with Cancer.  Near the pool, Jeffrey and Emer Moore looked wholesome
serving roasted carrots, beets and potatoes. They own Rustic
Roots Delivery, which creates and transports baskets of fruits
and vegetables sourced from local farms.  The basket costs $55, which includes delivery anywhere from
Montauk to  Manhattan .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 