-- 
Serial Killer, Saint, Suicidal Nympho Head to Avignon: Preview

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-07-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/serial-killer-martyr-suicidal-nympho-head-to-avignon-jorg-von-uthmann.html
They were comrades-in-arms, and they
both ended at the stake: Joan of Arc was condemned to death for
witchcraft and blasphemy, Gilles de Rais for the serial murder
of children.  Joan and Gilles are the heroes of “Blood and Roses,” a
Flemish play by Tom Lanoye that questions the power of the
Church right in the lion’s den -- the courtyard of the Papal
Palace in Avignon where the popes resided from 1309 to 1376.  “Blood and Roses” is one of more than 30 productions in
the official program at the  Festival d’Avignon , the second-
biggest theater gathering after  Edinburgh , that opens today.  Film star Juliette Binoche plays another lady whose life
ends prematurely, August Strindberg’s “Miss Julie.” A second
version (in German), concocted by the U.K. director Katie
Mitchell and the video artist Leo Warner, “Kristin, After Miss
Julie,” changes the perspective: Strindberg’s drama about a
suicidal nymphomaniac is seen through the eyes of a minor
character, Kristin the cook.  “The Suicide” is a satirical variation on the same theme.
The 1928 farce by Soviet playwright Nikolai Erdman drew Stalin’s
ire: The author was banished from Moscow, and the play had to
wait until 1990, 20 years after his death, before it could be
staged in  Russia . This is the French premiere.  Erdman’s Soviet society is quite different from the rosy
image presented in the official propaganda: When Semyon, an
unemployed young man, threatens to kill himself, his family and
friends, instead of talking him out of his plan, egg him on in
the hope of profiting from his death. In the end, he only gets
dead drunk.  Polish Hero  Three years ago, Arthur Nauzyciel directed the festival’s
hit, “Ordet” (The Word), a religious drama by the Danish vicar
Kaj Munk who was shot by the Nazis.  For this year’s festival, Nauzyciel, who lost members of
his family in the Holocaust, has adapted “Jan Karski,” a novel
by Yannick Haenel about the Polish diplomat who informed the
Western Allies about the Warsaw Ghetto and the extermination
camps yet met with disbelief.  The biggest name among the directors is Patrice Chereau.
His production, “I Am the Wind,” a two-hander by the Norwegian
playwright Jon Fosse, has been performed already in London and
Paris. U.K. critics were bewildered by the enigmatic
relationship between “The One” and “The Other,” as the two
men on stage are called, and dismissed the play as pseudo-
Beckettian balderdash. In Paris, where Fosse is held in high
esteem, it was praised as a profound masterpiece.  The most intriguing production promises to be “Enfant” by
Boris Charmatz, the festival’s Associate Artist, who has made
his name as a choreographer of “non-dance.” He brings together
27 children and nine dancers and, in the program, invites the
spectators “to become children again.”  The only contribution from the U.S. comes from the  Nature
Theater of Oklahoma , an Off-Off-Broadway performance group. It
presents two episodes from “Life and Times,” a marathon
musical based on telephone conversations with a 34-year-old Jane
Sixpack who describes her childhood and puberty.  The Avignon Festival runs through July 26. Information:
 http://www.festival-avignon.com  or +33-4-9027-6650.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  -Editors: Jim Ruane, Catherine Hickley.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 