-- 
Shenhua, Peabody, Russia Picked to Develop Tavan Tolgoi Mine

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T07:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/shenhua-peabody-russia-picked-to-develop-mongolia-s-tavan-tolgoi-project.html
China Shenhua Energy Co.,  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU)  and a Russian-Mongolian group were picked to
develop Mongolia’s Tavan Tolgoi deposit, potentially the world’s
largest untapped coking coal reserve.  A Shenhua-led group will get a 40 percent share in the
project, while Peabody will hold 24 percent and the Russian-
Mongolian venture 36 percent, according to a  statement  dated
yesterday on the Mongolian government  website . The other bidders
were  Vale SA (VALE3) ,  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   “The government has awarded the tender to companies that
have the cash reserves and expertise to build this large mine
and infrastructure,” Matthew Trivett, a research analyst at
Patersons Securities Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “This is
a positive step for the Mongolian economy.”  Coal demand is rising as China and  India , the world’s
fastest growing major economies, produce more electricity and
steel. Supply disruptions in Australia, the world’s biggest coal
exporter, because of record rainfall and rail and port
bottlenecks have pushed up prices to a record this year.  Mongolia’s coal production doubled last year to 25 million
metric tons to become the nation’s top export earner, spurring
the government to push through development of mines. Tavan
Tolgoi spans some 68,000 hectares (168,000 acres), with coking
coal used in steelmaking located mainly in the central Tsankhi
area, according to Erdenes MGL, the state-controlled owner of
the deposit.  Calls to the offices of ArcelorMittal spokespeople Giles Read in  London  and Arne Langner in Luxembourg went unanswered.
Xstrata spokesman  James Rickards  and Brett Fraser, an Australia-
based spokesman for Vale, didn’t respond to messages left on
their mobile phones.  Parliament Approval  The government will submit the shareholding plan to
parliament next week for approval, the statement said. Mongolia
may share its Tavan Tolgoi project between three or four of six
shortlisted bidders, Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said on
June 17.  Shenhua board secretary Huang Qing didn’t respond to
messages left on his office phone by Bloomberg News.  Shenhua was originally listed as partner of Mitsui & Co. in
the bid and the Russian-led group had comprised companies from
 Japan  and  South Korea . The statement made no mention of Mitsui
or Japanese and South Korean companies.  Tsankhi is split into the western block that will be
developed by the winners of the tender, and the eastern side,
which will be mined by Erdenes TavanTolgoi, a unit of Erdenes.
West Tsankhi holds more than 1 billion metric tons of coal, 68
percent of which can be used for steelmaking and the rest as
fuel in  power plants .  West Tsankhi is located in the South Gobi region of the
country, 270 kilometers (170 miles) north of the Chinese border.
The nearest port is  China ’s Tianjin, 1,570 kilometers away, with
the closest Russian port of Vanino more than three times the
distance, according to a November presentation by the Mongolian
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net  