-- 
Shipbuilding Delays Plunge as China Yards Accelerate Deliveries

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-05T15:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/shipbuilding-delays-plunge-to-3-year-low-as-chinese-yards-speed-deliveries.html
Delays building capesize commodity
carriers that haul iron ore and coal fell to the lowest level in
at least three years as record numbers of new vessels
constructed in  China  joined the fleet on schedule.  Eighty-seven percent of capesize ships scheduled to begin
trading in the first six months of this year did so, according
to data from  Clarkson Research  Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker. That’s the most punctual rate of
vessel deliveries since at least 2008, according to Calum Kennedy, a senior analyst with Clarkson in London, who checked
how Bloomberg News calculated the delays.  Owners haven’t stopped ordering new ships even after
earnings crashed 94 percent since June 2008, giving yards
greater incentive to work through existing ship-construction
programs as quickly as possible. China Rongsheng Heavy Industry
Group Co., the nation’s largest private shipbuilder, said last
month it won the biggest order for two years to build capesizes.  “There was some suggestion that yards might slow down in
response to the market downturn but there are still people out
there willing to order new ships,” said Kennedy. That has
prompted shipbuilders to maintain the rate of construction, he
said.  Delays, cancellations and deferrals of ships, known in the
industry as slippage, peaked at as much as 35 percent for
capesize ships three years ago, according to Kennedy.  The 13 percent of capesizes scheduled for delivery this
year that were delayed compared with 31 percent for all bulk
carriers, with the highest rate of non-deliveries at 51 percent
for vessels half the size of capesizes, known as panamax and
post-panamax ships.  Swelling Fleet  Vessel delivery influences the global supply of bulk
carriers, which is forecast to expand nearly three times faster
than the demand to ship commodities this year. The fleet will
swell 11 percent as volumes of commodities shipped increase 4
percent, estimates Clarkson Research.  Genco Shipping & Trading Ltd. (GNK)  forecast that overall
slippage rates would be “upwards of 40 percent,” during a
teleconference call on June 16.  Chinese shipyards hold 48 percent of the world’s orders for
capesize vessels, and 52 percent for all commodity carriers,
according to Clarkson data. Capesize ships are too big to use
the Panama Canal and must steam around  South America ’s Cape Horn
or  Africa ’s Cape of Good Hope.  At the beginning of 2011, Clarkson forecast that slippage
rates for the entire dry bulk fleet could reach 45 percent this
year.  The output of ships from Chinese yards, including well-
established, government-owned shipbuilders with skills to build
more complicated vessel types, grew in the first half of 2011,
particularly January, Kennedy said.  Capesize Record  Thirty-seven of the 113 capesizes delivered in the first
half, totaling 20.3 million deadweight tons of transportation
capacity, came in January, the data show. One new capesize ship
joined the global fleet every 33 hours in 2011 until June 7,
according to a Fearnley Consultants AS presentation in  London 
last month. There would be a record number of capesize ships
delivered this year, Fearnley director Sverre Bjorn Svenning
said at the event.  Slippage rates for handymax-sized ships were 28 percent,
and handysize ships, the smallest bulk carriers with cargoes of
up to 35,000 tons, had 44 percent of expected deliveries
delayed.  The data were compiled using an annualized figure based on
the number and deadweight tonnage of ships delivered in the
first six months of 2011, according to Clarkson. That was
compared with the number of ships Clarkson scheduled for
delivery in 2011 on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  