-- 
Skandia Seeing Investor Interest for Emerging ‘Best Ideas’ Fund

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T21:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/skandia-seeing-investor-interest-for-emerging-best-ideas-fund.html
Skandia Investment Group is seeing
growing investor interest in emerging-market stocks, prompting
the company to consider creating a developing-nation version of
its European Best Ideas Fund to meet that demand, said Lee Freeman-Shor, who manages the fund.  “There’s a lot of interest for some sort of Asia-Latin
America-Emerging Markets ‘best ideas’ product and we are doing
research into whether that is possible,” Freeman-Shor said in
an interview in Santiago. “We have to see if there are enough
good managers to make it work and if we would raise a lot of
money into it to make it viable.”  The European Best Ideas Fund’s assets are managed on behalf
of the Stockholm-based company by a team of hedge fund and long-
only stock managers such as Crispin Odey of Odey Asset
Management, Marc Renaud of Mandarine Gestion and John Chisholm
of Acadian Asset Management. The fund recently surpassed 500
million euros in assets under management, Freeman-Shor said.  Each manager is allocated approximately 50 million euros
from Skandia to invest in their top 10 stock picks, and may
assign up to 25 percent of that money to a single pick, Freeman-
Shor said.  The fund has returned 30 percent in the last year, beating
80 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the same period, the  MSCI Europe (MXEU)  index has
increased 16 percent.  The top three holdings of the fund as of May 31 were German
pay-television provider  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , German semiconductor
producer Infineon Technologies AG and UK-based chemicals and
pharmaceuticals producer Yule Catto & Company PLC, according to
a company brochure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 