-- 
Slovenian Growth at Risk From Debt Crisis, Central Bank Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-07-05T13:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/slovenian-growth-at-risk-from-debt-crisis-central-bank-says-1-.html
The biggest risk to Slovenia’s
export-driven economic recovery is the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe , according to the country’s central bank, which forecasts
gross domestic product advancing close to 2 percent this year.  “There is increased risk about future economic growth
outside Slovenia, mainly due to public debt difficulties in some
countries and a possible impact for financial stability,”
Banka Slovenije said in an e-mailed statement today.  Economic output in the euro region member is forecast to
advance by 2 percent to 3 percent next year and in 2013 while
inflation should settle at about 2 percent next year after
temporarily rising above that level in the second half of this
year, it said.  Possible further rating cuts would contribute to a more
expensive financing of the economy, which is highly indebted in
some parts, the central bank, led by Governor Marko Kranjec,
said.  Slovenia ’s economy, which is still reeling from the impact
of the 2009 recession, advanced 2 percent in the first
three months from a year earlier as gains in exports and
industrial output outweighed a drop in the  construction
industry . The slowing global economy “is reflecting in a slower
pace of growth of industrial output,” the bank said.  European Leaders  European leaders are seeking ways for private investors to
share the burden of the rescue package for  Greece  without
triggering a default and stop the debt crisis from spreading to
other euro-region nations.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 7 affirmed Slovenia’s credit
rating at AA with a negative outlook after the government of
Prime Minister Borut Pahor was defeated in proposing pension
changes that would extend the  retirement age  to 65.  The country’s three largest banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d., Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and Abanka Vipa d.d. had
their debt and deposit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service
on June 8 on expectations bad loans will weaken their capital
base.  “The cost of asset write downs and reserves has increased
in May though the banking system had a profit of 63 million
euros ($91 million) in the first five months of the year,” the
central bank said.  Achieving more sustainable economic growth will depend
on efforts to improve the price and cost effectiveness of the
economy and on the fiscal consolidation, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  