-- 
St. Joe Shares Fall Most Since February on Disclosure of Formal SEC Probe

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-07-05T20:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/st-joe-chairman-berkowitz-says-not-a-lot-new-as-sec-steps-up-probe.html
St. Joe  Co., northern  Florida ’s
largest landholder, fell the most in almost nine months in the
first trading day since the company said it faces a formal
investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The probe “covers a variety of matters,” including
securities-law anti-fraud provisions for corporate officers and
board members, internal controls and financial reports,
Watersound, Florida-based St. Joe said in a July 1 filing. In
January, St. Joe said the SEC was conducting an informal
investigation of its real estate impairment practices.  Bruce Berkowitz , St. Joe Co.’s chairman, said there is
“not a lot new” in last week’s announcement of the
investigation, which named him and Miami-based Fairholme Capital
Management LLC, the firm he founded and the largest owner of St.
Joe stock.  “It was my decision” to disclose the stepped-up probe,
Berkowitz said today in an interview with Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.” Berkowitz said he made
the filing so St. Joe wouldn’t be hindered in resuming a stock-
purchase program.  Shares of St. Joe fell $1.90, or 9.1 percent, to $18.97 as
of 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest drop since Oct. 14. The stock is down 13 percent this
year, compared with a 6.8 percent increase by the Russell 1000
Index.  Buy Back Shares  Berkowitz declined to comment on the intent of the SEC
investigation. St. Joe, which owns about 574,000 acres of forest
and coastal land in Northern Florida, needs to “preserve its
ability to buy back shares in the open market,” he said.  St. Joe said last week that it ended a $125 million
revolving credit facility with BB&T Corp. that had restricted
its ability to buy back shares. The company has $103.8 million
available under the program, according to the July 1 SEC filing.  David Einhorn , who runs New York-based hedge fund
Greenlight Capital Inc., said Oct. 13, the day before St. Joe’s
previous biggest drop, that the company failed to write down the
value of its developments after the Florida real estate crash.  “We would love to see Joe use its limited cash resources
by overpaying to repurchase its stock,” Einhorn said today in
an e-mail.  Greenlight has an undisclosed short position in St. Joe.
Short sellers sell borrowed stock in the hope of buying the
securities later at a lower price and returning them to the
lender.  Formal Investigation  St. Joe received a “related order of private
investigation” on June 24, it said July 1. A formal
investigation enables the SEC to subpoena documents and
testimony, according to the agency’s enforcement manual.  Berkowitz, whose firm owns about 29 percent of St. Joe, was
named chairman in March. Chief Executive Officer Britt Greene
and three other board members resigned Feb. 28 after Berkowitz
criticized their spending and corporate governance.  He said he expects Fairholme to become active in other
companies where he sees problems as he saw at St. Joe.  “Mutual funds don’t usually become activists, but it had
to be done,” Berkowitz, who was named fund manager of the
decade by Morningstar Inc. in 2010, said today on Bloomberg
Television. “At Fairholme, such actions will continue as we
continue to grow and we continue to act in the interests of our
shareholders.”  Land Valuations  St. Joe’s land, most of which was purchased in the 1930s
and 1940s, is fairly valued, Berkowitz said.  “St. Joe’s board and executives have been very, very
conservative and spent a lot of money making sure we were doing
it correctly,” he said in a July 2 telephone interview. The
company reviewed its valuations at least three times since
Einhorn first raised questions about impairments, according to
Berkowitz.  The land on St. Joe’s books is valued at the price of
forest land today, which doesn’t account for waterfront
properties and commercial sites, such as one recently sold to
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. for hundreds of thousands of dollars an
acre, said Sheila McGrath an analyst with Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Inc. in New York.  “I’d be very surprised if they’re not vindicated because
their real estate is on the books at well below market value,”
she said today in a telephone interview.  In a note to investors, McGrath maintained her
“outperform” rating of St. Joe, with a price target of $33.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  