-- 
Winona Ryder Highlights $11 Billion Shoplifting Tsunami: Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/sticky-fingered-ryder-highlights-11-billion-u-s-shoplifting-spree-books.html
An epidemic of shoplifting is
costing American retailers more than $11 billion annually,
 Rachel Shteir  reports in “ The Steal .”  Shteir has subtitled her book “A Cultural History of
Shoplifting.” But history -- from the 18th-century
invention of the loot-concealing pocket to the success of
Abbie Hoffman’s “ Steal This Book ” in 1971 -- takes up only
the first quarter. The remainder wanders all over the map,
though since crime is an interesting subject it’s always
readable.  Shoplifting generally hasn’t been taken as seriously
as other acts of lawbreaking because of a basic paradox:
It’s small-time, even if the financial damage it visits on
businesses is brutal. As the head of one surveillance
company told the author, those in the field of “loss
prevention” are, deep down, “ashamed of shoplifting ...
because they recognize that their initial response --
outrage -- is too ferocious an emotion to feel for the loss
of an object.”  It’s the very model of a petty crime, perfect fodder
for a John Waters movie. (Waters himself, Shteir reports,
financed his early shoplifting comedies at least in part
via the real thing. “I had a special jacket for stealing
LPs,” he told an audience in 2006. “I don’t feel bad
because today I have to pay $25,000 to use some of these
songs in my films, so it’s all worked out in the end.”)  Death Penalty  Some of the most disturbing sections of Shteir’s book
are her interviews with shoplifting “addicts” -- seriously
messed-up people whose inability to control their sticky
fingers owes more to pathology than to greed. “I got to the
point where it was every day,” runs a typical confession.
“I wanted to quit but I didn’t know how.”  Most readers will probably agree that the British
Parliament’s Shoplifting Act of 1699, which imposed the
death penalty on anyone caught stealing items of more than
five shillings in value, was excessive. Yet in our own time
the  Supreme Court  has upheld a life sentence (under
 California ’s three-strikes law) for a hapless army veteran
with burglary in his past who stole about $150 of
videotapes from two Kmarts.  Then there are the celebrities -- Hedy Lamarr, Bess
Myerson and, of course, Winona Ryder, who in December 2001
was nailed by security guards for trying to steal about
$6,000 of designer clothing from a Beverly Hills Saks Fifth
Avenue.  Inept Criminal  Shteir opens with a lurid description of the store
video that captured Ryder’s inept foray into crime: She’s
“between the hat boutique and the hose boutique of the
accessories department when the amount of stuff she is
carrying overpowers her. She drops something and squats on
the floor to pick it up.”  Whatever her motives, it’s clear she wasn’t a
professional thief.  Yet in the considerable space the author devotes later
in the book to Ryder’s arrest and trial, she seems incensed
at the restraint that was shown the star, who was sentenced
to community service. No question about it: Poor nobodies
get treated more harshly by our legal system than do rich
celebrities.  But is that news -- and does it tell us anything about
the cause or the prevention of shoplifting? If this
entertaining but scattershot study has an argument to make,
I never managed to pin it down.  “The Steal” is published by the Penguin Press (256
pages, $25.95). To buy this book in  North America , click
here.  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 