-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accused of 2003 Attempted Rape in Complaint by French Writer

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-05T16:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/strauss-kahn-accused-of-2003-attempted-rape-in-complaint-by-french-writer.html
A French novelist filed an attempted
rape complaint against  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , saying the former
International Monetary Fund chief assaulted her in 2003 when she
tried to interview him.  The criminal complaint was mailed to the Paris prosecutor
today, said David Koubbi, a lawyer for Tristane Banon, the
writer.  “We are waiting for news from the prosecutor,” Koubbi
said in an interview today.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a  New York  hotel in
May. He was released from home confinement and had his bail
returned as local prosecutors uncovered evidence the 32-year-old
woman had lied about key aspects of her life.  Banon’s allegations are “imaginary” and her “complaint
arises quite opportunistically,” given that “the deceitful
nature of the accusations he faces in the U.S. is no longer in
any doubt,” according to an e-mailed statement from Strauss-
Kahn’s French lawyers, Frederique Baulieu and Henri Leclerc.
They are preparing a slander complaint against Banon at Strauss-
Kahn’s request, they said.  Banon Interview  Banon said on a 2007 French television program that she was
assaulted by Strauss-Kahn, whose name was censored when the
program aired, while she tried to interview him for a book. She
said he picked the location and when she arrived, began groping
her and trying to remove her bra. She fought him off with
“kicks and punches,” according to an unedited video of the
show on Atlantico.fr, a French news website.  Banon said in an interview with  L’Express  magazine
published today that “it made me sick seeing Strauss-Kahn free,
dining in a luxury restaurant with friends.”  Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer for the maid, was interviewed by
iTele television and said that he believed Banon was telling the
truth.  She told L’Express that she and Koubbi had been working on
the complaint since May 15, when Strauss-Kahn was charged with
attempted rape in New York, and decided to go forward with the
filing in mid-June, saying it wasn’t linked to the unraveling of
the New York prosecution. She didn’t act until now because
people including her mother and current Socialist Party
presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  discouraged her from
pursuing prosecution in 2003, she told the magazine.  Attempted rape claims face a 10-year statute of limitation
under French law.  Thibault de Montbrial, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn’s New York
accuser, declined to comment on the complaint. He was hired by
her U.S. lawyer to look for possible victims of Strauss-Kahn in
 France , he said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  