-- 
Strauss-Kahn, JPMorgan, BofA, Touradji, Bayer in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-05T11:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/strauss-kahn-bank-of-america-touradji-sabre-australia-in-court-news.html
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus
Vance Jr. must complete key elements of his investigation before
he can decide whether to drop the prosecution of Dominique
Strauss-Kahn because of lies told by the maid who accused him of
sexual assault.  Prosecutors are continuing to investigate, Daniel R.
Alonso, chief assistant district attorney, said July 3 in an
interview. Once his office has the facts, Vance must decide
whether to go before a jury with an accuser who admitted lying
to investigators and under oath to a grand jury.  If he doesn’t prosecute, based on weak or contradictory
facts turned up in his investigation, he must drop the case and
decide whether to charge his key witness with lying to the grand
jury that indicted Strauss-Kahn based on her false testimony,
defense lawyers and former prosecutors said.  There’s a “strong likelihood” the case will be dismissed
at Strauss-Kahn’s next court appearance, on July 18, said Paul
Callan, a defense lawyer and ex-Brooklyn,  New York , prosecutor.  “They’re just going to want to walk away from this case
and forget it ever happened,” said Callan, who represented a
woman charged with perjury for falsely accusing a man of raping
her at knifepoint in 2005.  The work before prosecutors includes going “word for
word” through a phone call recorded the day after the arrest,
in which the housekeeper discusses the incident with a friend
incarcerated in Arizona, said a person familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, the former International Monetary Fund
chief, was taken off an Air France flight by Port Authority
police at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on
May 14, the day of the alleged attack at the Sofitel in midtown
Manhattan. He was turned over to detectives from the New York
police Special Victims Squad the next day.  Considered a front-runner for the French presidency before
his arrest, Strauss-Kahn, who has pleaded not guilty, resigned
as head of the IMF four days later.  He was released from home confinement July 1 after
prosecutors told a judge the case had been hurt by “substantial
credibility issues” with the accuser. His $1 million bail and
$5 million bond were ordered returned. He is no longer required
to remain under armed guard and electronic monitoring.  In a letter filed the same day with the court, prosecutors
said the 32-year-old maid admitted lying to the grand jury about
her actions immediately after the alleged attack, declaring a
friend’s child as her own for two years to boost her tax refund
and misrepresenting her income to maintain her housing.  The woman also admitted lying on an asylum application
after coming to the U.S. from Guinea in January 2004,
prosecutors said.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Chase Loses Bid to End Home-Equity Line Cases  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost a bid for dismissal of a lawsuit
in which consumers accused the second-biggest U.S. bank of
wrongly cutting home-equity lines of credit.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in Chicago ruled July
1 that the homeowners could go forward on some of their claims
against the lender while dismissing allegations that JPMorgan
had engaged in fraudulent practices.  “Plaintiffs’ allegations that defendant reduced or
suspended their HELOCs without adequate justification are
sufficient to state claims for breach of contract under
Minnesota, California, Texas and Delaware law,” Pallmeyer said
in a 42-page decision.  The ruling comes in a consolidated class action, or group
lawsuit, alleging that the lender had retracted or crimped those
lines of credit without any justification for doing so. The bank
had sought to dismiss the action in its entirety.  Thomas A. Kelly, a Chicago-based spokesman for the New
York-based bank, declined to comment on the ruling.  “We feel this is a really important victory for consumers
throughout the country,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Jay Edelson of
Chicago said in a telephone interview. “Banks had believed they
could act with impunity. We’re seeing that’s not the case.”  Edelson said the next step was to seek class-wide
certification. There are thousands of similarly situated
potential class members, he said.  The case is In re: JPMorgan Chase Bank Home Equity Line of
Credit Litigation, 10cv3647, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  Bank of America Says $500 Million Lehman Order Was ‘Error’  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , ordered by a judge to return $500
million in deposits to bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and pay interest, said “the judgment was error” and should
have been in the bank’s favor.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck signed the judgment in May
after a November finding that the biggest U.S. bank took
Lehman’s deposits in the 2008 financial crisis to offset
unrelated derivative obligations, and must return them. He set
interest at 9 percent from November 2008 to December 2010. The
judge ignored a “controlling New York statute” when he
disregarded covenants in the loan agreement that allowed Bank of
America to take the deposits, the bank said in a filing July 1
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  “The bank exercised its lawful right,” said Bank of
America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, as it asked a
district judge to rule in its favor. “The bankruptcy court
imposed an unlawful waiver of rights.”  Banks that previously did business with Lehman, the fourth-
largest investment bank before its 2008 failure, are fighting
the defunct firm’s efforts to claw back money to pay other
creditors. Lehman lost an $11 billion lawsuit against  Barclays
Plc. (BARC)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is trying to get an $8.6 billion
Lehman suit dismissed.  Lehman’s lenders, including Bank of America, became
“increasingly uneasy” about the investment bank’s financial
health in the summer of 2008, Peck wrote in November. Later that
year, Bank of America took collateral posted by Lehman to cover
overdrafts, using it to offset amounts owed on unrelated
derivatives deals, according to the ruling.  The bank didn’t first ask Peck for relief from the
bankruptcy law provision that prevents such seizures, called the
automatic stay, Peck said.  Under laws governing derivative transactions, “the setoff
was permitted without relief from the automatic stay,” Bank of
America wrote in its filing.  Separately, Lehman said July 1 that creditors holding
claims of more than $100 billion signed their agreement to its
latest liquidation plan, almost three years after it failed.  The appeal is Bank of America NA v.  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 11-cv-03958, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Touradji Managers’ Bonus Claims Restored by New York Court  A New York judge reinstated three claims brought by former
employees of Touradji Capital Management LP against the
commodity hedge-fund firm that were dismissed by a lower court
in 2009.  The lower court wrongly dismissed a claim accusing Touradji
of unjust enrichment from allegedly withholding 2005 bonuses to
the employees and reinvesting it without their permission, New
York Supreme Court Justice Richard B. Lowe ruled June 30.  Gentry Beach, a former portfolio manager for Touradji, sued
in December 2008, claiming the company failed to pay him bonuses
for three years. Former employee Robert Vollero joined the
complaint in January 2009, expanding damages over the claims to
more than $50 million. Lowe’s ruling is the latest in a volley
of pretrial decisions in the case.  “It’s a technical ruling that is of no consequence on the
case going forward,” Sean O’Brien, an attorney for Touradji
said July 1 in a phone interview. “These are claims which we
are confident will ultimately be dismissed.  Lowe also reinstated a claim alleging violation of New York
labor laws ruling that the lower court erred in concluding the
former Touradji employees compensation wasn’t wages as defined
under state laws.  Beach and his colleague argued that their compensation
wasn’t completely discretionary and based on their own
productivity and not entirely based on Touradji’s financial
results, the judge said.  David Greenberger, an attorney for Vollero and Beach,
called the ruling ‘‘a positive development.”  Touradji denied the allegations and in 2008 called Beach a
disgruntled employee and poor performer.  The case is Beach v. Touradji Capital Management,
603611/08, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BP Withholding Data From U.S. Government 14 Months After Spill  BP Plc, operator of the Macondo well that erupted in the
 Gulf of Mexico  last year, is withholding data from the U.S.
government related to how much crude spewed into the sea during
the worst-ever U.S. offshore oil spill.  R. Michael Underhill, a U.S. Justice Department attorney,
disclosed BP’s failure to turn over the data while questioning
former Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , according to a
transcript of the June 6 deposition obtained by Bloomberg News.
Hundreds of lawsuits filed against BP and other companies
involved in the catastrophe have been combined in federal court
in New Orleans. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan is overseeing
scheduling of depositions.  BP has said the U.S. government’s estimate of 4.9 million
barrels overstated the amount of oil that escaped from the well
40 miles (62 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast during the 87-
day spill. The spill began April 20, 2010, with an explosion
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. BP said in its 2010
annual report that the spill probably was closer to 4 million
barrels, of which 850,000 barrels were captured, burned or
skimmed off the water.  In the deposition, Hayward said he was too busy overseeing
efforts to plug the leaking well to engage in analysis of flow
volumes. Hayward resigned from London-based BP in October.  “The bottom line was that I concluded early on that we had
very few ways of coming up with any sort of credible flow rate,
frankly,” Hayward said, according to the June 6 transcript.
“We had no device able to measure flow.”  A voice mail left at BP’s press office in Houston wasn’t
returned.  The volume of oil spilled into the Gulf is a key factor in
determining the size of any penalties that could be levied
against the company for violations of U.S. environmental laws.
The catastrophe killed 11 rig workers, injured 17, sank a $365
million vessel and shut thousands of square miles of fishing
grounds for months.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Sabre Seeks Dismissal of US Airways’ Antitrust Complaint  Sabre Holdings Corp., embroiled in a dispute with airlines
over fare and flight data distributed to travel agents, asked a
U.S. judge to dismiss an antitrust lawsuit brought by  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)   The suit, filed in April in federal court in New York,
doesn’t allege any anticompetitive conduct and fails to define a
plausible market, lawyers for Southlake, Texas-based Sabre said
in court papers filed June 30. US Airways is using the suit to
renegotiate a three-year contract signed in March, Sabre said.  “The antitrust laws are not a vehicle for large
corporations to renegotiate the terms of their commercial
agreements,” Sabre lawyers wrote. “The new agreement contains
nearly identical provisions to the contract US Airways signed in
2006 and operated under for five years without complaint.”  US Airways followed  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines in suing
Sabre, the largest U.S.-based so-called global distribution
system, as the carriers seek more control over dissemination and
sale of their products. More than 35 percent of US Airways’
annual revenue is booked through Sabre or Sabre-affiliated
travel agents, the airline said in April. Sabre collects and
shares flight data, and owns travel website  Travelocity.com .  “We are still in the process of reviewing Sabre’s recent
filing, but would note that Sabre’s anti-competitive and anti-
consumer practices are still being investigated  by the
Department of Justice and are also the subject of other
litigation,” Todd Lehmacher , a spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-
based US Airways, said July 1 in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-
cv-02725, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  German Top Judge Questions Settlements Used in Bribery Cases  A top German judge questioned the legality of prosecutors
settling criminal investigations involving major corruption
cases over the last decade.  Herbert Landau, a judge at the Federal Constitutional
Court, said the practice, which includes admitting wrongdoing in
return for leniency, may be incompatible with the German
Constitution. The constitution requires that all facts are fully
investigated in a criminal case regardless of a confession, he
said at the NStZ criminal law conference in Frankfurt July 1.  The German constitution “requires that the truth is
determined objectively,” Landau said. “Agreeing on the facts
by mutual consent of two parties isn’t compatible with” these
principles.  German companies that faced corruption probes, including
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and  MAN SE (MAN) , were able to settle cases with
prosecutors, cutting costs and resolving the matter swiftly.
Suspects in these probes, mostly company employees, also settled
their individual cases, which is part of the agreement with the
company.  The German criminal code introduced rules regulating these
agreements two years ago to reflect a routine that has been
practiced outside of any regulation since the beginning of the
1980s.  The Federal Constitutional Court has the power to strike
down laws as unconstitutional. Landau is the judge who is
preparing those constitutional cases for the full bench that
touch criminal law issues.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Australian Central Bank Currency Firms Charged With Bribery  The Australian central bank’s note-printing units and six
people including former managers have been charged with bribing
officials in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam to win currency
contracts.  Securency International Pty and Note Printing  Australia 
Ltd. were charged over alleged payments to foreign public
officials between 1999 and 2005, the Australian  Federal  Police
said in a statement on its website. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, which owns NPA and 50 percent of Securency, said in a
statement it condemns corrupt behavior of any kind and no one at
the bank has been accused of wrongdoing.  The July 1 arrests are the first under Australia’s decade-
old foreign bribery laws and coincided with related bribery
charges against two individuals in Malaysia by that nation’s
Attorney-General’s Chambers following an investigation by the
country’s anti-corruption commission, the AFP said. The RBA said
in November last year that it will sell its stake in Securency.  “It’s clearly embarrassing for the Reserve Bank, but I
think the market would make a clear distinction” between their
monetary policy and note printing functions, said Nigel
Stapledon, a former Treasury and Westpac Banking Corp. economist
who lectures at the University of New South Wales’ school of
business in Sydney. “I don’t think that it’s going to have any
material effect on people’s judgment of their performance on
monetary policy, which is more critical.”  Australian Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten , speaking after
the announcement, told reporters in Melbourne that he has “full
confidence in the Reserve Bank of Australia.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said after the announcement that
“the Reserve Bank condemns in the strongest terms corrupt or
questionable behavior of any kind.”  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Roberts Court Split Shows New Justices Are Predictable  Republican-appointed justices split with their Democratic
colleagues in a dozen cases, including the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
class-action fight, as an unprecedented dynamic shaped the U.S.
Supreme Court term that ended this week, Bloomberg News’ Greg
Stohr reports.  The newest justices fueled the trend, rewarding the men who
appointed them with consistent and predictable votes. President
Barack Obama’s two choices, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan,
voted in virtual lockstep and usually alongside fellow
Democratic appointees Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer.
Former President George W. Bush’s two selections, Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, voted together more than
any other duo.  “We’re in a different era,” said A.E. Dick Howard, a
constitutional law professor at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville. “This is the way the Roberts court is going to
be, especially now that we’ve seen enough of Sotomayor and Kagan
to see that they agree with each other and the two of them in
turn agree with Breyer and Ginsburg.”  The high court closed its term this week with rulings
striking down a California ban on the sale of violent video
games to minors and part of Arizona’s public-financing system
for candidates seeking state office. The court will reconvene in
October for a term that could include clashes over Obama’s
health-care law and same-sex marriage.  The court has long had its ideological divisions, sometimes
so  intense  that feuding justices barely spoke to each other.
Until now, those splits have always crossed party lines. The two
most recently retired justices, Republican-appointed John Paul
Stevens and David Souter, regularly voted with the court’s
liberal wing on social issues including the death penalty and
abortion.  With Kagan and Sotomayor now occupying those two seats, the
split can be a party-based one as well. The court’s five
Republican-appointed justices disagreed with their Democratic-
nominated colleagues in 10 cases this term, according to
statistics compiled by Scotusblog, a website that tracks the
court.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Washington  Mutual Reaches $208.5 Million Class-Action Accord  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former owner of the biggest
U.S. bank to fail, and its former executives, underwriters and
auditor reached a $208.5 million settlement of a class-action
lawsuit by investors.  The settlement provides for $105 million in payments on
behalf of the individual defendants, $85 million from the
underwriters, and $18.5 million from Deloitte & Touche LLP,
according to a request for preliminary approval filed June 30 in
federal court in Seattle by lawyers for the Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan Board, the lead plaintiff in the case.  The lawsuit consolidates more than 20 cases claiming the
bank secretly lowered lending standards, artificially inflated
home-price appraisals and failed to disclose its deteriorating
financial condition when the loans began to fail.  Washington Mutual, based in Seattle, filed for bankruptcy
on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over
by regulators and sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.
It was the biggest bank to fail in U.S. history, with more than
2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc. Securities,
Derivative & ERISA Litigation, 2:08-md-01919, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Bayer Will Pay $750 Million to Settle Gene-Modified Rice Suits  A  Bayer AG (BAYN)  unit agreed to a $750 million settlement
resolving claims with about 11,000 U.S. farmers who said a
strain of the company’s genetically modified rice tainted crops
and ruined their export value.  The settlement, announced July 1, ends scores of lawsuits
filed against the Bayer  CropScience unit  of the Leverkusen,
Germany-based company by farmers in Texas, Louisiana, Missouri,
Arkansas and Mississippi.  The U.S. Agriculture Department said in August 2006 that
trace amounts of the company’s experimental  LibertyLink  strain
were found in U.S. long-grain rice. Within four days, declining
rice futures cost U.S. growers about $150 million, according to
a complaint filed by the farmers. News of the contamination
caused futures prices to fall about 14 percent.  “From the outset of this litigation, we made it clear to
Bayer that the company needed to step up and take responsibility
for damaging American rice farmers with its unapproved rice
seeds,” Adam Levitt, a plaintiffs’ lawyer, said July 1 in a
statement. “This excellent settlement goes a long way toward
achieving that goal.”  Bayer confirmed the settlement in its own press statement
minutes later.  “Although Bayer CropScience believes it acted responsibly
in the handling of its biotech rice, the company considers it
important to resolve the litigation so that it can move forward
focused on its fundamental mission of providing innovative
solutions to modern agriculture,” Greg Coffey, a spokesman for
the company, said in the statement.  The accord is contingent upon the participation of growers
representing at least 85 percent of the U.S. long-grain rice
acreage planted between 2006 and 2009, the company and
plaintiffs’ lawyers said separately.  The federal case is In re Genetically Modified Rice
Litigation, 06-md-01811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Missouri (St. Louis).  For more, click here.  OZ Minerals’ $64 Million Settlement Wins Court Approval  An Australian judge approved  OZ Minerals Ltd. (OZL) ’s agreement
to pay A$60 million ($64 million) to settle two shareholder
lawsuits that claimed the company failed to properly disclose
refinancing plans and debt levels in 2008.  OZ Minerals didn’t admit any wrongdoing as part of the
settlement, the Melbourne-based company said in a stock exchange
filing July 1.  “Any settlement involves a compromise” and shareholders
won’t recoup all their losses, Federal Court Judge Arthur Emmett
said at a hearing in Sydney on June 29.  The copper and gold producer will pay the settlement to
about 9,100 shareholders. Shares of Oz Minerals plunged 79
percent in the second half of 2008, wiping out $6.5 billion of
market value, as it struggled to refinance debt amid a global
credit squeeze and declining metal prices. The company sold most
of its assets to China Minmetals Group to repay the debt.  Slater & Gordon Ltd. (SGH)  and  Maurice Blackburn Lawyers  filed
separate lawsuits on behalf of shareholders who claimed to have
been misled. Slater & Gordon said it  represented about 7,500 
shareholders while Maurice Blackburn represented about 1,600.  OZ Minerals, formed in 2008 through the merger of Oxiana
Ltd. and Zinifex Ltd., agreed in May to pay A$19.2 million,
along with A$1.8 million in legal fees, to settle the Slater &
Gordon suit.  The company agreed to pay A$35.9 million with A$3.1 million
in legal fees to settle the Maurice Blackburn suit, which was
financed by IMF (Australia) Ltd., a Sydney-based company that
funds class-action lawsuits.  The case is Between Anthony Scott and Oz Minerals Ltd.
NSD1433/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  