-- 
Stubbs, Gainsborough Records Boost $80 Million Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-07-06T12:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/stubbs-horse-sells-for-record-36-million-as-demand-for-old-masters-tested.html
Record prices for  George Stubbs  and
Thomas Gainsborough last night boosted an $80 million test of
the auction market for Old Masters.  The Stubbs fetched 22.4 million pounds ($36 million) and
the Gainsborough 6.5 million pounds, helping Christie’s
International to its second-highest total for a mixed-owner
auction of historic paintings in London.  Older pictures have traditionally been the auction houses’
highest-grossing category. Modern and contemporary works are now
more lucrative: On June 28, Christie’s auction of postwar and
living artists’ works made 78.8 million pounds, a record for the
company in the U.K. capital.  “I’m surprised that yesterday’s taste is still selling at
auction,” the London dealer  Edmondo di Robilant  said. “Though
they might not be performing as well as they were 10 or 20 years
ago, they’re still finding buyers, usually at prices that are
too high for the trade.”  Stubbs’s 1765 canvas “Gimcrack on Newmarket Heath, With a
Trainer, a Stable-Lad, and a Jockey” was bought by a single bid
in the room from the New York gallerist Piers Davies Fine Art.
Its sale had been ensured by a third party guarantor. Some
dealers said the guarantor was Irish racehorse owner John
Magnier. A spokesman for Magnier today said that he neither
guaranteed nor purchased the painting.  Stubbs’s 6-foot (1.8-meter) canvas, showing a horse that
won 27 of the 36 races he entered, was being sold by the
Northamptonshire-based  Woolavington Collection  with an estimate
of 20 million pounds to 30 million pounds.  Lord Cowdray, a member of the family that founded media
group  Pearson Plc (PSON) , was another U.K. seller, entering five lots
including the 7-foot-high Gainsborough canvas, “Portrait of
Mrs. William Villebois.”  Full-Length  Dating from the 1770s, the full-length portrait of the
granddaughter of the brewer Benjamin Truman was bought in the
room by Harry Smith, managing director of the London-based art
adviser  Gurr Johns , beating a high estimate of 6 million pounds.  A full-length 1611  Marcus Gheeraerts II  portrait of the
Countess of Hertford was sold by Cowdray for 1.7 million pounds,
again slightly more than the high estimate, to a phone bidder.  “It was a fantastic British picture sale, not a very good
Old Master auction,” said London-based dealer Charles
Beddington, who specializes in Italian view paintings.  The outstanding Italian lot was Michelangelo’s 1504 double-
sided sheet of black-chalk studies of male nudes associated with
his lost fresco of “The Battle of Cascina,” valued at 3
million pounds to 5 million pounds. It attracted a single phone
bid of 3.2 million pounds, a result that reflected the drawing’s
condition, said dealers.  Failed Lots  Gainsborough’s 1780 “Portrait of Colonel John Bullock”
and Andrea del Sarto’s 1516 “Madonna and Child” were among the
evening’s failures with low estimates of 3.5 million pounds and
2.5 million pounds. Both works had appeared on the market within
the last 10 years, deterring a limited pool of buyers.  The sale’s total of 49.8 million pounds with fees just
exceeded the low estimate based on hammer prices, with 68
percent of 61 lots successful, slightly below the equivalent
event last year. Christie’s highest total for a mixed-owner Old
Masters offering was 68.4 million pounds in December 2009.  Private bidders were dominant at the sale. Nine artist
records were achieved, including 1.6 million pounds -- more than
double the upper estimate -- paid by a telephone bidder for a
17th-century Dutch shipping scene on panel by  Simon Jacobsz de
Vlieger .  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 