-- 
Sudan’s Oil Minister, Other Southerners Dismissed Before Split

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-05T10:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/sudan-s-oil-minister-other-southerners-dismissed-before-split.html
Sudan ’s oil minister, Lual Deng, and
most other Southern Sudanese members of the national government
will be dismissed when the south becomes independent on July 9,
a government official said.  “The same thing is happening in all government
ministries,” Omer Mohamed Kheir, the Oil Ministry’s secretary-
general, said today in the capital, Khartoum, on the sidelines
of a farewell ceremony for Deng. Southerners will lose their
Sudanese citizenship when the south becomes independent.  Ali Ahmed Osman, the minister of state for oil who will run
the ministry until Deng’s position is filled, said other
southern officials will remain in the ministry “until relations
are figured out on the operations of the oil sector.”  Southern Sudan  will assume control of about 75 percent of
Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000 barrels a day when it
secedes from Sudan. Most of Sudan’s crude is pumped by  China
National Petroleum Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Negotiators agreed in May that the south will pay the north
for the use of pipelines and facilities at  Port Sudan  on the  Red
Sea  to export the crude, Deng said on June 16. They have not yet
reached accord on the level of the fees.  The national government is a coalition between President
Umar al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party  and the south’s ruling
Sudan People’s Liberation Movement. The two parties have been in
an official alliance since they signed a peace agreement in 2005
ending a two-decade civil war between the north and south.
Southern Sudan voted in January to secede from Sudan.  Negotiations Continue  The two sides agreed to continue negotiations on issues
such as the demarcation of their common border and the future of
the disputed region of Abyei after the south’s independence, the
 Intergovernmental Authority on Development , a group of East
African nations, said yesterday.  Southern Sudanese citizens who have been residing in the
north won’t be given the choice between the citizenship of the
two future separate nations, and they must leave within six
months to a year from the north, Idris Abdelgadir, state
minister for presidential affairs, told parliament last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 