-- 
Sun Valley Moguls Shift From Acquisitions to Sales to Refine Media Models

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/sun-valley-moguls-shift-from-acquisitions-to-sales-to-refine-media-models.html
Media executives gather at Allen &
Co.’s  Sun Valley  conference this week looking to shed assets
such as the Hulu LLC video website and G4 game channel amid a
declining global stock market and slowing economic growth.  Rupert Murdoch  and executives from Hulu’s owners will join
 Warren Buffett ,  Bill Gates , and  Mark Zuckerberg  among about 300
participants scheduled to arrive today for the weeklong annual
conference in Idaho organized by the investment bank.  “I talk to some bankers inside of big media players and
they are seeking to refine their models and shed some things
that they once thought they needed to own,” said Anthony LeCour,
a New York-based media investment banker formerly at LaidLaw &
Co. who is now a consultant. “We’ll see a lot of deal-making
and it’s not going to be all monster deals. There will be a lot
of small, sweet spots.”  Takeovers of technology and media companies globally
climbed 38 percent in the first half to $51.1 billion from the
$37 billion announced a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. There’s also a boom in Internet companies going
public, including LinkedIn Corp. and Zynga Inc., the largest
maker of games on Facebook Inc., with help from Allen & Co.  Overall, concerns about stock markets and slowing economic
growth are taking a toll on deal-making, with takeovers in June
tumbling to the lowest level in eight months. Still, media
stocks have been holding up. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Media
Index has gained 15 percent in the first half, compared with 5
percent for the S&P, which is down 1.8 percent from its April 29
peak this year.  MySpace Sale  Murdoch, the 80-year-old chairman and chief executive of
New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , is expected at the conference a week
after agreeing to sell the MySpace social-networking website to
Specific Media Inc. for $35 million, a fraction of the $580
million News Corp. paid six years ago. MySpace had lost its
early lead in the industry to Zuckerberg’s Facebook.  Among the assets attracting potential suitors are Hulu, the
video-streaming service owned by News Corp.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal , and G4, a Comcast unit. Top
executives from all three media companies are attending the Sun
Valley retreat, according to a copy of the private guest list
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Hulu has reached out to 10 to 12 potential bidders through
its bankers, a person familiar with the process said this month.
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have met with Hulu
bankers Morgan Stanley and Guggenheim Partners, said the person,
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  ‘Premium Programming’  Hulu, which scuttled an IPO that had been projected to
value the company at $2 billion, is an asset likely to appeal to
a large company like Mountain View, California-based Google,
according to  Shahid Khan , chairman of MediaMorph Inc., a New
York-based media advisory and venture firm.  “There’s a big move towards premium programming, which is
what Hulu has,” Khan said. “Google is the best candidate to
buy Hulu. They can monetize it a lot better, they have a strong
ad team and much better ad technologies. Plus, they have a lot
of cash.”  Chris Gaither , a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Google’s founders,  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , and its chairman,
Eric Schmidt, are on the list of Sun Valley’s attendees.  NBC Universal has been in talks to sell G4 to Ultimate
Fighting Championship, the mixed-martial-arts league, people
with knowledge of the situation said last month. The channel may
fetch as much as $600 million in a sale, according to analysts
including  David Joyce  of Miller Tabak & Co. D’Arcy Foster Rudnay,
a Comcast spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Other Networks  Comcast, which in January acquired control of NBC Universal
from  General Electric Co. (GE) , might consider selling other cable
networks in addition to G4, according to Khan.  “They have a lot of genre overlap as a result of the
acquisition,” Khan said. “They are going to have to do a lot
of rationalization of the networks.”  Among the Sun Valley participants seeking to buy assets is
IAC/InterActiveCorp.’s chairman,  Barry Diller , who in December
stepped down as CEO of the New York-based owner of websites.
Diller said IAC needed a new chief executive to seek
acquisitions. His successor, Greg Blatt, is also attending the
Sun Valley conference. Both declined to comment.  AMC, TiVo  Other media assets may come to the market.  AMC Networks Inc., spun off from Cablevision Systems Corp.,
could become a takeover target for other media companies or
private equity firms, said Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins
Stewart LLC in New York.  “A larger media company with a bigger ad sales force could
probably take advantage of AMC,” Eagan, who predicted a
takeover could occur in 2012 at the earliest, said last week.  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the Alviso, California-based pioneer of digital-
video recorders, may be of interest for a company such as Google
or Microsoft, according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. In the
cable industry, Insight Communications Inc. has hired Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and UBS AG to explore strategic options
including a possible sale.  Cable billionaire John Malone, a Sun Valley regular who is
expected to attend again this year, is trying to buy the
bookstore chain Barnes & Noble Inc. Malone’s Liberty Media Corp.
offered $1 billion in cash for the company in May.  Since 1983, the Sun Valley Conference has been sponsored by
the media investment-banking boutique Allen & Co. It is called a
“summer camp for moguls,” as the heads of industry ride around
the resort on bicycles, go fishing, hiking and white-water
rafting. Many of them bring their families, and the guest list
usually includes a few celebrities, from politics, sports or
entertainment. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and the
actress Candice Bergen are on this year’s list.  It’s the kind of place where a passing interest can blossom
into a deal, according to LeCour, the investment banker.  “You get all these powerful people to go on a retreat in
the mountains together,” he said. “It’s perfect for trading
and transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 