-- 
Supreme Court Isn’t Pro-Business, But Should Be: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/supreme-court-isn-t-pro-business-but-should-be-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The idea that the  Supreme Court  is
too pro-business is rapidly becoming the central liberal
critique of the institution. During last year’s confirmation
hearings for Justice Elena Kagan, Democrats made their theme the
need to counter pro-business activism by the conservatives on
the court.  After the court ended its latest term last week, Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Pat Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, held
a hearing on the court’s favoritism toward corporations. Press
coverage has mostly echoed the Democrats. At term’s end, Reuters
 ran the headline , “Big business scores key Supreme Court wins.”  But look carefully at this court’s decisions and it’s clear
that it is not, in fact, pro-business. And that’s a shame: The
protection of commerce should be among its primary aims.  The claim that the Roberts court is pro-business rests on
three legs. First, the court has ruled in favor of corporate
litigants in some high-profile cases such as the Wal-Mart class
action. Second, when the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has gotten
involved in Supreme Court cases, it has won a bigger percentage
during the past dozen years. Third, a  much-cited academic study 
has found that in the past few decades the court has issued an
increasing percentage of pro-business rulings.  Flawed Arguments  All of these measures are flawed. Conservatives have
defended the court from the charge of pro-business bias by
pointing to many cases, high-profile and low-profile, that
corporations lost.  In Massachusetts v. EPA, in 2007, the court ruled that the
 Clean Air Act  gave the Environmental Protection Agency the
authority to regulate  greenhouse gases  without any new action by
Congress. In Wyeth v. Levine, in 2009, the court denied that
compliance with federal regulation protected pharmaceutical
companies from lawsuits in state courts. Just weeks ago, the
court upheld an Arizona law that suspends the business licenses
of firms that employ illegal immigrants. The losing plaintiff?
The Chamber of Commerce.  That organization’s increasing winning percentage tells us
little because it could reflect more cautious choices on its
part about which cases to push. The academic study, meanwhile,
has two blind spots. It doesn’t account for the possibility that
companies have been winning cases more often as the decades have
passed because governments have been implementing more
constitutionally questionable regulations. And it doesn’t weigh
the relative importance of the decisions.  The EPA case, for example, came a month after a
controversial decision limiting sex-discrimination claims
against businesses. The prospect of carbon-emission caps is much
more alarming to business than an increase in sex-discrimination
lawsuits. And the discrimination decision was largely undone by
a subsequent act of Congress, while undoing the EPA decision is
going to be much harder if not impossible. Simply scoring these
two decisions as a .500 average for business obscures more than
it reveals.  Holding Actions  Look beyond the statistics, and a lot of the court’s pro-
business decisions seem like holding actions. The Wal-Mart
lawsuit would have classed roughly 1.5 million female employees
as plaintiffs on the theory that by giving its store managers
discretion over personnel, the company had exposed all of them
to potential discrimination. Letting the case go forward -- and
thus letting similar cases begin -- would have created a
powerful incentive for firms to centralize their decisions even
at the cost of efficiency. In contrast, none of the pro-business
decisions have shut down established lines of litigation.  Corporate America could win 60 percent of the cases testing
new theories for suing them and still steadily lose ground.  Conservative Caricature  The caricature of conservatives on the court doing the
bidding of business is wrong for another reason. In many cases,
liberals on the court have sided with business litigants and
conservatives have voted against them. The conservatives voted
to uphold the Arizona immigration law, for example. Justices
Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas , generally considered the two
most conservative members of the court, have denied that the
Constitution imposes limits on punitive damage awards. Justice
 Stephen Breyer  and former Justice David Souter, both liberals,
wrote decisions favorable to  Philip Morris  and Exxon,
respectively.  The problem with the conservative defense of the Roberts
court is that it’s too defensive. The court ought to be pro-
business. It shouldn’t twist the law to serve the interests of
corporations. But there’s no getting around the fact that the
promotion of commerce -- and particularly its protection from
politicians in the states who would exploit or block it -- was a
major reason we replaced the Articles of Confederation with the
Constitution in the first place.  Pro-Commerce Tradition  The Constitution  erects all kinds of barriers to
interference with commerce. States can’t levy “duties of
tonnage.” They can’t impair contractual obligations. They have
to get congressional approval before they can join with other
states in any regulatory compact. For much of its history, the
enforcement of this “commercial constitution” was the main part
of the Supreme Court’s business. It was  John Marshall ’s court,
for example, that ruled in 1824 that the power of Congress to
regulate commerce among the states implies that the federal
courts can stop state governments from attempting to regulate
it.  That commercial constitution has fallen into disrepair in
recent decades. Companies now have to deal with multiple
conflicting regulators, liability in hellhole jurisdictions and
pervasive legal uncertainty. None of the justices, the
conservatives included, have done much to tackle these problems.
Thomas has even cast doubt on that 1824 ruling. In 2003, the
court had a chance to rule that the constitutional command that
states give other states’ acts “full faith and credit” prevents
tort litigation that favors the most lawsuit-happy states. It
unanimously declined.  The real answer to whether we have a pro-business court,
then, is no -- and more’s the pity.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor at National Review and a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 