-- 
Swiss Banks Block Client Access to Offshore Accounts on Pending Tax Deals

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-06T08:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/swiss-banks-block-foreign-client-accounts-on-pending-tax-deals.html
Some Swiss banks are blocking clients
from gaining full access to offshore accounts in connection with
tax treaties being negotiated between  Switzerland  and  Germany ,
the U.K. and the U.S., the Swiss banking ombudsman said.  “This is a new type of complaint we’re getting” this
year, Hanspeter Haeni said by telephone yesterday, adding that
he’s not allowed to disclose the names of the banks. “I’m
afraid there will probably be more such cases.”  Total complaints this year from foreign clients about
treatment by Swiss banks have already surpassed the 39 made for
the whole of 2010. The 44 complaints received by the ombudsman’s
office this year come mostly from customers with U.S.
citizenship or a green card and from Germany, Haeni said.  Switzerland is in talks with Germany, the U.K. and the U.S.
about resolving the issue of untaxed assets held in Swiss bank
accounts. The countries are negotiating about proposed
withholding taxes on interest, dividends,  capital gains  and
investment income earned by clients with offshore bank accounts
as well as levying a tax for past non-disclosure.  The number of complaints to the ombudsman has been rising
since  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, agreed in 2009 to
disclose data on more than 4,500 American clients suspected of
 tax evasion  to the  Internal Revenue Service . German authorities
since last year have been investigating about 1,100 customers of
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest bank, after obtaining
a disk with data on undeclared accounts.  Legality Unclear  The complaints filed with the ombudsman mostly relate to
banks’ decisions to stop doing business with some clients or to
charge them higher fees to make up for a more complex regulatory
environment, Haeni said. In relation to banks’ blocking full
access to the money, the ombudsman recommends customers to talk
to the lenders directly.  “The answer to the question of whether banks are allowed
to do that isn’t at all clear,” Haeni said. “The client needs
to talk to the bank about possibilities to protect the interests
of both parties.”  Spokesmen at UBS and Credit Suisse declined to comment on
whether the banks are blocking any accounts.  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER)  and Wegelin & Co. also declined to comment.  “Blocking wealth assets without a cogent reason is not a
business policy of Zuercher Kantonalbank,” spokesman Diego
Wider said in an e-mailed statement.  The Swiss bankers association has recommended its members
provide “no active assistance” to clients on getting their
money out of the country before tax negotiations conclude, said
spokeswoman Rebeca Garcia.  Client Identities  Under the withholding tax plan originally proposed by the
association, revenue generated would go to treasuries in the
U.K. and Germany while client identities would remain secret.
Swiss banks are currently discussing how to divide a one-time
payment to German and U.K. tax authorities, Garcia said
yesterday.  Swiss banks, which manage about 27 percent of the world’s
cross-border wealth, must take measures to “mitigate or
eliminate risk” connected to their business with clients that
are not resident in Switzerland, the  Financial Markets
Regulatory Authority  said in a  report  last October. That may
mean withdrawing services from certain markets or categories of
clients, the Bern, Switzerland-based regulator said.  Haeni has been the banking ombudsman since September 1995,
acting as an independent mediator between clients and banks
based in Switzerland on specific complaints.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  