-- 
Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Swatch Gains as Holcim Declines

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-05T15:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/swiss-stocks-rise-for-sixth-day-novartis-climbs-as-ubs-declines.html
Swiss stocks closed little changed,
halting a five-day gain, as luxury-goods companies advanced and
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  declined.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s largest watch maker, and Cie.
Financiere Richemont, owner of the Cartier brand, climbed more
than 2 percent. Holcim, the second-biggest cement maker, fell
1.7 percent.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the largest maker of flavors and
fragrances, dropped 1.7 percent.  Swissmetal Holding AG (SMET)  tumbled
to the lowest price in more than 20 years after being forced to
shut a plant that it had used as bank collateral.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, slipped less than 0.1 percent to
6,243.01 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The broader Swiss
Performance Index declined 0.1 percent.  “Equity markets will continue to trend sideways through
the summer months before heading higher in the fourth quarter,”
Christoph Riniker, head of strategy research at Julius Baer
Group Ltd., wrote in a report. “Investors appear to be uneasy
given that economic leading indicators are faltering, albeit at
high levels. On the other hand, other asset classes than
equities are not compelling.”  The SMI rallied 4 percent last week, its biggest gain in
three months, after Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity
package, qualifying the country for further aid. The gauge has
still tumbled 7.1 percent since its high this year on Feb. 18 as
U.S. manufacturing and jobs reports fueled concern that the
recovery is faltering and investors speculated that  Greece  will
default on its debt.  U.S. Factory Orders  A U.S. report today showed factory orders increased in May,
indicating manufacturing may rebound from a slowdown in economic
growth in the first half of 2011. Bookings for manufacturers’
goods rose 0.8 percent, less than economists had forecast. The
Commerce Department revised the April reading of the measure to
a decline of 0.9 percent, smaller than previously estimated.  Swatch Group rose 2 percent to 439.80 Swiss francs, its
highest price since at least 1993. Richemont gained 2.1 percent
to 56.80 francs as Hong Kong jewelry, watches and clock sales
increased 61 percent year-on-year in May. They gained 55 percent
in April.  Holcim retreated 1.7 percent to 62.65 francs as a gauge of
European construction companies was the worst performer of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, sliding 1.1
percent.  Givaudan, Swissmetal  Givaudan dropped 1.4 percent to 888 francs as HSBC Holdings
Plc cut its price estimate to 1,020 francs from 1,070 francs on
lower estimates.  Swissmetal tumbled 12 percent to 4.50 francs, its lowest
price since at least 1989, after shutting a plant in Dornach,
 Switzerland  that it had used as bank collateral. Swissmetal’s
board and management plan to find a “stabilization of
liquidity” and will hold talks with the unidentified bank
tomorrow, according to a  statement .  Nestle SA (NESN)  gained 0.7 percent to 53.05 francs after the
maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe Gold Blend instant
coffee said it plans to spend 1.2 billion francs ($1.4 billion)
by 2015 to expand production capacity in  Africa , where sales
growth has outpaced that of Europe and  North America .  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, slid 1 percent to 15.43
francs and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest, lost 0.9
percent to 33.09 francs.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings may enable European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to support a private
investor rollover of Greek debt by saying a default rating would
be partial and temporary.  Trichet put Greece’s fate in the hands of ratings companies
when officials began saying in May that the ECB, which has lent
98 billion euros ($142 billion) to Greek banks, would refuse to
accept the nation’s bonds as collateral if any “burden
sharing” by private investors produced a default rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  