-- 
Syrian Boy Among 11 Killed as Forces Target Anti-Government Protest Cities

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-05T19:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/syrian-boy-among-11-killed-as-forces-target-anti-government-protest-cities.html
A boy was among at least 11
protesters killed in  Syria  as security forces targeted cities
where thousands attended anti-government rallies against
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, activists said.  At least three died today and Omar Khalouf, 12, was killed
yesterday with two adults in Hama, where tanks had been deployed
at the edge of the city north of the capital, Damascus, said
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights.
Security forces killed three protesters in Maarat al-Numan and
at least two in a Damascus suburb, said Merhi and Ammar Qurabi,
head of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria.  At least 50 people were wounded in Hama, where rallies July
1 and 2 drew as many as 400,000 people, they said in phone
interviews. Nasser al-Shami, a boxer who won a bronze medal at
the 2004 Olympics in  Athens , was among those injured yesterday,
Merhi said.  Hama was the site of an uprising in 1982 that was crushed
by Assad’s father and predecessor, Hafez al-Assad, leaving about
10,000 dead, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Pro-government forces have killed more than 1,500 people
since the start of the unrest, according to Qurabi and Merhi.
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said July 1 that Assad
is “running out of time” to meet the protesters’ demands. A
U.S.-led effort to get the  United Nations Security Council  to
condemn the violence was blocked by China and  Russia .  U.S. Criticism  The Syrian government’s talk of reconciliation with
protesters demanding more democratic rights hasn’t been met by
its actions, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
said today. “We see Hama surrounded by Syrian security forces,
so we’re going in the wrong direction,” she said, speaking to
reporters in  Washington .  Hundreds have been arrested in Hama, in the Damascus
suburbs of Harasta and Douma, in the province of Idlib in the
north and in the southern province of Daraa, where the rallies
against Assad’s rule began in mid-March, acccording to the human
rights activists.  The army has attacked demonstrators near the border with
Turkey, deploying at least 60 tanks along with helicopters in
Idlib. Three people died during rallies in the central province
of Homs July 1, according to Qurabi.  At least 20,000 people have been arrested since the start
of the unrest, and half of them remain in detention, Qurabi
said. Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while also saying that the demands of demonstrators “have
merit” and that reforms are needed.  Critics of Assad’s leadership met at a conference in
Damascus last week, as his government set up a national dialogue
committee. Most activists say such moves won’t work without
policy changes.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries.  As many as 15,351 Syrians have entered Turkey and settled
in six tent cities set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the
province of Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency
Management Presidency said today in a statement. A total of
5,673 have since returned to Syria, with the number in the camps
dropping to 9,678.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Th at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  