-- 
U.K. Names Robert Jenkins to BOE’s Financial Policy Committee

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-05T14:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-k-names-robert-jenkins-to-boe-s-financial-policy-committee.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne appointed Robert Jenkins to the Bank of England’s
Financial Policy Committee, replacing Richard Lambert.  Jenkins is chief executive officer and managing partner of
 Combinatorics Capital , and professor of finance at the London
Business School, the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement in
London today. He has previously worked at Citibank, Credit
Suisse Group AG and F&C Asset Management Plc.  Lambert said in May that he wouldn’t take up his place on
the FPC, saying that he wanted “to devote my time to a wider
range of aspects of public policy.”  The government established the FPC to help prevent a repeat
of the financial crisis, and it will operate on an interim basis
alongside the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee. Its
first policy meeting last month produced six recommendations,
including that banks take the opportunity of “strong earnings”
periods to build up capital.  The panel has five Bank of England officials including
Governor Mervyn King, plus Adair Turner and Hector Sants of the
Financial Services Authority. They sit alongside three external
members -- Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn,
former Deutsche Bank AG official Michael Cohrs and former Bank
of England Executive Director Alastair Clark.  Lawmakers said last month its “difficult” to regard Clark
as having the independence desired of external panel members
because of his “long experience” at the central bank. They
also recommended the government appoint another external member
to broaden the number of views on the body.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  