-- 
U.K. June Services Index Rises, Remains ‘Below Trend’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-05T08:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-k-june-services-index-rises-remains-below-trend-1-.html
U.K. services growth accelerated in
June as the industry rebounded from a slowdown related to an
additional public holiday. The pound erased its decline.  A gauge based on a survey of companies rose to 53.9 from
53.8 in May, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said today in a report in London.
Economists had forecast that the index would slip to 53.5,
according to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A measure above 50 indicates expansion. A measure of new
business fell in June.  Bank of England  policy makers will keep their key interest
rate and bond program on hold this week as factory and
construction surveys showed growth slowed last month, adding to
signs that the recovery is faltering, economists forecast. In
the euro area, services growth slowed more than initially
estimated, according to a separate Markit report today.  “The fractionally faster rate of growth of business
activity also masks some more worrying signs in some of the
other survey indicators,” said Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson, referring to the U.K. survey. “Inflows of new
business rose at the slowest pace for four months.”  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.6085 as of 9:44 a.m. in  London ,
unchanged from yesterday.  Markit said the rate of services expansion remains “below
trend.” It estimates that gross domestic product rose 0.3
percent “at best” in the second quarter, down from a 0.5
percent pace in the first three months of the year.  Some services survey respondents commented that the June
increase was due to a pick-up in demand from a “low base
following the extended bank holidays in the previous survey
period,” according to Markit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  