-- 
U.K. Retail Inflation Quickens to Fastest Since 2008, BRC Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-k-retail-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-since-2008-brc-says.html
U.K. shop-price growth accelerated
last month to the fastest pace since October 2008 as rising
commodity costs and a decline in the pound boosted inflation,
the British Retail Consortium said.  Retail prices rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier after
advancing 2.3 percent in May, the BRC said in an e-mailed
statement in London today. On the month, prices rose 0.5 percent
after increasing 0.1 percent in May.  Britons are seeing their finances squeezed at the fastest
pace since the 1970s as inflation outpaces wage growth and the
government implements budget cuts and increases sales tax to
reduce the deficit. The  Bank of England  will keep its key
interest rate at a record low tomorrow, economists forecast, as
recent survey data adds to signs the recovery is faltering.  “Household budgets are under pressure,” BRC Director
General  Stephen Robertson  said in the statement. “Inflation is
being driven by surging world commodity prices, the effect of
the weak pound on import costs and higher value-added tax -- all
beyond retailers’ control.”  Food-price inflation accelerated to an annual 5.7 percent
in June, the most since May 2009, from 4.9 percent the previous
month, while non-food price gains quickened to a three-month
high of 1.3 percent from 0.8 percent, the BRC said.  In a separate report today, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment
and Employment Confederation said an index of hiring of full-
time employees fell to its lowest in almost two years last
month. Demand for permanent staff rose at the slowest pace in
six months.  The gauge of permanent job placements reported by
employment consultancies fell to 52.2 from 55.1 in May, the
groups said. Readings above 50 indicate an increase in hiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  