-- 
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index Little Changed After Rally; Reckitt Climbs

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-05T08:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-k-s-ftse-100-index-little-changed-after-rally-reckitt-climbs.html
U.K. stocks were little changed,
after the longest winning streak since September, as investors
await a U.S. report that may show a rebound in factory orders
for the world’s largest economy.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  paced advancing shares after UBS AG
recommended the asset manager. Reckitt Benckiser Plc climbed
amid speculation the company will be a takeover target.  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  paced copper prices lower.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 4.09, or 0.1 percent, to 6,021.63
at 9:05 a.m. in  London , extending a seven-day rally that pushed
the benchmark gauge above 6,000 for the first time since May.
The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also advanced 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.1 percent.  “The FTSE is treading water this morning as it manages to
hover above the 6,000 mark,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader
at ETX Capital in London. “While traders are still in bullish
mode, many are likely to wait for the U.S. open before
committing funds.”  The FTSE 100 last week rallied more than 5 percent after
Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity package, qualifying
the country for further aid from the European Union. The gauge
had fallen for the previous five weeks amid concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis was deepening and as U.S. payroll and
manufacturing reports trailed forecasts.  A U.S. Commerce Department report due at 10 a.m. in
 Washington  may show that orders placed with factories rebounded
1 percent in May after falling by the most in almost a year in
April, according to economists.  Schroders, Reckitt Benckiser  Schroders climbed 2.1 percent to 1,630 pence after UBS
upgraded the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded fund manager to
“buy” from “neutral.”  Reckitt Benckiser rose 1.5 percent to 3,551 pence after the
Independent said that Unilever Plc and  Procter & Gamble Co . may
be interested in making a bid for the maker of Nurofen
painkillers and Finish dishwasher tablets. The newspaper didn’t
say where it got the information.  Xstrata lost 0.7 percent to 1,383 pence and Rio Tinto Group
dropped 1 percent to 4,490 pence.  Copper retreated for the first time in a week after a
state-owned newspaper in  China  said that the government will
probably increase  interest rates  this weekend, curbing demand
for industrial metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  