-- 
U.S. State Cuts Hit Health Care and Education While Helping Bondholders

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-s-state-cuts-hit-health-care-and-education-help-bondholders.html
Florida  is firing 1,300 workers. New
York is cutting education funding and freezing public employee
wages for three years.  Arizona  is slashing Medicaid coverage.
And municipal bondholders are having their best year since
President  George H.W. Bush  was in the White House.  Over the past six months, governors and lawmakers balanced
their fiscal 2012 budgets and protected their credit ratings on
the backs of public employees, school districts, cities and
Medicaid recipients, all of whom bore the collective brunt of
budget-cutting in states from New Jersey to  Wisconsin  to
 California .  While deficit pressure produced deep cuts in services to
taxpayers, bondholders who placed their bets on municipal debt
reaped the benefits of the market’s best second-quarter
performance since 1992, even after analyst  Meredith Whitney 
predicted as many as 100 municipal defaults valued in the
“hundreds of billions of dollars.”  States are “making a lot of true cuts,” said Justin Hoogendoorn, managing director of the strategic analytic group
at BMO Capital Markets in Chicago. “You’re seeing it in health
care, human services, education. There is definitely some pain
in those budgets.”  Two Pictures  As the fiscal year began July 1, contrasting portraits of
states and the $2.9 trillion municipal market emerged. So far in
this calendar year, the number of municipal defaults tracked by
the publication Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter -- 25
defaults on $752 million in debt -- is less than that seen in
the first half of 2010, which saw 60 defaults on $2.87 billion,
said editor Jack Colombo in a phone call from  Miami Lakes ,
Florida.  Investors who guessed that predictions of widespread
municipal defaults made at the end of last year were wrong saw
their bets pay off in the first half of 2011 as states cut
expenses.  “There is some credit pressure, given the circumstances,
but not to the degree we’re seeing with sovereign nations across
the pond,” said Mark Stockwell, director of municipal research
at PNC Advisors in Philadelphia, which has $7 billion in
municipal assets under management. “The governors and
legislatures are making the tough decisions.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Municipal Master Index,
which measures price changes and interest income, has returned
4.45 percent since March 31. That’s the most since the index of
tax-exempts gained 4.47 percent in the same period in 1992,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Munis outperformed
corporate debt and Treasuries in the quarter and in the half-
year, according to Merrill indexes.  More Storms  States, many of which have been cutting budgets since 2008,
are going into the budget year facing continued economic
uncertainty, the loss of federal stimulus dollars and tax
collections that remain below prerecession levels. Total
general-fund revenue remains 3.6 percent below prerecession
highs, even though several states have increased taxes,
according to the  National Governors Association  and the  National
Association of State Budget Officers .  After recessions in 1991 and 2001, funding for education,
health care and other services was restored as the economy
recovered. That is no longer assumed.  “It is the big unknown,” Perez said. “The question is
whether there will be a shift back.”  Shedding Workers  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  used a line-item veto to
cut almost $1 billion from the budget he signed June 30,
reducing funding for schools, police and tax credits for the
working poor. Hours before  Illinois  began its fiscal year July
1, Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  sliced $376 million from
Medicaid and school transportation programs. Illinois has
accumulated a $4 billion backlog of unpaid bills to vendors.  At least 17 states have raised retirement costs for public
employees while others, including Wisconsin and  Ohio , have
curbed collective-bargaining rights for most government workers.
Other states are following Wisconsin’s lead in targeting unions.  State government employment is down to early 1999 levels,
or in terms of employees per 1,000 population, the lowest since
1976, according to a June 13 report from  RBC Capital Markets . In
May, the state and local government workforce dropped by 30,000,
with 17,500 lost jobs coming from the education sector, the
report said.  Cutbacks at the state level have directly affected local
governments, which are already struggling with prolonged
unemployment. Miami had its credit rating cut June 27, as did
Cook County, Illinois, which encompasses  Chicago , on June 16.  Facing a projected budget deficit of $587 million, Chicago
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  told city unions June 29 that he will fire
625 workers unless they agree to work-rule changes.  BMO’s Hoogendoorn said cuts are aggravating pressures on
local governments feeling the squeeze of declining property tax
revenue.  “There’s no question there will be some austerity coming
out of the federal government and that’ll hit the states,”
Hoogendoorn said. “Even if we do get a bit of a recovery in
revenues, I don’t see it going back to peak revenues for some
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  