-- 
Somali Charged by U.S. Military With Aiding Al-Qaeda on Arabian Peninsula

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-06T21:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-s-charges-somali-national-with-providing-support-to-shabaab-al-qaeda.html
A Somali man captured by the U.S.
military in the Arabian Peninsula region in April and
interrogated by the U.S. for more than two months was indicted
and accused of providing material support to terrorist groups.  Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame is accused of conspiring from 2007
until his arrest to provide money, training, communications
equipment and personnel to al-Qaeda and al Shabaab, both
designated by the U.S. as foreign terrorist organizations, in a
federal indictment unsealed yesterday.  Warsame, identified by prosecutors as an al Shabaab leader,
allegedly worked to broker a weapons deal with al-Qaeda and
taught how to make explosives, destructive devices and weapons
of mass destruction starting in 2009.  As a result of the interrogations of Warsame, the U.S.
“has been able to obtain very valuable intelligence,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today at a briefing.  Warsame was “detained lawfully,” Carney said, adding that
the  Red Cross  was informed and had the opportunity to interview
him.  Warsame arrived in  New York  yesterday morning, according to
the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan . Warsame
entered a not guilty plea yesterday before U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in a proceeding closed to the public because the
indictment was under seal at the time, said  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Bharara.  Terrorist ‘Conduit’  “Ahmed Warsame was a conduit between al Shabaab and al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- two deadly terrorist
organizations -- providing material support and resources to
them both,” Bharara said in a statement.  Priya Chaudhry , a lawyer who represented Warsame at his
arraignment, didn’t reply to a voice-mail message left yesterday
after regular business hours.  The defendant faces a mandatory term of life in prison if
convicted of conspiring to provide material support to a terror
group, according to Bharara’s statement.  Warsame was held by U.S. officials for about two months
after he was caught, U.S. prosecutors said in a letter to
McMahon yesterday.  Daily Interviews  “During this period, the defendant was interviewed on an
all but a daily basis by certain United States officials, who
were acting in a non-law-enforcement capacity,” Assistant U.S.
Attorneys Benjamin Naftalis and Adam Hickey wrote in the letter.  After a break of four days during which he wasn’t
questioned, Warsame was informed of his legal rights. Warsame
waived his rights and spoke to law-enforcement agents for about
seven days, the prosecutors said.  At the time of Warsame’s capture, U.S. officials seized a
laptop computer, a hard drive, two USB thumb drives and a memory
card, the prosecutors told McMahon in their letter.  While Warsame was in Yemen in 2010 through this year he
received training in military weapons including explosives,
according to Bharara’s statement. The U.S. said he possessed and
used grenades and an AK-47 assault weapon while in Yemen to
commit crimes of violence.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today that he opposes bringing Warsame to New
York. McConnell said Warsame doesn’t deserve the rights and
privileges of U.S. citizens and should be tried at Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba.  Warsame “is a foreign enemy combatant and he should be
treated as one,” McConnell said today on the Senate floor,
according to his website. “He should be sitting in a cell in
Guantanamo Bay and eventually be tried before a military
commission.”  The case is U.S. v. Warsame, 11-CR-559, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  