-- 
U.S. Companies’ Cash Is More Patriotic at Home: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-07-05T02:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/u-s-companies-cash-is-more-patriotic-at-home-william-d-cohan.html
Since U.S. lawmakers are no
doubt feeling very sorry for themselves this week -- having
to work and everything -- their first order of business
should be to gobble up some low-hanging fruit.  Congressional leaders decided to eschew the
traditional July 4 recess ostensibly to try to force
themselves and their colleagues to come up with ways to
begin to close the gaping federal budget deficits -- a
virtual necessity if a credit-rating downgrade on the
 United States  government is to be avoided.  The overriding issue is reaching a compromise on a
package of spending cuts and tax increases that will allow
sparring legislators to increase the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling before a default occurs in early
August.  The stakes couldn’t be higher, of course, for our
economy, our standing in the world, our future -- and our
lawmakers. So why not get the debate off to a positive
start?  There is said to be more than $1.5 trillion in cash
sitting in the overseas coffers of American corporations.
Why not give these corporations the incentive to bring that
money home with a tax break, but in exchange demand that
they use the cash to, among other things, build new plants
and equipment, hire new employees, and invest in research
and development? Call it the Private Sector American
Reinvestment and Reinvigoration Act of 2011 -- or whatever
you want -- but get it done this week.  Big Money Abroad  Because of the success of American companies in the
global economy, they have billions of dollars in cash
trapped in the bank accounts of their subsidiary operations
overseas. According to the New York Times, Apple has some
$12 billion in cash or cash equivalents overseas. Microsoft
has $29 billion. Google has $17 billion. Cisco has nearly
$32 billion abroad.  If these companies simply repatriate the money, of
course, they are subject to tax rates of up to 35 percent.
If they leave it and use it overseas, they don’t pay any
U.S. taxes on the money. A one-time break on the 35 percent
rate -- as occurred most recently with the Homeland
Investment Act of 2004 -- would encourage companies to
bring the money back home and spend it here while pumping
new tax dollars into the Treasury to help reduce the
deficit.  Many of these corporations sense the opportunity at
hand and are lobbying Congress for a one-time “cash
repatriation” tax rate of 5.25 percent. Those against the
repatriation tax holiday cite what happened after the 2004
tax holiday as a reason to resist giving companies another
break this year.  No New Jobs  “Repatriations did not lead to an increase in domestic
investment, employment or R&D -- even for the firms that
lobbied for the tax holiday stating these intentions and
for firms that appeared to be financially constrained,”
according to a June 2009  study  of the 2004 act published by
the nonpartisan  National Bureau of Economic Research .  What happened with the cash? “Instead, a $1 increase
in repatriations was associated with an increase of almost
$1 in payouts to shareholders,” the report found.  The
pharmaceutical giant Merck repatriated nearly $16 billion
but ended up using most of it, according to regulatory
filings, to reduce its work force, increase its dividends
to shareholders, and buy back its own stock.  While it is regrettable that after 2004 these
companies defied the intent of the tax break, there is
nothing necessarily wrong with shareholders getting the
money. Shareholders spend money, too, don’t they?  Don’t Look Back  Still, rather than obsess about why the 2004 tax
holiday failed to achieve its goals, how about learning
from that experience to design a better tax break for 2011?
Last week, the editors of Bloomberg View suggested that a
deal be struck at 15 percent if companies could also
provide verifiable job growth over a three-year period,
which could generate something like $200 billion for the
Treasury if the bulk of that $1.5 trillion held overseas
came home.  While unlikely to happen at that magnitude -- tech
companies like Cisco and Apple have relatively far fewer
workers than traditional manufacturing firms and thus might
not be interested -- anything like that kind of money going
into the Treasury would help assure increasingly wary
investors (and credit-rating agencies) that lawmakers might
actually be serious about trying to reduce budget deficits.  It might also help to lower the tensions around the
increasingly rancorous debate about whether spending should
be cut or taxes raised. (My answer? Both must happen: taxes
should be raised on the wealthy and spending should be
reduced, particularly in the military.)  Variety of Rates  There is nothing magical about the 15 percent rate
proposed by the View editors, or about limiting the tax
break to companies that hire new workers. Congress could
come up with a variety of reduced rates for companies that
pump up research and development or build new offices and
factories and a smaller break for those that simply return
it to investors.  The point is that those companies that are serious
about helping to put Americans back to work and investing
in their futures -- as opposed to sitting on piles of cash
-- would get rewarded for it. The companies that can’t get
their minds -- or their economic analyses -- around the
idea of spending their cash in the United States can now
either keep it overseas or bring it back home, subject to
the regular 35 percent tax rate.  Congress should use its ruined Independence Day
holiday to solve our nation’s serious economic problems,
and a one-time tax holiday with the appropriate safeguards
and incentives would be a great act of patriotism.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule
the World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 