-- 
Uganda’s Shilling Weakens for First Day in Four Before Strike by Traders

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-07-05T13:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/uganda-s-shilling-weakens-for-first-day-in-four-before-strike-by-traders.html
Uganda’s shilling weakened for the
first time in four trading days ahead of a strike tomorrow by
retail traders in the capital, Kampala.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest coffee producer
fell 1.3 percent to 2,550 shillings per dollar at 4:31 p.m. in
Kampala, bringing its losses so far this year to 9.4 percent. It
closed at 2,517.50 shillings yesterday.  Shops in the city will be closed tomorrow and July 7 as
traders protest rising prices for  consumer goods  and the
shilling’s depreciation against the dollar, the Daily Monitor
reported, citing the Kampala City Traders’ Association.
Inflation in the East African country slowed to 15.8 percent in
June after reaching a 17-year high of 16 percent in May, while
the shilling fell to an 18-year low last month.  There had been expectations that the Bank of  Uganda  might
sell dollars in the domestic market amid concern that the strike
may lead to unrest, said Ahmed Kalule, a currency trader at  Bank
of Africa Uganda . In April and May, police in Uganda used
teargas and rubber bullets to disperse opposition supporters
protesting over the rising cost of living.  Demand for dollars picked up today after the central bank
refrained from sales of the U.S. currency, said Kalule.  “People also have it in their minds that Uganda doesn’t
have enough reserves, so whenever the shilling tries to gain
ground, there is speculative buying” of dollars, Kalule said in
a phone interview.  The central bank has sold dollars in the domestic foreign-
exchange market at least four times since June 15 as the
currency weakened to its lowest level since June 1993. Governor
Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile said last month the bank “shall not
hesitate” to stem speculative trading in the currency.  The central bank’s foreign reserves currently stand at 5.62
trillion shillings ($2.2 billion), according to the bank’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 