-- 
Tullow Raises Output Target, Expands in Kenya, Sierra Leone

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-05T15:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/tullow-raises-output-target-expands-in-kenya-sierra-leone.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the London-based
explorer with the most licenses in  Africa , raised its full-year
production target and said it plans to expand in  Sierra Leone 
and Kenya.  Tullow expects output to rise to as much as 94,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day after the final wells are completed at
the Jubilee field in  Ghana  in August, according to a statement
today. It previously gave a forecast of 86,000 barrels to 92,000
barrels a day.  After pre-empting the sale of a 10 percent stake in Sierra
Leone’s Block SL-07B-10 by  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  to Mitsui &
Co., Tullow’s interest in the project, which contains the Venus
and Mercury discoveries, will increase to 20 percent. Tullow
also raised its stake in  Kenya ’s offshore Block L8 to 15
percent.  “We are always in the market looking for acreage and
opportunities,” Exploration Director Angus McCoss said in an
interview. “The whole of the continent of Africa is something
we continuously review.”  Tullow rose 3.8 percent to 1,301 pence in London. That was
the biggest gain since March 3.  Record Revenue  Revenue is likely to have more than doubled to a record
$1.05 billion in the first half, Tullow said. The Jubilee field
in Ghana, which is pumping about 80,000 barrels of oil day, will
reach a plateau rate of 120,000 barrels a day in “late
August,” slightly later than expected, Chief Operating Officer
Paul McDade said by phone.  Revenue “was a small 6.6 percent below estimates due to
underlift,” or a gain from production that wasn’t received,
said  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said
in an e-mailed report. “The slight delay in production ramp-up
has been caused by maintenance to the blow-out preventer and
delays in commissioning water injection and gas compressions
systems” at Jubilee.  Tullow plans to drill the Jupiter and Mercury-2 wells in
Sierra Leone as part of a 15-well African program in the second
half of the year. It also completed the acquisition of a 20
percent interest in the DE-7 and Ogueyi blocks from Perenco SA
to expand in  Gabon .  In Kenya, the company will have the option of acquiring a
further 5 percent in Block L8 from  Pancontinental Oil & Gas NL (PCL) ’s
Afrex Ltd. unit after drilling the first exploration well in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  