-- 
Underwater Rare-Earths Mining Economically Unviable, CFR Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-07-05T02:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/underwater-rare-earths-mining-economically-unviable-cfr-says.html
Underwater mining for rare earths,
used in hybrid cars and plasma televisions, is economically and
possibly environmentally unviable, an academic from the
independent think-tank  Council on Foreign Relations  said.  “To get these minerals out of the ocean in the foreseeable
future and to be economically viable is still a long, long way
off,” David Abraham, an international affairs fellow at the New
York-based CFR, said in a telephone interview from Xi’an,  China ,
for Bloomberg Television today.  China, supplier of 95 percent of the 17 elements known as
rare earths, has clamped down on rare-earth mining and cut
export quotas, boosting prices and sparking concern among
overseas users such as  Japan  about access to supplies. That has
created demand to find new sources of the minerals outside of
the Asian nation and get idled Western mines into production.  University of Tokyo geosystem engineer Yasuhiro Kato and a
group of scientists catalogued hotspots of rare-earth
accumulation on the bed of the  Pacific Ocean , according to a
July 3 article published in  Nature Geoscience . The authors said
one 1-square-kilometer area around a hotspot near  Hawaii  may
hold 25,000 metric tons of rare earths. The quantity of rare
earths in the ocean floor may exceed the 110 million tons buried
on land, the journal said.  “The study shows that the concentrations of rare earths
are higher than currently what you find in China,” said Abraham,
who is also a University of Tokyo academic studying natural-
resource security. “What makes China profitable is that the
concentrations are very close to the surface. These researchers
found resources in higher concentrations, but they’re 2 to 3
miles down, they’re far from any shore, there are a number
environmental factors that are really not clear and the
technology really isn’t there.”  Rising Prices  The composite price of eight rare earths found at the Mount
Weld project in  Western Australia  surged to $205.37 a kilogram
as of yesterday, from $92.84 on March 31 and $11.59 in 2007,
according to a table of figures on the website of Lynas Corp., a
Sydney-based rare-earth developer.  Rare earths are also used in  wind turbines  and defense
applications such as guided missiles. The market for the
minerals may double to as much as $6 billion by the middle of
the decade, Ernst & Young LLP analyst Michel Nestour wrote in an
April 21 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 