-- 
Hungary Opposes Changes in Mol-INA Agreements, Orban Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-07-05T15:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/hungary-opposes-changes-in-mol-ina-agreements-orban-says-2-.html
Hungary’s Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said his government will oppose calls by the Croatian cabinet to
change existing contracts between the Hungarian refiner Mol
Nyrt. and its Croatian subsidiary.  Croatia is seeking to review 2003 and 2009 agreements
signed by Mol and the former government in Zagreb giving the
Hungarian refiner control over INA Industrija Nafte d.d.,
Croatian Economy Minister Djuro Popijac said on June 2.  “It’s our firm stance as an owner of Mol that we won’t
agree to any changes in the contract between the Hungarian and
the Croatian  oil companies ,” Orban said at a press conference
in Strasbourg today. Hungary owns 25 percent of Mol.  Mol shares pared losses following Orban’s comment after
plunging to the lowest this year earlier today on a newspaper
report that Croatia requested the extradition of Mol Chairman
Zsolt Hernadi over an alleged bribery case. The shares dropped
as much as 4.6 percent to 19,935 forint, the lowest intraday
price since Dec. 22, and closed 3.6 percent weaker in Budapest.  Tensions between Mol and the government in Zagreb have
intensified in recent months as the Croatian government seeks to
regain more influence over  INA . Croatian prosecutors started an
investigation into Mol’s alleged payment of a bribe in exchange
for management rights in INA, according to a report in Croatian
newspaper Vecerni List; and the country’s market regulator filed
charges against Mol in May, claiming market manipulation by the
Hungarian company.  Government Matter  “We’re aware of the charges, we don’t regard them as a
matter for government,” Orban said. “It’s the task of law
enforcement agencies to clarify the charges, we do not wish to
get involved in that.”  Mol holds a 47.47 percent stake in INA and the Croatian
government controls 44.84 percent.  “I’m concerned that if these attacks persist, INA’s
operations could become affected as well,” Attila Vago, an
analyst at the Concorde Zrt. brokerage in Budapest said over the
phone. “As long as these uncertainties remain, Mol’s share
price will continue to underperform its industry peers.”  Croatia ’s Prosecutor General today denied the report by
Hungarian daily  Nepszabadsag  that an extradition request for
Hernadi had been issued. The information “is not correct,”
Martina Mihordin, spokeswoman for the Prosecutor General, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The article said Croatia wants to question the Mol
executive over an alleged payment of 10 million euros ($14
million) to former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader in
exchange for management rights in INA.  “Police investigation aside, since the Hungarian
government is, as of recently, a big shareholder in Mol, the INA
deadlock should be solved by politicians, with the help of
company experts,” Davor Stern, head of INA’s supervisory board,
said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  