-- 
Hungary Opposition Warns of ‘Show Trials’

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-07-06T07:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/hungary-opposition-warns-of-show-trials-after-legal-changes.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
pledged during his election campaign last year to prosecute
political corruption. Opponents say he may persecute them after
changing the penal code.  Parliament this week approved legislation that allows the
authorities to detain politicians suspected of abuse of power or
corruption for five days without charge, rather than the
previous three days, and choose the court where such cases are
heard to “fast track trials.”  The measures may further undermine Orban’s democratic
credentials after  Freedom House , a New York-based organization
that promotes human rights, said his first year in power led to
the “most significant backslide” in Hungarian democracy since
the end of communism in 1989. Orban’s Fidesz party won a two-
thirds majority in parliament last year, letting it approve a
new constitution over the objections of the opposition.  The government has “set the stage for show trials,”
Gergely Barandy, a member of parliament from the opposition
Socialist Party, said yesterday in an interview. “Orban’s party
always alluded to political vengeance, but they elegantly called
it ‘holding to account,’” he said. “That prosecutors may now
assist in this is horrendous.”  The changes to the penal code may be  unconstitutional  and
violate judicial independence, according to an opinion from the
 Supreme Court ’s College of Criminal Justice, posted on the
website of the Association of Hungarian Judges.  ‘Public Confidence’  Orban was elected last year as  Hungary ’s worst recession in
18 years and the Socialist party’s admission that it lied about
the health of the economy eroded support for his predecessor.
Orban named a commissioner in charge of “accountability” after
assuming power.  Fidesz’s press office didn’t return calls seeking an
interview on the penal code issue.  The changes were designed to “make rules applying to
politicians and big financial crimes stricter,” after such
abuse “fundamentally undermined public confidence in the past
eight years,” Janos Lazar, the parliamentary leader of Fidesz,
told lawmakers June 20.  Ruling-party lawmakers initially sought to bar suspects
from contacting their lawyers in the first 48 hours of
detention, according to a draft posted on parliament’s website.
They backed down before the final vote, approving language that
allows defense lawyers to accompany suspects “even if the
prosecutor bans contact between suspect and the lawyer.”  Ex-Spy Chiefs Detained  Gyorgy Szilvasy, the minister who oversaw the security
services under former Prime Minister  Ferenc Gyurcsany , was
detained last week along with two former agency chiefs, Lajos
Galambos and Sandor Laborc, state-run news service  MTI  reported.
Szilvasy is charged with spying, MTI said yesterday, citing his
lawyer, Peter Sebes.  Szilvasy and Laborc have been released and Galambos is
under house arrest, MTI reported, citing their lawyers. The
Chief Prosecutor’s Office declined to comment today.  “The government’s actions and rhetoric to date suggest
that it intends to undermine liberal democracy in Hungary,”
Freedom House said in its annual report published June 27.  Investors, who punished Hungary last year because of
concern about a rising budget deficit, have focused on the
government’s fiscal policy rather than domestic politics.
Orban’s government funneled private pension funds to the budget
this year to plug budget holes and is cutting welfare spending
to reduce the deficit to less than the European Union limit of 
3 percent of gross domestic product.  Orban Program  The forint has gained 5 percent against the euro this year,
making it the best performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The difference in yield between Hungary’s
10-year bonds and German government debt of similar maturity
narrowed to 432 basis points yesterday from 499 on Dec. 31,
based on generic Bloomberg data.  Orban’s government limited the power of the Constitutional
Court and boosted the number of judges with ruling-party
appointees, passed a new Constitution over opposition protests,
and put party allies in charge of at least four independent
institutions, including the audit office.  A law approved last year empowered a council made up of
ruling-party appointees to fine or shut down media outlets,
drawing criticism from the European Commission, the European
Union’s executive, the  United Nations  and the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in  Europe .  The U.S. is seeking a “real commitment to the independence
of the judiciary, a free press and governmental transparency,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said June 30 in Budapest
after meeting with Orban.  “When justice is served, it must be administered with due
process and judicial integrity, not political vengeance or
partisan meddling,” Clinton said at the inauguration of the
 Lantos Institute , dedicated to advancing human rights and named
after the late Congressman and Hungarian native Tom Lantos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  