-- 
Turkish Air Chief Plans No Acquisitions ‘For The Moment’

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-05T16:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/turkish-air-chief-plans-no-acquisitions-for-the-moment-1-.html
Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO, the carrier
known as  Turkish Airlines , aims for increased cooperation with
Spanair SA and has no plans for acquisitions “for the moment,”
Chief Executive Officer Temel Kotil said.  There’s “no progress” in talks to buy a controlling stake
in  Serbia ’s JAT Airways, Kotil said in an interview today in
Istanbul. Turkish Airlines is seeking more cooperation with
Spanair in addition to a code-sharing agreement with the
company, he added, without giving specifics.  Turkish Airlines is expanding routes, buying more planes
and spending more on advertising to grab market share from
rivals including British Airways. It now flies to 142
destinations worldwide, Kotil said. The company ordered 13
planes from Airbus in March.  “There are several carriers in  Europe  and the Balkans that
are seeking partners but our board hasn’t made a strategic
decision to look for a partner at the moment,” Kotil said. “We
have a code-sharing agreement with Spanair and have had some
talks with Spanair on partnership but our main focus is
cooperation for more flights and destinations with them,” Kotil
said. “We can have joint flights to  South America .”  Turkish Airlines fell 9 kurus, or 2.1 percent, to close at
4.16 liras on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange , the biggest drop
since May 27.  Profit Forecast  Spanair was in talks with Turkish Airlines about allowing
the Turkish carrier to buy a stake of as much as 49 percent,
Spanish newspaper Expansion reported May 31, citing people
familiar with the talks.  Turkish Airlines expects a profit this year, following a
net loss of 332 million liras ($204 million) in the first
quarter, Kotil said.  The company will “almost realize” its sales forecast of
$7.5 billion for 2011, Kotil said. “We are a little over the
budget in the first half and we expect to be a little lower in
the remainder of the year and therefore we expect to reach the
target,” he said.  “We haven’t revised our budget for 2011” because of
adverse effects of the political upheavals in the  Middle East 
and North Africa, Kotil said.  The airline will carry “a very little less than” the
targeted 35 million passengers this year, Kotil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 