-- 
Turkish Central Bank Foresees Less Tightening

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-05T11:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/turkish-central-bank-sees-less-need-for-monetary-tightening.html
Turkey ’s central bank said the need
for monetary tightening is lessening because growth will slow
and the outlook for inflation is “positive.”  Action by the banking regulator on June 18 to raise the
cost of lending to banks will “control the rapid expansion in
credit,” according to a policy  briefing  published today on the
Ankara-based bank’s website. Concern over debt sustainability in
Europe may also curb growth and reduce the need for higher rates
or  reserve requirements  for banks, the bank said.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci is trying to slow growth
from an annual 11 percent in the first quarter by restricting
 consumer credit . Data in the briefing document showed the rate
of loan growth in June slowing below the average over the
previous five years, supporting Basci’s case for adjusting
growth through bank credit, not the benchmark rate.  “The central bank is as dovish as ever,” Isik Okte, a
trader at Finans Invest in Istanbul, said by e-mail. “When they
say the inflation outlook is good, that means to me they are
going to stand behind their policies and not raise.”  Yields on benchmark two-year lira debt extended their
decline after the announcement and were trading 7 basis points,
or 0.07 percentage points, lower at 8.94 percent in Istanbul at
12:26 p.m. The lira was 0.9 percent weaker at 1.6300 per dollar.  Basci has held its benchmark one-week repo lending rate at
a record low of 6.25 percent since January, seeking to deter
capital inflows.  Quarterly GDP  The bank said quarterly growth will almost stagnate in the
second quarter. Gross domestic product expanded 3.6 percent in
the last three months of 2010 and 1.4 percent in the first three
months of this year.  “The slowdown in domestic demand reduces the perceived
need for additional tightening,” according to the statement.  Inflation slowed in June to 6.2 percent from 7.2 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its
website yesterday. That was less than the median forecast of 7
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 11 economists.  Inflation is on the bank’s forecast path, which leads to a
year-end rate of 6.9 percent, the bank said today.  The bank said it may have to narrow the spread between its
overnight borrowing and lending rates, currently 7.5 percentage
points, if worries over debt sustainability in  Europe  cause a
“weakening in capital flows to our country.”  The 12-month current-account gap more than doubled from a
year earlier to $63.4 billion in April, the most since records
began in 1984 and equivalent to about 8.5 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 