-- 
Vale Sees No Slowing of China Iron-Ore Demand, CFO Says

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-07-05T20:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/vale-says-company-not-concerned-about-china-slowdown-correct-.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, sees no slowdown in demand from  China  as the country
seeks to build 36 million low-income houses in the next five
years, Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Cavalcanti said.  The country will continue leading global consumption of the
steelmaking raw material as it invests in new dwellings and
infrastructure, Cavalcanti said on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse with Maryam Nemazee” today in  London . Difficulties in
bringing new projects to the production stage will cause a
demand-supply imbalance lasting six or seven years, he said.  “We aren’t feeling any contraction in demand for iron ore
mainly because infrastructure building is still going on in
there and also social housing,” Cavalcanti said. “The
urbanization process in China is far from over, so we think that
these will keep leading the demand for  iron ore .”  China’s factory index fell to the lowest level since
February 2009 last week, adding to concerns that 12 reserve-
requirement increases and four interest-rate increases since the
start of last year are curbing growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy. Vale shipped about 41 percent of its total iron
ore and pellets sales to China in the first-quarter.  The dollar today rallied versus the euro, snapping a six-
day drop, on speculation China’s efforts to tame inflation will
cool growth and damp demand for riskier assets. The U.S.
currency climbed against 14 of its 16 major peers after the
Beijing-based Economic Information Daily said China is likely to
raise  interest rates  this weekend.  Market Tightness  “The tightness of the market, because of the difficulties
in many companies to deliver the projects to put supply on, will
probably leave the market imbalanced for six to seven years,”
Cavalcanti, 42, said.  Vale last week cut its long-term iron-ore output forecast
by about 10 percent to 469 million metric tons by 2015. The
company said earlier this year that it delayed the start of four
projects for as many as two years amid equipment, workforce and
licensing constraints.  “Because of the delays that we have, we revised the figure
for 2015,” Cavalcanti said today, adding that Vale is
maintaining this year’s target at 311 million metric tons.  No ‘Bidding War’  Prices for iron ore delivered to China, the largest user,
jumped 27 percent in the past year and have more than doubled
since 2009. The price of ore with 62 percent iron content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin gained 0.2 percent to
$168.5 a metric ton today, according to the Steel Business
Briefing Commodities Research.  Vale, which is aiming to boost copper output almost
fivefold to 1 million metric tons by 2015, in April bid $1.1
billion bid for Johannesburg-based  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  Jinchuan Group
Co., the biggest Chinese nickel producer, today offered 8.90
rand a share for the company, trumping Vale’s 7.35 rand a share
offer.  “We aren’t concerned about the bidding war because we have
our limit on price,” Cavalcanti said. “And we will not go to a
bidding war.”  “We already are leaders in iron-ore, we are the second
largest in nickel and we really want to increase in copper, coal
and fertilizers,” Cavalcanti said during the interview. “The
focus in terms of regions in the world would be Africa and
 Indonesia  because there are places where you can still find high
grades in unexplored mines,” he said.  Vale will only issue bonds this year if there is a “market
window with very good rates” as the company currently doesn’t
need the funding, Cavalcanti said. “At the moment I have no
plans,” he said.  Vale fell 72 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 46.33 reais in
Sao Paulo trading. The stock has dropped about 4 percent this
year, less than the 9 percent decline in  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  