-- 
Voter ID Laws Paint Republican Party Deeper Into a Corner: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/voter-id-laws-paint-republican-party-deeper-into-a-corner-view.html
When President  George W. Bush 
departed  Washington  in 2009, he left behind a world of trouble
and a golden opportunity for his party. Bush arguably did more
than any Republican in his lifetime to scrub the taint of racial
politics from the party’s brand. What’s more, his efforts were
gaining supporters.  Bush won 44 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2004, a record
for a Republican. He subsequently tried to push an  overhaul of
immigration laws  through Congress, but was blocked by senators
in his own party. His share of the black vote increased as well,
from 9 percent in 2000 to 14 percent in 2004.  Bush appointed two blacks --  Colin Powell  and  Condoleezza Rice  -- not to symbolic posts but to the vast responsibilities
of secretary of state. (It’s an open question whether this
sustained example of black power atop the federal government was
a necessary predicate for Barack Obama’s 2008 election.) And the
Republican Party chairman, Ken Mehlman, in 2005  publicly
apologized  for the party’s history of courting white votes
through racial code words and  Willie Horton-style ad  campaigns.  Democrats, too, had run race-baiting campaigns -- long
after the party became the champion of civil rights. But these
campaigns were typically run locally, often in municipal primary
elections, enabling the national party to rise above them. When
 Hillary Clinton ’s campaign flirted with racial politics in the
2008 presidential primary, many fellow Democrats denounced it.  Bush was positioning his party for similar success in a
multiracial nation. Unfortunately, too many Republicans seem
determined to squander the opportunity.  Latest Misstep  Their latest misstep is a wave of voter identification laws
sweeping Republican-dominated state legislatures. Last month,
Texas joined  Alabama ,  Kansas ,  South Carolina ,  Tennessee  and
 Wisconsin  in enacting laws requiring citizens to show
government-issued identification in order to vote. Similar
legislation is under consideration in dozens of other states.  The Kansas secretary of state, a longtime conservative
activist named  Kris Kobach , has led the drive for voter ID laws.
In a recent  interview  with  National Public Radio , Kobach
explained the impetus for his efforts. Between 1997 and 2010, he
said, Kansas experienced “221 cases of reported voter fraud.”  During that same period, Kansans cast more than 10 million
votes in 16 statewide elections alone. Even if every fraud
allegation were legitimate -- doubtful, because not a single
criminal conviction resulted -- the rate of fraud would be
minuscule. There were far more reported UFO sightings in Kansas
over the past decade than reported acts of voter fraud.  Exempting the Elderly  So what’s the point? According to numerous surveys, blacks,
Hispanics, the elderly and the young are less likely to possess
a driver’s license, passport or other form of government-issued
identification. Other than the elderly, they are also largely
Democratic constituencies. Republican legislators in  Texas  went
so far as to exempt voters over age 70, who trend Republican,
from the state’s  new voter ID law . For younger Texans, a
concealed-weapons permit allows the bearer to vote. A student ID
from the state university does not. The legislation couldn’t
have appeared more partisan had it been branded with an “R.”  It’s doubtful these laws will benefit Republicans. Actual
cases of voter suppression may prove to be no more prevalent
than voter fraud. Instead, the laws will simply undermine their
sponsors’ political standing among minority voters, many of whom
already perceive the Republican Party as a hostile entity that
indulges racial fears and treats minority empowerment as a
threat.  In June, two Republican operatives were  indicted , accused
of trying to suppress black voter turnout in last year’s
Maryland gubernatorial election. Regardless of whether such
efforts break the law, they are typically motivated by short-
term partisan calculation, not deep-seated racial animus. But
campaign tactics like that, and the growing number of voter ID
laws, put Republicans at a disadvantage as the U.S. grows
increasingly diverse.  Midterm Triumph  In 2010, amid the greatest Republican midterm triumph in
more than half a century, Democrats swept all eight statewide
races in  California  and didn’t lose a single congressional seat.
Asians, the state’s highest-earning ethnic group, and Hispanics,
its lowest-earning, each voted Democratic by a 2-to-1 ratio.
California may be especially liberal, but its  racial mix , in
which Asians, Hispanics and blacks together outnumber whites, is
a harbinger of the country’s future.  “I don’t think 40 percent of the Hispanic vote can be our
ceiling if we plan to impact our nation in the coming decades,”
former Florida Governor Jeb Bush  wrote  of Republicans in
January. Yet too few Republican leaders recognize the party’s
urgent need to break its monochromatic brand. In his 2005
speech, Mehlman said, “It’s not healthy for the country for our
political parties to be so racially polarized.” As the U.S.
grows increasingly diverse, the  Republican Party  is painting
itself into a dangerous corner.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 