-- 
Western Union to Buy Travelex Payments Unit for $976 Million

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-07-05T15:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/western-union-to-buy-travelex-payments-unit-for-976-million.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the world’s
largest money-transfer firm, agreed to buy a business-payments
division of London-based Apax Partners LLP’s Travelex for 606
million pounds ($976 million).  The Travelex Global Business Payments unit handles
transactions for 35,000 customers a year in 14 countries,
Englewood, Colorado-based Western Union said today in a
statement. The  unit  is expected to produce 150 million pounds in
revenue this year, according to the statement.  “Adding Travelex Global Business Payments provides us
immediate scale,” expanding on a 2009 acquisition that gave
Western Union a start in business-to-business international
payments, Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek, 50, said in a
telephone interview. “We are serving again here the
underserved, these are small importers or exporters which have
difficulties doing their cross-border payments.”  Western Union has relied on consumer-to-consumer services
to generate 84 percent of the firm’s $1.28 billion revenue in
the first quarter, according to the company’s financial report.
Travelex has described its business-payments unit as the world’s
largest non-bank provider of foreign exchange and risk
solutions.  Ersek has been expanding Western Union’s operations in
 Europe . The company said last month it would buy the rest of
Finint Srl, an Italian money-transfer firm. This year, it also
spent $136 million to complete a takeover of Angelo Costa Srl,
another Italian company that does money-transactions, according
to a regulatory filing.  Founded in 1976, Travelex serves consumers through a
network of more than 950 stores and 450 automated teller
machines, according to a May  statement  on its website. It
handles about 20 billion pounds of foreign exchange transactions
annually.  The all-cash acquisition is expected to be completed in
late 2011, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  