-- 
West Gasoline Discounts Widen on “Healthy” Refiners in Region

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-05T19:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/west-gasoline-discounts-widen-on-healthy-refiners-in-region.html
Spot gasoline in California weakened
against futures for the second straight day on normal refinery
operations and low demand.  The discount for prompt-delivery, California-blend
gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  widened 2.25 cents to 8.75
cents a gallon versus futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange as of 2:07 p.m. New York time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel fell 0.5 cent against futures
July 1.  The discount for Carbob in  San Francisco  widened 2.75 cents
to 12.25 cents a gallon versus Nymex futures. And conventional,
87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , weakened 2.75 cents to a
discount of 4.5 cents.  Chris Mennis, president of broker New Wave Energy LLC, said
“healthy West Coast refiners” and “lack of demand” is
driving prices down.  London-based BP Plc was scheduled to end maintenance and
flaring at its Carson, California, refinery on July 2.  The  California  State Board of Equalization said in a report
last week that gasoline consumption fell 2.7 percent in March.
Diesel demand sank 6.9 percent in March, the board said.  The premium for California-blend, low-sulfur diesel in Los
Angeles remains unchanged at 8.5 cents a gallon versus Nymex
heating oil futures. The premium for the same fuel in San
Francisco strengthened 0.12 cent to 8.5 cents.  Pipeline Shut  A pipeline in southern California that leaked 20 barrels of
crude oil last week remains shut, Jeff Lopez, deputy fire
marshal for the Huntington Beach Fire Department, said in a
telephone interview today. Producers including Aera Energy LLC
have been forced to deliver oil to customers by truck, he said.  “About 2,500 barrels a day is being trucked because of the
pipeline just for Aera. There are other users too,” Lopez said.  The line, operated by  Long Beach , California-based  Crimson
Pipeline LP , delivers crude to Alon USA Inc.’s Paramount
refinery, according to a  map  posted on Crimson’s website. Lopez
said refineries in Wilmington, California, may also receive oil
from the shut conduit.  The pipeline was scheduled to be repaired today, Lopez
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 