-- 
Complaints Over China Raw-Material Exports Bolstered by WTO

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-06T02:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/wto-bolsters-complaints-over-china-exports.html
Complaints against  China  by the U.S.,
European Union and Mexico were bolstered by a  World Trade
Organization  finding that the nation’s limits on raw-materials
exports broke global rules and gave domestic companies an edge.  The ruling yesterday on the Geneva-based trade arbiter’s
website was after an 18-month investigation of quotas, export
duties and license requirements. China said it was evaluating
the report. An appeal is highly likely, Mei Xinyu, a professor
at a government trade institute, said today.  The restrictions have stoked tensions between China and its
trading partners and boosted raw-material prices. The ruling may
encourage the U.S. and the EU to now target Chinese restraints
on rare earths, a group of 17 elements used in  wind turbines ,
hybrid cars and guided missiles.  The finding is “a significant victory for manufacturers
and workers in the U.S. and the rest of the world,” U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk said yesterday in an e-mail. The duties
“have caused massive distortions and harmful disruptions in
supply chains throughout the global marketplace.”  The commodities at stake in yesterday’s decision included
magnesium, manganese, silicon carbide, fluorspar, silicon
carbide and yellow phosphorus, used by the steel, aluminum,
automotive and chemicals industries.  ‘Expected to Appeal’  Mei, of the Chinese Academy of International Trade and
Economic Cooperation, said “there’s a 95 percent chance China
will appeal.” He was speaking in a phone interview in Beijing.  James Bacchus, a former chairman of the WTO appeals
tribunal, told Bloomberg Television that “China can be expected
to appeal.” Bacchus, a partner at Greenberg Traurig LLP and a
former member of the U.S. congress, also said that China is
likely to comply if it ultimately loses the case.  China is studying the report and will follow up as
appropriate, the Ministry of Commerce  said  today, adding that
the government “feels regret” at the findings.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, is the top
producer of cadmium, gold, indium,  iron ore , lime, lead,
manganese, mercury, molybdenum, phosphate, salt, tin, tungsten,
vanadium and zinc.  “The panel found that China’s export duties were
inconsistent with the commitments that China had agreed to in
its Protocol of Accession,” WTO judges said in a summary of a
315-page ruling. “Export quotas imposed by China on some of the
raw materials were inconsistent with WTO rules.”  Natural Resources  China said the restrictions are necessary to conserve
exhaustible natural resources and ease overproduction and
emissions of carbon and sulfur gases from furnaces. The U.S.,
the EU and  Mexico  said the curbs discourage the export of
materials that are critical for their manufacturers, while
keeping them cheaper and readily available in China.  The WTO panel said that China was “unable to demonstrate”
that the export duties curtailed pollution. China’s government
has the right to appeal the decision.  U.S. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, called on
China to end the export limits.  “This market manipulation costs American jobs and economic
growth,” Baucus said in an e-mail. “As a WTO member, China has
a responsibility to play by the rules and respect the rights of
its international partners.”  Rare Earths  Chinese limits have triggered sixfold increases in prices
for some rare earths, souring ties with users including the U.S.
and  Japan . The government may further reduce quotas, pushing
prices higher, Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty said in
May.  “I expect that China will now bring its export regime in
line with international rules,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in a statement. “In light of this result, China
should ensure free and fair access to rare-earth supplies.”  China, supplier of 95 percent of global rare earths, has
said the curbs protect the environment and meet its WTO
commitments. The country’s Inner Mongolia Baotou region produces
so-called light rare earths such as lanthanum, cerium and
samarium. Heavy rare-earth production, mostly in southern China,
includes the elements dysprosium, gadolinium and terbium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  