-- 
Yuan Forwards Snap Five-Day Gain on Economic Growth Concern

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-05T03:57:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/yuan-forwards-snap-five-day-gain-on-economic-growth-concern.html
Yuan forwards weakened for the first
time in six days on speculation the central bank will limit
currency gains as deteriorating growth prospects in the U.S. and
 Europe ’s debt crisis dim the outlook for  China ’s economy.  The People’s Bank of China “must pay close attention to
the latest international and domestic economic and financial
trends and influences, and implement a prudent monetary
policy,” it said yesterday. Manufacturing expanded in June at
the slowest pace in more than two years, whiles services output
cooled, according to the findings of purchasing managers’
surveys released this month by the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing.  “The PBOC statement is more balanced as it has mentioned
risks in the global economy,” said David Dimmock, director of
fixed income and currencies at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.12 percent to
6.3783 per dollar as of 11:26 p.m. in  Hong Kong , a 1.3 percent
premium to the spot rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yuan slipped 0.02 percent to 6.4639 in  Shanghai ,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency touched 6.4599 yesterday, the strongest level since the
country unified official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.05
percent to 6.4605.  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate 0.02 percent stronger at 6.4650, the strongest level since
July 2005. The currency isn’t allowed to trade more than 0.5
percent on either side of the fixing.  ‘Marked’ Slowdown  The People’s Bank of China may “appropriately” ease the
pace of policy adjustments as the economy has shown “marked”
signs of slowdown, according to a commentary published in
today’s Financial News newspaper. The central bank will maintain
the basic “prudent” tone for its monetary policy, according to
the commentary written by Niu Juanjuan, a reporter at the
newspaper that’s published by the Chinese central bank.  The  International Monetary Fund  cuts its 2011 growth
forecast for the U.S. to 2.5 percent last month, from an April
estimate of 2.8 percent. The lender, along with European Union
governments, has also participated in bailouts for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  