-- 
Zombies in Your Head, Not Mind, Control Daily Life: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-07-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-05/zombies-in-your-head-not-mind-control-daily-life-interview.html
You may feel in control, but you’re
actually driven by neural “zombie systems” you’ll never even
be aware of.  David Eagleman’s “Incognito: The Secret Lives of the
Brain,” strips away the primacy of our conscious mind,
exploring the underlying forces actually determining our
choices.  Directing the  Laboratory for Perception and Action at the
Baylor College of Medicine  in Houston, Eagleman studies time,
synesthesia and neurolaw.  But he’s no ordinary neuroscientist. “ Sum ,” his book of
short stories about various afterlives, is an international
best-seller, translated into 23 languages. It led to a
collaboration with Brian Eno; composer Max Richter will debut a
full-length work based on “Sum” next year at  London ’s  Royal
Opera House ; and the screen rights have just been sold.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  Manhattan .  Lundborg: How is consciousness like a “tiny stowaway on a
transatlantic steamship?”  Eagleman: The conscious mind is the smallest bit of what’s
transpiring in the brain.  Even though we feel like we’re the ones navigating our
lives, there is quite a bit about our desires, our motivations,
our attractions, our hopes and our beliefs that is generated by
parts of our brain that we don’t have access to and we’re not
even acquainted with.  The brain is essentially this massive computational device
that runs all of its operations under the hood.  Lundborg: So many implications -- for example, you say men
find women with dilated eyes more attractive without knowing
why.  Eagleman: Yes. When men were shown photographs of women’s
faces, the men uniformly found the women with dilated eyes more
attractive.  None of the men were able to say “Oh, I noticed her pupils
were a millimeter larger in this photo.”  And none of the men
knew consciously that dilated eyes are a sign of sexual
readiness in women.  Nonetheless, their brains knew that. They have all kinds of
information that their brains are picking up at a deeper level,
and it drives them toward that behavior.  Lundborg: Men want full lips, full buttocks, and a narrow
waist, while women a full jaw, stubble, and a broad chest.  Eagleman: These are signs that broadcast one signal: “I am
fertile.”  It’s not that we’re really making a choice about
what we find beautiful; we have millions of years of evolution
driving us towards having that conscious summary.  Lundborg: What happens to romance?  Eagleman: We feel love, but it all has to do with securing
a mate and reproduction and so on, which is not to say that we
can’t enjoy every bit of it. But it’s not there without purpose.  Lundborg: Do the “zombie systems” running things without
any input from the conscious mind mean free will is an illusion?  Eagleman: Some scientists think so, but what I conclude is
that we might have free will but it’s probably going to be a bit
player in the operations of the brain.  Consciousness does seem to be useful for setting the long-
term goals of the system exactly the same way that a CEO does.  Lundborg: You say we’re nearing a time when stock market
data could be plugged directly into the brain. How would that
work?  Eagleman: This is the subject of my next book on brain
plasticity, called “Live Wired.”  The brain is this alien kind of computational device that
can wrap itself around whatever inputs it has. So there’s
nothing special about eyes and ears and nose. Those are just
essentially peripheral plug and play devices that can send data
fibers into the brain, and the brain figures out what to do with
it.  You should be able to plug anything, any data cables, into
the brain and it will learn how to interpret those and it will
actually have perception.  Lundborg: How exactly do we plug those in?  Eagleman: Electrodes directly into the cortex, but it’s not
safe yet.  Lundborg: How can science address larger business issues?  Eagleman: Your brain operates as a team of rivals. You are
made up of all these competing neural networks that we can image
now, these networks that are all battling it out under the hood.  This gives us a new and nuanced way of understanding how
people make decisions.  When we look at things like financial
markets, the future of economics is agent-based modeling, where
people look at how individual humans make decisions and interact
with one another, combined with the diversity of human beings.  The future of economics is going to be simulating giant
populations of people interacting and trading with one another,
and that’s something I’m interested in doing in the future.  Lundborg: What are you working on now in the lab?  Eagleman: Among other things, I’m studying time perception,
and what’s surprising is that it’s so fluid and that we’re not
just passively tracking this river of time. It’s that we’re
actively constructing it with our brains. In my lab, I can show
that it’s flexible.  Lundborg: What are you writing?  Eagleman: My next four books are well under way and some of
them are almost done now. The first is on how the brain rewires
its circuits all the time.  Then I’m finishing a cognitive neuroscience textbook for
undergraduates.  There’s “Brain Food,” essentially “Freakonomics” for
the brain. It’s all this really cool stuff that you’ve never
read anywhere else.  And then I’m working on “Eon,” my book of fiction, which
takes place over 200 billion years.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 