-- Adobe Systems Names ValueAct Capital’s Kelly Barlow to Board
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-05T23:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/adobe-systems-names-valueact-capital-s-kelly-barlow-to-board-1-.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest maker
of graphic design software, added Kelly Barlow, a partner at
investor ValueAct Capital Partners LP, to its board, expanding
the number of directors to 13 from 12.  ValueAct, a San Francisco-based investment firm with more
than $8 billion under management, has a 6.3 percent stake in the
 San Jose , California-based company. Adobe said in a  filing  that
ValueAct owned 31.3 million shares as of yesterday, which would
be worth $1.11 billion at today’s closing stock price.  Adobe, which makes print and Web design programs including
Photoshop, Illustrator and Dreamweaver, is undergoing a period
of slow  growth  -- sales are expected to expand 3 percent this
year and next, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Its stock has declined 19 percent over
the past five years, compared with a 13 percent  gain  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index during the
same period.  In an interview in April at an event to release the
company’s Creative Suite 6 package of design software, Chief
Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen called his interactions with
ValueAct “a very collaborative relationship” and declined to
expand on any discussions.  ValueAct and Adobe have agreed that Barlow or his
replacement must resign from the board if the investment firm’s
stake drops below 5 percent. ValueAct also agreed not to hold
more than 12 percent of Adobe.  Adobe shares rose less than 1 percent to close at $35.40 in
 New York . The company is scheduled to report fiscal fourth-
quarter earnings Dec. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  