-- Advanced Genetic Tests Spot More Defects Before Birth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-12-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/advanced-genetic-tests-spot-more-defects-before-birth.html
Birth defects can be spotted more
precisely with advanced genetic tests that are performed on a
fetus than with current prenatal tests, and may help pinpoint
abnormalities that cause stillbirths, researchers said.  Two studies published yesterday in the  New England Journal
of Medicine  suggest the tests called chromosomal microarrays
could become standard for women with high-risk pregnancies. They
may eventually be offered to all pregnant women, said Ronald
Wapner, vice chairman of research at Columbia University Medical
Center’s department of obstetrics and gynecology in New York.  The microarray tests are widely used to diagnose problems
in newborns with developmental delays, autism disorders or
congenital anomalies,  Lorraine Dugoff , a physician and associate
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of
 Pennsylvania , wrote in an editorial accompanying the studies.
The question is when the sensitive tests should be given because
doctors don’t know the significance of everything they find.  “These reports highlight the power and complexity, and
some of the pitfalls, of using new genomic technology in
clinical practice,” Dugoff wrote. “Chromosomal microarrays can
detect almost all the chromosomal imbalances” found with older
tests, in addition to much smaller changes, she said.  Finding variants with uncertain significance could cause
stress and anxiety for parents, who may be considering
terminating the pregnancy, she wrote. They are also more
expensive, costing two or three times the $500 to $600 price of
conventional tests, Wapner said.  Karyotype Tests  Current tests called  karyotypes  are performed using samples
taken from the amniotic fluid or placenta. Doctors do a visual
exam of chromosomes in the sample of cells, which Wapner
compared to looking at a group of aircraft carriers while flying
overhead. Major structural changes can be seen, though requires
a substantial alteration or a large piece of missing DNA.  The newer tests are much more precise, like picking out the
individual airplanes on the carriers’ decks, he said in a
telephone interview. They can also look at specific locations to
identify much smaller changes, he said. The microarrays also can
spot pieces that are missing or overrepresented, he said.  “The biggest advantage of microarray is it can give us a
lot more information,” Wapner said. “We are expanding the
information a person can get out of prenatal testing,
identifying additional and more serious problems.”  Affymetrix Inc. (AFFX)  and  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , both based
in Santa Clara,  California , donated the microarray kits and
reagents used in the study. Laboratory Corp. of America
Holdings’s Integrated Genetics unit conducted the conventional
testing.  Older Mothers  Wapner’s study involved 4,406 women who were scheduled for
prenatal testing because they were older mothers, had an
abnormal result on a screening test for Down’s syndrome or had
an ultrasound that showed a birth defect or something similar.  The microarrays, which compare fetal DNA with a normal
sample, were as accurate as conventional tests for changes like
extra or missing chromosomes that cause conditions such as
Down’s syndrome.  Microarrays also found genetic changes in 6 percent of
women carrying a fetus with a structural abnormality who had
normal karyotype results. Another 1.6 percent of older women or
those with abnormal screenings told they had normal karyotype
tests had abnormalities detected with the microarray.  Heart Defects  “Prior to the microarray, we would have said there was no
genetic cause,” Wapner said. “In 6 percent of them, there was
a genetic cause, it was just too small to be identified by
karyotype. This allows us to better counsel a patient.”  For example, a heart defect that has no genetic cause may
be limited to the heart, he said. That could be corrected by a
surgeon. If the defect is genetic, however, the infant may have
other health problems, he said.  The second study used microarrays to analyze 532
stillbirths. The cause of a stillbirth can be particularly
difficult to decipher, since karyotyping and other tests require
dividing cells. No reason is found for 25 percent to 60 percent
of stillbirths, previous studies have shown.  Microarrays were able to determine the cause of the
stillbirth in 87 percent of cases, compared with 71 percent
using conventional testing, the study found. Genetic variations
with unknown significance were found in 2.6 percent of the
cases.  “Microarray was significantly more successful at returning
clinically relevant information because, unlike karyotyping, it
does not require cultured cells,” said Brynn Levy, co-director
of personalized genomic medicine at Columbia. “Viability does
not come into play at all. DNA can be extracted from tissue that
is no longer living.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  