-- Afghanistan Says U.S. Has Right to Seek Taliban Prisoner Swap
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-06T08:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/afghanistan-supports-u-s-efforts-on-taliban-prisoner-swap.html
The Afghan government supports U.S.
efforts to secure the release of an American soldier thought to
be held hostage by the Haqqani insurgent network that is allied
with the Taliban, according Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman
Janan Mosazai.  “We have no problem in the U.S. government engaging the
Taliban directly to secure that objective,” Mosazai said in an
interview yesterday on the sidelines of the NATO foreign
ministers’ meeting in Brussels. He sought to dispel reports that
the Afghan government was displeased with U.S. efforts to
establish a direct channel in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar to
talk to the Taliban about the missing soldier.  As long as U.S. diplomats are trying to secure the American
soldier’s release, there’s no conflict with larger negotiations
about peace and stability in his country, he said. “But when it
comes to direct negotiations with the Taliban in the context of
the  peace process , any direct negotiations will have to be and
can only be between the Afghan government and the Taliban,” he
said.  U.S. officials have engaged in behind-the-scenes
exploratory contacts with the Taliban and the Haqqani insurgent
network. Negotiations with Taliban representatives in Qatar
broke down in March. The two sides were seeking a possible swap
of five Taliban prisoners held in the U.S. military detention
facility in Guantanamo Bay for the 26-year-old American sergeant
detained since June 2009.  Privately,  U.S. foreign policy , intelligence and military
officials have said they are pessimistic that negotiations with
the Taliban over the soldier’s release might lead to a broader
peace agreement between the Afghan government and the Islamic
extremist group.  Still Unreliable  The Afghan government still is plagued by a variety of
challenges, including some security forces that remain
unreliable despite NATO training efforts, continued opium
trafficking, and persistent corruption and diversion of foreign
aid, according to the U.S. officials, who spoke about the
private talks on condition of anonymity.  The Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, had a different message
yesterday, saying important progress has been made as the
international coalition transfers security responsibilities to
Afghan partners. Rasmussen said there has been a significant
drop in the number of enemy attacks in regions where Afghan
forces have taken over from international troops.  ‘Promising Development’  “That’s, of course, a very encouraging and promising
development, because it proves we are pursuing the right
strategy,” Rasmussen said at a press conference at the NATO
foreign ministers’ meeting yesterday.  Members also discussed mechanisms to ensure the transparent
and efficient use of funds from NATO and coalition partners to
support Afghan security forces before and after the withdrawal
of international combat forces by the end of 2014.  The 28-member alliance and several non-NATO countries have
pledged $4.1 billion in annual support for Afghan security and
stability through 2017.  “We are already planning a new mission to train, advise
and assist Afghan security forces after 2014,” NATO members
said in a statement. For its part, the Afghan government has
“committed to taking on an increasingly large share of the
funding, as the Afghan economy and its own resources grow.”  President  Barack Obama  in May signed a security partnership
agreement with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that commits the
U.S. to supporting the South Asian nation’s security for 10
years.  ‘Solidly Committed’  NATO and coalition partners are “all firmly and solidly
committed in their pledges, in their continued assistance and
support” for  Afghanistan  “until 2014 and beyond 2014,”
Mosazai said.  He called the $4.1 billion in annual pledges “an
investment in our common security.” If Afghanistan is left
without support, he warned, there could be “grievous
consequences that we witnessed with 9/11 and with other
international terrorist attacks.”  The U.S. is planning to maintain some non-combat military
presence to collect intelligence on militants and continue
training Afghan security forces after the alliance withdraws
most combat forces by 2014. Negotiations with Afghanistan on a
Status of Forces Agreement to govern the actions and liability
of U.S. forces are on track, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said yesterday at a NATO press briefing.  The failure to negotiate a similar agreement with the
government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki forced the
Obama administration to withdraw all American forces from that
country by the end of 2011.  The Senate this week approved a non-binding amendment to a
defense authorization bill calling on Obama to speed the
withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and require a
congressional review of any bilateral security agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  