-- Air Berlin Talks on Selling Air Miles Program to Etihad
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-12-05T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/air-berlin-aims-to-sell-air-miles-program-to-investor-etihad-1-.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  is in talks to sell
its frequent-flyer program to partner and shareholder  Etihad
Airways . Analysts said the move could be seen as a way to boost
investment as the German carrier struggles to stem losses.  Air Berlin said Nov. 15 it would seek to realize the value
of the Topbonus loyalty program, and Etihad is the focus of
talks, according to spokesman Matthias Radowski. He commented
after  Austria ’s antitrust authority disclosed the negotiations
and said the Gulf carrier planned to take “sole control.”  Etihad holds a 29 percent stake in Air Berlin as part of a
policy of investing in smaller operators to help feed long-haul
flights and turn  Abu Dhabi  into an inter-continental travel hub.
The German company is closing routes and pondering job cuts as
it works on details of the second savings program in 12 months
in a drive to post the first annual profit since 2007 next year.  “Every other possible partner probably sees a question-mark
over Air Berlin’s ability to survive,” said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt who recommends selling
Air Berlin shares. “It’s clearly an emergency measure.”  Etihad, the third-biggest Gulf carrier, raised its stake in
Air Berlin via a $350 million equity deal including funds for
new planes that was agreed late in 2009.  The airlines also code-share and allow passengers to redeem
air miles on each other’s loyalty programs.  “Etihad Airways is in discussions with Air Berlin over the
future of its frequent flyer program,” the Middle Eastern
company said today in a statement. “Further details will only be
communicated once these discussions are concluded.”  Air Berlin,  Europe ’s third-biggest discount carrier,  traded 
0.7 percent higher at 1.36 euros as of 4:14 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  The stock has slumped 46 percent this year, reducing the
company’s market value to 159 million euros ($208 million). It
also declined during the previous five years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Webb at   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  