-- Alacer Offer at 40% Premium Seen Tied to Turkey: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-12-05T21:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/alacer-offer-at-40-premium-seen-tied-to-turkey-real-m-a.html
Alacer Gold Corp. (ASR) ’s plunging mining
profits in  Australia  are creating a takeover bargain in Turkey.  Alacer has fallen  64 percent  in Toronto trading in the last
year as it struggles with rising costs and deteriorating ore
quality at its Australian mines. The drop has left the
Englewood, Colorado-based company trading at 0.8 times its net
assets, a bigger discount than any North American precious
metals producer with a market value of more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Evans & Partners Pty said bearish investors are overlooking
the potential for expansion at Alacer’s  Copler gold mine  in
Turkey, which could prompt a buyer to pay 40 percent more than
the company’s market value in a takeover, or about C$1.73
billion ($1.74 billion). Such a deal would be a bargain relative
to the C$1.96 billion that National Bank Financial says Copler
alone is worth.  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD) , owner of Turkey’s largest
gold mine, is among potential suitors, said Mine Life Pty.  “The Aussie operations are a drag, but the market isn’t
being rational,”  Gavin Wendt , senior resources analyst at Mine
Life, a Sydney-based equity researcher, said in a telephone
interview. “I am sure there would be companies running the rule
over Alacer. Potential bidders are almost endless.”  Roger Howe, a spokesman for Alacer, which also has shares
that trade in Sydney, had no comment on the possibility of a
takeover.  Australian Trouble  Alacer was created in February 2011 through the merger of
Englewood, Colorado-based Anatolia Minerals Development Ltd.,
which owned the Copler mine, and Perth, Australia-based Avoca
Resources Ltd. The deal combined the Turkish mine, which hadn’t
started production, with three mines in Australia.  The company reported net income of  $97.8 million  for its
first two full quarters of operations as a new company, through
September 2011. A year later, profits are down by nearly half
amid rising costs, a stronger Australian dollar, and lower
quality ore at its Australian mines.  Alacer’s Australian operations fell to a loss of $23.5
million in the first nine months of 2012, while the Turkish
business reported a profit of $149.7 million.  The company has increased its estimates for the  Copler 
project, of which 80 percent is owned by Alacer and 20 percent
by Turkish partner Lidya Madencilik A.S.  Alacer  is conducting a
study that could boost estimates of Copler’s resources 27
percent to more than 10 million ounces. The results are due in
the first quarter of 2013.  Turkish Potential  “Certainly it could make a good M&A target,” Cathy Moises, a Melbourne-based analyst at Evans & Partners, said in a
phone interview. “The  Turkey  project would make a world-class
asset.”  With a market value of C$1.24 billion yesterday, the
company was trading at a 20 percent discount to its  book value ,
cheaper than all of the 36 other North American precious metals
explorers with market capitalizations of more than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Alacer shares rose 3.3 percent to C$4.45 in Toronto,
the biggest gain since Sept. 28. The stock also posted the
steepest increase in the FTSE Gold Mines Index of 25 companies
worldwide focused primarily on mining for gold.  “The Turkish asset could comfortably sit inside a much
larger company,” Troy Irvin, an analyst at Argonaut Securities
Pty, said in a phone interview from Perth. “It’s a top-quality
asset.”  The Copler mine has a net asset value of C$1.96 billion,
according to Paolo Lostritto, an analyst at  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  in Toronto.  Rising Gold  Including the Australian mines and exploration properties,
and factoring in taxes and corporate costs, Alacer’s total net
asset value is C$2.1 billion, or C$7.18 a share, based on
Lostritto’s analysis, published in a Nov. 14 research note.
Alacer shares ended yesterday at C$4.31 in Toronto, the lowest
since the February 2011 merger.  That “base-case” scenario assumes a long-term gold price
of $1,400 an ounce, the note shows. Gold, which yesterday traded
at $1,697.90 an ounce, is forecast by analysts to fetch a median
of $1,850 next year, according to the median of 19 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The outlook for gold is very, very strong,” said Wendt,
the analyst at Mine Life. “Potential bidders will have
confidence in the future of gold and that will provide them with
the comfort level to look at acquisitions.”  Eldorado, the Vancouver-based owner of Turkey’s  Kisladag
mine  that’s the biggest gold mine in  Europe , is the most likely
Canadian acquirer for Alacer, he said. Eldorado this year bought
European Goldfields Ltd. for C$2.34 billion.  AngloGold Ashanti  Other than Eldorado, potential bidders also include
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the Johannesburg-based company that has
been hurt at home by strikes, Wendt said.  AngloGold, the third-largest producer of the metal, is
“talking to people” about potential acquisitions as stock
price declines provide opportunities, Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Cutifani  said Aug. 8. AngloGold would look at smaller mines
with large growth potential, he said.  Alan Fine , a spokesman for AngloGold, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Nancy Woo, a spokeswoman for
Eldorado in  Vancouver , also declined to comment.  Chinese companies may also be interested, according to
Argonaut’s Irvin. Shandong Gold Group Co.,  Zijin Mining Group
Co. (2899)  and  China  National Gold Group Corp. -- China’s biggest gold
companies -- are looking for overseas acquisitions, executives
at all three said last month.  Australian Issues  “There isn’t much untapped high-quality gold resource in
China,” said Benjamin Pei, a Beijing-based analyst with Bocom
International Holdings Co., the investment banking unit of Bank
of Communications Co. “Big producers are actively looking for
overseas assets to underpin their production and profits.”  A spokesman for Shandong couldn’t be reached, while an
official at China National Gold declined to comment on potential
interest in Alacer.  “We haven’t looked at Turkey, and so far no one has
approached us,” said Lan Fusheng, vice chairman of Zijin
Mining. Lan wouldn’t rule out the possibility that the company
would study a bid for Alacer.  Any buyer would need to have a plan for the Australian
business, which may hold some bidders back, said Leily Omoumi, a
Toronto-based analyst at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  “I do think it could be an acquisition target, I just
don’t know who would want to take on the issues with Australia
at this point,” Omoumi said in a phone interview. “The sooner
they resolve this situation the better it is for the company.”  Luring Bidders  Alacer, which has suspended two open pit mines and cut 108
jobs to lower costs, would consider selling the mines, CEO David Quinlivan said on a Nov. 15 conference call. It hasn’t received
any offers yet, he said.  Still, the potential scale of the Turkish mine may be
enough to lure bidders for the whole company, Jo Battershill, a
Sydney-based analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a Nov. 15 research
note.  “The project could fit into the portfolio of the world’s
largest gold companies,” Battershill wrote. “In such a
circumstance, we believe the Australian assets would potentially
be simply divested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  