-- Almunia Says Conducting UPS-TNT Remedies Market Test
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-05T14:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/almunia-says-conducting-ups-tnt-remedies-market-test.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s rivals
were asked to examine concessions that the world’s biggest
parcel company offered European Union regulators probing its
5.16 billion-euro ($6.75 billion) bid for  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   “We have carried out a market test of the remedies
proposal,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters in Brussels today. He said he’d come back to the two
companies “informing them of some of our concerns given the
results.” The market test process hasn’t yet been completed,
Almunia’s spokesman Antoine Colombani said in an e-mail.  UPS submitted an offer to regulators last week that
included the sale of some business units and granting access to
its air network. UPS has twice pushed back the target date to
complete the biggest acquisition in its 105-year history, which
will double its size in  Europe , as the merger review continues.  UPS’s rivals and customers are being asked to comment on
the company’s proposal and their feedback will be used by the EU
to determine whether the offer is sufficient to resolve
competition problems. Regulators sent formal objections to UPS
in October, saying the acquisition would remove one of its few
serious rivals in the European delivery services market,
according to a person familiar with the regulators’ complaint.  TNT advanced as much as 29 cents, or 4 percent, to 7.64
euros and traded 2.2 percent higher as of 2:55 p.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock has gained 30 percent this year, valuing
the Dutch company at 4.08 billion euros.  ‘Substantial Remedies’  UPS’s bid for TNT required “substantial remedies” to
eliminate EU antitrust concerns, Almunia said in a Nov. 2
speech. Regulators still have time before they needed to prepare
a decision on the UPS-TNT deal, he said today. The official
deadline for a ruling is Feb. 5.  “After Christmas we will need to have a draft decision and
for this time we will need to make up our final opinion
regarding the capacity of the remedies finally proposed by UPS
and TNT,” he said today.  UPS is committed to the transaction and is working with EU
officials on the regulatory review, said Peggy Gardner, a
spokeswoman for the company in Atlanta. UPS said it still hopes
to finalize the purchase in 2013.  “We still have a strong belief that the transaction will
help meet the EU’s objectives of making cross-border commerce
flow more smoothly,” Gardner said.  EU regulators prefer merger remedies that are “simple,
workable and easy to implement,” Alexander Italianer, the
antitrust agency’s most senior official, said at a Brussels
conference today.  An offer of access to critical technology or infrastructure
needs to be straightforward and must be able to be monitored
effectively to be successful, he said. He didn’t refer to the
UPS-TNT transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 