-- Mantega Says Bets Against Brazil Wrong as Growth Set to Quicken
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-12-05T02:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mantega-says-bets-against-brazil-wrong-as-growth-set-to-quicken.html
Traders wagering against Brazil are
making a bad bet as  Latin America ’s biggest economy is ready to
grow 4 percent in 2013, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The government yesterday cut taxes for the  construction
industry  as it steps up efforts to revive growth in the biggest
emerging market after  China . Record low interest rates,
subsidized credit and tax breaks to consumers and industry have
failed to accelerate growth in 2012. Economists cut their 2012
growth forecast to 1.27 percent after gross domestic product
expanded at half the expected pace.  “Whoever bets against Brazil is making a bad bet,”
Mantega said in an interview from his office in Brasilia. “We
are in a transition period.”  The Brazilian stock market has plunged 12.5 percent in
dollar terms this year, more than any other of the 18 major
stock markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil  has reduced its  overnight benchmark rate  by more
than any other group of 20 nations in the past 16 months, has
implemented measures that weaken the currency, lowered payroll
taxes and designed a plan to reduce energy costs that will help
fuel growth, Mantega said. Growth will quicken to about 4
percent in 2013 and about 5 percent in 2014, he said.  Fourth-quarter GDP will rise 0.8 percent from  0.6 percent
in the third quarter  in the most pessimistic scenario, Mantega
said earlier yesterday at a public hearing in Congress. He added
that third-quarter growth was disappointing, even as industry
and agriculture grew.  High Rate ‘Addiction’  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg  forecast  the economy had
expanded 1.2 percent in the third quarter.  “Reaching that growth level in the fourth quarter in the
worst case scenario is definitely possible,” Thiago Carlos,
economist at Link SA Cctvm, said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo . “It does not mean that there will be a sustained
economic recovery. But investment will not fall like it did in
the third quarter.”  Investment in Brazil fell 2 percent in the July-September
period from the previous quarter to 18.7 percent of gross
domestic product, the national statistics agency said Nov. 30.  The real has weakened 11.9 percent this year, the worst
performance amid the 16-most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Since August 2011, the central bank reduced the
benchmark  interest rate  by 525 basis points, or 5.25 percentage
points, to 7.25 percent.  “Lower interest rates, lower taxes and a more competitive
 exchange rate  are the pillars of an economy that will start
investing more,” Mantega said. “The economy was addicted to
high interest rates. It’s an addiction almost like cocaine.”  Analysts expect the economy to expand 3.7 percent in 2013,
after slowing for a second straight year in 2012, according to a
central bank survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  