-- Tappan Zee Bridge Panel Said to Back $3.14 Billion Fluor Bid
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-12-05T21:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/tappan-zee-bridge-panel-backs-3-14-billion-bid-cuomo-says-1-.html
A  New York  state advisory committee
recommended that the Thruway Authority grant a $3.14 billion
contract to a Fluor Corp.-led group to design and build a new
Tappan Zee Bridge over the  Hudson River , according to two people
familiar with the selection.  The bid, the lowest of three submitted by almost $1
billion, pegs the cost of the project below the state’s $5.2
billion estimate. The bids were provided by Cuomo during a press
briefing in  Albany  today. He declined to name which construction
team was behind the recommended bid. The other teams were headed
by Bechtel Group Inc. and  Skanska AB. (SKAB)   The project has languished for more than a decade, and
Cuomo has made replacing the 56-year-old Tappan Zee a priority.
The toll bridge, about 20 miles north of  Manhattan , carries
138,000 vehicles each day between Westchester and Rockland
counties, 40 percent more than its designers intended.  “This project was pushed, managed and cajoled every step
of the way,” Cuomo said. “To get a bridge to this point in a
year is a fantastic accomplishment.”  All three bids came in below the estimate, which is good
news for Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat. He faced pressure after
his administration released projections in August that tolls may
almost triple to $14 for cash customers from the current $5 to
help pay for the 3.1-mile (5 kilometer) bridge. Commuters with a
discount plan would pay $8.40, rather than the current $3.  Board Decision  Keith Stephens, a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Fluor,
declined to comment on the bid. Matt Wing, a Cuomo spokesman,
also declined to comment on the recommendation. The people
familiar with the selection spoke on the condition of anonymity
because the process isn’t complete.  The Thruway Authority’s board will meet Dec. 17 to choose
the winning bid, Tom Madison, the authority’s executive director
said. The board can choose any of the three, though the
committee’s recommendation has “significant bearing on what the
ultimate decision of the board will be,” Madison said.  The panel made its choice based on the best value, Madison
said. Even before considering the price, the recommended bid was
already in the lead based on durability, construction speed and
aesthetics, he said.  The lower bids reduce the amount the state can get from a
federal Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
loan, which can cover 49 percent of a project’s cost. The state
applied for the loan in September, requesting $2.9 billion.  The loan would help the Thruway Authority, which owns the
Tappan Zee, reduce the amount of toll-backed bonds it would have
to issue.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
lowered the authority’s credit outlook to negative in June.  The state wants to structure the loan so that bondholders
would have priority for repayment in a default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  