-- Climate Disasters Cost Arab Nations $12 Billion, World Bank Says
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-12-05T10:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/arab-climate-disasters-cost-12-billion-world-bank-report-says.html
Disasters related to global warming
have cost Arab nations $12 billion in the past 30 years and will
accelerate as climbing temperatures make many cities in the
region unlivable, the  World Bank  said in a report.  Without curbs on fossil-fuel emissions, the region can
expect average temperatures to rise 6 degrees Celsius by the end
of the century, triple the target agreed on at United Nations
climate talks and higher than the World Bank’s 4-degree estimate
for the world.  The result may make heat waves routine across Arab nations,
triggering summertime highs above 54 degrees Celsius (129
Fahrenheit) in  Kuwait  and costing farmers in  Tunisia  and Yemen
$4.2 billion in the next four decades, the bank said. The report
was among scientific papers issued at UN talks showing the
 Middle East  is among regions most vulnerable to climate change.  “There will be lower rainfall, higher temperatures and
ongoing encroachment of the desert,” Rachel Kyte, vice
president for sustainable development at the bank, said today in
a briefing at the talks in Doha. “ Climate change  threatens to
roll back the prosperity that so many people enjoy.”  The Qatari capital, built at  sea level , could itself become
a swamp without action to curb global warming, according to
estimates from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research.  “There will be a sea-level rise in the range of 3 meters”
(9.8 feet) by 2300 and as much as 1 meter by the end of this
century, said Joachim Schellnhuber, director of the German
research organization.  Tunisian farmers will lose $700 million by 2050 as
production declines with rainfall, while rural households in
Yemen are set to lose $3.5 billion by 2040 as weather changes,
Kyte said. Tourism, which now accounts for 3 percent of gross
domestic product in Arab nations, will also be hurt, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Landberg in Doha at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  