-- Arizona Governor Is Said to Visit Troops in Afghanistan
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/arizona-governor-is-said-to-visit-troops-in-afghanistan.html
Governor Jan Brewer, who left  Arizona 
for an undisclosed destination Dec. 2, is visiting soldiers from
her state in  Afghanistan , according to a person familiar with
the governor’s schedule.  The Republican’s absence was noticed Dec. 3 when she didn’t
attend the state’s official certification of the November
election results. Brewer’s office filed a routine notice with
Secretary of State Ken Bennett that she would be gone until Dec.
8, leaving him as acting governor, according to Matt Roberts, a
spokesman for the secretary.  The governor is away “on official business,” Matthew Benson, Brewer’s spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “That’s all I can disclose at this time.”  More than 9,000 Arizona Army and Air National Guard members
have been ordered to active duty since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, according to the guard’s website. The person
with knowledge of the governor’s schedule wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The lack of information led reporters from organizations
including ABC News and the  Huffington Post  to question the
whereabouts of the 68-year-old governor.  Brewer came to national prominence for signing a 2010
immigration law that led to boycotts and a federal court battle.
The measure resulted in a high-profile fight with the Obama
administration that ended before the U.S. Supreme Court, which
struck down much of the law.  Last week, the  American Civil Liberties Union  filed suit
over Brewer’s decision this summer to deny driver’s licenses to
young illegal immigrants allowed to avoid deportation under a
new federal program.  The Arizona Republic reported that Brewer met Dec. 3 with a
wounded soldier at a hospital in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  