-- Asian Stocks Advance as China Insurers, Lenders Increase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-12-05T06:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/asian-stocks-decline-as-u-s-budget-talks-reach-impasse.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index headed for its highest close in seven months, as
Chinese banks and insurers surged after a rule limiting
insurers’ investments in commercial lenders was abolished and
the country’s new leaders pledged to promote “urbanization.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
biggest lender, gained 1.4 percent in Hong Kong. Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. jumped 5.1 percent as HSBC Holdings Plc
agreed to sell its stake in  China ’s second-largest insurer for
$9.4 billion.  Fast Retailing (9983)  Co. gained 3 percent in  Tokyo  after
 Asia ’s No. 1 apparel seller reported higher domestic sales at
its Uniqlo chain.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.3 percent to 125.17 as
of 3:40 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing losses of as much as 0.3 percent
and heading for its highest close since April 30. Two shares
rose for each that fell on the gauge. The measure advanced last
month amid signs China’s economic slowdown may be ending and
optimism U.S. lawmakers would agree on a budget deal to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff.  “There’s a lot of talk about potential policy support for
 China’s economy ,” said Tim Leung, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. “While
urbanization is not new, people will probably be focusing on
that trend. There’s a lot of positive benefit from urbanization,
like infrastructure spending.”  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.4 percent,
reversing losses of as much as 0.6 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi
Index rose and Taiwan’s Taiex Index both advanced 0.6 percent.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.5 percent.  Accommodative Policies  China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.8 percent,
heading for its biggest advance since Sept. 7. The government
will keep macroeconomic policies stable, making adjustments as
needed to deal with difficulties, the Communist Party’s
Politburo said in its first assessment of the economy under new
leader Xi Jinping.  China will expand domestic demand and actively promote
urbanization, the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday.
Separately, China National Radio reported yesterday China will
focus on simplifying taxes on property transactions.  “The tone of ‘policy continuity and stability’ implies
both monetary and fiscal policies are likely to stay
accommodative to help China strengthen domestic demand and
tackle external challenges,” HSBC economists Hongbin Qu and
Junwei Sun said in a note today. “In addition, fiscal and
urbanization reforms are set to be stepped up.”  Chinese lenders and developers advanced. ICBC, as China’s
biggest bank is known, climbed 1.4 percent to HK$5.24.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  rose 1.7 percent to HK$5.97. China
Resources Land Ltd., a state-owned developer, jumped 2.7 percent
to HK$20.75.  Insurers Rally  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. surged 8.2 percent to
HK$4.07 after the Chinese homebuilder reported November home
sales of 11.8 billion  yuan  ($1.9 billion), compared with 1.2
billion yuan a year earlier. Total sales so far this year
reached 84.6 billion yuan, exceeding the full-year target of 80
billion yuan, it said.  Ping An gained 5.1 percent to HK$60.60, heading for its
biggest advance since Feb. 20. HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank by
market value, is selling its 15.6 percent stake in the insurer
at HK$59 a share to Thailand’s Charoen Pokphand Group Co., it
said in an e-mailed statement today. HSBC climbed 1.3 percent.  Other insurers rose as the China Insurance Regulatory
Commission abolished a regulation on insurance companies’
investment limits in commercial banks. China Life Insurance Co.,
the country’s biggest insurer, advanced 3.8 percent to HK$23.35,
while New China Life Insurance Co. jumped 7.7 percent to
HK$25.90.  Australian GDP  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.4 percent even as the
nation’s economic growth slowed. Gross domestic product rose 0.5
percent in the third quarter compared to the previous three
months, when it expanded 0.6 percent, a Bureau of Statistics
report released in Sydney today showed. The result compared with
the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.6
percent gain.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3
percent today. The  S&P 500  lost 0.2 percent yesterday as
President  Barack Obama  held his ground on raising tax rates for
the highest-income Americans. A Republican offer on resolving
the so-called fiscal cliff doesn’t go far enough and won’t raise
the revenue needed to shrink the deficit by $4 trillion over the
next decade, Obama said.  “We have the potential of getting a deal done,” Obama
said at the White House yesterday on Bloomberg TV in his first
interview since winning re-election. “We’re going to have to
see the rates on the top 2 percent go up, and we’re not going to
be able to get a deal without it,” he said.  Fiscal Cliff  A budget compromise would help avert the fiscal cliff,
which could result in more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts taking effect next month.  “Investors should still be concerned about the U.S. fiscal
cliff as Republicans and Democrats have found it very hard to
agree,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at Sydney-based
White Funds Management, which oversees more than $350 million.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 14 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth. The gauge climbed every day
except one during the past 10 sessions. The benchmark index
traded at 14.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.5
times for the  S&P 500 Index  and 12.5 times for the Stoxx Europe
600.  Samsung, Sharp  Fast Retailing gained 3 percent to 19,250 yen in Tokyo.
Same-store sales at the company’s Uniqlo outlets in Japan
increased 13.7 percent last month from a year earlier, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  Samsung Electronics Co. rose 1.8 percent to 1.455 million
won in  Seoul  after promoting Lee Jae Yong to vice chairman,
putting him a step closer to succeeding his father as leader of
the world’s biggest maker of televisions and mobile phones.  Sharp Corp., Japan’s largest liquid-crystal-display maker,
increased 4 percent to 181 yen after saying it plans to raise as
much as 9.9 billion yen ($121 million) selling shares to
Qualcomm Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  