-- Lasry’s Avenue Hoards Cash to Buy in Fiscal Cliff Selloff
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-12-05T18:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/lasry-s-avenue-hoards-cash-to-buy-in-fiscal-cliff-selloff.html
Marc Lasry , founder of Avenue Capital
Group LLC, is heading into the end of the year with more cash
than his firm usually holds, to take advantage of a possible
market selloff should U.S. lawmakers fail to agree on steps to
reduce the country’s debt.  Avenue Capital has about 20 percent to 25 percent of its
assets in cash, compared with the 15 percent it usually holds,
Lasry said at the Bloomberg Hedge Funds Summit in New York
today. The firm anticipates that volatility will increase amid
the prospect of more than $600 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect in January if
Congress doesn’t act.  “Hopefully we’ll be able to take advantage of that by
buying things on the cheap,” Lasry said. Avenue Capital managed
about $12 billion as of Oct. 31, according to the New York-based
firm’s website.  President  Barack Obama  is hardening his stance in his first
post-election confrontation with Republicans, declaring in an
interview on Bloomberg Television yesterday that he will make no
deal on the country’s fiscal future unless congressional leaders
first accept tax-rate increases on top earners.  Lasry gathered a group of Wall Street executives who met
with White House officials two days ago to discuss resolution of
the so-called fiscal cliff.  “You’ll find a deal get done later as opposed to early,”
Lasry said today. “The problem in D.C. is that no one wants to
appear weak.”  Four Weeks  There are about four weeks left to break the logjam. The
Congressional Budget Office has warned that failing to do so
would pitch the U.S. economy into a recession. Compromise would
mean the president and Democrats accept more spending reductions
on entitlement programs such as Medicare and Republicans agree
to tax increases.  Concern about the budget debate has whipsawed stocks in the
past month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 5.3 percent
from its closing level on the day of the Nov. 6 elections
through Nov. 15.  The business community is looking for a “credible deal,”
which means achievable numbers and a commitment to deficit
reduction within a reasonable time frame,  Gregory Fleming ,
president of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, said at the
conference today.  “They’d like to see some real give on both sides to ensure
that the debate isn’t just going to get pushed into January and
further into next year,” he said. Such a deal may “slingshot”
the economy ahead.  More Risk  Lasry said investors today have to take more risk than they
did five years ago to generate 8 percent to 10 percent returns
that pension funds may need to meet their obligations. He said
Avenue Capital is investing in senior secured debt in  Europe ,
where the perception of risk may exceed reality.  “You’re getting overpaid for the risk to invest in senior
secured debt,” Lasry said. He said he expects Europe to
“muddle through” over the next few years, which means
investors are likely to do well. Lasry also said his firm is
investing in Northern European countries such as the U.K.,
 Germany  and Switzerland, where the legal systems are stronger.  The legal system in Southern European countries such as
 Italy  is a deterrent to investing in that region compared with
Northern Europe, Lasry said.  “You absolutely want to visit,” Lasry said of Italy.
“It’s just really hard to invest there because laws change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  