-- Last Man on Moon Left Camera Behind, Regrets NASA’s Fade
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/last-man-on-moon-left-camera-behind-regrets-nasa-s-fade.html
On Dec. 14, 1972, Apollo 17 Commander
Eugene Cernan climbed from the moon’s dusty surface up the rungs
of the Lunar Module ladder, entered his spacecraft and began the
journey back to earth.  Almost 40 years later, he still finds it strange to have
been the last man on the moon.  “I honestly believed it wasn’t the end but the
beginning,” said Cernan, now 78. He thought at the time:
“We’re not only going back but, by the end of the century,
humans will be well on their way to Mars.”  Funding for the  National Aeronautics and Space
Administration  as a percentage of the national budget has
declined. The U.S. is relying on  Russia  to fly to the
International Space Station.  “We cracked open the door and threw out a plum to young
men and women who followed us -- many far more capable -- and
they reeled in a lemon,” Cernan said.  In addition to consulting and public speaking, Cernan
serves on the board of trustees of the  Astronaut Scholarship
Foundation .  I spoke with the retired U.S. Navy captain and veteran of
Gemini IX, Apollo 10 and Apollo 17 at a recent  Explorers Club 
event in  Manhattan .  Clash: You came close to landing on the moon on Apollo 10,
just before Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin’s mission.  Daughter’s Initials  Cernan: Having come close, it was important to cover that
last 47,000 feet to the surface. Once I finally stepped on the
moon as part of Apollo 17, no matter what was to come of the
next three days -- or the rest of my life -- nobody could take
those steps from me. People ask how long will they be there, and
I say forever -- like my daughter’s initials that I scribbled in
the sand.  Clash: Perhaps your last steps are more significant. As you
mounted the ladder to return, what was going through your mind?  Cernan: I looked back at Earth in all its splendor -- I
call it sitting on God’s front porch looking home -- then down
at my last footprint and realized, “Hey, I’m not coming this
way again.”  I physically hesitated, asking what the meaning of the last
three days was -- not just to me, but to all who would follow,
and not just technologically but philosophically, spiritually. I
didn’t have an answer then, and I don’t now.  Maybe in another 40 years we’ll realize Apollo’s
significance to our future as a civilization.  Clash: There are divided views now about whether we should
send men back to the moon first, or go directly to Mars.  New Propulsion  Cernan: I do think we need to go to the moon first to set
up a base so we can use more advanced propulsion techniques. Am
I willing to go to Mars? Yes, but I’m not willing to spend nine
months getting there, then wait 18 more months until the planets
align to come home.  Chemical propulsion is obsolete to go anywhere other than
the moon. Three days -- that’s acceptable. But for Mars we need
propulsion technologies to get us there in say, 60 days -- then
spend whatever length of time we want to spend -- two months,
six months -- and return when we want to come home. That will
require ion and nuclear propulsion and help from a base on the
moon.  Clash: Your frustration with  NASA  is evident. You obviously
would have liked to see more moon missions. How about your own
visit to the moon -- anything you would have done differently?  Footstep Photo  Cernan: I left my Hasselblad camera there with the lens
pointing up at the zenith, the idea being someday someone would
come back and find out how much deterioration solar cosmic
radiation had on the glass.  So, going up the ladder, I never took a photo of my last
footstep. How dumb! Wouldn’t it have been better to take the
camera with me, get the shot, take the film pack off and then
(for weight restrictions) throw the camera away?  I did capture in my mind what that last footprint looked
like, though. It’s still very vivid and, if I were Alan Bean,
I’d paint it! (Bean, an Apollo 12 moon walker, later became an
artist.)  Clash: Speaking of other moon walkers, you and the late
 Neil Armstrong  are both Purdue alumni. Were you friends?  Cernan: Neil dated a friend of mine whom he eventually
married. He and I also shared an office before either of us ever
flew. That’s how I got to know him, and we became good friends
over the years.  He’d been hassled a bit for being less free with his
personal life and the media. There are a lot of people who could
have been the first man on the moon. But nobody could have
handled the aftereffects with more dignity than Neil.  (Jim Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own. This article was adapted from a longer conversation.
Clash’s new e-book, “The Right Stuff: Interviews with Icons of
the 1970s/80s,” is due out this month.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining ,  Simon
Kennedy  on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jim Clash  jamesmclash@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  