-- AT&T Seeks Freedom From Ma Bell’s Rules in Internet Era
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-12-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/at-t-seeks-freedom-from-ma-bell-s-rules-in-internet-era.html
The U.S. telephone network the Bell
System built and ran for almost a century is dying, replaced by
technology that propels Internet messages. Rules underpinning
that old order should expire with it,  AT&T Inc. (T)  says.  Its argument has skipped from state capital to state
capital and could arrive in force at the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission , which is considering a request from
the modern-day AT&T to establish test zones where rules of the
Ma Bell era wouldn’t apply.  “We have to be able to start this transition from the old
to the new,”  Jim Cicconi , AT&T senior executive vice president,
said Nov. 27 during a discussion at the  Brookings Institution , a
Washington-based policy group. “The underlying statutes really
aren’t designed for the current situation.”  The debate over whether rules of the copper-line era should
apply to today’s fiber-optic and Internet-based networks centers
on the changes in an industry whose service for decades was
guaranteed by government rules, rather than driven by
competition.  Traditional wire-line service was in 95 percent of U.S.
households in 2000 and less than 40 percent in 2011, as fiber-
optic lines have replaced copper and many households dropped
landlines altogether, according to an analysis by USTelecom, a
carriers’ trade group.  $14 Billion  Successors to the Bell monopoly that was broken up by court
order in the 1980s, including today’s AT&T and the local-phone
units of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , are required to offer
service to every residence. They must meet standards for
providing a quick dial tone, a sure connection and resiliency
during storms and power outages. Newer competitors offering
phone service over fiber-optic or Internet connections,
including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , don’t have to abide by the same rules.  AT&T on Nov. 7 said it would invest $14 billion to build
more high-speed Internet connections over wires and wireless
infrastructure. It’s tied the request for regulatory changes to
that planned spending.  The change in network architecture shouldn’t allow the
large phone companies to escape requirements that they provide
connections for competing carriers to reach customers, said
Jerry James, chief executive of Comptel, a Washington-based
trade group of smaller carriers including  Cbeyond Inc. (CBEY)  and  TW
Telecom Inc. (TWTC)   “It’s just the transition of the network from one
technology to another,” James said in an e-mailed statement.
“The network’s been digitized for decades. AT&T is just using
the transition as another opportunity to say, ‘We want to get
out from under regulation.’”  ‘No Sense’  AT&T, in  filings , has asked the FCC to set a date for
extinguishing another requirement -- to maintain the old network
-- and to  declare  the new Internet-protocol, or IP, network is
“subject to minimal regulation only at the federal level.”  “It makes no sense, and it’s extremely expensive, to
continue maintaining an infrastructure that fewer and fewer
people are using,” Cicconi said in an interview. “It is not a
21st-century technology.”  The money could better be spent on high-speed  Internet
service , or broadband, AT&T said in a  Nov. 7 filing  at the FCC.  Rules that require companies to serve all customers in an
area, often at regulated rates, stifle investment in all-IP
networks, AT&T said. The company said wireless service will
reach customers who aren’t tied into its new high-speed
landlines.  State Deregulation  Rules requiring service to all are still valuable, said
 John Burke , a Vermont regulator who is chairman of the
telecommunications committee of the National Association of
Regulatory Utility Commissioners, a Washington-based nonprofit
that represents state regulators. Wireless signals don’t yet
reach all houses, he said.  “We’re not there yet,” Burke said in an interview. “I
know I sound like the Marines: I’m not leaving anybody behind.
But that’s how I feel.”  The argument reprises debates at the state level, where
lawmakers have reconsidered the need to oversee phone companies
as competition intensifies. Between 2010 and April 2012, 21
states enacted laws to limit regulation of telecommunications
services, according to a June  study  by the National Regulatory
Research Institute. The group, based in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland ,
conducts research for state regulators.  California joined that roll in September, when Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat, signed a law that keeps state agencies
from regulating the Internet-based voice service that’s an
increasing portion of carriers’ traffic. AT&T, Verizon, Comcast,
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  supported the law,
according to a  legislative analysis .  California Liberals  Regulating new phone systems “frankly should be considered
at the federal level,” Cicconi said. The California bill
doesn’t disturb existing law, he said.  The California Association of Competitive
Telecommunications Carriers, a San Francisco-based trade group
known as Caltel, with members including  Level 3 Communications
Inc. (LVLT) , asked Brown to veto the bill.  “AT&T and Verizon have used this switch-over, this
conversion to a new technology, to achieve total deregulation,”
Sarah DeYoung, Caltel’s executive director, said in an
interview.  Consumer groups also opposed the bill, according to the
state legislature’s analysis.  “It’s really tied  California ’s hands behind its back and
will prevent the state from ensuring we have reliable
telecommunications service,”  Regina Costa , telecommunications
director at the Utility Reform Network, a San Francisco-based
consumer advocacy group, said in an interview  DeYoung said she rued the possibility her state’s action
offers a talking point the big companies could use with the FCC
to push for deregulation: “It’s California -- and you know how
liberal they are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  