-- Averting China Delistings Needs Compromise, Hastings Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-05T21:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/averting-china-delistings-needs-compromise-hastings-says.html
U.S. and Chinese regulators will have
to come to a compromise on their conflict over auditor oversight
to prevent Chinese companies trading in the U.S. from being
delisted, according to law firm Paul Hastings LLP.  The Securities & Exchange Commission accused units of the
Big Four accounting firms of not cooperating with an
investigation into fraud by China-based companies in a Dec. 3
 administrative order . The U.S. and  China  disagree over whether
auditors can share financial documents with regulators, and the
firms -- which include Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP and KPMG
Huazhen -- say Chinese law prevents them from complying with the
SEC’s demands.  Should the auditors be barred from reviewing the financial
statements of Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. the companies
would have to withdraw from the market, Steven Winegar, a Hong
Kong-based partner at Paul Hastings, which has represented
companies including Nasdaq-listed  Jiayuan.com International
Ltd. (DATE) , said on a conference call  hosted by Jefferies Group Inc.
today.  “That of course has a catastrophic effect on the market
value and on the companies themselves.” he said on the call
with investors. “It’s almost unthinkable that it will get to
that stage.”  Key Issue  The key issue in this case is whether U.S. or Chinese
regulators should have primary supervising responsibility for
the accused auditing firms, according to Winegar. The SEC order
“gives a fair amount of time for continuing negotiations and
continuing settlements” between the Chinese and U.S.
authorities, while “there’s no assurance this will be resolved
any time soon.” he said.  The auditors mentioned in the SEC document have 20 days to
respond to the allegations and the administrative law judge will
issue an initial decision within 300 days, according to the
order.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, has lost 61 percent over the past two years,
while the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. declined 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  