-- Maxcom Agrees to $59 Million Private-Equity Takeover
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-12-05T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/maxcom-agrees-to-59-million-private-equity-takeover.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB (MAXCOMCP)  agreed
to a 764 million-peso ($59 million) takeover by Ventura Capital
Privado SA, which pledged to add capital to help the company
compete against billionaire  Carlos Slim  in Mexico.  Ventura, a private-equity firm, offered to buy all Maxcom
shares for 2.90 pesos apiece, according to a U.S. regulatory
 filing  yesterday. The Mexico City-based company’s board and
investors representing 44 percent of outstanding stock have
approved the deal, Maxcom said. The offer, announced after
Maxcom shares closed yesterday little changed at 3.62 pesos,
represents a 20 percent discount to the stock price.  Maxcom, which offers phone, Internet and television service
in several Mexican cities, has struggled to compete against
Slim’s  America Movil  SAB, which controls 80 percent of the
nation’s landline phone subscriptions. Ventura’s plan to
increase Maxcom’s capital by $22 million as part of the
transaction may not be enough, said Alejandro Gallostra, an
analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   “It remains pretty complicated,” Gallostra said yesterday
in a phone interview from Mexico City. “I’m not sure how
they’re going to turn the company around.”  Maxcom has  reported  a net loss in each of the past four
years. It has about 366,000  landlines , compared with 14.4
million for America Movil’s Telefonos de Mexico unit. Manuel Perez, Maxcom’s investor relations director, declined to
comment, and representatives of Ventura Capital couldn’t be
reached.  Debt Refinancing  Ventura will start a public tender for Maxcom’s shares, and
50 percent of the stock must be offered for the transaction to
proceed. The deal is also dependent on a successful offer to
exchange Maxcom’s $200 million in 11 percent notes due in 2014
for new bonds the company plans to issue.  “Maxcom has significant potential to continue growing and
gaining market share in  Mexico ,” Ventura said in the statement.
“With a stronger balance sheet as a result of the potential
debt exchange and capitalization, we plan to position the
company as a leading niche telecommunications provider in the
country.”  While the new capital may help convince bondholders to
renegotiate debt, it will be difficult to use the money both to
substantially reduce interest payments and increase network
investments, Gallostra said. Both would be necessary to improve
Maxcom’s prospects, he said.  While the offer price is a discount to yesterday’s close,
Maxcom’s value had been inflated because of speculation a
takeover would occur, Gallostra said. He had calculated the
company’s takeover value at 3.1 pesos a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  