-- Taylor Morrison Home Files for $250 Million U.S. IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-12-05T17:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/taylor-morrison-home-files-for-250-million-u-s-ipo.html
Taylor Morrison Home Corp., a builder
of houses in the U.S. and  Canada , is seeking to raise $250
million in a U.S. initial public offering, according to a
regulatory filing.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based company didn’t say how many
shares it will offer or at what price. The figure is a
placeholder used to calculate registration fees, and may change.  Taylor Morrison is seeking to benefit from a recovery in
home sales and  prices , which have climbed this year following
the worst housing crash since the Great Depression. The company
is the sixth-biggest homebuilder in North America based on 2011
revenue, according to today’s filing.  “It’s a great sign institutional investors believe
homebuilding is back,” Steve Friedman, a partner in the real
estate practice at Ernst & Young LLP, said in a telephone
interview from Washington. “It’s huge.”  The 11-company  Standard & Poor’s homebuilding index  has
surged 77 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
12 percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index .  Proceeds from the IPO will be used for working capital,
according to Taylor Morrison’s filing. Credit Suisse Group AG
and Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering.  Taylor Morrison was sold for $955 million in March 2011 by
its British parent,  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , to a group of investors
backed by  David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital; Oaktree Capital
Management LP, a Los Angeles-based investor focused on
alternative markets; and JH Investments Inc., a fund based in
 Vancouver .  California, Florida  Taylor Morrison builds homes in  Arizona ,  California ,
 Colorado , Texas,  Florida  and Ontario, Canada. It had net income
of $81.8 million on revenue of $879 million this year through
September, according to the filing. During the period, it sold
1,880 homes in the U.S. and 706 in Canada, with an average sale
price of $347,000.  “We believe it’s a very good time in homebuilding,”
Taylor Morrison CEO Sheryl Palmer said in a telephone interview
today. “We feel consumer sentiment and the industry are in the
early stages, but in a good time.”  She declined to comment on details of the company’s IPO
plans, citing advice from Taylor Morrison’s attorney.  U.S.  construction spending  in October climbed 1.4 percent
from the previous month to $872.1 billion, and spending on new-
 home construction  rose 3 percent to $294.2 billion, its highest
level since November 2008, the Commerce Department reported
earlier this week. U.S. home prices jumped 6.3 percent in
October from a year earlier, the biggest increase since June
2006, data provider  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  said yesterday.  Toll Earnings  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
yesterday reported net income of $411.4 million for the three
months ended Oct. 31, up from $15 million a year earlier. The
results included a one-time tax benefit of $350.7 million. Net
orders for new homes jumped 70 percent, and were up 34 percent
from a year earlier in the first five weeks of this quarter, the
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based company said.  “The market is still in the early stages of recovery,”
Toll CEO Douglas Yearley Jr. said on a conference call
yesterday. “We are very encouraged that, as traffic picks up,
there’s a great opportunity to increase absorption to have some
real pricing power.”  Bankruptcy Exits  There are few closely held homebuilders that may consider
going public because so many went out of business during the
housing slump, Friedman said. Orleans Homebuilders Inc., a
Bensalem, Pennsylvania-based company that left bankruptcy in
February 2011, and North Salt Lake, Utah-based Woodside Homes,
which exited Chapter 11 protection in 2010, are other potential
candidates to go public, he said.  Woodside Chief Executive Officer Joel Shine said he has no
immediate plans to take his company public.  “Right now, we’re in blocking and tackling mode,” he said
two days ago in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Los Angeles  offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  