-- Bailout Cash Gives Europe Edge Over U.S. in Debt: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-12-05T16:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/bailout-cash-gives-europe-edge-over-u-s-in-debt-credit-markets.html
Companies in  Europe  are perceived to
be the safest compared with their U.S. counterparts in 17 months
as risks of a currency breakup diminish while politicians in the
world’s biggest economy struggle to cut the nation’s deficit.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies from Spain’s Telefonica SA to
engine-maker Rolls Royce Plc exceeds the U.S. equivalent by the
least since July 2011, with the gap narrowing to 20 basis points
yesterday. Their bonds are also gaining, with relative yields
dropping below their U.S. peers for the first time since June of
last year.  Europe is making a comeback in the debt markets as European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledges to do whatever’s
necessary to protect the euro, with the government bonds of
Greece,  Portugal , Ireland, Italy and Spain generating the
biggest returns since June of 26 sovereign markets tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. At the same time, lawmakers in the U.S.
are bickering over how to avert more than $600 billion in
mandated spending cuts and tax increases.  “The U.S. fiscal cliff has eclipsed the euro zone crisis
as the focal point for market uncertainty,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director at sovereign risk consulting firm Spiro
Sovereign Strategy in  London . The ECB “is underwriting
everything now,” he said.  ‘Biggest Opportunity’  Europe’s credit rally has fed through to the high-yield
debt market, with  junk bonds  headed for the best year since
2009, almost double U.S. returns. Speculative-grade debt in
euros has returned 25.1 percent this year, topping the 14.1
percent gain for American junk bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  “We look at Europe as the biggest opportunity globally,”
 Bruce Richards , chief executive officer of Marathon Asset
Management LP, which manages $10 billion of assets, told
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle  yesterday. “There are going to be a lot of
assets available.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc., the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer,
obtained $9.5 billion in financing to support its purchase of
Plains Exploration & Production Co. and McMoRan Exploration Co.
Humana Inc., the health-care company that is acquiring
 Metropolitan Health Networks Inc. (MDF) , is planning to sell about $1
billion of bonds in its first offering in more than four years
to help fund the purchase.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.15 basis point to 11.75 basis points
as of 11:45 a.m. in New York, approaching the three-week low of
11.5 reached Nov. 28. The gauge narrows when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Santa Clara , California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 209 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:46
a.m., according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Intel Bonds  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, raised $6
billion yesterday in its first bond offering since September
2011. Its $1.5 billion of 2.7 percent notes due December 2022
climbed 0.6 cent from the issue price to 100.1 cents on the
dollar, Trace data show. The relative yield over similar-
maturity Treasuries fell to 110 basis points from 115.  Freeport-McMoran’s financing is being provided by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to fund the cash portion of the transaction and to
repay borrowings under Plains’s existing term loans and
revolving  credit line , the companies said today in a statement
distributed by  Business Wire .  Plains had about $4.5 billion of long term debt as of Sept.
30, according to a Nov. 1 regulatory filing. It had about $503.8
million available under its senior credit line, which had $1.4
billion in commitments and a borrowing base of about $2.3
billion, according to the filing. Plains Offshore, a unit of
Plains, has a $300 million revolver that expires in November
2016.  Humana, the second-biggest private Medicare insurer, may
sell 10- and 30-year debt as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the transaction.  Fitch Ratings  said in a
statement today that it expects to grade the $1 billion of
securities BBB, two levels above speculative-grade.  Retiring Debt  Proceeds will go toward acquiring Metropolitan and retiring
its debt and and for general corporate purposes, Humana said
today in a regulatory filing.  Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s .  While corporate bond yields in Europe dropped to a record
2.13 percent last week, from 4.4 percent at the start of the
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate
Index, the price for easing Europe’s debt crisis is mounting.  The first tranche of as much as 39.5 billion euros ($52
billion) of a bailout for Spanish banks will be disbursed next
week as European finance chiefs approve the latest 34.4 billion-
euro payout to Greece. That’s on top of the 148.8 billion euros
the nation’s already received, according to the Ministry of
Finance in  Athens .  Euro Breakup  Portugal will get a further 2.5 billion euros of its 78
billion-euro aid program in January, while Ireland has tapped
55.3 billion euros of its 67.5 billion-euro rescue fund. Cyprus
is also negotiating a bailout.  Since July 26, when Draghi said he would do “whatever it
takes” to save the 17-nation euro, the currency has appreciated
versus each of its 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
except the Norwegian krone. Odds on a euro breakup by the end of
this year fell to 1.7 percent yesterday from 39.4 percent in
June, data compiled by Dublin-based Intrade show. The
probability of that happening by the end of 2013 has fallen to
33.3 percent from 57.6 percent.  Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes show the five biggest bond gains
since June are nations in the EU, ranging from 9.42 percent for
Spain to 124.2 percent for Greece.  Campbell Soup  In the U.S. the  Congressional Budget Office  in  Washington 
says the failure of lawmakers to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff of mandated tax increases and automatic spending cuts
starting in January may tip the economy back into recession.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of 125
companies including  Campbell Soup  Co. and Dell Inc. has climbed
20 percent to 100 basis points through yesterday from as low as
83 in September.  Default swaps on high-yield companies in Europe are the
safest relative to the U.S. since October 2011. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings dropped 36 percent since the start of
the year to 486 basis points from 755, while the Markit CDX
North American High Yield Index fell 24 percent to 516 from 680.  The European benchmark was 30 basis points lower than the
U.S. measure yesterday after being 136 basis points higher in
September 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Fiscal Cliff  Europe’s investment-grade swaps index dropped 45 percent to
118 basis points as of yesterday from as high as 214 in November
2011, while the Markit CDX North American Investment-Grade Index
declined 32 percent to 100 from 148, Bloomberg data show. The
European measure has been higher than the U.S. equivalent since
2010 and the gap is down from a record 64 basis points in July.  The difference will collapse to 10 basis points, according
to Ioannis Angelakis, a strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in London, without giving a timeframe. At the peak of the
financial crisis in November 2008, the relationship was reversed
and the U.S. measure exceeded the European equivalent by a
record 101 basis points.  “Europe is poised to relatively outperform the U.S.,”
said Angelakis. “In the U.S., fiscal cliff issues this month
could keep spreads volatile.”  At least 10 companies in the European index, including
Credit Agricole SA and Iberdrola SA, have fallen by more than 50
percent in the last six months, while only Computer Sciences
Corp. and Goodrich Corp. dropped by more than half in the U.S.  ‘Tail Risks’  Investment grade securities in Europe are also poised to
outperform the U.S. this year, returning 12.1 percent compared
with 10.5 percent in America. The relative yield on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate Index of investment-grade
bank and company bonds fell below the spread on the bank’s U.S.
Corporate Master Index last month for the first time since June
2011. The European measure last week was 10 basis points lower
than the U.S. after being 59 basis points higher a year ago.  “The ECB has taken the tail risks out of the equation,”
Saul Doctor, a strategist at JPMorgan in London, said in a phone
interview. “People are getting more comfortable with risk in
Europe and they’re starting to buy a lot more peripheral
exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  