-- Bank of East Asia Share Sale to Sumitomo Raises $426 Million
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-05T03:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/bank-of-east-asia-share-sale-to-sumitomo-raises-426-million-2-.html
Bank of East Asia Ltd. , Hong Kong’s
largest family-run bank, agreed to sell new stock to Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., raising HK$3.3 billion ($426 million) to
bolster its capital as it seeks to expand in mainland  China .  Sumitomo Mitsui, a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest bank by
market value, will pay HK$29.59 each for 111.6 million shares,
according to a filing yesterday by the Hong Kong-based bank to
the city’s stock exchange, doubling the  stake  to 9.5 percent.  Japan’s three so-called megabanks are accelerating efforts
to boost lending abroad as domestic loan demand growth slows.
Bank of East Asia, the second-largest foreign bank in mainland
China by branches as of last month, may need to sell more shares
to maintain its capital, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “We would not be surprised to see the bank issue
additional equity as its capital adequacy ratios remain low
relative to peers,” analysts led by Mike Werner wrote in a note
today. Sanford has a “market perform” rating on the stock.  Bank of East Asia climbed 2.9 percent to HK$30.55 at 11:39
a.m. in Hong Kong. The  shares  have gained about 4 percent this
year, trailing the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s 20 percent
advance. Sumitomo Mitsui rose 0.3 percent to 2,660 yen in  Tokyo 
today.  Working Capital  The Hong Kong bank led by Chief Executive Officer David Li
“currently intends to apply the net proceeds as general working
capital” and for expansion, it said in the filing.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , helmed by President
 Koichi Miyata , has been seeking to buy assets abroad to counter
 economic stagnation  and shrinking loan profitability at home.  “This additional share purchase is aimed at expanding our
business base in the greater China area,” Tokyo-based Sumitomo
Mitsui said in a statement today.  The Japanese bank’s investment may fuel speculation that
Bank of East Asia could be sold, Citigroup Inc. analysts said.  “The mixed shareholder structure may continue to trigger
market speculation about a potential takeover, offering support
to the share price,” Hong Kong-based analysts led by Gary Lam
wrote in a research report today.  Bank of East Asia’s biggest shareholders are Spain’s
 CaixaBank (CABK)  SA and  Guoco Group Ltd. (53) , the Hong Kong-based
investment company controlled by Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on filings
made earlier this year.  Sumitomo Mitsui received U.S. Federal Reserve permission on
Oct. 31 to increase its stake to as much as 9.9 percent from the
previous 4.7 percent.  Members of the Li family will hold at least 7.58 percent of
the bank after the sale, according to last night’s filing. That
includes 2.58 percent held by David Li, whose grandfather co-
founded the bank in 1918.  David Li has been CEO of Bank of East Asia since 1981,
according to its 2011 annual report. His sons Adrian Li and
Brian Li are two of the bank’s four deputy chief executives
after being promoted to the role in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  