-- Bank of Korea Raises Gold Holdings as Central Banks Buy
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-12-05T03:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/bank-of-korea-raises-gold-holdings-as-central-banks-buy-1-.html
The Bank of  Korea  increased  gold
reserves  20 percent last month to diversify investments,
boosting holdings for the fourth time since June 2011 and
underscoring increased demand by central banks. Prices gained.  The bank added 14 metric tons in November, bringing the
total to 84.4 tons, the bank said in a statement today. By value,
holdings increased about $780 million to $3.76 billion,
equivalent to 1.2 percent of total  reserves , the bank said.  Central banks from  Brazil  to  Kazakhstan  have been expanding
their gold reserves at a time when investors increased holdings
in  exchange-traded products  to a record to protect against
weaker currencies and the potential for faster inflation. Gold
is poised for a 12th annual gain as the U.S. Federal Reserve
boosts stimulus to buttress the recovery in the world’s largest
economy and European policy makers battle the debt crisis.  “Central-bank buying is a solid pillar for gold,” Nick Trevethan, senior commodities strategist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by phone from Singapore. “It’s
not a story that will go away soon.”  Countries bought 373.9 tons in the first nine months of the
year, according to the producer-funded World Gold Council, which
said in November that full-year additions will probably be at
the “bottom end” of a range from 450 to 500 tons. Last year,
central banks purchased 456 tons.  “Gold is a physical, safe asset,” the  Bank of Korea  said
in the statement. The precious metal “is a way of
diversification, which helps reduce  investment risk  in terms of
foreign-exchange reserves management,” it said.  Annual Advance  Spot gold gained 0.3 percent to $1,702.45 an ounce at 11:30
a.m. in Singapore, 8.9 percent higher this year. The price fell
to a one-month low of $1,691.40 yesterday, dropping alongside
other commodities amid concern that U.S. lawmakers may fail to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff of tax rises and spending cuts.  The Bank of Korea bought 16 tons in July, 15 tons in
November 2011 a further 25 tons over a one-month period from
June to July last year. Kazakhstan, Turkey and Russia boosted
gold reserves in October, according to data on the International
Monetary Fund’s website, joining Brazil, which raised holdings
to the highest in more than 11 years.  Gold prices have been supported by so-called official-
sector buying, David Gornall, chairman of the London Bullion
Market Association, told a conference in  Hong Kong  last month.
 China  may add more gold to reserves as the metal accounts for a
lower share of total holdings compared with the U.S., he said.  The U.S.,  Germany  and France hold more than 70 percent of
their reserves in gold, according to World Gold Council data.
The share in China, which has the world’s largest foreign-
exchange reserves, is 1.7 percent, the data show.  Investors increased holdings in gold-backed ETPs to an all-
time high of 2,627.035 tons yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s equivalent to the fourth-biggest hoard in
the world, exceeded by only the U.S., Germany and the IMF,
according to World Gold Council data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net  