-- Barclays Deferred Prosecution, EU, BofA: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-05T12:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/barclays-deferred-prosecution-eu-bofa-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s deferred prosecution
for improper dealings with sanctioned countries ended after the
judge overseeing the U.S. case weighed whether the bank’s
admissions in a probe involving manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate should affect the deal.  U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan, in a decision made
public yesterday, granted a request by the U.S. Justice
Department to dismiss the criminal charges pending under the
agreement in Washington since 2010. His one-page order offers no
explanation.  Sullivan’s ruling comes almost five months after Barclays
and prosecutors said in a court filing that the bank’s June 27
settlement of allegations involving Libor has “no effect” on
the two-year deferred-prosecution agreement requiring the bank
to stay out of criminal trouble.  The judge on June 28 ordered the parties to explain how the
Libor settlement affected the 2010 agreement, which involves a
$298 million settlement with the U.S. over illegal dealings with
such nations as Sudan and  Iran .  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by  assets , was
fined 290 million pounds ($467 million), after admitting it
submitted false London and euro interbank offered rates. Part of
that fine went to the Justice Department, which agreed not to
prosecute the bank for what it called “illegal conduct.”  Mark Lane, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined
to comment on the dismissal.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  Compliance Policy  EU Finance Chiefs to Meet Next Week as Banking Talks Bog Down  European Union finance ministers called an emergency
meeting next week in Brussels on establishing a banking
supervisor as disagreements reduced the chance of meeting a
year-end deadline.  Talks bogged down in a gathering yesterday in Brussels over
how much power to give the European Central Bank.  Germany , the
biggest European economy, sought to shield its small banks and
demand more proof that monetary policy will be walled off from
financial supervision.  “Of course we have difficult decisions to make, otherwise
we wouldn’t have to meet again,” German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble said yesterday. “But the number of open
points is being reduced.”  Governments are racing to meet a year-end deadline to set
up a single bank supervisor at the Frankfurt-based ECB, which
would be mandatory for the 17 euro-zone nations and optional for
other EU members.  ECB oversight is a required first step before banks can
directly tap the currency area’s firewall fund.  Loans from the firewall fund, such as for Spain’s
financial-sector rescue, now must pass through national
authorities. In addition to helping establish the new
supervisor, finance ministers must design guidelines for how the
500 billion-euro ($653 billion) European Stability Mechanism
could provide direct aid to banks and what conditions would
apply.  The new supervisor would oversee all banks in its coverage
area by Jan. 1, 2014, according to documents obtained by
Bloomberg News. It would be phased in over the course of 2013,
and the ECB would have until July 2013 to design how it will
work with national regulators. The dates are provisional and
could change.  For more, click here.  SEC Auditor Case Seen Jeopardizing Chinese Firms’ U.S. Listings  U.S. regulators, in a move to sanction auditors for
blocking investigations at China-based companies, have set a
course that jeopardizes the listing of more than 100 stocks from
the world’s most populous nation.  In an enforcement action against the China-based affiliates
of the Big Four accounting firms Dec. 3, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission escalated a three-year impasse between the
two nations over whether auditors can share work documents with
regulators investigating possible accounting fraud at companies
selling securities in the U.S.  “Chinese companies that are listed on U.S. exchanges are
being held captive in a sovereignty dispute,” Jim Feltman,
senior managing director at Mesirow Financial Consulting in New
York. “This is a step in the process to deregister companies
that can’t comply with U.S. audit rules. They’ll have to leave
the U.S. marketplace if their auditors cannot or will not be
responsive to the SEC.”  Of about 400 Chinese companies that trade in the U.S., at
least 115 have been audited by the domestic subsidiaries of the
Big Four accounting firms, according to data on stocks with
market values of at least $5 million compiled by Bloomberg. More
than half are audited by units of Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG
or PricewaterhouseCoopers.  The auditors say Chinese law prevents them from complying
with the SEC’s demands, hindering U.S. efforts to probe
allegations of fraud that have wiped 61 percent from a  gauge  of
Chinese and Hong Kong stocks traded in North America since
January 2011.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Rochdale Trader Arrested in $1 Billion Apple Stock Case  A former Rochdale Securities LLC trader was arrested on
wire fraud charges in connection with an unauthorized $1 billion
purchase of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stock that backfired, costing his company
$5 million, the U.S. said.  David Miller, 40, appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Holly Fitzsimmons in Bridgeport,  Connecticut , yesterday after
surrendering to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, prosecutors
said. He was released on $300,000 bail, they said.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based brokerage has been
struggling to survive and hold on to its staff after Miller’s
trade, made about the time of the Cupertino, California-based
technology company’s October earnings release.  Kenneth “Casey” Murphy, Miller’s lawyer at Simon &
Partners LLP, declined to comment in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 3:12-mj-288, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  Ex-Federal Reserve Programmer Gets Home Confinement in Theft  A computer programmer who worked for a contractor at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York was sentenced to six months of
home confinement for stealing U.S. Treasury Department software
used to track federal collections and payments.  Bo Zhang, a 33-year-old Chinese citizen, was sentenced
yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . Zhang pleaded guilty in
May to one count of theft of government property and one count
of immigration fraud for lying to immigration authorities in
support of other people’s visas.  The software, which cost millions of dollars to develop,
wasn’t given to anyone else and is still used by the government,
U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe said in court yesterday.  Zhang was sentenced three years of supervised release along
with home confinement. Defense lawyer Jeffrey Lichtman said
during the hearing that Zhang, who was in the U.S. on a work
visa, probably will be deported.  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 1:12-cr-00390, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Philips Among the Companies Fined by EU for Antitrust Violations  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  are
among the companies fined a  record  1.47 billion euros ($1.9
billion) by European Union antitrust regulators over price-
fixing agreements of now-obsolete cathode-ray tubes used in
televisions and computer monitors.  Philips was fined 313.4 million euros while LG faces a
295.6 million-euro penalty, the European Commission said in a
 statement  today. Philips and LG also share a fine of 391.9
million euros for a unit they jointly owned.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  was
fined 157.5 million euros and shares an 86.7 million-euro
punishment with Toshiba Corp. and MTPD, a Panasonic unit.
Panasonic and MTPD also share a 7.9 million-euro fine.  “Cathode-ray tubes were a very important component in the
making of television and computer screens. They accounted for 50
to 70 percent of the price of a screen,” said EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia in the statement.  Sales of cathode-ray tubes used in televisions and computer
monitors fell after customers switched to slimmer liquid-crystal
and plasma display sets. Philips and Technicolor, previously
known as Thomson SA, received objections in the EU probe in
2009. Antitrust watchdogs in the EU,  Japan  and South Korea
raided companies in 2007 over concerns they colluded to fix
prices.  Joost Akkermans, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips,
said the fine was “disproportionate and unjustified” and
related to a unit it divested in 2001. Philips will appeal the
EU decision, he said in a telephone interview.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Merrill Derivative Suit Dismissal Upheld by Appeals Court  Bank of America Corp.  won a federal appeals court ruling
upholding the dismissal of so-called double derivative lawsuits
over the lender’s 2009 merger with Merrill Lynch & Co.  The lawsuits sought to hold Merrill responsible for losses
on allegedly risky investments in collateralized debt
obligations and mortgage-backed securities before it was
acquired by the bank, according to a March 2011 opinion by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan throwing out the cases.  A panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York yesterday
agreed with Rakoff that plaintiffs in the two lawsuits either
initially failed to demand that the bank’s directors pursue
claims against former Merrill officers, or couldn’t “show that
the board had wrongfully refused” requests to pursue the
claims, according to the decision.  Rakoff said in his opinion that if the allegations in the
complaints were true, they describe “the kind of risky behavior
by high-ranking financiers that helped create the economic
crisis from which so many Americans continue to suffer.”  “The district court was well within its discretion” in
concluding that a plaintiff “failed to demonstrate that the
board acted in bad faith or conducted an unreasonable
investigation,” the appeals court said in yesterday’s ruling.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision,” Lawrence
Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, said in an e-mailed message.  The cases are In Re: Merrill Lynch & Co. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-09633, and N.A. Lambrecht v. O’Neal , 09-
cv-08259, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Argentina Not Required to Post $250 Million Appeal Bond  Argentina  won’t have to post at least $250 million as
security while a U.S. court considers its appeal of rulings
requiring that holders of its defaulted bonds be paid when
payments are made on its restructured debt.  Holders of the defaulted bonds, which include Paul Singer’s
NML Capital Ltd. and Aurelius Capital Management, asked the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New York to order that Argentina put up the
money to ensure they’ll be paid if the nation loses its appeal.
The court denied the request yesterday in a two-sentence order.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in Manhattan ruled Nov.
21 that Argentina had to pay $1.3 billion claimed by holders of
the defaulted debt into an escrow account by Dec. 15 if it made
about $3 billion in scheduled payments on the restructured debt
this month. The rulings sparked a rout in Argentine bonds and
caused Fitch to cut ratings on the country’s debt.  Argentina is appealing Griesa’s decisions, supported by
investors who participated in two debt restructurings. Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the restructured bonds,
Dec. 3 asked the court for permission to participate in the
appeal.  The appeals court last week delayed the effect of Griesa’s
orders and set Feb. 27 for oral argument in the case.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  Gupta Can Remain Free Pending Insider Appeal, Court Says  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta can
remain free while he fights his insider-trading conviction, a
federal appeals court ruled.  Gupta, 64, was challenging an order to report to prison in
January and begin serving a two-year sentence. His wife, Anita,
burst into tears yesterday when U.S. Circuit Judge Jose Cabranes
in Manhattan granted the request.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud. He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Raj Rajaratnam, his friend and business partner.  Gupta and his lawyer, Seth Waxman, declined to comment
after Cabranes announced the decision.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan had rejected
Gupta’s request to remain free pending appeal. Gupta, who is out
on $10 million bond, has argued that he is likely to win a
reversal of his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Elizabeth Warren Said to Head to Senate Banking Committee  U.S. Senator-elect Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard University
law professor and critic of Wall Street, is poised to join the
Senate Banking Committee after she’s sworn into office in
January.  Two Democratic aides briefed on the matter said Senate
leaders intend to assign Warren to the Banking Committee,
although a final decision on committee assignments will not be
made until the new session of Congress convenes.  The aides spoke on condition of anonymity because
assignments are not yet official.  Warren, 63, had been floated as a likely candidate for the
committee seat, which would give her a role in writing banking
legislation including revisions to the Dodd-Frank Act. The
financial services industry and Warren have had a combative
relationship since her calls for the creation of a consumer
protection bureau.  Warren defeated incumbent Republican Scott Brown by a
margin of 54 percent to 46 percent in November to become the
first woman senator from  Massachusetts  and heir to the seat held
for 47 years by Democratic icon  Edward Kennedy .  Warren ran for the Senate after President  Barack Obama 
decided not to nominate her as director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, a Dodd-Frank centerpiece designed
to help protect ordinary Americans from shoddy financial
products. Warren championed the idea as a lawyer and helped
build the bureau as an Obama administration adviser.  The banking and financial services industry opposed
establishment of the bureau and Senate Republicans banded
together to block her nomination as director.  Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, is also
expected to receive a seat on the Banking Committee, according
to one of the Democratic aides. Manchin acknowledged he was
pushing to get a seat on the committee.  SEC’s Disclosure Chief Cross to Step Down This Month  Meredith Cross, director of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission division that oversees public company
disclosures, initial public offerings and private-fund
registrations is leaving the agency.  Cross will step down as head of the Corporation Finance
division this month after guiding the unit through a prominent
role in SEC rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, according to a
statement released by the agency yesterday.  “Because of the efforts of Meredith and her staff,
investors today get better, more meaningful information about
the companies they invest in,” SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said
in the agency’s statement.  The impending departure of Schapiro, who is leaving on Dec.
14, may prompt others among her top aides to follow Cross in
announcing they will step down, according to people briefed on
the matter who asked not to be identified because the plans
aren’t public.  Among the rules Cross has been overseeing this year are
elements of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act that lifts
restrictions on companies going public. The agency also approved
Dodd-Frank rules in August requiring U.S.-listed companies to
disclose whether they use so-called conflict minerals in their
manufacturing and what payments they make to foreign governments
to extract oil and gas.  Many of the rules required by Dodd-Frank, which were meant
to strengthen oversight of financial institutions after the 2008
financial crisis, remain unwritten as the agency has struggled
against legal challenges to its efforts.  Cross, whose husband, John Cross, was named director of the
SEC’s Office of Municipal Securities in August, was a partner at
law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP in Washington,
before joining the SEC in 2009. She had worked at the agency in
the 1990s before joining WilmerHale.  The SEC statement didn’t indicate what Cross plans to do
after her departure from the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  