-- Beer Makers Cry Foul on French Levies as Wine Gets a Pass: Taxes
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-12-05T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/beer-makers-cry-foul-on-french-levies-as-wine-gets-a-pass-taxes.html
Stephane Bogaert, the head of French
microbrewery  Brasserie Saint-Germain , is crying foul.  The French government passed this week a law that adds 480
million euros ($628 million) in new taxes on beer, while leaving
wine unscathed.  “The government doesn’t want to touch wine and  Champagne 
producers because they are much too powerful,” Bogaert said in
an interview at his small brewery in Aix-Noulette in northern
France, which employs eight people and has 1.5 million euros of
revenue.  With beer levies rising 160 percent to bring in the extra
receipts, the 2 billion-euro industry is bracing for shrinking
sales, investments and jobs. Danish brewer  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , which
owns France’s biggest beer brand Kronenbourg, says it may have
to cut jobs in the country. The French Brewers’ Association says
it is encouraging lawmakers to take the bill voted Dec. 3 to
France’s highest court to protest against the unequal treatment.  “There’s a breach of equality tax-wise,”  Pascal
Chevremont , the Paris-based general secretary of the association,
said in a phone interview, adding that the burden should be
shared by wine and Champagne makers.  The beer tax is part of the 24.4 billion euros in
additional revenue French President  Francois Hollande ’s
government is trying to raise to meet a pledge to cut the budget
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2013 from 4.5
percent forecast for this year. The government also cited health
considerations when it announced the beer-tax increase.  Beer vs Wine  Taxes from wine and Champagne makers amount to about 120
million euros, while for brewers it’s being raised to more than
800 million euros, Chevremont says.  That’s even though beer accounts for only 16 percent of the
booze consumed in France, a quarter of the 59 percent for wine,
and has lower alcohol content, he said.  The wine industry -- from grape growers and wine makers to
distributors -- employs 250,000 people in  France . That compares
with about 75,000 for beer -- from barley growers to sellers of
the brew.  Breweries based in France produced 16.5 million hectoliters
of beers in 2011, according to the  Brewers’ association . In
contrast, France produced 51.1 million hectoliters of wine in
2011, according to  Insee , France’s national statistics office,
making the country the world’s biggest producer.  Microbrewers’ Rise  Over the last 30 years, beer consumption in France has
fallen by 30 percent, according to the association. For wine,
the average consumption fell by more than half from 1975 to 2010,
a report at the  Vinitech  wine and spirits trade show in Bordeaux
said this month, according to Decanter.com.  Still, the new taxes come just as beer sales were picking
up for microbreweries like Bogaert’s.  “One of the few rays of light for the French beer sector
during the economic crisis was the growth in microbreweries,”
said  Pierre-Olivier Bergeron , secretary general of the Brussels-
based Federation of Brewers of  Europe .  The 22 percent sales growth at Bogaert’s brewery prompted
it to invest a lot of money, Bogaert said.  “But we’re not so confident for the future because of the
taxes, and we think the growth won’t be the same next year,” he
said. “We will probably not invest as much money over the next
few years and maybe not hire as many people as we wanted to.”  While last year the brewer paid taxes of 46,000 euros, for
the same output it will next year pay 140,000 euros, he said.  Café Closures  The new tax may boost beer prices by 20 percent, curb
consumption and investment and lead to job losses and possible
bankruptcies, the Brewers’ Association estimates.  Some expect worse.  “With the tax expected to lead to a 25 to 40 cent increase
in the price of a small beer, this will further accelerate the
existing trend from café to home consumption, which has already
contributed to the closure of 12,000 establishments since
2007,” Bergeron said.  The market “will probably decline by 15 percent” in the
first three months next year, when the tax kicks in,  Gerard
Laloi , the association’s president, said in an interview in
Paris. “This is not acceptable.”  Carlsberg will have to cut jobs in France because of the
tax, Danish newspaper Borsen reported on Nov. 14, citing an
interview with Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen.  “We are very disappointed with this decision,” said Ben
Morton, a spokesman for Carlsberg, in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “We do not yet know how this proposed tax
increase will affect the brewing industry in France. Once we
know more, we will adapt accordingly.”  International Anxiety  The tax may have an impact on earnings of Carlsberg and
 Heineken NV (HEIA) , David Belaunde and Patrick Wood, analysts at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , wrote in an Oct. 2 report.  “At the group level, the downside on earnings would likely
range from 1 percent to 5 percent for Carlsberg, and 1 percent
to 3 percent for Heineken NV, depending on demand elasticity,”
they said. “We believe events such as this highlight the risks
that continue to exist in Europe.”  The new tax is also creating a diplomatic row as  Belgium ,
which exports beer to France, may challenge the law before
European Courts, claiming market distortion, Chevremont said.  “This is a matter of concern as 32 percent of Belgian beer
exports go to France,” Belgian Prime MinisterElio di Rupo said
at a Nov. 27 press conference in Paris, following a meeting with
Hollande.  Shrugged Off  The French president shrugged off concerns, saying France’s
tax rate is far from the highest in Europe.  “Despite this increase in the beer excise,” France ranks
10th among European Union countries, he said. “French
consumption will remain at a good level.”  The government may fall short of its target for taxes from
beer as sales fall on higher prices, the brewers’ association
said. Beer makers say they are aware that the French government
needs to reduce its  budget deficit .  “It’s just that we’re taxed in a disproportionate way
relative to wine and Champagne,” Chevremont said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  