-- Benghazi Video Shows Sudden Armed Attack, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-05T19:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/benghazi-video-shows-sudden-armed-attack-lawmakers-say.html
A classified video of the assault on
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , shows a sudden attack by
armed men who broke through the compound’s gates within minutes,
according to lawmakers who saw the recording.  “People showed up at the gate very quickly, breached it,
and poured inside,” said Representative  Adam Smith , the  senior
Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, who attended a
closed-door briefing today with  James Clapper , the director of
national intelligence, on the Sept. 11 attack.  “It happened very quickly,” said Smith, of Washington
state. “They weren’t just standing outside.”  The Obama administration’s initial description of the
attack as a spontaneous demonstration that was “hijacked” by
militants became an issue in the presidential election and now
threatens the prospects for Senate confirmation of  Susan Rice ,
the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , should President
 Barack Obama  nominate her to succeed the departing Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton .  Rice delivered the administration’s approved public account
of the events on five Sunday television talk shows five days
after the attack, while saying the assessment was preliminary.
Clapper spokesman Shawn Turner issued a statement Sept. 28 -- 12
days after Rice’s TV appearances -- saying the intelligence
community had revised its initial assessment and concluded the
assault was “a deliberate and organized terrorist attack.”  “It raised more questions than ever,” Representative
Frank Wolf of  Virginia , a senior Republican on the House
Appropriations Committee, said after attending the briefing at
the Capitol. “It means there should be public hearings or the
American people will never know.”  Photos, Maps  Lawmakers who came to the briefing, which was open to all
House members, said the video was paused repeatedly for a
narrative explaining what occurred. They were also shown photos
of the scene that night and maps of the consulate.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the California Democrat who heads
the Senate intelligence committee, described the video last
month as a “composite” film that showed the attack unfolding
“in real time.”  Representative Charles “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland ,
the senior Democrat on the House intelligence committee,
declined to discuss the video today. He said the video may be
declassified in some form when the investigation of the attack
is completed.  Chaotic Scene  Representative  Jan Schakowsky , an Illinois Democrat who
attended the briefing, said Clapper told them “there’s an
effort to put the events in black and white, and it’s not that
simple.”  Clapper also said that the intelligence community believed
all along that terrorists were involved in the attacks, “even
if that wasn’t in every statement,” she said.  Schakowsky and other lawmakers who attended said the video
showed a chaotic scene, with some attackers at the consulate
carrying weapons and others without. Some of the people in the
video seemed to be looters, they said.  Representative Gene Green, a Texas Democrat, said there
also was extensive discussion today about the process by which
the administration “talking points” used by Rice were
produced. While Green said he was satisfied that Rice did
nothing to intentionally mislead people into thinking the attack
was “spontaneous,” other lawmakers didn’t hold that view.
Questioning about the talking points and her use of them was
extensive, Green said.  ‘Extremists Participated’  The talking points said in part, “Demonstrations in
Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S.
embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the
U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and subsequently its annex.”
It also said, “There are indications that extremists
participated in the violent demonstrations.”  Intelligence officials have said the administration dropped
references to possible al-Qaeda connections to the attack from
the talking points to protect intelligence sources and because
those links were considered tenuous.  “This was clearly an armed attack,” Smith, of the Armed
Services Committee, said. “There’s no question about that. But
there were also people there who weren’t armed.”  Describing the attack on two separate buildings that
spanned seven or eight hours, Smith said, “It does not appear
it was planned more than a few hours in advance. There was no
precision to the attack.”  Feinstein has said her committee plans to hold a public
hearing on the attack after several closed briefings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  