-- Best-Performing Fund Manager Sees U.S. Pipeline Growth
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-12-05T15:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/best-performing-fund-manager-sees-u-s-pipeline-growth.html
Kevin McCarthy , the world’s best-
performing energy fund manager in the past year, stared at the
tangle of tax-exempt partnerships and corporate parents that
drive the U.S. oil and gas pipeline business and kept his cool.  That was in 2010, when the Kayne Anderson Capital Partners
LP manager in Houston said he found a way to profit from the
mess: He realized the most undervalued of the bunch were the
companies managing the partnerships, the so-called general
partners, especially since they were positioned to earn
escalating shares of cash flow as pipeline assets expanded.  McCarthy’s  Midstream/Energy Fund Inc. (KMF)  made 32 percent in
the last 12 months, the best return of 259 energy funds with
more than $100 million worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. His top investments are general partners such as  Williams
Cos. (WMB)  and  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , according to Sept. 30 data. The
industry has room to increase profit in 2013, as the drilling
boom in U.S. shale fields creates a need for more pipelines,
processing plants and compressor stations, McCarthy said.  “We think the development of the unconventional fields is
a multiyear, if not a multidecade, process,” McCarthy, 53,
formerly a banker at UBS Securities LLC, said in an interview.  Oil Boom Leftovers  Until 10 years ago, tax-advantaged master limited
partnerships, or MLPs, were leftovers from the oil boom of the
1980s, when they were used to attract individual investors to
the exploration business. They emerged in the 2000s as the
vehicle of choice for pipeline companies that hurried to keep up
with the pace of drilling in new fields like the Marcellus Shale
in  Pennsylvania  and the Bakken Shale in  North Dakota .  The fund rose less than 1 percent to $27.95 and was trading
at a 3.3 percent discount to its net asset value, or the value
of its underlying investments, at 10:15 a.m. in  New York . The
fund has averaged a 5 percent discount to its net asset value
this year.  It would take $251 billion in investment over 25 years to
build pipes, processing plants and other infrastructure needed
for all the new exploration, the Interstate Natural Gas Alliance
of America trade group estimated in a 2011 report. The spending
is already ahead of those estimates, and most of it is being
done by MLPs, according Eduardo Seda, an analyst at Ladenburg
Thalmann & Co. in New York.  MLPs don’t pay U.S. income taxes and distribute most of
their free cash as taxable income to investors through
partnership units, which trade like stock.  Full-Cycle Profit  In many cases, the corporation that controls an MLP  -- the
general partner -- gets a bigger share of  cash flow  as the
partnership grows. The corporate parents build or buy assets and
then sell them to the MLPs, which in turn pushes more cash flow
back to the parent.  “The way you get the full-cycle economics is, you invest
in the parent,” McCarthy said in the interview. “It’s willing
to take those longer lead-time projects. Once it gets into the
MLP, we benefit from that as well.”  To be sure, MLPs have risks. Kayne’s Midstream/Energy Fund
 dropped  9 percent in the week after the  U.S. presidential
election  amid concerns that the Obama administration might
change the partnerships’ tax treatment, reducing cash available
to the general partners.  Also, about 30 percent of the fund’s portfolio is paid for
with borrowed money, according to filings. While that leverage
boosts investors’ returns when the portfolio does well, it can
worsen the pain when the portfolio falls, said Mike Taggart, a
closed-end fund analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  Volatility Comparison  “Looking at their funds, they tend to be a little more
volatile than other MLP closed-end funds that have been around
for a long period of time,” Taggart said in an interview.  McCarthy said his knowledge of the pipeline industry helps
offset the risks. He and vice president Jim Baker came to Kayne
from UBS, where they worked in mergers and acquisitions.
McCarthy helped take MLPs public and has helped others finance
major purchases.  “We’ve had relationships as long as 25 years with these
management teams,” he said.  One of Kayne’s strengths has been its consistency, said
Viktoria Baklanova, an analyst with Fitch Ratings Ltd. Fitch has
a AAA rating on $165 million worth of the Kayne Midstream/Energy
fund’s bonds, and a AA rating on $65 million worth of its
preferred shares, largely because of the fund’s stability,
Baklanova said in an interview from New York.  “It’s been the same team of people since the beginning of
the fund and they all stick around, executing on the strategy,”
Baklanova said. “They have great access to the  capital
markets .”  First Trust Energy  After Kayne Midstream, the best performer from a different
 money manager  is the  First Trust Energy Income & Growth fund ,
with a 17 percent return in the past year and run by Jim
Murchie, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pipelines are popular with individual investors because
much of their revenue comes from long-term transportation
contracts that don’t depend on the price of oil or natural gas,
Seda said. Payments also can be locked in regardless of volume
shipped under some contracts.  “You might give up some of your growth for stability, but
I think nowadays people reward that,” he said. “Having those
fixed-fee contracts where you get paid regardless of volume is a
nice guarantee.”  McCarthy declined to comment on specific companies in the
Kayne portfolio, citing a company policy. Public documents show
the fund invested in firms that have been at the front of the
pipeline-building boom.  Williams Pick  Williams Cos., the fund’s top holding, has risen 70 percent
to $32.24 since the Kayne fund went public in 2010. Williams
benefited as its underlying partnership,  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) ,
bought $6.8 billion in pipelines and other assets in the past
two years. The partnership’s cash dividends have risen to $373
million in the third quarter from $221 million two years early -
- and about two-thirds of that goes to Williams Cos.  The Kayne midstream fund also held stock in El Paso Corp.,
which Kinder Morgan Inc. bought for a 47 percent premium in May,
creating the biggest U.S. pipeline operator. Kayne also held
shares of Sunoco Inc., which was acquired by Energy Transfer
Partners LP for a premium of about 15 percent in October.  The next round of activity may come as integrated  oil
companies  create MLPs to manage their pipeline networks,
McCarthy said.  Phillips 66 (PSX) , the refiner spun off from
ConocoPhilips, has discussed expanding its pipeline MLP or
creating a new one. Marathon Petroleum Corp., the refiner spun
off from Marathon Oil Corp., formed an MLP in October.  The other driver will be geography, McCarthy said.  “It’s just like the real estate business, you want to put
your store on a busy corner,” he said. “You want to have a
pipeline or a processing facility in an area where you think
there’s going to be multiple opportunities to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  