-- Big Lots CEO to Leave Amid Report of Stock Sale SEC Probe
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-12-05T21:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/big-lots-ceo-to-leave-amid-report-of-stock-sale-sec-probe.html
Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  said Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Steven Fishman will retire, amid a report that
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating a
$10 million sale of stock by the executive.  Fishman, 61, will step down, effective when a successor is
named, as he seeks to prioritize time with his family, the
Columbus, Ohio-based discount retailer said yesterday. The Wall
Street Journal  reported  yesterday that the SEC started the
inquiry in March and that the probe is at an early stage, citing
a person familiar with the inquiry.  Fishman, who took over in July 2005, sold the stock on
March 20 at a price of about $45. On April 23, the company told
investors its sales had slowed, and the following day the stock
fell 24 percent to $34.71. Big Lots hasn’t received anything
from the SEC on Fishman’s stock sales, Andrew Regrut, a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. He declined to answer
other questions and directed inquiries to Chief Administrative
Officer Charles Haubiel, who didn’t return calls.  The CEO’s trades were properly made at a time when they
were allowed and his stepping down is coincidental to any
regulatory interest, the Journal said, citing the company.  While the timing of Fishman’s trade would raise the
suspicion of regulators it’s not enough to build a case, said
 Bridget Rohde , a former chief of the criminal division at the
U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York,
where she oversaw insider trading cases.  Suspicious Trading  “Suspicious trading isn’t enough even if you call this
suspicious,” said Rohde, now a lawyer with Mintz Levin. “You
would have to prove he had material, non-public information.”  The company understands and complies with the rules on
 stock trading  by individuals, Haubiel said on a  conference call 
with analysts yesterday, in response to a request for comment on
the Journal’s report.  Public records  show that the sale of 227,500 shares for
$10.3 million on March 20 wasn’t part of the 10b5-1 plan Fishman
had used in the past to sell shares on a predetermined schedule.
Such 10b5-1 plans are used by many companies to avoid the
appearance of  insider trading .  Executive Departures  Fishman’s departure follows the appointment of a new chief
financial officer, chief operating officer and chief
merchandising officer in August, amid declining same-store sales
this year.  Big Lots  fell  3.9 percent to $30.06 at the close in New
York. The shares have tumbled 20 percent this year.  Adjusted profit from continuing operations for fiscal 2012
will be as much as $3.05 a share, up from a previous prediction
of as much as $2.95 a share, Big Lots also said in a statement.
Analysts projected $2.80, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg before the statement.  Sales at U.S. stores open at least 15 months fell 4.6
percent in the quarter ended Oct. 27, the company said. Big Lots
reported a third-quarter loss of $6 million, or 10 cents a
share, from continuing operations, compared with a profit of
$4.2 million, or 6 cents, a year ago.  The company operated more than 1,482 U.S. stores at the end
of the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  