-- Billionaire George Roberts Gives Claremont McKenna $50 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-12-05T12:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/billionaire-george-roberts-gives-claremont-mckenna-50-million.html
George Roberts , the billionaire co-
founder and co-chief executive officer of  KKR & Co. (KKR) , gave $50
million to Claremont McKenna College.  The gift from Roberts adds to Claremont McKenna’s recent
fundraising campaign, which surpassed $600 million with the
donation. The university, based in Claremont,  California , said
it will name a new three-floor athletic facility The Roberts
Pavilion, which can also be configured to seat 2,000 people for
community events.  “Claremont McKenna College teaches leadership; George
Roberts lives it at the highest standard,” Harry McMahon,
chairman of the university’s board of trustees, said in a
statement today. “His entrepreneurial zeal and vision for
making the college the best it can be has been one of our
greatest blessings.”  Roberts graduated from the university in 1966, one year
before his cousin, Henry Kravis. In 1976, the two started the
leveraged-buyout firm KKR with a partner from Bear Stearns &
Co., Jerome Kohlberg. New York-based KKR, which has at three
different points held the title of pulling off the biggest LBO
in history, today oversees $66 billion of assets.  $4.3 Billion  Almost all of Roberts’s fortune derives from KKR profits,
giving him a net worth of $4.3 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He and Kravis received $94 million
each in pay and cash dividends in 2011, about 30 percent more
than a year earlier, according to regulatory filings. Roberts
works in the firm’s offices in Menlo Park, California, while
Kravis is based in KKR’s Manhattan headquarters.  Claremont McKenna last year opened The Kravis Center, an
academic building named for Kravis, 68, and his wife. The school
also houses the Kravis Leadership Institute. In 2010, Kravis
pledged $100 million to  Columbia Business School , where he
earned a master’s in business administration in 1969, to help
fund its campus expansion.  Roberts, 69, has already helped fund two of Claremont
McKenna’s academic buildings, both named after him, as well as
the Roberts Environmental Center, the university said.  “We have a great community here,” Roberts said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Staiti in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net  