-- BlackRock Liquidates PPIP Fund Earning U.S. Treasury 24%
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-12-05T22:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/blackrock-liquidates-ppip-fund-earning-u-s-treasury-24-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , one of nine companies
chosen to manage a government-subsidized program to revive the
mortgage-backed  securities market , said it returned money to
investors and gave the  U.S. Treasury  a 24 percent rate of return
since October 2009.  The Treasury invested $528 million in BlackRock’s fund that
participated in the Public Private Investment Program and
received that money back as well as $389 million in profit, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Private
investors also put $528 million in the fund.  “As with all of our investments, our primary goal is to
maximize the return for all of our investors, including
Treasury, through a carefully constructed risk framework,”
 Robert Kapito , president of BlackRock, which manages $3.67
trillion in assets, said in the statement.  PPIP was designed to support the functioning of the
mortgage-backed securities markets and allow banks and other
financial institutions to extend new credit to households and
businesses. Timothy Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary
for financial stability, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television in October 2010 that the program helped restart
credit so homeowners, small businesses and consumers could get
financing again.  Management Team  Randy Robertson, head of BlackRock’s securitized asset
investment team, was the lead portfolio manager for the fund and
Sacha Bacro, head of special opportunities, led its structuring
and design, according to  Brian Beades , a spokesman for the firm.  Other PPIP managers included  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  and
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , which already liquidated their
funds. Invesco, based in Atlanta, said in April it had returned
money to investors, giving the Treasury an 18 percent annualized
return over 29 months. In October, New York-based
AllianceBernstein said it had returned all of the capital raised
in its PPIP fund to investors, with the Treasury earning 19
percent since the fund’s inception.  The BlackRock fund also borrowed $1.05 billion from the
Treasury, according to department’s most recent  update  for the
program for the quarter ended Sept. 30. BlackRock’s PPIP fund
deployed about 75 percent of the almost $2.8 billion in
available committed capital, according to the statement.  Under the program, the Treasury originally committed $22.1
billion of equity and debt in PPIP funds, the Treasury report
said. PPIP managers aren’t required to return money until at
least eight years from the funds’ initial closings in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  