-- Boeing 787 Fuel Leaks Spur FAA to Require Jet Inspections
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-05T04:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/boeing-787-fuel-leaks-spur-faa-to-require-jet-inspections.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787 Dreamliners must
be inspected after fuel leaks on two planes were traced to
manufacturing errors, the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration 
said.  The  airworthiness directive , the first for the 787 since it
entered service last year, will be issued today and require
checks of fuel-line connectors for an “unsafe condition,” the
FAA said on the Federal Register’s website. Japan Airlines Co.
and All Nippon Airways Co. both said they had repaired planes
because of the fault.  The leaks, attributed to improperly installed couplings,
could cause a plane to run out of fuel, an engine-power loss or
a fire, the FAA said. Chicago-based Boeing issued a similar
recommendation on Nov. 25, advising carriers to complete an
inspection within seven days, according to the FAA. The
planemaker delivered 33 Dreamliners, the first jetliner made
chiefly of composite materials, through October.  Inspections are finished on about half of the 787s handed
over so far, and Boeing is “taking appropriate steps to ensure
proper installation on airplanes in production,” said  Lori Gunter , a company spokeswoman. The couplings are in the pylons
that support the jet’s two engines.  The FAA is requiring partial checks within seven days and
what it estimates to be a full 10-hour, $2,712 inspection and
potential repair within 21 days. It didn’t identify the 787s
with the leaks beyond saying that they weren’t flown by a U.S.
carrier.  ANA, JAL  All Nippon found and repaired the fault in “several”
787s, said Youichi Uchida, a spokesman. The carrier, the first
Dreamliner operator, has a fleet of 16. Japan Air fixed two of
its six 787s, said Kazunori Kidosaki, a spokesman. The two
Tokyo-based airlines both said they no longer had any problems
because of the fault. All Nippon delayed a flight in October
because of a leak, Uchida said.  Boeing will “do a thorough evaluation as part of our
internal process,” said Gunter, who declined to say whether
there had been any incidents with the two Dreamliners in
question or how the flaw was detected.  She also wouldn’t say whether the assembly mistakes
occurred at Boeing’s wide-body plant in Everett,  Washington , or
at a newer factory making 787s in North Charleston, South
Carolina, nor would she comment on how the errors occurred.  United Emergency  Yesterday’s emergency landing of a  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  787 because of an unspecified mechanical issue
isn’t related to the fuel-leak directive, Gunter said.  United became the first U.S. airline flying the plane with
a flight on Nov. 4 to the carrier’s headquarters city,  Chicago ,
from Houston. The incident yesterday involved a flight to  New
Jersey ’s Newark Liberty International Airport from Houston.  The 787 was 3 1/2 years late in making its commercial
debut, after Boeing struggled with the composite materials and
new manufacturing system that relies more on suppliers. Other
manufacturing errors have been found during the Dreamliner’s
development and entry into service.  In 2009, Boeing had to patch up several sections of about
two dozen planes after finding tiny wrinkles in parts of the
composite fuselages made by an Italian supplier.  Debris was left in the fuel tanks of a 787 test jet being
built in January 2010, the same year that flaws in the tail
sections were found in June and debris in an electrical panel
led to an in-flight fire in November that grounded the entire
test fleet for six weeks.  An engine component on a 787 fractured in July, spewing
shards of metal out of the plane as it prepared for its first
flight in  South Carolina .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  