-- Brazil to Raise Local-Content Rules for Wind, Trade Group Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-12-05T19:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/brazil-to-raise-local-content-rules-for-wind-trade-group-says.html
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social,  Brazil ’s development bank, plans to increase
local-content requirements for wind-turbine companies as the
nation seeks to boost business for domestic suppliers, a trade-
group official said.  Turbine makers in Brazil will be required to get more than
60 percent of their components from domestic companies under a
new, “qualitative” method of calculating local usage,
according to Elbia Melo, executive president of the Sao Paulo-
based trade association  Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica .
She didn’t say by how much the new rule will exceed the current
requirement of 60 percent.  Wind energy is surging in Brazil and the government is
taking steps to ensure that local manufacturers benefit from the
expanding market, Melo said. BNDES, as the lender is known,
stopped offering financing earlier this year for developers to
buy turbines from five suppliers that didn’t meet local-content
requirements.  “The 60 percent requirement wasn’t a sufficient incentive
mechanism,” Melo said in an interview today. “The game is very
clear now. Suppliers have to comply with the rules to stay in
Brazil and remain competitive.”  The new rules will require companies to describe in detail
which components they source in Brazil and under what time
frame, she said. They will be issued before a government-
organized energy auction scheduled for Dec. 14. Developers have
registered projects with 14,181 megawatts of generating capacity
for the event, about 84 percent from wind.  A press official for BNDES who didn’t want to be named
because of agency policy wouldn’t comment on the new rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  