-- Brazil Central Bank Said to Consider Real Weakened Too Much
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-12-05T21:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/brazil-central-bank-said-to-consider-real-weakened-too-much-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank considers that
the real has weakened to a level that doesn’t correspond to the
country’s economic fundamentals, said a central bank official
with knowledge of the discussions. The real extended gains.  Policy makers believe the currency has declined too much as
traders wrongly bet that the government is working to keep the
 exchange rate  within a determined range, said the official, who
requested anonymity because he’s not authorized to discuss the
matter publicly.  The government in the past two days dropped some capital
controls, helping buoy the real after it tumbled to a three-year
low on Nov. 30. The central bank on Dec. 3 also sold $2.1
billion in currency swaps and offered dollars with  repurchase
agreements  in a bid to boost liquidity. Mantega said the
government may further unwind  capital controls  as markets adjust
to measures taken today and yesterday.  The real rose 1.5 percent to 2.0879 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close in  Sao Paulo , the biggest advance since June 29. Still,
the real has weakened 10.6 percent since the beginning of the
year, the worst performance amid the 16 most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  A steeper slide compared to other emerging market
currencies means that the real has weakened too much, the
official said.  On Nov. 30, the currency tumbled 1.8 percent to 2.1360 per
dollar, the biggest one-day decline since June 21 on speculation
the government would allow the currency to further weaken to
help boost economic growth by protecting local manufacturers
from foreign rivals.  “Apparently they would like a weaker currency, but then
they realized it could bring more problems than benefit,”
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimento, said in an emailed interview. “They decided to
put the flame out.”  A weaker currency could further fuel  inflation , which has
been above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for more than
two years, Santos said. Inflation quickened to 5.45 percent in
October, up from 5.28 percent in September.  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.6 percent in the third quarter,
the national statistics agency said Nov. 30, as government
stimulus efforts failed to revive investment that fell for the
fifth straight quarter.  Growth was lower than the  forecasts  of all 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg whose median estimate was for 1.2 percent
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  