-- Brown-Snowe-Lugar’s Last Hurrah Seen Aiding Deficit Deal
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-12-05T17:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/brown-snowe-lugar-s-last-hurrah-seen-aiding-deficit-deal.html
Scott Brown  of Massachusetts, Olympia Snowe of Maine and  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, departing
Republican senators with a history of compromise, will be prime
targets for Democrats seeking votes to avoid tax increases and
spending cuts at the start of 2013.  Senate Republican leaders are anticipating that because of
their lame-duck status and moderate voting records, the three
lawmakers will receive overtures from President Barack Obama and
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Brown, Snowe and Lugar each said in interviews that their
impending departures from Congress won’t alter the way they
evaluate a possible deal to avert more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending reductions set to begin in January unless
Congress acts -- the so-called fiscal cliff. Still, they’ve
indicated a willingness to back a deal with broad support.  “Probably the administration’s strategy is going to be
divide and conquer: They’re going to try to pick off a handful
of Republicans to give bipartisan cover to whatever they try and
do over here,” Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota, the third-
ranking Senate Republican, said in an interview.  More than 80 lawmakers in the Senate and House, some
defeated in re-election bids and others retiring, will vote this
month before leaving Congress. Some are considered possible
swing votes on a budget deal because like Brown, they may have
future political aspirations, or like Lugar and Snowe, they may
want to secure a political legacy.  60 Votes  Support from Brown, Snowe and Lugar alone wouldn’t be
enough to get a budget deal through the Senate, which Democrats
control 53-47. If Democrats can hold all their own votes, a gain
of three Republicans would still leave them four short of the 60
needed to advance major legislation in the chamber.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned that failing to
avert the spending cuts and tax increases would pitch the  U.S.
economy  into a recession.  “I’m going to vote the same way I’ve always voted,” said
Brown, who has hinted since losing to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren 
on Nov. 6 that he plans to run again for public office. ‘I’m
going to finish like I started, which is I’m going to read the
bills and see how they affect our state, our country, our debt
and our deficit and vote.”  Lugar, a six-term incumbent, lost in a May primary to  Tea
Party  backed challenger  Richard Mourdock , who was defeated in
the general election by Democrat Joe Donnelly. Snowe announced
her decision to retire in February, citing frustration with
growing partisanship in the Senate.  McConnell’s Incentive  Meanwhile, to stave off a primary challenge in 2014, Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky may have incentive
to oppose any tax-and-spending deal reached by Obama and House
Speaker  John Boehner  -- particularly one that includes an
increase in taxes for top earners. Opposition from McConnell
would make more important the votes of rank-and-file Republican
moderates like Brown, Snowe and Lugar.  Brown, who won his seat in a 2010 special election to
replace the late Senator Edward Kennedy, said Democrats haven’t
approached him seeking support for a budget agreement that the
president is trying to negotiate with Boehner, an Ohio
Republican.  “Right now it’s really at the leadership level, they’re
doing their thing,” Brown said.  Pressed as to whether he might be persuaded to back a deal
that includes a tax increase for high earners, Brown said,
“We’ll see. Nothing’s been proposed yet.”  Insider Trading  In Democratic-leaning Massachusetts, Brown has touted his
efforts to work with the president, including sponsoring Obama-
backed legislation to ban  insider trading  by members of
Congress.  Lugar said he is “open to all suggestions” on how to
avoid the fiscal cliff, adding that his Senate departure “would
not change” his point of view.  “I’m in favor of trying to work out an agreement and will
be as active as I can in trying to do that,” he said.  Ahead of the May 8 primary, Lugar was attacked by Mourdock,
the state treasurer, for not actively backing the Tea Party’s
push to limit government and for being too willing to compromise
with Obama. On the night of his primary loss, Lugar said
Mourdock’s “embrace of an unrelenting partisan mindset” was
“irreconcilable” with Lugar’s philosophy of governance.  Snowe, one of three Senate Republicans who backed Obama’s
2009 economic stimulus measure, resisted Democratic attempts to
enlist her support for the 2010 health-care law, which
eventually passed Congress without a single Republican vote.  ‘Certainly’ Willing  Snowe said she “certainly” would be willing to work with
Democrats on a tax-and-spending deal because it is “an issue of
such consequence for the nation.” She added that as of now, the
pertinent negotiations are between Obama and his aides and House
Republican leaders.  “At some point, they’re going to have to decide how best
they can get that broader support, depending on what agreement
they reach,” she said. “If it’s something that I could
support, I would support it, quite frankly, because it’s so
compelling for the country.”  Senate leaders will want to court the departing senators
because they “can’t get to 60 without Republicans like Brown,
Lugar and Snowe,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist and
professor at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California.
“If they can’t get these folks, then they have no chance of
getting to 60.”  House Republicans  In the House, departing Republicans probably will provide
some of the votes that Boehner would need to advance any deal he
reaches with Obama.  Moderates including  Judy Biggert  and Bob Dold of Illinois
and Charlie Bass of  New Hampshire , all of whom lost on Nov. 6,
and Steve LaTourette of Ohio, who decided to retire, could be
swayed. Republican freshman elected with the Tea Party support
in 2010 including  Joe Walsh  of Illinois, Nan Hayworth of New
York and  Allen West  of Florida are expected to oppose any deal
that includes the revenue Obama is demanding.  Walsh, Hayworth and West lost their re-election bids.  Senate Vote  When the Senate in July passed legislation extending the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts only for individual income up to
$200,000 a year and married couples’ income up to $250,000.
Connecticut’s  Joseph Lieberman , an independent who caucuses with
Democrats, and Virginia Democrat  Jim Webb  joined Republicans in
opposing that measure. Neither sought re-election this year.  Lierbman said in an interview that he now would be prepared
to support increased rates on top earners as part of a broader
deficit deal before year’s end.  “At this point, I think the position the president has
laid out makes sense to me as a next step, and it’s one that
he’s earned the right to make by virtue of being re-elected,
which is that there ought to be an increase in taxes on higher
income,” he said.  Another retiring Democrat, Senator  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska,
said he would scrutinize any budget deal reached during his
final weeks in office. Nelson was the final Democratic holdout
in the Senate on the 2010 health-care law.  “My approach is not changing because I made the decision
to retire at the end of the year,” said Nelson. “My approach
will be what it’s always been: Try to determine what’s best for
the country, for the state of Nebraska, and what’s really going
to move us forward rather than keep us stuck in reverse gear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  