-- L.A. Port Workers Reach Agreement to End Eight-Day Strike
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-12-05T23:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/california-port-workers-reach-agreement-to-end-eight-day-strike.html
Clerical workers at the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach, the largest U.S. port complex, agreed to
end an eight-day strike that affected about $1 billion of trade
a day.  Workers and management reached a tentative agreement on a
new contract, according to a  statement  late yesterday on the
website of the International Longshore & Warehouse Union. The
deal came after talks were held with federal mediators. Terms of
the agreement weren’t disclosed.  Port employees went back to work within minutes of the
agreement, according to Phillip Sanfield, a spokesman for the
Los Angeles facility. The number of ships anchored outside the
two ports fell to five from 13 and all berths were occupied.
Other ships that had been diverted were returning.  “It’s a matter of days, not weeks, before we get back to
normal,” Sanfield said.  The two ports, which together handle about a third of U.S.
container imports, shuttered 10 of 14 cargo-box terminals,
stranding shipments of toys, furniture and clothes in the run-up
to the holiday period.  “We must waste no time in getting the nation’s busiest
port complex’s operations back up to speed,” Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said in a statement.  The clerical employees, paid $41 an hour, walked out on
Nov. 27 after working without a contract for 30 months. The
dispute mainly focused on long-term job security rather than
pay. The union wanted assurances that work wouldn’t be moved
overseas. The terminal operators were seeking great flexibility
in hiring so that positions were only filled if needed,
according to a Dec. 1 statement.  Outsourcing Fears  “Our campaign was always focused on securing good jobs and
stopping the outsourcing that threatened working families in our
harbor communities,” ILWU International Vice President Ray
Familathe said in the union’s statement.  “We got some of the flexibility we were looking for,”
Steve Getzug, a spokesman for the employers, said in a telephone
interview.  The shutdown left 15 ships sitting at piers waiting to be
unloaded earlier this week and others at anchor offshore,
according to Richard McKenna, executive director of the San
Pedro-based Marine Exchange of Southern  California , which
monitors harbor traffic. Another 18 had been diverted to other
ports, mostly to Oakland, California, and to  Mexico , he said.  Art Wong, a spokesman for the Port of Long Beach, said
people had been remarking to him how light highway traffic was
around the ports during the strike. Now, with trucks returning
to pick up and drop off cargo, “those days are gone,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  