-- Canada’s Oil Sands CO2 Emissions Rise as Production Grew
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-12-05T21:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/canada-s-oil-sands-co2-emissions-rise-as-production-grew.html
Canada, the world’s seventh-largest
emitter of  greenhouse gases , increased carbon dioxide and
nitrogen oxide emissions from oils-sands production last year.  Emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas
produced by humans, rose 1.8 percent to about 47.1 million tons,
while nitrogen oxide output increased 2.1 percent to 84,037
tons, according to a report from the  Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers  released today.  Oil-sands  production last
year rose 9.5 percent, Travis Davies, a spokesman for CAPP, said
in an interview.  “It is recognized that a shift to more energy intensive
production methods such as oil sands and hydraulic fracturing to
produce natural gas, as well as in situ oil sands production,
means reducing GHG emissions intensity will continue to be a
challenge in the near term,” Calgary-based CAPP said in the
report.  Oil-sands producers including  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  and
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  are boosting the use of so-called in situ
technology, which burns natural gas to heat steam in order to
melt seams of bitumen underground. The technique is more carbon-
intensive than mining bitumen in locations where the  fossil fuel 
is closer to the surface, said Jennifer Grant, director of oil-
sands policy at the Pembina Institute, a Calgary-based
environmental research organization.  Carbon Tax  “Based on what the regulators have approved,  carbon
emissions  are set to double between 2010 and 2020,” she said in
a phone interview. “We really need to have an escalating price
on carbon for more innovation.”  Alberta collects C$15 ($15.1) per ton of carbon from
industrial emitters who don’t meet mandatory reduction targets
established by the provincial government. The price isn’t high
enough to force companies to develop technology to lower CO2
output, Pembina’s Grant said.  Emissions of carbon from oil-sands production has risen to
about 6.5 percent of  Canada ’s total from about 1 percent in
1990, the Pembina Institute estimates. Increases in greenhouse-
gas output from the oil sands will likely more than offset
reductions from other industries such as transportation,
agriculture and electricity generated by coal in the world’s
11th-largest economy, Pembina said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  