-- Canada Regulator Won’t Review Telus Foreign Ownerhip
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-12-05T16:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/canada-regulator-won-t-review-telus-foreign-ownerhip.html
Canada ’s telephone regulator said it
won’t review the foreign-ownership structure of  Telus Corp. (T) , the
country’s third-largest wireless carrier, saying there’s no
evidence the company’s shareholdings violate the rules.  “The commission is satisfied that Telus’s mechanisms for
ensuring its compliance are consistent with the provisions and
requirements established,” the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission said in a statement. “The
commission does not consider there to be sufficient evidence of
non-compliance.”  Globalive Wireless Management Corp. had requested the
regulator review Telus, claiming it was in breach of legal
limits on foreign ownership. Foreign investors can’t hold more
than the 33.3 percent of a telecom company’s shares under
Canadian law.  Globalive -- funded by Amsterdam-based  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  --
offers wireless services in Canada under the WIND Mobile brand.  “While we respect the Commission’s decision, we are, of
course, disappointed,” Simon Lockie, Chief Regulatory Officer
of WIND Mobile, said in a statement. “We consider this a missed
opportunity for the Commission to provide all industry players
with much-needed guidance and clarity on these important
matters.”  Telus, based in  Vancouver , proposed in February to scrap
its dual-share structure by converting all non-voting shares
into voting stock on a one-to-one basis. Telus wanted to boost
the appeal of its stock as the carrier competes for a bigger
share of Canada’s wireless market.  ‘Event-Driven’  The company said in March that “approved and pending”
applications to buy its common voting shares may push foreign
ownership beyond the 33.3 percent limit for phone companies.
Telus blamed the surge on “event-driven” foreign investment
funds seeking to profit from changes in the prices of the two
classes of shares expected under the company’s proposal.  Telus dropped the proposal on May 9, saying the plan
wouldn’t survive a shareholder vote. Hedge fund Mason Capital
Management LLC, which accumulated 19 percent of the common
shares according to data compiled by Bloomberg, had opposed the
change.  Telus said Nov. 30 that there has been a “material
reduction” in non-Canadian ownership of its common shares to
approximately 15 percent as of Nov. 16, down from 33 percent in
July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  