-- Canadian Pacific Surges on Ackman-Backed Plan for Rebound
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-05T21:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/canadian-pacific-surges-on-ackman-backed-plan-for-rebound.html
Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd. surged
the most in six weeks after Chief Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison  said he would cut jobs and study asset sales to boost
profitability at  North America ’s least-efficient railroad.  Canadian Pacific rose 4.1 percent to C$96.82 at the close
in Toronto, the highest since the company was spun off from the
former Canadian Pacific Ltd. in 2001.  Harrison plans to shrink the company’s workforce by 23
percent and will consider selling a midwestern U.S. line gained
in the 2007 acquisition of Dakota,  Minnesota  & Eastern Railroad.
The former head of  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  stepped into
his current post in June after hedge-fund manager  William Ackman 
won a proxy fight to oust then-CEO  Fred Green .  “If you’re a shareholder even since the beginning of 2012,
I think you’re very happy with what Ackman has done and what
Hunter is doing,” Brian Yarbrough, an Edward Jones analyst,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s got the track record to do
it and now he’s laying out his plans.”  Harrison earned a reputation for operational efficiency at
Illinois Central Corp. and then at  Canadian National , the
country’s biggest railroad, before retiring in 2009. Canadian
Pacific’s shares have climbed 32 percent from June 28, the day
before his hiring was announced. Canadian National  rose 3.7
percent  in that span.  Operating Efficiency  Harrison, 68, reaffirmed yesterday his pledge to lower
Calgary-based Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio, a benchmark
industry measure of expenses to revenue, to about 65 percent in
four years. The CEO’s speech kicked off a two-day presentation
to investors and analysts.  “We need to get our house in order, get our costs under
control and do a lot of things,” he said in an interview today.  While the carrier’s 74.1 percent third-quarter ratio was
the lowest in two years, Canadian Pacific was still the least
efficient of the six major North American railroads, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To achieve his goals, Harrison will eliminate 2,300
employee and contractor jobs by the first quarter, and 4,500
total by 2016.  “You could see more reductions in the future,” Harrison
said. “I’m not locking us into any place. We’re in a pretty
good position where the demographics of what we describe as our
natural attrition over the four years would be about 5,700
people.”  ‘CP’s Turn’  Canadian Pacific will also explore options for its real
estate holdings and relocate its downtown Calgary headquarters
to offices at a local rail yard by 2014, according to a
statement released before Harrison’s speech yesterday.  The railroad plans to introduce a new sidings program that
will allow it to use fewer trains while maintaining or even
increasing volumes.  “It’s CP’s turn for the operating turnaround,” Steven Paget, a Calgary-based analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp.,
said in a phone interview. “It’s CP’s time.”  Paget has an outperform rating on Canadian Pacific, while
Edward Jones’s Yarbrough, who is based in  St. Louis , has a buy
recommendation.  Ackman pushed for Harrison’s hiring as he sought to boost
investor returns at the 131-year-old company. His Pershing
Square Capital Management LP became the carrier’s largest
 shareholder  in 2011 and held a 14 percent stake at the end of
the third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DM&E Assessment  As strategy changes take place in the next four years, the
company’s operating ratio may fall to as low as 63 percent or
may come in closer to 67 percent, depending on revenue growth,
Harrison said yesterday. Offering a range rather than a
definitive target “in no way is to try to indicate that we’re
not confident about this number,” he said.  The company forecast annual revenue growth of 4 percent to
7 percent by 2016, a good portion of which Harrison said would
come from increasing shipments of crude oil.  In addition to considering selling one of the U.S. lines
from the DM&E deal, Canadian Pacific plans to delay indefinitely
acting on an included option to expand into the Powder River
Basin, the largest U.S. coal reserve. The entire $1.48 billion
acquisition was criticized earlier this year by Ackman, who
called it a blunder.  Whether DM&E was a good investment at the time or not, the
investment “has not played out like some would have liked,”
Harrison told investors and analysts today.  Interest has already been expressed in the line, which
includes about 660 miles (1,060 kilometers) of track from
Minnesota through  South Dakota ,  Nebraska  and  Wyoming , Harrison
said. The company currently has no plans to divest other assets
acquired through the DM&E transaction, he said.  “Change is certainly in the air,”  Walter Spracklin , a
Toronto-based analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a note
to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  