-- Charterhouse Said to Hire Deutsche Bank, Goldman for Ista Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-12-05T13:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/charterhouse-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-goldman-for-ista-sale.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, a
London-based buyout firm, has hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on the sale of German energy-metering
business Ista International GmbH, according to three people 
familiar with the situation.  The process is scheduled to kick off early next year, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private. Charterhouse is seeking more than 3 billion euros
($3.93 billion) for the company as well as so-called staple
financing from banks of more than 2 billion euros for potential
buyers, people familiar with the matter said last month. An IPO
is also an option, they said.  Ista, based in Essen, Germany, provides electricity, water,
heat and gas-meter reading services and hardware to property
managers, home owners and utilities in 25 countries. The company
may benefit from tougher European Union rules that require
energy distributors to save 1.5 percent of their sale volumes
annually, as part of efforts to meet the EU’s target of 20
percent energy savings by 2020.  Ista may be one of the largest private-equity asset
transactions in  Germany  next year. Springer Science & Business
Media, the German academic publisher being sold by EQT Partners
AB, may fetch 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros, people
familiar with the sale have said.  Charterhouse couldn’t provide any official to comment on
the matter. Spokesmen at Ista, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. declined to comment.  Charterhouse bought Ista from CVC for 2.4 billion euros in
2007. CVC re-invested part of the proceeds to buy a stake in
Ista.  Banks are offering so-called staple financing of about 7
times Ista’s estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of about 315 million euros, people
said last month.  Private-equity firms often arrange staple financing to
support a sale, as it shows other buyout firms an estimate of
how much debt the deal can draw and the return they can achieve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  