-- Chavez’s Longest Silence Since Cancer Fuels Health Rumors
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-12-05T18:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/chavez-s-longest-silence-since-cancer-fuels-health-rumors.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
longest absence from public view since he first underwent cancer
surgery 18 months ago is fueling speculation that his health is
worse than he’s letting on.  Chavez, who is in Cuba to aid his recovery from an
unspecified form of cancer, hasn’t been seen in public for 20
days nor has the government released images of the self-declared
socialist leader since a live appearance on state television on
Nov. 15. That surpasses an 18-day silence in June 2011, when
doctors in  Havana  removed a baseball-sized tumor from his pelvic
area. Unlike previous convalescences, he hasn’t made use of his
Twitter account or called into television programs either.  The long silence is fueling a bond rally in  South America ’s
largest oil producer, as investors boost bets that the
president’s deteriorating health will prevent him from
completing a third, six-year term set to begin in January.
Chavez was re-elected in October after telling voters he was
“totally free” of cancer.  “In a country like Venezuela which is used to having
Chavez at the center of political dynamics his absence is
significant,” said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a Venezuelan political
analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London . “The fact that he left
the country without any videos, photos or farewell speeches is
something to consider.”  Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark dollar bonds maturing in
2027 have fallen 82 basis points to 9.65 percent since Nov. 26,
the day before National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello read
on state television a letter by Chavez announcing his intention
to travel to Cuba for several rounds of hyperbaric oxygen
therapy. The price fell today to 96.88 cents on the dollar after
reaching 97.05 cents yesterday, its highest since March 2008.  Oxygen Therapy  The government didn’t say how long Chavez would be away or
provide an indication of his state of health except to say he’s
doing well and will return in time for his Jan. 10 inauguration.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is a treatment that increases the flow
of oxygen to tissue to enhance healing.  On previous trips to Cuba for treatment, Chavez has
addressed the public from the airport tarmac before departing
and even broadcast cabinet meetings from the Communist island.  Not this time however. About the only glimpse Venezuelans
have had of their normally hyper-active president are a few
resolutions he signed in the Official Gazette, including the
last one, on Nov. 28, naming Electricity Minister Hector Navarro
as a temporary caretaker in the place of Vice President  Nicolas Maduro , who traveled to a regional summit in  Peru . The
Information Ministry has also attributed to Chavez decisions
like one from yesterday to provide a 2,000 bolivar ($465)
Christmas bonus to 22,000 families left homeless by flooding.  Daughter Tweeting  Chavez’s family, while largely silent, has used social
media to express its concern. His daughter, Maria Gabriela
Chavez, posted an image on Twitter last month depicting an ant
holding up a twig under the caption: “You never know how strong
you are until being  strong is your only option .”  The Information Ministry didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment about the president’s absence from
Minister Ernesto Villegas. An official, who declined to be named
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly, said all official
pronouncements will be made on the minister’s Twitter account.  Since defeating challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski by
more than 10 percentage points in the Oct. 7 election, Chavez
has cut down his time in front of the cameras. He appeared or
was heard in public a little more than 8 hours last month, down
from more than 62 hours in August and more than 40 in September,
Caracas-based newspaper El Universal reported Nov. 26.  More significantly, his only public appearance since the
election was an Oct. 8 press conference, said Moya-Ocampos. The
remainder of his appearances has been in tightly-controlled
ministerial meetings broadcast by state television, he said.  Lack of Transparency  Venezuela ’s opposition, while not opposing Chavez’s request
for permission to take leave, has called for the government to
provide more information about his health.  “When you don’t speak with clarity, with transparency, the
speculation begins,” Capriles, who is campaigning for re-
election as governor of Miranda state in December, said Nov. 28.
“We have the right to know. If not, the rumors will begin.”  Brazil’s foreign ministry said it was still awaiting word
from Caracas as to whether Chavez on Friday would attend a
summit of the leaders of the South American trade bloc Mercosur
in Brasilia.  “We’re waiting for indications but on previous occasions
confirmations from President Chavez have come at the last
moment,” Antonio Simoes, under-secretary for South America at
the foreign ministry, told reporters in Brasilia.  An appearance in  Brazil  would dissipate some of the rumors,
while a failure to show up will exacerbate them, said Moya-
Ocampos.  “It had been expected that after the stress of the
electoral campaign he was going to have a low key presence,”
Moya-Ocampos said. “Not showing up at the Mercosur summit will
clearly signify that something is wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  