-- Chelsea Exits Champions League as Juventus, Celtic Advance
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-05T23:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/chelsea-exits-champions-league-as-juventus-celtic-advance.html
Chelsea became the first defending
champion to not advance from the group stage of soccer’s
 Champions League  as Juventus, Celtic and Galatasaray completed
the field for the round of 16.  Chelsea’s 6-1 win over Nordsjaelland last night wasn’t
enough to secure second place in Group E, which went to  Shakhtar
Donetsk  on a tiebreaker after the Ukrainian team lost 1-0 to
Juventus, which led the standings. The top two teams in each of
the eight groups advanced to the knockout stage of Europe’s
elite club competition.  “We knew that if Donetsk didn’t win then we would be out,
unfortunately it is a reality,” Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech 
told  Sky Sports . “We did what we could, we had a good
performance and scored six goals.”  Celtic beat Spartak Moscow 2-1 to finish as runner-up in
Group G, while Galatasaray’s 2-1 win at Braga left it second in
Group H.  “It’s a monumental achievement,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told Sky Sports. “For the whole club to be at the big
table in the new year is a phenomenal effort.”  The draw for the round of 16 will be held Dec. 20 in Nyon,
Switzerland, with the two-game series starting Feb. 12 and 13.  Juventus finished with 12 points, two more than Shakhtar
and Chelsea, with the Ukrainian club winning the head-to-head
tiebreaker over the Blues.  “With 10 points sometimes you go through but that was not
to be,” Chelsea’s Gary Cahill said. “We had to do more than
that.”  Chelsea and the other seven third-place finishers will now
join the round of 32 in the second-tier Europa League.  Torres Double  Chelsea and Nordsjaelland each missed penalty kicks in the
first half at Stamford Bridge in west London before  David Luiz 
gave the Blues the lead from the penalty spot in the 38th minute.
 Fernando Torres  made it 2-0 in first-half stoppage time.  Joshua John scored for Nordsjaelland in the opening minute
of the second half before goals from Cahill, Torres,  Juan Mata 
and Oscar completed the rout.  It was Chelsea’s first win in four games since  Rafael Benitez  took over last month as interim manager for the fired
Roberto Di Matteo, who led the Blues to the European title in
May.  An own goal from Olexandr Kucher in the 56th minute lifted
Juventus to the top of the group over Shakhtar.  Celtic Advances  Kris Commons scored with a penalty kick in the 82nd minute
as Celtic beat Spartak Moscow in Glasgow to reach the knockout
stage for the first time since the 2007-08 season.  Needing to have a better result than Benfica to advance,
Celtic took the lead on  Gary Hooper ’s goal in the 21st minute.
Spartak tied the game in the 39th minute on a goal from Ari.  Celtic went in front when Commons fired his penalty kick in
off the underside of the crossbar after Georgios Samaras was
knocked over in the area by Marek Suchy.  Celtic finished with 10 points, two more than Benfica,
which drew 0-0 away against a second-string Barcelona side that
was already guaranteed top spot in the group.  Lionel Messi , who came on as a substitute in the second
half for Barcelona, left the game on a cart in the 84th minute
after colliding with Benfica goalkeeper Artur. Messi bruised the
outside of his left knee and will undergo further tests,
Barcelona said on its website.  Two goals in the second half from Burak Yilmaz sent
Galatasaray through as Group H runner-up on the tiebreaker over
Cluj, which beat first-place Manchester United 1-0 on a score
from Luis Alberto in the 56th minute.  Bayern Munich and Valencia both won to finish tied in Group
F with 13 points, with the German club winning the tiebreaker
for top spot.  Mario Gomez , Thomas Muller, Xherdan Shaqiri and David Alaba
scored as Bayern, last season’s runner-up, beat BATE Borisov 4-1,
while Valencia was a 1-0 winner at Lille.  TEAMS ADVANCING TO THE CHAMPIONS LEAGUE KNOCKOUT STAGE: AC Milan,
Arsenal, Barcelona,  Bayern Munich ,  Borussia Dortmund , Celtic,
Galatasaray, Juventus, Malaga, Manchester United, Paris Saint-
Germain, Porto, Real Madrid, Schalke, Shakhtar Donetsk, Valencia.  TEAMS DROPPING INTO THE EUROPA LEAGUE KNOCKOUT STAGE: Ajax, BATE
Borisov, Benfica, Chelsea, Cluj,  Dynamo Kiev , Olympiacos, Zenit
St. Petersburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  