-- China’s Services Industries Expand at Slower Pace, HSBC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-05T02:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/china-s-services-industries-expand-at-slower-pace-hsbc-says.html
China ’s services industries expanded
at a slower pace in November, damping hopes for a faster rebound
in the economy after a seven-quarter slowdown.  The purchasing managers’ index fell to 52.1 from 53.5 in
October, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in a
statement today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. That
contrasts with a government-backed gauge of services that rose
to the highest level in three months in November.  Today’s report may undermine prospects for a faster
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy even as
manufacturing expansion accelerates. It may increase pressure on
the new leadership headed by Xi Jinping to roll out more
measures to prop up growth.  “Despite the moderating growth of services activities in
November, services providers hired more workers and became more
optimistic,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist for HSBC in Hong
Kong, said in today’s statement.  China’s official non-manufacturing purchasing managers’
index rose to 55.6 in November from 55.5 in October, the
National Bureau of Statistics and Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said Dec. 3.  The official purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing
rose in November to the highest level in seven months and a
private gauge complied by HSBC and Markit stood above 50 for the
first time in 13 months, indicating that the economic recovery
may gain traction.  China’s services industries accounted for 43.8 percent of
its economy in the first three quarters, up 1.2 percentage
points from the same period last year,  Sheng Laiyun , a
statistics bureau spokesman, said Oct. 18. The government is
seeking to raise the ratio to 47 percent by 2015, according to a
plan issued last year.  Today’s HSBC survey is based on data compiled from monthly
replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing executives in more
than 400 private services companies, according to today’s
statement.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Andrew Joyce  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  