-- China and the U.S., Capitalism’s Odd Couple
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/china-and-the-u-s-capitalism-s-odd-couple.html
To hear some geostrategists and
economists tell it, the future of the global economy is
suspended between two very different models of the balance
between the market and the state. Call this debate on
capitalisms the Washington Consensus versus the Beijing
Consensus.  In democracies such as the U.S., market-led capitalism
draws its legitimacy from the belief that everyone has an equal
chance of getting rich, even if outcomes turn out to be unequal.
In authoritarian regimes such as  China , state-led capitalism is
legitimized because it is assumed to provide more equitable
outcomes as well as opportunities, although the reality may be
quite different.  Both the U.S. and Chinese versions of capitalism have
produced impressive results and fallen short in specific
aspects. The U.S. brand of capitalism has generated exceptional
innovation, but it accords a primacy to individual rights that
has kept the country from collectively meeting longer-term
needs. In contrast, China has shown a knack for forging
collective solutions that have enhanced the welfare of hundreds
of millions, but at the cost of neglecting the rights of the
individual.  Shared Challenges  The U.S. system may seem preferable in theory, but the
Chinese system in practice appears to be doing a better job
preparing for the next decade. China is putting its money in
infrastructure, human capital and energy efficiency to become
more competitive. At the same time, the U.S. is seen as putting
too much into consumption, unnecessary social services and
defense, which compromises future needs.  However sharp the distinction between their respective
systems, both countries face surprisingly similar challenges to
their variations of capitalism, from reducing inequality to
promoting innovation.  1. Moderating rising income disparities: The U.S. version
of capitalism has had no more success in curbing inequality than
China’s. Both have generated a  Gini inequality coefficient  of
about 0.45, albeit with different factors at work.  The dominance of China’s state-owned banks and enterprises
through Communist Party connections exacerbates disparities and
encourages corruption. But  crony capitalism  and dollar politics
in the West can be just as pernicious as state capture in China.
Both favor well-connected insiders over entrepreneurial
outsiders.  In both economies, globalization has  amplified  disparities.
The returns for those with skills in international demand have
increased, while they have stagnated across countries for those
whose skills are common. In the U.S., that has been bad news for
middle-class workers; in China, it has widened wage disparities
between China’s trade-driven coastal areas and its interior.  In both countries, trying to moderate such disparities with
regulatory and fiscal policies runs the risk of stifling
innovation. However, the U.S. economy can’t escape the need to
invest more in the productivity of its workers. China, with
rapidly rising wages, must move up the value chain and away from
activities dependent on cheap labor to keep growth going.  2. Designing effective regulatory systems: State-run
services are no guarantee of adequate regulatory regimes. The
lax standards surrounding China’s government-operated, high-
speed railways illustrate the importance of separating
regulatory and operating responsibilities, even for state-run
services. But the U.S. model of encouraging private provision of
utility services is prone to rising prices and declining quality
as monopolistic forces emerge.  Regulatory Weakness  The financial sector is where weak regulatory regimes pose
the greatest risks to both systems. Mergers have only increased
concentration in the U.S. and the risk of too-big-to-fail
corporations. China’s state-led approach in banking has its own
problems, including the generation of quasi-fiscal deficits and
lending practices that fuel speculative property bubbles and
risky shadow lending.  3. Reshaping the role of their fiscal and financial
systems: Both countries will have to find better ways to support
innovation and provide public services to moderate disparities.
The share of public expenditures relative to GDP has increased
across all countries, reflecting the bigger role of the state,
and this has fostered concerns about affordability in the West.
Meanwhile, China’s budget plays a surprisingly limited role in
an economy where the state controls the bulk of resources and is
still responsible for many services. As a result, China relies
excessively on banks to fund activities that should be financed
publicly, and it fails to support much-needed social and
environmental services.  4. Promoting innovation: Traditionally, market-led
capitalism has been seen as more effective in fostering
innovation, but the U.S. has lost dynamism because the state
hasn’t played a sufficiently supportive role. China, meanwhile,
needs a much broader range of industries as its economy becomes
more sophisticated, and the state is seen as being relatively
unable to jump-start such initiatives. China’s major state
companies may have a prime position at home, but they are not
yet global champions. If domestic returns are high, pressures to
innovate or take risks may be reduced. Abroad, its managers may
make wasteful investments because they undervalue financial
costs and the state has seemingly unlimited resources.  Ultimately, both the U.S. and China need to find the right
mix between the invisible hand of the market and the visible
hand of the state. An excessive dependence on either can create
excessive returns for a few by giving them unfair advantages and
shortchanging society.  The argument in favor of capitalism lies in its potential
to raise living standards and encourage the pursuit of personal
satisfaction in broadly respected ways. The U.S. political
system may have an inherent legitimacy that the Chinese system
lacks, but it won’t be much of a model if its major players
remain divided. Meanwhile, China’s version has lost trust
because it is increasingly seen as having an excessive influence
over the lives of its citizens.  In both systems, strengthened rule of law is what will
ensure legitimacy and effectiveness. Whereas China needs a more
effective rule of law governing the actions of the state, the
U.S. must enhance the rule of law governing the role of markets.
The skill that each country brings to its respective task will
determine whether it continues to prosper -- a shared challenge
that ought to give the leaders of the U.S. and China more to
talk than to fight about.  (Yukon Huang is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment and a former World Bank country director for China.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@ceip.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 