-- China Drops Limit on Insurer Investment in Banks, CIRC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-05T08:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/china-drops-limit-on-insurer-investment-in-banks-circ-says-1-.html
China  has abolished a rule limiting
insurance companies’ investments in commercial banks as the
industry regulator gives insurers more freedom to manage risks.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission didn’t specify in
a statement posted on its website yesterday which specific
investment restrictions have been eliminated. The CIRC didn’t
immediately reply to a fax sent to its Beijing-based press
office seeking comments on the release.  Chinese insurers were limited to investing in a maximum of
two banks if their ownership exceeded 5 percent under rules
published in 2006, when the regulator ended a 13-year ban
barring insurance firms from expanding into banking and
securities businesses. Insurers shouldn’t have more than 3
percent of their total assets invested in banks, according to
the 2006 regulation.  “The government is gradually opening the channel for
universal banking,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based analyst
at Capital Securities. “It should be positive news for insurers
as the shareholdings can help them sell policies over bank
counters and their investment returns may benefit going forward
given the low valuations of banks.”  The insurance regulator has been gradually widening the
investment scope of insurers over the past few years to help
them improve returns and bolster their ability to settle claims
and manage risks.  More Freedom  Shares of Chinese insurers traded on the Shanghai stock
exchange jumped.  New China Life Insurance Co. (601336)  surged 10 percent,
its biggest gain since June, while China Pacific Insurance
(Group) Co. jumped 5.6 percent, also its biggest gain in six
months. China Life Insurance Co. added 2.6 percent.  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318) , the only Chinese insurer to
control a bank, rose 4.9 percent to HK$60.50 in Hong Kong
trading, its biggest gain since March.  Thailand ’s Charoen
Pokphand Group Co. agreed to buy HSBC Holdings Plc’s 15.6
percent stake in Ping An for $9.4 billion, London-based HSBC
said in a statement today.  After allowing banks to invest in insurers on a trial basis
in the past two years, the latest relaxation shows the
government is now giving insurers more freedom buying into
lenders, Xie said.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, bought a 20
percent stake in China Guangfa Bank Co. in 2006. Ping An
Insurance, the second largest, this year completed its
acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank Co. PICC Property &
Casualty Co. and its parent People’s Insurance Co. (Group) of
China Ltd. in 2009 invested 390 million  yuan  ($63 million) in
Bank of Hangzhou Co.  ‘Good Target’  “It would be good particularly for big insurers such as
China Life that want to control a bank,” Olive Xia, a Shanghai-
based analyst at Core Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd., said.
“But it’s not easy to find a good target after Ping An’s
acquisition of Shenzhen Development Bank, and insurers’ capital
strength isn’t as strong as before.”  China Life’s solvency ratio, which measures the amount of
capital an insurer has relative to its potential claims, was 170
percent at the end of 2011, down from 212 percent a year earlier.  Ping An’s third-quarter  profit  rose 21 percent as its
banking operations contributed more revenue. In contrast, China
Life’s reported its first quarterly loss since 2008 for the
three months ended Sept. 30 on lower investment returns and
impairment losses.  The CIRC drafted 10 rules that will broaden insurers’
investment choices in bonds, infrastructure, property and
overseas markets to boost support to the real economy and
capital-market reforms, the watchdog said in a statement on its
website on June 4.  The regulator in May allowed insurance companies to buy
exchange-traded corporate bonds that are unsecured, as well as
non-financial company debt and unsecured convertible debt issued
by commercial banks, as the government seeks to expand the  bond
market .  --Zhang Dingmin, Luo Jun. With assistance from Bonnie Cao, Bei Hu. Editors: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  