-- Chinese Leaders to Cut Extravagance in Bid to Bolster Party
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-05T09:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/chinese-leaders-take-aim-at-extravagance-in-bid-to-bolster-party.html
China ’s new Communist Party leaders
pledged to abandon extravagance, cut down on lavish receptions
and live more frugally, amid a broader push to stamp out
corruption and win back people’s trust.  Officials who go on trips shouldn’t bring big entourages,
and there should be “no welcome banner, no red carpet, no
floral arrangements or grand receptions” when they arrive, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing a statement from a
meeting yesterday of the ruling Politburo.  The decision to pare back expands on demands Xi Jinping
made about cutting bureaucracy when he was appointed party
general secretary in a once-a-decade leadership transition last
month. Beset by corruption scandals and evidence of opulent
lifestyles and malfeasance by top-level officials, party leaders
are seeking to shore up their legitimacy with economic growth at
a three-year low.  “There is very much a perception that wealth and power are
concentrated at the upper echelons of the Communist Party,”
said  Glenn Maguire , principal of Asia Sentry Advisory Pty Ltd.
in Sydney and former Societe Generale SA chief Asia economist.
“While cutting back on red carpets and flowers is going to be
minimal in dollar terms, it is a very strong visual and potent
symbol that change is afoot.”  Maguire said the move is part of a broader effort by the
leadership to display a more common touch and confront scorn
that has spread over the Internet concerning the perception that
the elite have profited most from the country’s  economic growth ,
which averaged 10.6 percent a year from 2003 through 2011.  Red Carpet  The party’s top leadership and its new discipline chief
 Wang Qishan , who previously oversaw the financial sector, have
begun an anti-corruption drive in the weeks since they took
over, according to Kerry Brown, a professor at the  University of
Sydney , who previously served as a British diplomat in Beijing.  China’s anti-corruption commission is investigating Li
Chungcheng, the deputy party secretary of Sichuan Province, the
 New York  Times reported today, citing Xinhua. It said Xinhua
later deleted the article on Li.  A Chinese village official in Shenzhen has been put under
investigation over accusations that he accumulated assets of
more than 2 billion  yuan , according to Xinhua. An official in
the municipality of Chongqing was fired Nov. 23 after a sex tape
of him circulated on the Internet, Xinhua said at the time.  “Rhetorically they’ve launched an anti-corruption drive,
but the meat is in who they finally target and prosecute,”
Brown said. “When that happens, we’ll know if they’re
serious.’”  Inspection Tours  The Politburo announcement addresses a number of
extravagances that the party has been criticized for online.
Leaders should impose fewer traffic controls during their
travels and “inspection tours” should be limited, the
Politburo said.  “If we ask other people to do something, we should do it
first,” the body of top leaders said in the  statement . “If we
ask other people not to do something, we certainly must refuse
to do it as well.”  Public criticism is mounting over the accumulation of
wealth by officials and their families. Xi’s extended family had
business interests in minerals, real estate and mobile-phone
equipment, including investments in companies with total assets
of $376 million and an 18 percent indirect stake in a rare-
earths company with $1.73 billion in assets, according to public
documents compiled by Bloomberg. The New York Times reported in
October that Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s extended family controlled
assets worth at least $2.7 billion, citing a review of corporate
and regulatory documents. Lawyers acting on Wen’s behalf denied
some of the article’s central claims, the  South China Morning
Post  reported.  Accepted Bribes  The extended families of ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai
and his wife, Gu Kailai, accumulated at least $136 million in
company shares and property, according to regulatory and
corporate filings compiled by Bloomberg.  Bo, former party secretary of the Chongqing municipality,
was ousted in March and his wife was later convicted in the
murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. Bo himself now faces
criminal charges for allegedly abusing his power in her case and
accepting bribes dating back to his time as mayor of the
northeastern city of Dalian.  One test of the party’s willingness to tackle corruption
would be to address its leaders’ accumulation of wealth by
issuing disclosure reports that could be audited, said Andrew
Wedeman, a political science professor at  Georgia State
University  and author of “Double Paradox: Rapid Growth and
Rising Corruption in China.”  “The party is constantly announcing that this time it is
going to get tough on corruption,” Wedeman said. “The
leadership faces a real dilemma because, as some in China have
said, corruption may kill the party but fighting corruption will
certainly kill it.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  