-- Citigroup Unit Said to Advise Clients Against SAC Funds
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-12-05T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/citigroup-unit-said-to-advise-clients-against-sac-funds.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private bank is
advising clients not to add money to Steven A. Cohen’s hedge
fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Citigroup made the decision after the Nov. 20 arrest of a
former SAC portfolio manager in what prosecutors called the
most-lucrative insider trading scheme ever discovered, said one
of the people, who asked not to be named because the information
is private. It’s typical for the New York-based bank to put
firms on its so-called watch list if they have received a large
amount of news coverage, this person said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last month told
SAC, which manages $14 billion, that it is considering pursuing
civil fraud claims against the fund related to the alleged
insider trading, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last week. The allegations mark the first time prosecutors
linked Cohen to trades at the center of an insider case.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the news, which was reported earlier
today by CNBC.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment. He said last month that Cohen
and SAC are confident that they acted appropriately and will
continue to cooperate with the government’s inquiry.  Lyxor Pulls  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s Lyxor Asset Management unit has asked
to withdraw its clients’ funds from SAC, a person with knowledge
of the situation said on Dec. 3. Lyxor’s investments in the
hedge fund are very limited, the person said.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is monitoring how the government
proceeds with respect to SAC and will make a decision
accordingly, J. Tomilson Hill, who oversees the New York-based
firm’s $46.2 billion hedge fund investments, told Bloomberg
Television’s Cristina Alesci in an interview today.  SAC clients can only pull 25 percent of their investment
every quarter after giving 45 days’ notice, meaning it would
take them a year to redeem in full. The next deadline for
putting in a redemption notice is mid-February.  Prosecutors said last month that Mathew Martoma, a former
portfolio manager at a unit of SAC, used inside information from
a clinical trial to trade in shares of two health-care companies
in 2008. SAC reaped $276 million in profits and averted losses,
according to the prosecutor’s complaint against Martoma and a
related civil case filed by the SEC.  The documents don’t name Cohen, instead referring to “the
hedge-fund owner.” The SEC identified Martoma as an employee of
CR Intrinsic, which is a unit of SAC Capital. Cohen is the
founder and owner of SAC. Neither prosecutors nor the SEC
alleged that Cohen knew Martoma’s information was obtained
illegally.  Tom Conheeney, president of SAC, said on a Nov. 28
conference call with clients that the firm will pay any
penalties rather than investors, a person with knowledge of the
call said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  