-- CMBS Sales Poised to Rise 50 Percent in 2013, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-12-05T20:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/cmbs-sales-poised-to-rise-50-percent-in-2013-deutsche-bank-says.html
Issuance of bonds tied to commercial
mortgages is poised to climb 50 percent in 2013 as investors
chase riskier assets, aiding property owners with maturing debt,
according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Sales of securities linked to shopping malls, hotels and
office building may reach $60 billion next year, up from a
projected $40 billion by the end of 2012, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts led by Harris Trifon said in a report today. About $38
billion of the debt has been issued to date, the New York-based
analysts said.  Wall Street banks are accelerating the pace of commercial-
mortgage origination to satisfy investor demand for the bonds
with the  Federal Reserve  anticipating it will hold  interest
rates  close to zero through mid-2015. Lenders will probably come
to market more frequently or boost the size of offerings to
clear their books quickly, the analysts said.  “The less time it takes issuers to aggregate loans and
distribute bonds the sooner they can do it again,” they said.  The fourth quarter will likely mark the fifth consecutive
increase in sales of the bonds, providing a boon to borrowers
with maturing debt, according to Deutsche Bank. Lenders are
offering $2.58 billion of the debt this week.  Barclays, Cantor  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are marketing a $1.46 billion
transaction, with the top-ranked portion maturing in 10 years
expected to pay a spread of 95 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, the same as similar debt sold by Wells
Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc last week,
according to people familiar with the offering who asked not to
be identified because terms aren’t public. Deutsche Bank and
Cantor Fitzgerald LP have teamed up to sell a $1.13 billion
deal, the people said.  Underwriting standards, which bottomed as sales peaked at
$232 billion in 2007, have “mostly held firm,” according to
Deutsche Bank.  “This is probably not the majority view but we believe
there is strong evidence to support it,” the analysts said.  The amount of so-called credit enhancement on current deals
is higher than during the bubble years to make up for looser
standards, the analysts said. Additionally, the number of loans
that include junior debt has declined, the analysts said. Such
debt allows a borrower to incur greater leverage against a
property, making it a riskier investment.  If originators get too competitive and issuance surges past
$60 billion, the quality of loans will suffer in 2013, according
to Deutsche Bank. Investors may pull back in the second half of
next year if lenders become more aggressive, the analysts said.  “Exploding issuance volumes could prove to be too much of
a good thing,” they said.  Top-ranked bonds linked to commercial mortgages are
yielding 1.07 percentage points more than Treasuries, according
to a Barclays  index . The spread reached 1.01 percentage points
on Oct. 24, the narrowest since at least January 2008, and has
declined from this year’s high of 2.47 on Jan. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  