-- Commodities ‘Super Cycle’ Not Ending as Goldman Sees More Gains
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-12-05T15:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/commodities-super-cycle-not-ending-as-goldman-sees-more-gains.html
The “super cycle” of gains for
commodity prices is not ending as improving global economic
growth boosts demand for raw materials, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said.  Rising consumption may create limited availability of
immediate supplies and boost near-term prices higher than long-
term levels, a trading opportunity that may provide
“significant” returns, New York-based  Jeffrey Currie ,
Goldman’s head of commodity research, said in an e-mailed report
today. The bank reiterated its recommendation that investors
should be “overweight” in commodities, and that prices will
return 7 percent in 12 months.  “As economic growth improves into the latter half of 2013,
we believe current fundamentals are likely to create near-term
shortages,” Currie said. “We now believe that any upside will
be more near term and demand driven in nature as opposed to long
term and supply driven, which leads us to expect a return to
high near-term prices relative to long-term prices.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
which has increased almost fourfold since 2001, is little
changed this year as growth slowed in economies including  China ,
the world’s biggest consumer of cotton, soybeans and copper.
Goldman’s view contrasts with Citigroup Inc., which said the
“super cycle” has ended in a Nov. 19 report written by
analysts including Edward L. Morse, the bank’s global head of
commodities research.  Commodity ‘Renaissance’  “With commodity supply constraints easing, Chinese growth
slowing and producer company returns normalizing, it is tempting
to call an end to the commodity super cycle,” Goldman said.
“However, we believe current market developments are simply the
next phase of a commodity investment cycle that commenced in the
late 1990s and, like previous phases, it will create new
investment opportunities and should therefore be viewed more as
a ‘renaissance.’”  Hedge funds  and other money managers have increased their
 bets  on higher commodity prices in the past two weeks, with
investor net-long positions climbing 20 percent since Nov. 13 to
929,588 futures and options contracts, U.S. government data
show. Holdings are still down 30 percent since this year’s peak
in September as Chinese manufacturing cooled,  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened and U.S. leaders failed to reach a budget
agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases
and spending cuts.  Goldman recommended an equally-weighted position in rolling
front-month indices in petroleum, corn and copper, with a
targeted return of as much as 12 percent over six months. The
bank forecast crude oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
$99 a barrel in 2014, saying the global market will stay
“cyclically tight” with low inventories next year and in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  