-- Congress Erases ‘Lunatic,’ Keeps ’Idiot’ in Federal Law
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-12-05T19:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/congress-erases-lunatic-keeps-idiot-in-federal-law.html
The U.S. House voted to remove the
term “lunatic” from sections of federal law, while the word
“idiot” would remain.  The bill, which passed 398-1, would amend a section of the
U.S. Code that defines the meanings of certain words used in
acts of Congress. Making the change would eliminate “references
that contribute to the stigmatization of mental health
conditions,” according to an April 25 statement by the bill’s
sponsor, Democratic Senator  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota .  “The term ‘lunatic’ holds a place in antiquity and should
no longer have a prominent place in our U.S. code,”
Representative Bobby Scott, a Virginia Democrat who serves on
the House Judiciary Committee, said today on the floor.  The targeted language from 1947 currently reads: “The
words ‘insane’ and ‘insane person’ and ‘lunatic’ shall include
every idiot, lunatic, insane person, and person non compos
mentis.”  The legislation, titled the 21st Century Language Act of
2012, also would remove the word “lunatic” from 1962 banking-
law provisions dealing with trust powers and the consolidation
and mergers of national banks.  Conrad said he was contacted by a constituent who supported
efforts to remove the term from law. The measure is backed by
the American Psychiatric Association, the American Counseling
Association, the National Association of School Psychologists
and other professional and advocacy groups.  ‘Lunar Cycles’  “The term ‘lunatic’ derives from the Latin word for
moon,” Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas
Republican, said today on the House floor. “Before the modern
era, it was used to describe a person who suffers from mental
disease because of the belief that lunar cycles have an impact
on brain function. But as science and medicine have progressed,
society has come to understand mental illness with more
clarity.”  The only “no” vote was cast by Texas Republican Louie Gohmert, who also serves on the Judiciary Committee.  “Not only should we not eliminate the word ‘lunatic’ from
federal law when the most pressing issue of the day is saving
our country from bankruptcy, we should use the word to describe
the people who want to continue with business as usual in
 Washington ,” Gohmert said in an e-mailed statement.  The vote clears the measure for the president’s signature.
The Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent on May 23. The
bill is S. 2367.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  