-- Credit Suisse Said to Move Parts of Investment Bank From Moscow
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-12-05T16:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/credit-suisse-said-to-move-parts-of-investment-bank-from-moscow.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank, will move its Russian capital-markets and
advisory businesses from Moscow to  London  to cut costs,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The lender, which has operated in Moscow since 1991, will
relocate its debt and equity capital markets and mergers and
acquisition advisory businesses to London, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information hasn’t been
made public. Russian equities, fixed income and private banking
will remain in Moscow, the people said. Steven Hellman, country
chief executive officer at Credit Suisse, and Chairman Diana
Gindin will stay in Moscow to oversee activities, they said.  “Credit Suisse remains committed to its clients in
 Russia ,” the Zurich-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. “This involves realigning resources to growth areas and
adjusting capacity to meet client needs and to manage costs.”  The  bank  announced plans in October to cut 1 billion francs
($1.08 billion) in annual costs by the end of 2015 in addition
to a 1 billion-franc savings program started in July and a 2
billion-franc expense reduction achieved since last year. Most
of the savings will come from the investment bank, Credit Suisse
said. The company also said it planned to make savings at the
securities unit through synergies in equities and continuing to
“rationalize” businesses in some regions in fixed income,
underwriting and advisory.  Ranking Slips  Credit Suisse has lost market share to state-backed
competitors over the last four years, including VTB Capital and
OAO Sberbank, which in January purchased Troika Dialog, Moscow’s
oldest securities firm. It fell to 11th in arranging mergers and
acquisitions this year from eighth in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It ranked first in arranging equity sales
and ninth in debt sales, the data show.  Credit Suisse was first in arranging equity sales after
managing the London sale of shares by OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, and OAO Megafon, a mobile operator.  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
and Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  have both said they are closing
their equity businesses in Russia this year.  Anush Simonyan, head of investment banking client coverage
for Russia at Credit Suisse in Moscow, left in September to join
Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  in a similar role.  Reuters earlier today reported Credit Suisse’s plan to move
businesses to London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  