-- Croatian Agrokor Nine-Month Net Income Halved on Forex, Expenses
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-05T11:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/croatian-agrokor-nine-month-net-income-halved-on-forex-expenses.html
Agrokor d.d.,  Croatia ’s largest
company, said its nine-month net income fell by half from a year
ago as foreign-exchange fluctuations and increased financing
expenses negated modest revenue growth.  Net income declined to 202 million kuna ($35 million) from
406 million in the year-ago period, the Zagreb-based food
producer and retailer said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, rose 2 percent to 1.95 billion kuna,
while revenue grew 1.8 percent to 22 billion kuna.  “We have achieved growth this year, but our net income was
affected by negative foreign-exchange changes, particularly
related to  Serbia ’s dinar and increased financing costs,” the
company said in the e-mail.  While some of Agrokor’s subsidiaries, such as its retail
arm  Konzum d.d. , are publicly traded on the  Zagreb Stock
Exchange , the holding company Agrokor d.d. is not listed and
founder and Chairman Ivica Todoric owns more than 90 percent of
the stock. The largest company by revenue in the former Yugoslav
region, Agrokor releases its results only to investors.  “The good news is that Agrokor is maintaining its
profitability levels, while net income volatility is due to
foreign-exchange losses, Mikhail Galkin, an analyst for Moscow-
based VTB Capital Plc, said by e-mail.  Galkin said Agrokor’s Konzum chain grew its top line and
improved margins by keeping prices unchanged and cutting costs.
The company’s retail arm in Bosnia-Herzegovina also showed
‘‘strong results” in revenue and Ebitda, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  