-- Zetsche Deconstructs Daimler With Disposal of EADS Stake
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-12-07T11:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/daimler-to-sell-2-17-billion-eads-holding-amid-reshuffle.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  Chief Executive Officer
Dieter Zetsche achieved a milestone in his effort to focus the
German company on its automaking roots with a long-sought deal
to sell its stake in  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   Daimler pressed ahead with an exit from EADS, a company it
helped create more than a decade ago, with the 1.66 billion-euro
($2.15 billion) sale yesterday of half its holding. The sale
provides cash as Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand develops a new
compact-car line and updates its flagship S-Class sedan.  The EADS sale, following the retreat from the Maybach
ultra-luxury brand and the sale of Chrysler, sharpens Zetsche’s
focus on his goal of overtaking luxury-car leader Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG by the end of this decade. Mercedes, which
ranks third in sales after BMW and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
division, has fallen further behind competitors this year.  “This is now Zetsche’s Daimler,” said  Stefan Bratzel ,
director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch Gladbach, Germany.
“There are no excuses anymore. The pressure on Zetsche to reach
his goals will increase.”  EADS Co-Founder  Daimler’s former Dasa unit was one of the founders of
Toulouse, France-based EADS, which was established as a stand-
alone manufacturer in 2000 when Airbus’s German and state-owned
French and Spanish partners combined aerospace assets. The stake
sale, resulting from the main investors’ agreement to loosen
EADS’s shareholder structure, frees Stuttgart-based Daimler from
the obligation of serving as Germany’s voice at the company.  “With the removal of the EADS burden, there will be more
time to devote to issues closer to the company’s core
operations,” said Eerik Budarz, a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Silvia Quandt Research. “It’s certainly a good thing.”  Zetsche has plenty of catching up to do. Daimler’s stock,
up 13 percent this year, has risen at less than half the pace of
BMW and Volkswagen. The shares today declined as much as 0.5
percent to 38.47 euros and were trading down 0.4 percent at
12:22 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Mercedes’s 10-month delivery growth of
5.1 percent compares with 9.3 percent at Munich-based BMW and 13
percent at Audi.  During his seven years as CEO, 59-year-old Zetsche has
dismantled much of the aggressive expansion orchestrated by his
predecessor, Juergen Schrempp.  Shuttering Maybach  Zetsche’s first large-scale move as chief was the disposal
in 2007 of U.S. carmaker Chrysler, undoing a merger that
Schrempp led in 1998. Zetsche shuttered the Maybach ultra-luxury
brand last year after the marque, which Schrempp revived in 2002
to produce cars priced at more than $300,000, failed to become
profitable.  Zetsche also reacquired control in 2011 of Daimler’s former
diesel-engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM) , in partnership with Rolls-Royce
Group Plc, five years after the unit was sold following talks
initiated near the end of Schrempp’s term.  “We are a purely focused vehicle and related-services
company now, and have been for quite some time,” Florian Martens, a Daimler spokesman, said in a phone interview. “We
have a very healthy net liquidity of above 8 billion euros
already. We have a plan to invest about 5 billion euros in
research and development per year.”  Deadline Dropped  Investment so far hasn’t translated into the level of
profit Zetsche had aimed for. In October, Daimler abandoned its
2013 target date for operating profit at Mercedes to reach 10
percent of sales, saying it can reach the goal only in 2014 at
the earliest, at least four years later than originally planned.
Mercedes has been trailing in  China , with sales edging up 4.2
percent this year versus gains exceeding 30 percent for BMW and
Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi.  Zetsche oversaw the introduction in September of the
Mercedes A-Class hatchback, part of an expansion of entry-level
cars to at least five models. A new version of the S-Class,
eventually with three variants, is scheduled to go on sale in
mid-2013. The company is targeting sales of 1.6 million
Mercedes-badged cars by 2015, 25 percent more than last year.  “It’s unclear that EADS has ever been a real distraction”
for Daimler,  Max Warburton , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail. “It’s taken up time for a
limited number of senior people, but that doesn’t explain any of
Mercedes’s big, fundamental issues. Daimler’s problems are
probably more deep-rooted, and selling out of EADS is largely
irrelevant to fixing them.”  Cash Boost  Daimler can count on another cash boost from its EADS
investment next year. The carmaker will dispose of more of its
remaining 7.5 percent holding in EADS after a six-month lock-up
period expires. The transaction is part of a deal in which
Germany will join  France  in directly holding 12 percent of EADS
while the governments’ veto rights over business decisions are
eliminated.  “If you assume Daimler will be able to sell the other
half, that will boost the war chest by a good 3 billion euros,
which naturally gives them greater freedom,” Christian Ludwig,
a Bielefeld, Germany-based analyst at Bankhaus Lampe. “They
have already got a decent cash cushion, so it wasn’t urgent to
get the money, but it certainly doesn’t hurt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Cologne,  Germany , via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  