-- Dave Brubeck Was Driven by Passion for Rhythm: Interview
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-05T17:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/dave-brubeck-was-driven-by-passion-for-rhythm-interview.html
Nonagenarians just aren’t what they
used to be.  The start of one’s 10th decade used to be a moment for
seriously slowing down. The great pianist, composer and
bandleader Dave Brubeck, who celebrates his 90th birthday on
Dec. 6, has marked the occasion by playing a short season at the
 Blue Note  club in  New York , and winning the poll in  Downbeat 
magazine for “Jazz Group of the Year.”  “Isn’t that something?” he exclaimed when I talked to
him. This must be a record: It’s 60 years since Brubeck and his
band first won a Downbeat Poll. What’s his secret? He obviously
just loves playing music. That’s clear from the BBC Arena
documentary, “In His Own Sweet Way,” coproduced by  Clint Eastwood .  “The worst thing about the life of a jazz musician on the
road is getting to the gig,” Brubeck says in the phone
interview. “Once you’re there and playing, it’s marvelous. I
played two concerts last weekend, and they both went
wonderfully. I hadn’t played for three months with my group. It
was the greatest feeling to be back.”  A doctor once advised Brubeck not to retire from
performance on the grounds that he plainly looked in better
shape after performing than before. He agrees. “I have more
energy at the end than I do at the beginning. You can be so beat
up that you can scarcely walk on stage but when you get to the
piano the excitement kicks in, you forget about being tired.”  Learning by Osmosis  Energy, intellectual and physical, is one of the
identifying marks of Brubeck’s music. He has the rhythmic drive
of jazz and blues, yet also was at one point, in the 1940s, a
pupil of the French composer Darius Milhaud (who, to further
complicate this intriguing case of cultural cross-fertilization,
was earlier inspired by jazz). “I learned by osmosis, just from
being around him,” Brubeck says. “He’d say, ‘Dave, you’re
going to be a composer!’ We were good friends.”  Another of Brubeck’s associations -- with the alto
saxophone player, Paul Desmond (1924-77) -- was one of the most
memorable musical partnerships in jazz. Brubeck provided the
propulsive power and adventurous complexity; Desmond an airy,
melodic grace. “He just wanted to play with me,” Brubeck
remembers, “and I thought he was the greatest.”  The Brubeck Quartet with Desmond wasn’t formed until after
Brubeck had a swimming accident at Waikiki Beach in 1950 that
almost left him paralyzed. Previously, he had been successful
with a piano trio, but after the injury Brubeck felt he needed
another soloist to share the load.  Note to Paul  “It took me months to be able to play again,” he says.
“I wrote to Paul from the army hospital in Honolulu that if I
could get well I would start a quartet, and he carried that note
with him in his wallet for the rest of his life.”  The combination of Brubeck, Desmond, bass player Eugene
Wright and the brilliant drummer Joe Morello formed the classic
Brubeck group, which in 1959 made “Time Out,” one of the most
famed of jazz recordings. An exploration of such unusual and
potentially ungainly time signatures as 9/8 and 5/4, it should
have been esoteric, yet was a success (indeed, a platinum disc).  Rhythm, Brubeck has speculated, is the universal human
language. The inspiration for some of his most memorable music
has been rhythmic. Brubeck’s beautiful piece, “The Duke” came
to him in 1954 while he was driving his car through the rain.
“The beat just fits the rhythm of a windshield wiper going
backward and forward,” he says.  Then he sings it -- and I can hear the pleasure in his
voice.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com.home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 