-- Dave Brubeck, U.S. Jazz Pianist, ‘Take Five’ Artist, Dies at 91
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2012-12-05T17:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/dave-brubeck-u-s-jazz-pianist-take-five-artist-dies-at-91.html
Dave Brubeck, the U.S. pianist and
composer whose quartet produced the first jazz album that sold
more than 1 million copies and was best known for the melodic
composition “Take Five,” has died. He was 91.  He died today of heart failure, the Associated Press
reported, citing his manager Russell Gloyd.  Brubeck’s experimental recordings and unorthodox time
signatures broke new ground in the 1950s, inspiring a generation
of musicians and delivering jazz to a wider audience. His cool,
West Coast sound defied traditional forms by playing in two keys
at once, a harmonic approach that gave jazz a new angle.  The band stayed together for 16 years and was one of the
most popular in jazz history, winning a cult following among
students through regular performances on university campuses.
Brubeck’s works such as “The Duke” and “In Your Own Sweet
Way” became standards of the genre, while “Time Out” set a
precedent for jazz music by selling more than 1 million records
after it was released in 1959.  Brubeck performed for Pope John Paul II and for eight U.S.
presidents, including Ronald Reagan, whose 1988 summit with
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Moscow included a concert by
the jazz maestro. Brubeck also toured at the invitation of the
U.S. State Department in a goodwill capacity, even performing
behind the Iron Curtain in 1958 at a time of Cold War tension.
In 1954, he became the first jazz musician to appear on the
cover of Time magazine.  Early Years  David Warren Brubeck was born Dec. 6, 1920, in  Concord ,
 California , near San Francisco. His father was a cattleman and
his mother taught music and played piano. At age 12, Brubeck
moved with his family to a ranch that his father managed near
the Sierra Nevada Mountains. There the young musician honed his
piano skills in local bands before enrolling as a student of
veterinary medicine at the College of the Pacific in Stockton,
California. He later changed his major to music after abandoning
his plans to become a rancher.  After serving in the U.S. Army under General George Patton
during World War II, Brubeck attended  Mills College  in Oakland,
California, where he was taught by classical composer Darius
Milhaud. He recorded with fellow students as an experimental
jazz octet, which included Paul Desmond, whose partnership with
Brubeck produced tunes for about two decades. Alto saxophonist
Desmond was the composer of “Take Five,” which was named after
its unusual 5/4 time signature.  Brubeck said in a Public Broadcasting Service  interview  in
2001 that he almost gave up jazz as a career because of the
hardships his lifestyle inflicted on his young family. To avoid
the cost of a motel room at $8 a night, they once rented a place
in the mountains above Salt Lake City,  Utah , where the house had
a dirt floor and the children had to be washed in a stream.  The Quartet  In 1951, the Dave Brubeck Quartet was formed with Desmond
on alto saxophone, Joe Dodge on drums and Bob Bates on bass. The
latter two were then replaced by Eugene Wright and Joe Morello.
Wright, a black American, was the subject of discrimination by
club owners, prompting Brubeck to cancel several concerts in
protest. He and his wife, Iola, a lyricist, also composed an
anti-racism piece called “The Real Ambassadors,” which
featured jazz great Louis Armstrong.  After the quartet’s break-up in 1967, Brubeck appeared in a
band with Gerry Mulligan and later formed a group with three of
his own sons: Darius, Chris and Danny. He continued to tour the
world in later years, playing concerts across  Europe . His 80th
birthday was celebrated by a joint performance with the London
Symphony Orchestra.  Brubeck received the National Medal of the Arts, presented
at the White House, and he won a Grammy in 1996 for lifetime
achievements. The Brubeck Institute, whose honorary chairman is
actor Clint Eastwood, was created by the University of the
Pacific to support jazz students and promote Brubeck’s music.  “Once when asked how I would like to be remembered, I
answered, ‘As someone who opened doors,’” Brubeck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Henry in  Frankfurt  at 
 dhenry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  