-- Deutsche Bank Accused by Ex-Employee of Hiding Securities Losses
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-06T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/deutsche-bank-whistleblowers-claimed-crisis-coverup-ft-reports.html
Eric Ben-Artzi, a former quantitative
risk analyst for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , alleged that  Europe ’s biggest
lender engaged in a multibillion-dollar securities violation.
Deutsche Bank denied the allegation.  Ben-Artzi, who is suing the company for wrongful dismissal,
told the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that from 2007
to 2010 the bank misrepresented the value of a portfolio with a
notional value of as much as $130 billion, Labaton Sucharow LLP,
the New York-based  law firm  representing Ben-Artzi, said on its
 website  yesterday.  “The valuations and financial reporting were proper, and a
significant portion of these positions were subsequently unwound
in an orderly sale,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank in  New York , said in a statement. The claims were false,
and the bank will continue to cooperate with the SEC’s
investigation, she said.  Deutsche Bank may have lost $12 billion from the
collateralized insurance agreements, known as leveraged super
senior (LSS) credit derivatives, should they have been valued
properly, the Financial Times reported earlier. It cited
estimates derived from comments by three former employees who
testified to the SEC, including Ben-Artzi. Formerly of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc (GS) , he joined the bank in 2010, the FT said.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
investigation, as did  Ben Fischer , a spokesman for German
financial markets regulator BaFin.  Deutsche Bank dropped as much as 2.2 percent in Frankfurt.
The share fell 0.8 percent to 34.7 euros at 1:20 p.m., valuing
the firm at 32.2 billion euros ($42 billion). The 28-company
 Euro Stoxx Bank Index (SX7P)  rose 0.2 percent.  Public Image  Deutsche Bank failed to properly value a “gap option
component” in the LSS portfolio between mid-2007 and 2010, Ben-
Artzi said. The lender would have “substantially missed”
earnings estimates even if it used conservative assumptions to
properly value the instruments, according to the law firm.  “Deutsche Bank was the largest holder of LSS trades in the
marketplace and by not correctly valuing it the bank was able to
maintain its carefully crafted public image that it was
weathering the financial crisis better than its peers,” the law
firm said.  Deutsche Bank has navigated the financial crisis sparked by
the 2007 meltdown of the U.S. housing market without direct
state aid.  Ben-Artzi, who has a doctorate in mathematics from  New York
University , sought to resolve his concerns internally before
seeking legal representation and reporting the possible
violations to the SEC whistle-blower program, Labaton Sucharow
said. He “was subject to severe hostility, denied access to
records” and was fired in November 2011 despite favorable
performance reviews, it said.  ‘Wholly Unfounded’  “The allegations of financial misstatements, which are
more than 2 1/2 years-old and were publicly reported in June
2011, have been the subject of a careful and thorough
investigation, and they are wholly unfounded,” Calabro, the
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said. “Moreover, the investigation
revealed that these allegations stem from people without
personal knowledge of, or responsibility for, key facts and
information.”  In June 2011, Reuters news wire reported that a
whistleblower action had been filed against Deutsche Bank for
improper valuation of the derivatives. The SEC opened an
inquiry, and Deutsche Bank settled the case with trader Matthew Simpson in January of that year, it said.  Deutsche Bank wound down and allowed its high-risk credit
portfolio to mature at an “insignificant” cost, it said in a
presentation posted on its website in June last year. The
portfolio was reduced to 39 percent of its 2009 level in May
last year and will amount to zero in 2018, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  