-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Weigh More Job Cuts in Germany
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-12-06T10:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/deutsche-telekom-said-to-weigh-more-job-cuts-in-germany.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is reviewing
additional job cuts to boost profitability as Germany’s largest
phone company meets investors to outline its financial targets
today, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges wants to reduce
the number of staff that perform internal control functions such
as measuring business processes, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
The review concerns as many as 12,000 positions at the German
division and its service units, and no decision has been made on
how many of those should go, that person said.  Deutsche Telekom also plans to further lower the number of
external service personnel in 2013, another person said. Such
cuts may have helped save more than 100 million euros ($130
million) this year at the T-Systems corporate-client division
alone, the person said.  “Deutsche Telekom must be asking themselves whether they
were advised to take too many employees on board in the course
of former reorganizations,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany , who recommends buying the
shares. “If I were them I would also look at their marketing
expenses.”  Dividend Pressure  The company doesn’t have a new program to cut jobs,
spokesman Philipp Schindera said by phone. Deutsche Telekom will
continue to adjust its workforce, and always seeks to re-train
redundant employees and find jobs for them in other functions
within the company, he said.  The former phone monopoly this year began to implement a
plans to trim its administrative workforce in Bonn by 1,300, or
about 40 percent of the total, through 2015. Any additional cuts
will be on top of those and include different locations, one of
the people said.  Lower personnel costs may help Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  convince shareholders that the carrier can pay a steady
dividend and finance network investments even as phone revenue
declines. The CEO, who has led Deutsche Telekom since 2006, is
scheduled to give investors an update of the company’s strategy
at its headquarters in Bonn after market close today.  Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.1 percent to 8.62 euros at 11:01
a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock had dropped 2.7 percent this year
through yesterday, while Germany’s benchmark DAX index climbed
26 percent. That company has a market value of 37.2 billion
euros.  German Workforce  Deutsche Telekom employs about 125,000 people in Germany.
It also sells phone services in European markets including
Poland and Greece, as well as in the U.S.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of sales at the German unit slipped
to 41.6 percent in the third quarter from 42.1 percent a year
earlier.  The company will probably  reduce its dividend  to 60 cents
per share for both 2013 and 2014, compared with 70 cents the
company has pledged for this year, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Telekom today may also specify the cost of
speeding up its fixed-line network, after announcing plans to
deliver faster Internet connections to 24 million customers in
the next four years to take on cable operators.  TeliaSonera, Swisscom  The average Deutsche Telekom employee generated sales of
about 249,000 euros last year, compared with the 359,000-euro
average for western European carriers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Productivity trailed peers including
 Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Staff at other European phone companies is also feeling the
squeeze of the region’s debt crisis as consumers and companies
try to conserve cash.  TeliaSonera,  Sweden ’s former phone monopoly, in October
said it’s reducing its workforce by 2,000 people. French
wireless operator SFR, a unit of  Vivendi SA (VIV) , is letting 856
employees go through voluntary departures. Phone equipment
makers have been harder hit, with  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  cutting
5,500 jobs, Ericsson AB 1,550 positions and Nokia Siemens
Networks more than 17,000 workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  