-- Disney’s Netflix Deal Gives Top Billing to Online Movies
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-12-05T21:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/disney-s-netflix-deal-gives-top-billing-to-online-movies.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s deal with  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  to stream new releases, including those from Pixar and
Marvel, signals online viewing has become mainstream and poses a
major threat to traditional pay TV.  Starting in 2016, Netflix gains exclusive U.S. TV rights to
movies from Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company,
according to a statement yesterday. That gives the Los Gatos,
California-based video service new films in a time frame
historically reserved for premium channels like  Liberty Media
Corp. (LMCA) ’s Starz, as soon as seven months after theaters.  The accord underscores the shift away from a decades-old
model in which studios prospered by offering blockbuster films
to home viewers on DVD and premium cable channels such as Starz,
Disney’s current pay-TV partner. Subscription and on-demand
services are becoming an important source of revenue for studios
coping with shrinking DVD sales. Netflix, the online leader, is
now a competitor to Starz, HBO and Showtime.  “This is a big win for Netflix,” Jaison Blair, an analyst
with Telsey Advisory Group in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. Tony Wible, an analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC who follows both companies,
projects Netflix will pay Burbank, California-based Disney more
than $350 million a year.  Barton Crockett , an analyst with
Lazard Capital Markets, estimated Disney gets about $200 million
a year now.  Exclusive Programs  Netflix gets immediate access to classic titles like
“Alice in Wonderland” and “Dumbo.” Next year, the service
adds direct-to-video titles, while new films start in 2016.
According to IMDB.com, Disney plans to release Marvel’s “Dr.
Strange” and Pixar’s “Finding Nemo 2” that year. The studio
hasn’t announced any 2016 pictures.  The deal is a coup for Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings, who faces emerging competition in online video and
pressure to sell the company from billionaire Carl Icahn. He
said last month he expects Icahn, who controls almost 10 percent
of the company through stock and options, to start a proxy
battle.  Hastings has been pushing to make Netflix available around
the world, arguing people will pay for near-instant access to
content online instead of scheduled TV on premium outlets such
as  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO or  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime.  The agreement highlights efforts by  Ted Sarandos , the chief
content officer at Netflix, to obtain exclusive rights to films
in the same pay-TV time frame as HBO, Showtime and Starz, or
about seven months to a year after theaters.  Sony Rights  Netflix beat out several competitors for Disney pictures,
Sarandos said, without identifying them. The company will bid
aggressively for exclusive rights to  Sony Corp. (6758)  films when that
studio’s contract with Starz ends around 2016, he said.  “They negotiate a long way out and we’ll be at the table
for each of them,” Sarandos said.  Paula Askanas, a Sony spokeswoman, said the company had no
comment on Sarandos’s remarks.  Netflix fell 3.8 percent to $83.37 at the close in New
York. The shares have advanced 20 percent this year, including
yesterday’s 14 percent surge.  John Malone ’s Liberty Media added
0.8 percent to $106.40. Disney rose 0.6 percent to $49.59.  Courtnee Ulrich, spokeswoman for Englewood, Colorado-based
Liberty Media, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Films from “Star Wars” creator Lucasfilm, which Disney is
buying for $4.05 billion, will be included once the purchase is
completed, Sarandos said today at a  UBS AG (UBS)  conference in New
York. He was interviewed by Harvey Weinstein of the independent
studio Weinstein Co., which also has an exclusive Netflix deal.  Deeper Library  The Disney deal won’t trigger a price increase, Sarandos
said. The company will keep up an emphasis on exclusive content,
and is considering ways to promote its original shows, including
Web ads, he said. Relations with Icahn are “very positive,”
according to Sarandos.  With Disney, Netflix will be able to stream current or
catalog films from several studios.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures, home of the “Star Trek”
series,  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , owner of the “Hunger
Games” films, and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. sell to Netflix
through their jointly owned cable channel, Epix. Relativity
Media LLC has an exclusive multiyear agreement with Netflix, as
does  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , maker of the “Shrek”
movies.  Kids’ Programming  Yesterday’s agreement makes Disney the first major studio
to bypass a traditional cable-TV outlet with its movies.  With pictures geared to children and families, Netflix can
build a base of subscribers less likely to cancel for competing
offerings, said  Scott Devitt , an analyst with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  who
has a buy rating on the shares.  “The company is focusing on building a highly
differentiated content catalog aimed at kids, which is a
demographic that has relatively homogeneous tastes,” Devitt
wrote in a research note.  With 30 million users worldwide, Netflix is extending its
lead over competing video services by Amazon.com Inc. and Redbox
Instant, from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ,
which begins public testing this month.  Domestic Customers  Netflix is also adding exclusive programs such as
“Lilyhammer” and “House of Cards” as it seeks earlier and
fuller home-video access to studio movies for its customers.  The company has about 25.1 million U.S. subscribers,
compared with 20.7 million for Starz as of October.  Disney embraced online media sooner than its competitors,
becoming the first major studio to sell and rent TV shows and
movies through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes. The company’s largest
shareholder is the trust of late Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs .  One risk for Disney is that viewers will cancel their
traditional pay-TV service, costing the company subscription
revenue it gets for networks such as ESPN and the Disney
Channel, according to Michael Morris, an analyst with Davenport
& Co. in Richmond, Virginia.  “Disney has been clear they are platform agnostic,” said
Morris, who recommends the stock.  While Netflix bolsters its film lineup, the announcement
doesn’t settle a tug-of-war among investors over the company’s
prospects, said Arvind Bhatia, a Sterne, Agee & Leach analyst
who has a neutral rating on the shares.  With about $4.5 billion in streaming content obligations
due before the Disney films are available, and losses from
international expansion, Netflix must increase subscribers or
raise its $7.99-a-month price for unlimited viewing to remain
viable long-term, Bhatia said.  “It’s a big get, but clearly there are several unknowns
out there to determine if it’s a good get,” Bhatia said.
“Though we don’t know the financial terms, it’s clear this was
not a cheap deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  