-- Dominican Republic Plans ’13 Bond Sale to Finance Deficit
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-05T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/dominican-republic-plans-13-bond-sale-to-finance-deficit.html
The  Dominican Republic  will sell
bonds abroad next year to finance a $1.5 billion budget gap as
growth in the Caribbean’s biggest economy slows, Economy
Minister Temistocles Montas said.  The bond sale will be used to finance part of the nation’s
budget deficit, forecast to fall to about 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product next year from 8.5 percent this year, Montas
said in an interview yesterday at the presidential palace in
 Santo Domingo . A series of tax law changes passed by Congress
last month, including an increase in the sales tax, will help
narrow the gap, he said.  “In the next year we are going to have to finance $1.5
billion and we will very likely finance a large part of that in
 capital markets ,” the 62-year-old Montas, who has a doctorate
in industrial engineering from  Spain ’s Universidad Politecnica
de  Madrid , said.  Dollar bonds sold by the Dominican Republic have returned
21 percent this year, the most among 15 countries tracked by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CACI index. Latin American bonds have
returned 14.6 percent over the same period. The yield on the
country’s bonds due in 2027 have tumbled 270 basis points, or
2.7 percentage points, this year to 5.05 percent.  The Dominican Republic’s $57 billion economy is forecast to
expand 3.8 percent this year, down from 4.5 percent last year
and 7.8 percent in 2010, Montas said. Growth in the country,
which shares the island of Hispaniola with  Haiti , will slow to 3
percent next year, he said.  “It is not a growth level that we are pleased with, though
we understand that growth next year will suffer due to the
impact of the tax reforms, which are necessary to implement now
to return the economy to a sustainable fiscal path,” Montas
said.  Gold Exports  The slowdown will be tempered by gold exports produced at
 Barrick Gold Corp’s (ABX)  Pueblo Viejo mine, Montas said. The mine,
located 60 miles (97 kilometers) northwest of Santo Domingo, is
expected to begin producing as much as 1 million gold ounces in
2013 and will account for 20 percent of the island nation’s
export sales, according to Trade and Industries Minister Jose
Del Castillo Savinon.  Commercial sales are estimated to reach as much as $2
billion annually and the state will collect a 3.2 percent
royalty immediately upon production. The mine will also be
subject to a 25 percent income tax and 28.75 percent net profits
tax, according to a Barrick report that forecast total payments
of $7 billion to the government over the life of the project.  ‘Great Potential’  “There is great potential in the mining sector in the
Dominican Republic in terms of metals such as gold, silver,
copper and zinc,” Del Castillo said in Dec. 3 interview. “We
will begin to see the importance of the Barrick mine next year
when commercial export begins.”  The Pueblo Viejo mine has a life expectancy of 25 years and
contains an estimated 23.7 million ounces of gold reserves, 455
million pounds of copper and 88 million ounces of silver,
according to Toronto-based Barrick.  The government’s tax package, passed by Congress last
month, generated several days of street protests as opposition
leaders said it would worsen poverty. The legislation raised the
 sales tax  to 18 percent from 16 percent and raised levies on
goods including tobacco and alcohol.  Continued reduction of the fiscal deficit will also hinge
on the country’s ability to reduce losses in the electricity
sector, which soaks up annual government subsidies of about $1
billion due to evasion and poor distribution, Montas said. The
industry, dominated by state-run Corporacion Dominicana de
Empresas Electricas Estatales, was referred to as an economic
“tragedy” by President Danilo Medina in his Aug. 16
inauguration speech.  IMF Accord  Former President Leonel Fernandez allowed a stand-by
agreement with the IMF to expire in February when his government
resisted raising energy costs before the elections. The
Dominican Republic will likely begin discussions to draft an
accord with the IMF in January that will include modifications
to the electricity sector, Montas said.  A new agreement with the IMF will also “generate
credibility” with foreign capital markets and provide better
 interest rates  for the bond sale, he said.  “An agreement with the IMF gives predictability to a
country’s economic policy,” Montas said. “I think that when
the country looks to finance an important part of its budget for
next year in capital markets, a new agreement with the IMF will
help facilitate the process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in Santo Domingo at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  