-- E-Cigarette Maker NJOY Seen as Takeover Target Amid Innovation
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-12-05T19:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/e-cigarette-maker-njoy-seen-as-takeover-target-amid-innovation.html
When  NJOY  throws a party tomorrow at
the stylish Jane Hotel in New York’s West Village to pitch its
latest smokeless electronic cigarette, the company will also
send a reminder to traditional tobacco makers: the innovation of
e-cigs is igniting growth.  The closely held company is introducing NJOY King
nationally this week, with television and print advertising
saying, “Cigarettes, you’ve met your match.” The goal is to
make cigarettes obselete, “replacing them as they are currently
designed,” said Executive Vice President Roy Anise.  The market for e-cigs -- nicotine-infused, battery-heated
tubes that create vapor instead of smoke -- may rise to $1
billion in the next three years from $300 million in 2012, said
Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co.  Altria Group
Inc. (MO) , the maker of Marlboro cigarettes, may buy NJOY or another
company, following the lead of rival  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , which
 acquired  Blu Ecigs in April for $135 million, Herzog said.  “It is truly a wakeup call for Big Tobacco,” Herzog said
this week by telephone from New York. “If manufacturers can
create something that tastes, looks, feels and smokes like a
traditional cigarette with substantially less risk or harm, more
consumers are going to try them and retailers are going to give
them more shelf space.”  A single NJOY King sells for $7.99 and lasts as long as two
packs of cigarettes, the company said. It is the same length and
diameter as a traditional cigarette and has a spongy filter
unlike its predecessor, which was made of steel and introduced
by the company less than a year ago. Such improvements have led
Herzog to predict that U.S. consumption of e-cigs may surpass
demand for regular cigarettes over the next decade.  Smoking Experience  “We are going to become the new way to smoke with a
product that as closely as humanly possible replicates the
actual smoking experience,” said Anise, who joined NJOY in 2010
after spending 24 years at Altria, where he helped efforts to
develop new tobacco products. “Our goal is to take a look at a
cigarette like a Marlboro. How do we not just be as good, but
how do we become a superior smoking experience?”  Altria, the largest seller of tobacco in the U.S., has yet
to join companies from start-ups to Lorillard, the third-biggest
U.S. tobacco company, in tapping demand for e-cigs.  Craig Weiss, chief executive officer of Scottsdale,
Arizona-based NJOY, declined to comment on whether the company
would be open to a takeover. Altria won’t discuss whether it
plans to start selling e-cigs or whether it may make an
acqusition to enter the category, David Sylvia, a company
spokesman, said by telephone.  Digital Cigarette  NJOY controls about 40 percent of the U.S. e-cigs market,
according to Weiss. Blu Ecigs’ share is 25 percent to 30
percent, Lorillard CEO Murray Kessler said last month.  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the second-biggest U.S. tobacco
maker, has developed a “digital cigarette” using computer
chips to replicate smoking a cigarette, Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Delen said on a conference call last month.  “We’re looking to make a big splash in the category” with
a product made in the U.S. using patented technology to “make
sure you get a cigarette experience,” Delen said.  Lorillard’s acquisition of Blu Ecigs pressures Altria and
Reynolds to buy e-cig companies in the next year or so, said
Kevin Frija, CEO of  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based  Vapor Corp. (VPCO) ,
the only publicly traded e-cig company. He said major tobacco
manufacturers aren’t as skilled as e-cig companies in developing
new products.  E-cigs were invented by a Chinese pharmacist and smoker in
2003 and started selling in the U.S. in 2006, according to the
 website  of Blu ECigs.  China Made  Most e-cigs sold in the U.S. are made in  China , according
Thomas Kiklas, co-founder of the  Tobacco Vapor Electronic
Cigarette Association . There are now more than 3.5 million e-cig
users in the U.S., according to the association.  “The smoker likes the hand to mouth, the ritual,” Kiklas
said by telephone this week. “The e-cigarette provides that.”  John Magee, a smoker for almost four decades, was skeptical
about NJOY King until he tried one last week.  “Whoa, that first puff is strong,” said Magee, a 58-year-
old restaurateur in Greensboro and regular smoker of Marlboro.
“It feels and smokes like a cigarette. I like the flavor. I got
a hit of nicotine.”  Magee said the plastic box with flip lid reminds him of
cigarette packaging. The NJOY box has room for a single e-
cigarette and two regular cigarettes for smokers making the
switch, Weiss said.  Even as NJOY prepares to celebrate its newest product in
 New York  tomorrow, the company is already working on its
replacement, Anise said. NJOY expects to introduce its next
version in the next few months, he said.  “You have to be prepared to obsolete your best-selling
product,” said Anise, “because if you don’t your competitor
will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  