-- The Importance of Hearth
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-12-05T21:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/the-importance-of-hearth.html
Generosity, philanthropy,
community and love all affect flavor.   This is why our mother’s roast beef tastes better. It's why we we wait on absurd lines during free cone day at Ben & Jerry’s. It's why we
can stomach bad food at good weddings.* And this is why, in the
aftermath of Superstorm Sandy -- which left scores without heat, hot water and
electricity -- I like to think we’re rightly being drawn toward restaurants that
don’t simply serve good food (of which there’s a surfeit), but rather toward
restaurants that are linchpins of our society, that give back to those who are
down on their luck. Or let me put it this
way: I like to think (and hope) that restaurants that make philanthropy a
regular part of their business model will have an edge in our post-Sandy world.
I don’t mean that cynically, I mean that honestly and earnestly. These are
places that make us feel better. So it goes that the
excellent and extra-charitable Hearth is the subject of my three star  Bloomberg News  review today. Marco Canora and Paul Grieco’s East
Village restaurant, which shuttered for six days in the wake of Sandy, on Monday raised
$12,500 for New York Food Flood, a grassroots organization that helps
feed hungry New Yorkers in the wake of the worst storm to hit our city in a
generation. Tertulia’s Seamus Mullen, The Dutch’s Andrew Carmellini and Aldea’s
George Mendes are all founding members of this fine group. Now, as I  explain in my
review , it was actually an ALS benefit in September that brought me back
to Hearth for the first time in a long time. I don’t typically attend those
events, but it’s a cause that’s near and dear to my heart (the father of one of
my close friends was recently diagnosed). It was a moving night, in honor of
Gerry Hayden, who runs North Fork Table & Inn, as well as Kevin Swan, a
former Hearth server, both of whom suffer from the incurable disease. It was that benefit that
prompted me to start going back to Hearth as a patron. Or if I can flip that statement on its head: If it weren’t for
that benefit, I probably wouldn’t have started eating at Hearth again, if for
no other reason than it simply wasn’t on my radar, either as a critic or as a guy
who eats out a lot. So I’m glad I went. I’m glad I was reacquainted with a
restaurant that serves food worthy of a Michelin star (even though it
unfairly lacks one). And I’m glad that Hearth is a vital and thriving member
of our community. The place is packed. Rightly so. *Note: Out of honestly, I should point out
that I refuse to eat bad food at any wedding, and have been known to shun
certain underperforming dishes at family dinners. Ryan Sutton is the New York City food critic for Bloomberg News  and author of  The Bad Deal . 