-- The Misguided 18 Percent Budget Solution
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/the-misguided-18-percent-budget-solution.html
Since 1950,  federal revenue  has
averaged about 18 percent of gross domestic product -- 17.8
percent of GDP, to be exact. A neat bit of trivia, but who
cares?  Lots of people, it seems. Republicans on the House Budget
Committee, in a news release titled “The Impact of Looming Tax
Increases,” emphasize that “federal revenue rose to 18.5
percent of gross domestic product in fiscal year 2007, well
above the 50-year historical average of 18 percent.” This
proves, they say, that “tax relief did not cause today’s
deficits.”  Utah ’s  Orrin Hatch , the ranking Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, also seeks guidance from the budget’s
historical appendix. In a recent speech, he  cited  a
Congressional Budget Office statement that if the Bush tax cuts
were made permanent, “annual revenues would average about 18
percent of GDP through 2021 (which is equal to their 40-year
average).” Interesting!  But Hatch takes it further: “So, according to CBO,” he
said, “even if all the Bush-era tax rates were permanently
extended, taxes would still be high enough when measured against
the level of taxation in recent history.”  Warren Buffett , no enemy of raising taxes, is similarly
committed to the historical average. “Our government’s goal
should be to bring in revenues of 18.5 percent of G.D.P. and
spend about 21 percent of G.D.P.” he  wrote  in the  New York 
Times. Why? Well, he doesn’t really say. He just says those are
levels “that have been attained over extended periods in the
past.” Ah, well then.  One Dissent  Permit me to dissent from the Oracle of Omaha. The average
of our past revenue isn’t sufficient to sustain our future. In
fact, it wasn’t even enough to support our past. As Paul Van de Water of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
points out, revenue of 18.5 percent of GDP would have been
sufficient to balance only three budgets in the past 50 years --
all of them in the 1960s.  The only balanced budgets of recent history came in the
late 1990s and early 2000s, when growth was strong and revenue
ranged from 19.5 percent of GDP to 20.6 percent. Our average tax
receipts over the past 40 years have contributed to average
deficits of 2.6 percent of GDP. That’s not terribly worrying,
but it’s going to get worse. A lot worse.  Projected deficits are driven by two factors: health-care
costs and old people. The coming years will bring more of both.
Today, the elderly make up 13 percent of the  U.S. population . By
2050, they’re expected to be 20 percent. There’s no way that the
tax receipts of the 1980s will support the demographics of the
2020s or 2030s. Anyone who says otherwise isn’t taking the
numbers seriously, or is planning cuts to  Social Security  and
Medicare that dwarf anything that has been openly discussed in
 Washington .  Similarly, even if  Obamacare  proves stunningly effective at
restraining health-care costs, it won’t work in a day, a year or
even 10 years. Bringing down health-care costs will be a
multidecade project no matter how we approach the task. Success
will be defined by health-care spending growing a bit faster
than the economy rather than much faster. Health care’s share of
the economy will still grow -- which means the government’s
share will probably grow, too.  “Eighteen percent may be a long-term historical average,”
 Alice Rivlin , a former White House budget director, said this
week, “but it’s not a realistic average looking forward.”  The need for tax receipts to grow underscores the necessity
of finding an efficient way to collect them. Experts say that
should include  tax reform  and new tax sources that take the
pressure off the income tax, such as a  value added tax  or a
 carbon tax .  Dreaded Taxes  Our politics, however, don’t support such innovations.
Republicans dread a more efficient  tax code  as a step toward a
larger welfare state. “You cannot get to a European-size
government with an income tax because it gets to a point where
it’s not collectible and it depresses the economy,”  Grover Norquist , the president of Americans for Tax Reform, said. “So
you need a  consumption tax , and as a second best to that, an
 energy tax .”  For that reason, Norquist said, Republican opposition to
such taxes will be unyielding. He appears to be right. Former
Representative  Bill Thomas , a California Republican who was
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee from 2001 to 2006,
supported a VAT. No prominent Republican supports one today.  But resistance to tax increases hasn’t stopped the
government from growing, and it certainly won’t stop the
population from aging or arrest the costly advance of health-
care technology.  The nightmare scenario here is that it simply leads to the
worst of both worlds: Spending keeps growing, but the tax code
begins doing real damage to the economy, or deficits grow to the
point that they cause a fiscal crisis. Sticking to the tax
consensus of the last 50 years, in other words, could cause an
economic catastrophe over the next 50 years.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 