-- The Real Reason Warren Buffett Should Pay More Taxes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/the-real-reason-warren-buffett-should-pay-more-taxes.html
For most of the past six decades, the
U.S. government has taken a lenient approach toward taxing
financial wealth. Dividends from stocks and gains on long-term
investments are currently taxed at 15 percent, compared with
rates on ordinary income as high as 35 percent. The differential
treatment has resulted in such attention-grabbing distortions as
 Warren Buffett  paying a smaller share of his income in taxes
than his secretary, and  Mitt Romney  paying an effective federal
rate of only 14.1 percent on $13.7 million in income last year.  In a certain kind of world, such a system makes sense. In
the 1970s and 1980s, researchers  built models  of the economy
showing that, if everyone started out with nothing, made money
by working and didn’t pass anything on to their children, the
optimal rate on investment income would be zero. The logic was
that if you tax people once on their labor income, it’s not
right to tax them again on the part that they set aside for the
future. Doing so would inhibit saving, starving the economy of
the investment it needs to grow. Fewer jobs would be created.
Everyone would be worse off.  Now consider a different world. Here, some people are born
well-off, with inheritances so large that they can live
comfortably without working. Most, however, are born relatively
poor, with little or no capital at all. In this world, taxing
labor income alone would amplify the inequality by putting an
outsized burden on people who work. Taxing capital, by contrast,
would take some of the pressure off labor, increasing the
incentive to work and providing a net benefit to the majority of
the population.  Close Resemblance  The second world closely resembles the present-day U.S. As
of 2010, the wealthiest 10 percent of families commanded about
75 percent of all households’ total net worth, while the poorest
50 percent held only 1 percent, according to Federal Reserve
 data . The distribution of inheritances is similar.  To get a sense of what tax rates should be in such a world,
two researchers -- Thomas Piketty of the Paris School of
Economics and Emmanuel Saez of the  University of California ,
Berkeley --  built a model  of the economy that took into account
the vastly divergent financial endowments.  They found that the distribution of wealth makes a big
difference: The more it’s concentrated in the hands of a few,
the more the benefit of shifting the tax burden off labor income
outweighs any potential negative impact on saving. They estimate
that in the extremely concentrated case of the U.S., if the aim
is to make humanity as a whole better off, the optimal  tax rate 
on capital -- including bequests, corporate profits and
investment income -- would be as much as 60 percent.  What does all this mean for the current U.S. tax system? It
suggests that if you think the government needs more revenue to
reduce its  budget deficit , raising taxes on investment income is
a good solution. What should the rate be? Anything above the
current level would be an improvement. It would have the added
advantage of reducing the incentive to game the system by, for
example, classifying carried interest, the equity some
investment managers receive as compensation for their work, as a
capital gain instead of ordinary income.  Calculations by the Office of Management and Budget suggest
that taxing capital gains and dividend income at the same rate
as ordinary income could bring in roughly $1 trillion over the
next 10 years if the top marginal rate stayed at 35 percent.
Another $700 billion could be raised if capital gains weren’t
zeroed out at death, requiring heirs to pay taxes on any gains
that occurred before they inherited stocks, real estate or other
assets. The total comes to more than 40 percent of the deficit
reduction President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers are seeking in
their efforts to avoid the fiscal cliff, the toxic combination
of tax increases and spending cuts that will start to come into
effect Jan. 1 unless Congress acts.  Scant Evidence  There’s scant evidence that raising rates on capital would
have much effect on private saving or investment. In a recent
 report , the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service  found no
statistically significant relationship over the 65 years through
2010. It concluded in a separate  report  that higher taxes on
capital gains would more likely increase public saving by
allowing the government to reduce the budget deficit (running a
deficit is the opposite of saving).  In an ideal world, we wouldn’t have to tax capital at all.
In the U.S. as we know it, an increase in rates is long overdue.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 