-- EADS Revamps Shareholder Accord Crimping Government Power
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-12-05T19:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/eads-revamps-shareholder-accord-crimping-government-power.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  said Germany will join  France  and  Spain  as a government
shareholder in the largest revamp of the company ownership since
its creation 12 years ago.  The German state will become an stakeholder in the parent
of planemaker Airbus SAS for the first time, with 12 percent
that match the French side, EADS said. Carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
Paris-based publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  will “largely reduce”
their stakes, with Daimler selling partly to Germany and partly
on the open market. Spain will own about 4 percent of EADS.  The changes, which will eliminate governments’ veto rights
over business decisions while increasing combined state stakes
to 28 percent, are intended to convert Toulouse, France-based
EADS into what Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  has called a
“normal” company. Resistance from German authorities prompted
EADS and London-based defense company  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  to abandon
a merger plan in October.  “We are making a big leap forward in terms of governance,
actually the most important change since the creation of our
company,” Enders said in the statement. “Strategy and
industrial projects in the future will be solely defined and
decided by the board of directors and the executive team, the
operations will be managed without any outside interference from
specific shareholders or shareholder concerts.”  Rockets, Satellites  EADS, whose businesses also include helicopters, space
rockets, missiles and satellites, was established in 2000 when
the German, French and Spanish partners in Airbus combined
aerospace assets. A so-called “shareholder pact” required the
main German and French owners’ stakes to match and gave the core
investors final say over major decisions.  Governments will retain some influence, including the right
to block hostile takeover and relocation of the headquarters.
They will also have approval authority over four of 12 board
members. An extra shareholder meeting will be convened in March
to approve the changes, EADS General Counsel Peter Kleinschmidt
said.  The board members and executive committee will be dominated
by European Union nationals. The arrangement was modeled after
the “golden share” the U.K. has with BAE. The amount of freely
traded shares will exceed 70 percent.  Some Progress  “It’s progress but they’re still a long way from the
ultimate goal of being a freely floated company,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president at the Teal Group in Fairfax,
Virginia. “You’re still talking about a high percentage of the
company owned by governments or government proxies.”  New rules governing EADS bar any individual or group of
shareholders crossing a 15 percent threshold.  To safeguard French and German interests in sensitive
military technologies, two national defense companies will be
set up. The governments will have approval rights over three of
each units’ directors, two of whom will sit on the EADS board.  France endorsed the changes in part because the accord
clarifies issues that were not previously codified, said a
French government official who could not be named under
government rules. That includes assuring Toulouse is the
operational headquarters of the business, and that Airbus and
Eurocopter are based in France. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
also said she approves of the new accord.  No promises on site locations are in the accord, said
Marwan Lahoud, EADS’s chief of strategy. Decisions to move
headquarters will be left to the board, he said on a call.  Daimler, the Stuttgart, Germany-based maker of Mercedes-
Benz luxury cars, now controls 22.5 percent of EADS, with one-
third of that stake held by a group of German banks and regional
governments.  Daimler Disposal  Daimler began the accelerated bookbuilding process on a
first tranche today and plans to complete the process tomorrow,
the company said separately. A second transaction period will
begin when a lock-up period expires 180 days later.  “We welcome this reorganization of the shareholder
structure with limited state influence,” Daimler Chief
Financial Officer and EADS Board Member Bodo Uebber said. “We
will invest the proceeds of the sale in the global growth of our
divisions and the extension of our technological leadership.”  Before year-end, Daimler will sell as much as 7.44 percent
of its shares, with  Germany ’s KfW bank buying 2.76 percent. The
state-owned bank will also acquire shares held by private
investors that are part of a consortium which includes German
federal states. Those transactions will bring KfW’s total to
10.2 percent, which will become 12 percent after shares acquired
in a planned buyback are canceled, Kleinschmidt said.  Magazine Interest  Lagardere, the owner of French book publisher Hachette and
Elle and Paris Match magazines, holds a 7.5 percent direct stake
in EADS and controls the French state’s 15 percent holding. The
media company will dispose its shares next year.  EADS’s freely traded stock will increase from 49 percent
under the new structure. The company will buy back 15 percent of
its shares “subject to market conditions and shareholder
approval,” it said.  “This will not harm our financing flexibility,” Chief
Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm said. Instead, it should boost
the businesses’s earnings, he said.  The repurchase will involve a first tranche of 7.5 percent
open to all shareholders, with 5.5 percent of a second 7.5
percent repurchase reserved for Lagardere.  EADS rose for the sixth straight day today in Paris and
closed at 27.23 euros, valuing the company at 22.5 billion
euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  