-- EADS Chief Rebounds From BAE Flop as State Influence Ebbs
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-06T17:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/eads-chief-rebounds-from-bae-flop-as-state-influence-ebbs.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders made no secret in October
of his scorn for  Germany  killing a merger with  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/) 
Two months later, he’s welcoming the country as an investor.  EADS said yesterday that Germany will become a direct
stakeholder in the parent of Airbus SAS for the first time, in a
structure that will liberate Enders of government meddling
because it strips states of veto rights in day-to-day
operations. The move increases the number of freely traded
shares, giving Enders more breathing space to shape his vision.  The agreement lets Enders complete 2012 on a conciliatory
note, after risking an open breach with Germany, his country of
origin, over the failed combination with London-based BAE. His
options include continuing to re-balance an EADS portfolio
currently lopsided toward Airbus, or making the planemaker the
undisputed centerpiece of Toulouse, France-based EADS.  “They will need to spend less time looking over their
shoulder at their stakeholders,” said Nick Cunningham, an
analyst at Agency Partners. “Management should be more free to
run the company normally, inasmuch as any aerospace and defense
prime contractor is normal.”  Stock Rises  EADS  rose  8 percent to 29.40 euros at the close in Paris,
the biggest jump since March 8. The stock has gained 22 percent
this year, valuing the aerospace manufacturer at 24.3 billion
euros ($31.5 billion).  “The unique discount applied to EADS due to its perception
of excessive government control should now be removed,”  Bank of
America  analyst Celine Fornaro said in a note.  The ownership reorganization prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to cut the debt rating for EADS today by one level to
A2, the fifth-lowest investment grade, from A1, with a stable
outlook, meaning no further rating changes are expected soon.  The new shareholder structure gives both Germany and  France 
12 percent of EADS, while German carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  and French
publisher Lagardere SA will retreat over several months. Enders
heralded the accord as a “reset” on corporate governance, with
a board of 12 members and only limited special rights for state
representatives.  “This is the most important change since the creation of
EADS 12 years ago,” Enders told journalists on a call
yesterday. “This is the BAE-EADS governance without BAE.”  Strategy Review  After the failed merger attempt with BAE, which would have
achieved EADS’s vision of balancing Airbus with defense
activities, Enders announced plans for a strategy review. Enders
plans to complete the analysis by the middle of next year, he
told investors in  London  this week.  Large mergers and acquisitions aren’t planned, and Enders
ruled out combining with  Thales SA (HO)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , said
Ben Fidler, London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, who attended
the meeting, which was closed to the press.  Although governments have a reduced role in the company,
the actual direct ownership has increased to 28 percent, with
Spain also holding 4 percent. New rules governing EADS bar any
individual or group crossing a 15 percent threshold.  EADS, whose businesses also include helicopters, space
rockets, missiles and satellites, was established in 2000 when
the German, French and Spanish partners in Airbus combined
aerospace assets. A so-called “shareholder pact” required the
main German and French owners’ stakes to match and gave the core
investors final say over major  decisions .  French Endorsement  France endorsed the changes in part because the accord
clarifies issues that were not previously codified, said a
French government official who could not be named under
government rules. That includes assuring Toulouse is the
operational headquarters of the business, and that Airbus and
Eurocopter are based in France. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
also said she approves of the new accord.  ‘I’d like to thank the governments of France, Germany and
Spain as well as Daimler and Lagardere for their active support
in reaching this important agreement,’’ Enders said.  To safeguard French and German interests in sensitive
military technologies, two national defense companies will be
set up. The governments will have approval rights over three of
each units’ directors, two of whom will sit on the EADS board.  Daimler, the Stuttgart, Germany-based maker of Mercedes-
Benz luxury cars, controlled 22.5 percent of EADS until today,
with one-third of that stake held by a group of German banks and
regional governments.  Daimler’s Disposal  Daimler said today that it sold a 7.5 percent holding in
EADS to investors including KfW Group, Germany’s state
development bank, for 1.66 billion euros. A second transaction
period will begin when a lock-up period expires 180 days later,
the carmaker said.  Lagardere (MMB) , the owner of French book publisher Hachette and
Elle and Paris Match magazines, holds a 7.5 percent direct stake
in EADS and controls the French state’s 15 percent holding. The
media company will dispose its shares next year.  “It’s progress, but they’re still a long way from the
ultimate goal of being a freely floated company,” said Richard Aboulafia, vice president at the Teal Group in Fairfax,
Virginia. “When the governments do get out, EADS will be viewed
by potential merger candidates as a far more attractive
partner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  