-- Hearth Dishes $62 Rabbit, Meatballs, Sandy Relief: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-12-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/hearth-dishes-62-rabbit-meatballs-sandy-relief-review.html
It wasn’t the braised rabbit, a
favorite of filmmaker Wes Anderson, or even the incomparable
veal meatballs that brought me back to Hearth after seven years.  It was Kevin Swan, a young man who once waited tables there
and had since been diagnosed with  Lou Gehrig ’s disease.  Swan founded “ A Life Story Foundation”  to join the fight
for a cure. The East Village restaurant, in turn, threw a  dinner 
for the group in September, raising $8,500.  I learned a lot at the Swan benefit, ate some pretty great
beef in brodo. And I started going back to Hearth.  In the wake of  Hurricane Sandy , I like to think we’re
spending more time at restaurants that not only serve great
food, but are rooted in our community and give back to those in
need.  Like Marco Canora and Paul Grieco’s Hearth. The Italian-
tinged American spot, nearly a decade old, turns out exemplary
food, features one of  New York ’s best wine lists and continues
to press the case of Sandy’s victims, having raised $12,500 on
Monday with another  charity dinner . That’s how these guys roll.  So drop by. The brick-walled room, with soft chairs and
smooth wood tables, is dark and inviting as you approach the
chef’s counter, a walk-ins-only seating area overlooking the
kitchen.  Maitake Madness  This is where Canora himself serves the same maitake
mushrooms and butter-drunk gnocchi he dished out at Tom Collichio’s Craft.  It’s also where Canora takes orders, clears plates, busses,
cooks, chugs mineral water from the bottle and hollers at
underperforming cooks.  Start with the ribollita ($13). A dollar from every
purchase goes to hurricane relief. If you’re first lured by the
goodwill, you’re then knocked out by the clarity of flavor.  The verdant olive oil, biting parmesan and crunch of
breadcrumbs hit the palate first. Then there’s the smooth paste
of beans, a legume porridge of sorts. You’re left with the long
finish of black cabbage, with its lingering vegetal musk.  You drink this with a sauvignon blanc from  Red Hook Winery 
($13), devastated by Sandy’s floodwaters. The vino is sweet on
the nose, dry on the palate, with a hint of acidity to keep the
food moving through your pipes. The Red Hook viognier is just as
good, a hint steelier, a bit leaner ($13).  Wine Program  Or perhaps you’ll pair the beans with a $14 honey wine from
 Austria . Now you know why Grieco calls his wine program
confrontational. He dedicates entire pages of the list to cider,
mead and the semiotics of German labels.  He writes that the greatest whites in America are Friulian
blends from  Long Island ’s Channing Daughters (which he sells for
$89-$91). And he explains his love for Riesling by referencing
God, Sarah Palin and NATO.  Wines sold by the glass are also available in half-glass
pours. So do a short sip of minerally Darting riesling with the
chicken soup, a preparation that’s especially exciting because
it’s not. No sriracha foam or bacon gelee. Just a hearty broth
and dumplings packing a poultry punch ($12).  And ethereal veal-ricotta meatballs ($29) are red-sauce
bliss, collapsing in the mouth with all the resistance of
oatmeal.  Mushroom consomme is fortified with smoked fish bellies
that impart a powerful umami kick. Add a few bites of fatty
cobia and what you essentially have is Kobe soup ($32).  Seductive Game  Game abounds at Hearth in seductively restrained forms. The
meat doesn’t evoke a varsity football locker room.  Pheasant is smoked over applewood for a subtle sweetness.
Venison, rare and silky, is perfumed with berry-like aromas
($36).  Mole-like Boar ragu is tamed by way of cocoa-flavored
rigatoni. And the $62 braised rabbit for two is a perfect
symbiosis of tender meat, intense tomato paste and savory
rosemary. If that sounds too fancy, keep in mind the dish eats
like a basket of chicken wings, with polenta subbing for blue
cheese. Your fingers turn red.  No, you don’t have room, but order the glazed doughnuts
anyway ($11). Forget about those airy beignets around town.
These babies are as satisfyingly dense as  Entenmann’s .  There you have it: A bit of charity, a lot of calories.
You’ll be back.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most main dishes under $40; tasting menu $78.  Sound Level: Pleasantly boisterous. Around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Worked for me.  Special Feature: Dry-aged sirloin for two ($86).  Inside Tip: Try the James Renwick Jr. cocktail ($12) --
cinnamon soda with a kick.  Back on My Own Dime: Yes.  Hearth is at 403 E. 12th St. Information: +1-646-602-1300;
 http://www.restauranthearth.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 