-- Mechel Gets Extra Time With $1 Billion Loan Restructuring Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-12-05T18:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mechel-gets-extra-time-with-1-billion-loan-restructuring-deal.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s largest producer
of steel-making coal, got a year’s breathing space on repayments
to a $1 billion loan by signing a restructuring deal with banks.  The company, which reported an $823 million loss for the
second quarter of the year because of falling coal prices, got
banks to agree to an amendment and restatement of the syndicated
loan, it said in a statement distributed by Globe Newswire. The
facility, maturing in 2015, would have repaid $600 million next
year in monthly installments and these will be delayed for 12
months, it said.  “Amending this credit is a key step in cutting down short-
term debt through securing a grace period,” Chief Financial
Officer Stanislav Ploschenko said in the statement. “At the
same time, we managed to obtain a more favorable security
package, improve the covenant and overall structure of the
loan.”  Billionaire Igor Zyuzin’s company wants to cut its short-
term debt to less than $1 billion, Ploschenko said in October.
Debt totaled $8.8 billion at the end of June and  Mechel (MTLR)  is
seeking to reduce this by boosting  cash flow  and pushing forward
asset sales, Mechel said Oct. 2. Its American Depositary
Receipts rose 2.8 percent to $6.31 at 12:15 p.m.  New York  time.  ING Groep NV, Societe Generale SA, UniCredit SpA, OAO
Rosbank and  ABN Amro  Bank NV coordinated the amendment, Mechel
said. Other banks in the deal included BNP Paribas SA,
Commerzbank AG, Raiffeisen Bank International AG, VTB Bank OJSC,
Natixis, Caterpillar Inc. and Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., it said.  ABN Amro, Caterpillar and ICBC joined the syndicate as part
of the amendment process, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  