-- Mechel CFO Says Reorganization Done in a Year: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-12-06T06:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mechel-cfo-says-reorganization-done-in-a-year-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mechel (MTL)  will complete its
restructuring within the next 12 months and plans to prioritize
price over timing when it comes to selling assets, said Chief
Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko.  “We are in active talks,” Ploschenko said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday relayed by  Mechel (MTLR) ’s press
service. “The main goal is to sell assets efficiently, we are
not setting any strict deadline.”  Mechel,  Russia ’s largest producer of steelmaking coal,
surged to a one-month high in  New York  yesterday after saying it
got extra time to make repayments on a $1 billion loan by
signing a restructuring deal with banks. The stock’s 100-day
volatility slid to a seven-month low. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. rose
for a second day, while  futures  on Moscow’s dollar-denominated
RTS Index added 0.6 percent to 147,650 in New York.  Moscow-based Mechel, which owed $8.8 billion at the end of
the first half, is the most indebted Russian mining company
after aluminum producer United Co. Rusal. Mechel, controlled by
billionaire  Igor Zyuzin , has been challenged by falling
commodity prices and the slowdown in  China , where growth
decelerated for a seventh quarter in the three months to Sept.
30. It also bought assets in the U.S., including Bluestone Coal
Corp. in May 2009.  “The company is working with the banks non stop to
refinance” more debt, Ploschenko said. Mechel is aiming “to
lower our short-term debt, improve the structure of our credit
portfolio and help boost Mechel’s financial results,” he said.  Mechel Mining  The board of Mechel, the biggest decliner on the Russia-US
gauge over the past year, recommended selling a stake in OAO
Mechel-Mining and other assets, the company said on Sept. 25.  Yesterday’s rally in Mechel’s American depositary receipts
sent the stock’s enterprise value, or the sum of its equity and
net debt, to 7.4 times estimated earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, the most expensive level
versus the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Materials Index since Oct. 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The discount fell to 10
percent, from 15 percent on Oct. 8.  Mechel’s debt  may rise  by about $200 million when the
company consolidates a portion of assets from Estar Group,
Ploschenko said on Oct. 2.  Mechel’s ratio of net debt to earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization was 4.85, making it the
 second-most indebted  company in Russia’s metals and mining
industry after Rusal, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mechel
reported a $823 million loss for the second quarter because of
falling coal prices.  ‘Promising Sign’  “The restructuring deal is a good, promising sign,”
Andrey Tretelnikov, an analyst at Rye, MAN & Gor, said by phone
from Moscow yesterday. “It’s going to be really hard for them
to negotiate good prices because of the overall global market
conditions.”  ADRs of Mechel gained 3.6 percent to $6.36 yesterday, the
highest level since Nov. 7. The  stock  rose 0.2 percent to 194.10
rubles in Moscow today. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.6 percent to
1,443.91 by 10:17 a.m.  “We expect the stock will trade at these levels in the
foreseeable future,” Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at
UralSib Capital who has a hold rating on the shares, said by
phone from Moscow yesterday.  Buyer Search  Mechel engaged Rothschild, OAO VTB and Morgan Stanley to
find a buyer for a stake of as much as 25 percent in its mining
unit, people who asked not to be identified as the information
is private, said on Oct. 30. Mechel-Mining, which shelved an
initial public offering in September 2011, citing unfavorable
market conditions, may be valued at $7.8 billion, according to
Deutsche Bank AG.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of Russian companies
traded in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent to 94.57 yesterday. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated Russian
exchange-traded fund, rose 1.6 percent to $28.38, the highest
level since Nov. 6. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in futures, slid 2.6 percent to 21.37 points.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, was the biggest gainer on the Russia-US gauge yesterday,
jumping 6.1 percent to $17.18, the highest level since May 3.
Trading volume was five times the average daily volume for the
past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Shares
advanced 2.1 percent in Moscow to 5,295 rubles, today. One ADR
represents a tenth of a Moscow share.  Oil Sinks  Oil slumped for a second day yesterday after a government
report showed that U.S. gasoline inventories gained the most in
11 years as demand weakened. Crude oil for January delivery
decreased 0.7 percent to $87.88 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , while Brent oil for January settlement on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange fell 0.9 percent to
$108.81 a barrel.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export oil blend,
declined 0.9 percent to $107.19 yesterday, falling for a third
consecutive day.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities slipped 0.3 percent to
643.26 yesterday.  Futures expiring in December on the ruble showed the
currency steady at 30.839 per dollar after the ruble was little
changed at 30.8066 per dollar yesterday.  United Co.  Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 2.3 percent to HK$4.85 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:50
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent.  -- With assistance from Moming Zhou and Mark Shenk in New York,
Yulia Fedorinova and Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow. Editors: Marie-
France Han, Tal Barak Harif  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  