-- Hedge Funds Bullish as Banks’ Premium Double Peers: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-12-05T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/hedge-funds-bullish-as-banks-premium-double-peers-india-credit.html
Indian bank debt offering almost
double the yield premium of global lenders is attracting hedge
funds impressed by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s reaction to
the threat of a junk credit rating.  Finisterre Capital LLP is betting on a decline in bond risk
for  State Bank of India (SBIN)  Ltd. and Bank of India Ltd., while
Observatory Capital Management LLP bought dollar-denominated
notes of  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  The nation’s corporate debt yields  353
basis points  more than Treasuries, according to a JPMorgan Chase
& Co. index of 55 issuers, including 39 lenders. The spread on
global banks is 181, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  “Come January, investors will realize the relative
attractiveness of Indian banks,” Rahul Sharma, a London-based
fund manager at Finisterre, which manages $1.6 billion of
emerging-market assets, said in a Dec. 4 telephone interview.
“There aren’t a lot of Asian senior bank bonds trading at this
spread in the investment-grade territory.”  Singh has stepped up efforts since mid-September to improve
government finances and boost economic  growth  from the slowest
pace since 2009. He has cut subsidies, sold assets and allowed
foreign investment in aviation and retailing. The measures came
after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings lowered their rating
outlook, putting  India  at risk of becoming the first BRIC nation
to lose its investment-grade ranking.  Moody’s Outlook  Risk assessors “should wait to see the upcoming budget and
also how the reform agenda pans out,” Sharma said, referring to
the government’s annual budget statement due at the end of
February. While a downgrade is possible, it’s unlikely before
March, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service maintained its stable outlook on
India’s credit rating on Nov. 27, citing growth and investment
exceeding emerging-market averages. Moody’s ranks India’s debt
Baa3, while S&P and Fitch have a BBB- rating, the lowest
investment grades.  The average cost of insuring the debt of five Indian banks
against non-payment using credit-default swaps fell to 265 basis
points on Dec. 4 from 422 at the end of 2011, according to data
provider CMA, owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  A basis point on a swap protecting $10 million of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. The seller collects the
premium on the contracts, which becomes more valuable as default
risk declines.  Finisterre, Observatory  Finisterre sold the swaps protecting government-owned State
 Bank of India (BOI) , the nation’s largest lender and a proxy for the
sovereign, and Bank of India in mid-November, according to
Sharma, whose  fund  has gained more than 13 percent this year
through November. The contracts declined 157 and 139 basis
points, respectively, this year in New York, according to CMA.  Observatory Capital bought into ICICI Bank when the
nation’s biggest private lender sold $750 million of 5 1/2-year
notes in August. The fund bought more of the securities two
weeks ago, London-based fund manager Iftikhar Ali said in a Dec.
4 telephone interview.  The yield on the 4.7 percent bond due February 2018 fell 28
basis points to 3.72 percent when it last traded on Nov. 30,
according to Trace pricing. The spread over similar-maturity
Treasuries has narrowed to 314 basis points from 400 basis
points when the debt was sold.  ‘Good Investment’  “ICICI is one of the stronger banks that we are
comfortable with,” said Ali, who helps manage about $1 billion
at Observatory Capital, a vehicle backed by Brummer & Partners
AB,  Sweden ’s biggest hedge fund. “If we can achieve 4 to 5
percent yield on a five-year maturity at a spread of 300 plus,
it’s a good investment.”  India’s state-owned lenders enjoy strong backing through
annual equity infusion by the government, which maintains a
“high degree of involvement” with the industry as a whole,
Moody’s said in a Dec. 4 statement. This suggests both public
and private banks may receive “extraordinary support” by way
of unsecured loans and capital injections, if needed, it said.  Moody’s affirmed its negative rating outlook on Indian
banks, saying a weak economy and high borrowing costs will lead
to a further deterioration in asset quality.  Central bank governor Duvvuri Subbarao has held the Reserve
Bank of India’s benchmark repurchase  rate  at 8 percent for the
last seven months, refraining from adding to a 50 basis-point
reduction in April to curb the highest  inflation  among the
largest  emerging markets . The RBI next reviews policy Dec. 18.  RBI Forecasts  On Oct. 30, Subbarao cut the RBI’s  growth  forecast for the
fiscal year ending March 31 to 5.8 percent, the least in a decade,
from 6.5 percent. He raised its estimate for gains in wholesale 
prices to 7.5 percent from 7 percent and said consumer prices will
stay elevated mainly due to food costs.  Asia’s third-largest economy grew 5.3 percent in the July-
September  quarter , matching the slowest pace since 2009. The
budget  shortfall  will be 5.6 percent of GDP this fiscal year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey last
week. The official forecast is 5.3 percent. The deficit was 3.68
trillion rupees ($67.6 billion) in the seven months through
October, the government said, almost 72 percent of the annual
target.  The  yield  on 10-year benchmark sovereign notes has dropped
40 basis points to 8.17 percent this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, heading for the first annual decline since 2008.
The rate may drop a further 37 basis points to 7.80 percent by
the end of March, according to the median forecast of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bad Loans  The rupee fell 2.6 percent in the last two months after
appreciating 5.1 percent in September, when it was the region’s
best performer, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It gained 0.2
percent to 54.5575 per dollar in Mumbai yesterday.  India’s non-performing  loans  may climb to 4 percent of the
total by the end of March, from 3.6 percent in September and
just under 3 percent six months earlier, Nomura Holdings Inc.,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage, said in a Nov. 28 report.  “The government isn’t going to make much inroad with its
fiscal position,”  Rob Subbaraman , Nomura’s chief economist for
Asia excluding Japan, said in a Dec. 4 interview in  Singapore .
“Ultimately, a lot of the reforms won’t get implemented.”  Fortress Investment Group LLC, which manages about $48
billion, isn’t daunted by the prospect of rising bad loans, Adam Levinson, chief executive officer of its Singapore unit, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  ‘Not Super Exciting’  “The RBI is very draconian when it comes to recognition,
so there are unlikely to be surprises in the system,” said
Levinson, who has traded in and out of  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and
currently doesn’t own debt of Indian banks. “At 300 basis
points over Treasuries, the spread is OK, not super exciting.”  Eastspring Investments, which manages about $87 billion in
Asia, has held on to ICICI and State Bank of India’s debt, even
as it trimmed India’s overweight position in its  Asian High
Yield Bond Fund (IOFAHYD)  after the market rallied more than  5 percent 
since August.  Policies announced since September, including a cut to
withholding tax on interest income earned by foreign investors,
have reduced the nation’s downgrade risk, Leong Wai Mei, a fund
manager at Singapore-based Eastspring, said by e-mail yesterday.  “Any widening in bond spreads is limited because some of
the downgrade risk and growth concerns are already priced in,”
Observatory Capital’s Ali said. “There is room for India to
perform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at   dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  