-- Telefonica Seeks as Much as EU6 Billion in Latin IPO
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-12-05T17:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/telefonica-seeks-as-much-as-eu6-billion-in-latin-america-ipo-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is seeking to raise as
much as 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) by listing shares of its
Latin America business in  Madrid  and  London  as  Spain ’s biggest
phone company moves to pare debt.  The initial public offering, which would include all of
Telefonica’s operations in the region, will take place as soon
as possible, said Gilmar Camurra, chief financial officer of the
Madrid-based company’s Brazil division.  Telefonica has been divesting parts of its business to cut
down on debt, which it had reduced since June by 5.5 billion
euros to 52.8 billion euros as of last month. This year, the
company sold shares in a German unit, divested its China Unicom
( Hong Kong ) Ltd. stake, and got rid of the Atento call-center
division.  “This is an alternative for the company’s plans to improve
our financial position and give us flexibility,” Camurra said
yesterday in an interview in  Sao Paulo . The company seeks to
raise between 4 billion euros and 6 billion euros by selling a
stake of 10 percent to 15 percent and won’t list the shares in
 Latin America , he said.  Managers of the Latin America group, the region’s second-
biggest mobile-phone carrier behind America Movil SAB, are
moving to Sao Paulo from the Madrid headquarters to keep a
closer eye on the division, the executive said.  European IPOs  The Frankfurt offering of Telefonica’s German unit,
operating in a market less hit by Europe’s debt crisis, was the
region’s biggest IPO this year and helped the Spanish company to
raise 1.45 billion euros. OAO MegaFon, Russia’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, last month raised $1.7 billion by selling
shares in London.   Latin America represents almost half of Telefonica’s
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The region’s
operating income before depreciation and amortization rose 4.8
percent to 2.69 billion euros last quarter as sales gained 3.8
percent to 7.62 billion euros. Still, revenue growth slowed from
the second quarter’s 5.8 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is relying on Latin
American growth to offset stiffer competition in Spain, where a
slumping economy is hurting demand and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s
Orange and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo are winning customers. Spain
is still Telefonica’s biggest market, followed by Brazil.  ‘Attractive Assets’  “Providing a route for investors to play the Latin
American assets makes sense, given these are Telefonica’s most
attractive assets,” said Guy Peddy, a London-based analyst at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. “Taking into account everything else the
company has done to deleverage, this process should get
Telefonica into the realm of what we could call ‘full debt,’
instead of their being under pressure.”  Even with its efforts to pare debt, Telefonica is still
Europe’s  most  indebted phone company. While most European peers
have reduced dividends this year, Telefonica went further and
scrapped its payout completely and will resume payments in the
fourth quarter of 2013.  The shares dropped 0.6 percent to 10.04 euros in Madrid,
valuing the company at 45.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  