-- Meltzer Says Easing Unhelpful as Meyer Says Fed Must Act
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-12-05T21:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/meltzer-says-easing-unhelpful-as-meyer-says-fed-must-act.html
The Federal Reserve can’t reduce
unemployment and easing further won’t be effective, Carnegie
Mellon University’s  Allan Meltzer  said today at the  Bloomberg
Hedge Funds Summit . Former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer , speaking
at the same event, said the central bank should do more.  “The Fed can’t control the  unemployment rate ,” Meltzer,
an economist and Fed historian, said in New York. An expansion
of the Fed’s excess reserves has already provided banks with an
adequate supply of money for lending, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues are weighing
whether to expand their third round of asset purchases, a move
some officials have said would help offset the end of a plan
known as Operation Twist. In that program the Fed each month
swaps $45 billion of short-term Treasuries for longer-term debt.  “We have an unemployment problem,” Meltzer said. “It’s a
real problem, not a monetary problem. There are $2.8 trillion
worth of excess reserves. But ask yourself, ‘What can the
 Federal Reserve  do by adding more reserves that banks can’t
do?’”  Meyer, senior managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers
LLC in Washington, said the central bank is obligated under its
congressional mandate to reduce the jobless rate.  “The Fed can over the timeframe of over two or three years
can have a significant effect in pushing the economy towards
full employment and at the same time focusing on the medium term
inflation outlook,” Meyer said. “They have a responsibility.
They can do it. They should do it.”  Mortgage Rates  The Fed is working to boost the economy and reduce
unemployment stuck near 8 percent this year by continuing
purchases of housing debt that have helped drive borrowing costs
to an all-time low. The average fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage
was  3.32 percent  last week, close to the prior’s week’s 3.31
percent record low, Freddie Mac data show.  “We’re optimists,” Meyer said. “And we don’t have the
economy getting back to full employment until 2017.”  Meltzer, author of a two-volume history of the Fed from
1913 to 1986, said that officials don’t have a plan for how to
withdraw their record stimulus by selling assets.  “They cannot get out front,” Meltzer said. “They talk
about selling some of these bonds and mortgages to money market
funds. Now that’s a smokescreen.”  Meyer, a former professor of economics at  Washington
University  in  St. Louis , said policy makers are prepared to
withdraw stimulus.  “Of course they have a plan. They spent a year developing
that plan, putting into practice new tools,” Meyer said. “Can
they control inflation? Yes they can. As long as they can affect
real  interest rates  they can control inflation.”  Meyer was appointed to the Fed board by President  Bill Clinton  and  served  from 1996 to 2002. He wrote about his tenure
as governor at the central bank in his 2004 book, “A Term at
the Fed: An Insider’s View.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee’s last
meeting of this year is scheduled for Dec. 11-12 in Washington.
Bernanke will hold a press conference after the gathering and
participants will release their forecasts for the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  