-- There Is No Concussion Crisis in Football
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/there-is-no-concussion-crisis-in-football.html
The biggest NFL story of the week may
not have been Jovan Belcher’s horrific murder-suicide in  Kansas
City ,  Missouri , but the release of a small study in the
scientific journal Brain. And we may yet learn that the two are
intertwined.  The  four-year study  looked, posthumously, at the brains of
85 athletes and soldiers. Fifty were former football players, 33
in the  National Football League . The study found that the
incurable degenerative disease known as CTE -- chronic traumatic
encephalopathy -- is just as likely to be caused by a routine
hit to the head as it is by a big, concussive blow.  “This is a disease of total, overall repetitive brain
trauma,” one of the researchers  said .  In other words: Football doesn’t have a concussion problem.
It has an existential one. By calling it anything else, we are
doing the brain-trauma issue a grave disservice.  This isn’t necessarily anyone’s fault. Early reporting on
football’s “concussion crisis” was a revelation -- particularly
Alan Schwarz’s 2007  New York  Times  story  linking the suicide of
former Philadelphia Eagles safety Andre Waters to brain trauma
suffered while playing football. But what exactly had caused the
trauma?  Orwellian Language  At the time nobody knew from CTE. What we did know were
concussions. They, clearly, were the smoking gun that had left
Waters’s brain tissue in tatters -- those bell-clanging hits
that the NFL had been downplaying for years with language that,
in retrospect, seemed Orwellian. (“Concussions are part of the
profession, an occupational risk,” Elliot Pellman, then the
doctor in charge of the league’s Mild Traumatic Brain Injury
Committee,  said in 1994 .) They were something the public could
understand and would pay attention to.  Thus did football enter its Concussion Era. The phrase may
sound damning for the NFL. In fact, it gave the league an out.
“If you consider this ‘a concussion problem’ it seems solvable,”
says Chris Nowinski, a co-author of the study and a co-director
of the Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy at
Boston University School of Medicine. “That’s not the truth.”  Of course, concussions are part of the problem -- but only
part. By framing football’s head-injury crisis as a concussion
crisis, we have understated its severity. Our scope of concern
should go beyond observable phenomena.  Calling football’s head-trauma crisis a concussion crisis
diminished its urgency at lower levels of the game, where
players don’t hit as hard and concussions are less common. More
to the point, it allowed the NFL to treat the crisis as a
function of improper tackling, of inadequate rules, of
insufficient education, of the behavior of an isolated group of
bad actors.  The league could ban helmet-to-helmet contact and move
kickoffs to the 35-yard line. It could overhaul its “concussion-
management” rules, requiring players experiencing amnesia or
poor balance to be removed from a game or practice until the
following day. (Just a little dizzy? You’re free to return to
the field right away.) It could run public-service announcements
about the dangers of concussions and issue  concussion-awareness
pamphlets  that begin: “What is a Concussion? It’s More Than a
‘Ding.’” It could make examples of players and coaches -- like
New Orleans Saints Coach  Sean Payton  and a handful of Saints
players -- for creating what the league said was a slush fund to
reward teammates for injuring opponents. (One thing the league
still won’t do, despite the urgings of the NFL Players
Association, is add independent neurological experts to the
sidelines of games.)  Most of all, calling the head-injury crisis a concussion
crisis made it sound as if it stemmed from how the game is
played, not from the game itself. Football is an inherently
violent sport in which unremarkable plays can eventually add up
to permanent  brain damage . That damage, in turn, can result in
dementia, depression and destructive behavior.  Helpful Language  What is the tipping point? We don’t have any idea, because
the head-injury crisis is also about a degenerative disease that
we have scarcely begun to understand. Renaming this crisis --
calling it what it really is -- won’t solve it. It can, however,
get us to think about it in a more helpful way.  I’m not going to speculate about what might have made Jovan
Belcher kill the mother of his 3-month-old daughter and then
himself. It may very well have had absolutely nothing to do with
his years of playing football. I couldn’t help but notice,
though, one of the first questions asked in the aftermath of the
incident: Did he have a history of concussions?  The answer, apparently, is no. The question itself is as
good as meaningless.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 