-- Eris Exchange to Offer Rate-Swap Future With Margin to Match CME
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-12-05T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/eris-exchange-to-offer-rate-swap-future-with-margin-to-match-cme.html
Eris Exchange LLC plans to lower
margin requirements on new interest-rate swap futures to match
similar contracts  CME Group Inc. (CME)  started offering this week.  The Chicago-based exchange will give users margin savings
of 40 percent to 80 percent as of Dec. 10 on standardized
contracts that have quarterly effective dates, the company said
in an e-mailed statement. CME Group, the world’s largest futures
market, offers rate-swap futures that require two-day margin
coverage compared with the five days it mandates for a cleared
rate swap.  The move embraces the trend of swaps being transformed into
futures contracts as Dodd-Frank Act regulations are set to kick
in that will impose higher margin and capital for swaps users
compared with futures, Neal Brady, chief executive officer of
Eris, said in the statement, referring to energy and rate swaps
that have been converted to futures.  “Faced with the increasing complexity and cost of trading
over-the-counter swaps, market participants are discovering
compelling value in the familiar regulatory framework and
capital-efficient model of futures,” Brady said.  Five Chicago trading firms, Getco LLC, DRW Trading Group,
Infinium Capital Management, Chicago Trading Co. and Nico
Trading, teamed with CME Group in 2010 to create Eris Exchange,
which guarantees its contracts with CME Group’s clearinghouse.  The Eris Exchange contracts are based on 2-, 5-, 10- and
30-year rate swaps and are cash settled upon delivery. The CME
Group rate-swap futures are converted into swaps upon delivery.
The margin for both rate-swap futures at Eris Exchange and CME
Group can be offset with opposing Eurodollar,  U.S. Treasury  or
rate-swap futures investors hold in CME Group’s clearinghouse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 