-- Eritrean Soccer Team Members Missing in Uganda After Tournament
-- B y   B e a l f a n   T .   H a y l e
-- 2012-12-05T11:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/eritrean-soccer-team-members-missing-in-uganda-after-tournament.html
At least 18 members of Eritrea’s
national soccer team have gone missing in  Uganda  after being
eliminated from a regional tournament, the Council for East and
Central Africa Football Associations said.  The players had traveled to the Ugandan capital, Kampala,
to participate in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup. Seventeen
footballers and the team physician disappeared after failing to
qualify beyond the group stages of the competition, Nicola
Musonye, secretary-general of the association, said in a phone
interview yesterday from the city.  The 25-member team went shopping in Kampala on Dec. 2 and
most failed to return to their hotel, Sylvia Nakamya, the
manager of Sky Hotel International, said in a phone interview.  Eritrea has been ruled by President Isaias Afwerki, a
former rebel leader, since it gained independence from Ethiopia
in 1993. The Horn of Africa nation has no privately owned press
and the government has arbitrarily detained thousands of people
including opposition supporters and journalists over the past
decade, according to  Amnesty International , the London-based
advocacy group.  At least four Eritreans sought asylum in the U.K. after
this year’s  Olympic Games , according to United Press
International, the Washington-based  news agency . Last year, 13
Eritrean footballers had their application for political asylum
rejected by Tanzania’s government, after they refused to return
home following a regional tournament in July.  Amnesty in August urged Sudan to halt the deportation of
asylum seekers from Eritrea because they face detention and
torture by the Eritrean authorities.  The  United Nations  has imposed sanctions on Eritrea for
supporting al-Qaeda-linked militants fighting to topple the
government of Somalia. The government denies the allegations.  Two calls each to Eritrea’s Information Ministry in the
capital, Asmara, and to the Eritrean Embassy in Kampala seeking
comment weren’t answered. The ministry didn’t immediately
respond to two e-mailed requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  