-- Tesco Poised to Exit U.S. After Starting Fresh & Easy Review
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-05T13:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/tesco-to-review-unprofitable-fresh-easy-unit-in-u-s-1-.html
     Dec. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s largest grocery
company, said it will likely leave the U.S. after announcing a
review of its Fresh & Easy unit in the country and the departure
of the unprofitable business’s head.  All options are being considered for the 199-store chain,
including a sale, closure or partnership, Chief Executive
Officer Philip Clarke said today on a conference call. Tesco has
received approaches for the business and has hired investment
bank Greenhill to assist with the review, the company said as it
also reported that U.K. sales have gone back into decline.  Analysts such as Clive Black at Shore Capital welcomed the
probable exit from the unit, in which Tesco has invested 1
billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and which hasn’t made a profit
since it was formed in 2007. Fixing the El Segundo, California-
based business has been a distraction for Clarke as he seeks to
halt sliding sales in the retailer’s domestic market.  “A difficult, but right decision is being taken,” Black
said. “We see this review as one of the most high profile and
perhaps defining moments in Philip Clarke’s position as CEO.”  Tesco  rose  as much as 4.8 percent in  London  trading, the
steepest intraday gain since May 26, 2009. The shares were up
3.1 percent at 336.6 pence as of 12:52 p.m., trimming their
decline this year to 17 percent.  Exiting the U.S. business is more likely to involve “a
cost than a profit,” said  Andrew Kasoulis , an analyst at Credit
Suisse with a neutral rating on Tesco.  Approaches  The retailer paid 40 million pounds to Aeon Co. to offload
a 50 percent stake in its Japanese business earlier this year.  “Most stakeholders were of a view that the U.S. was a drag
on profitability, so the market reacting today is being seen as
a positive for future profitability,” Kasoulis said.  Tesco said approaches were made in recent months for all
and part of Fresh & Easy, which has stores in Nevada, California
and  Arizona . The retailer has also been contacted by potential
partners interested in developing the business, it said.  The interest is likely to be local, rather than from any of
the major international retailers, said Arnaud Joly, an analyst
at CA Cheuvreux, who has an underperform recommendation.  Tim Mason, Tesco’s former marketing director who has led
Fresh & Easy since its creation, will leave today after 30 years
at the U.K. company. Mason was promoted to deputy CEO of Tesco
after Clarke’s predecessor Terry Leahy stepped down in 2010.  “We made our decision about Fresh & Easy and it felt like
the right time for Tim to leave,” Clarke said on the call.  Built From Scratch  Mason built the U.S. business from scratch after several
years researching the market during Leahy’s tenure as CEO,
targeting the West Coast with a series of neighborhood urban
stores in a market dominated by big-box supermarkets. The
grocery chain distinguishes itself with a focus on budget
priced, healthy food and a predominance of own-brand items such
as an Atlantic salmon ready-meal, which is prepared at its own
distribution center in Riverside,  California .  “It was a discount store and it had high costs and it just
proved too difficult to shift people from their traditional
buying habits in big supercentres and supermarkets into a small
store,” said Clarke, who was speaking from Los Angeles.  In April, the CEO pushed back a goal for Fresh & Easy to
reach breakeven until fiscal 2013 and vowed to slow store
openings and focus on getting each store to  profitability .  Slowing Growth  Fresh & Easy’s same-store sales rose 1.8 percent in the
third quarter, Tesco said in a statement today. That was worse
than the prior quarter’s 6.9 percent growth. U.S. growth has
slowed to a trickle, Clarke said on the call.  “It can’t continue to subsidize the U.S. business with the
U.K.,” David Gray, an analyst at Planet Retail in London, said
by phone. Tesco will most likely sell the business, he said.  An exit from the U.S. would mark a further retreat from
international markets for Tesco following its departure from
 Japan  earlier this year. The company got more than a third of
sales from outside the U.K. in its most recent financial year,
with South Korea making the biggest contribution.  Tesco isn’t the only European retailer cutting back its
geographic expanse.  Carrefour SA (CA)  has this year announced deals
to pull out of Colombia,  Indonesia , Malaysia and  Greece , while
Metro AG,  Germany ’s largest retailer, last month agreed to sell
its Real grocery stores in eastern  Europe . Royal Ahold NV of the
Netherlands announced in September that it may sell its 60
percent in ICA,  Sweden ’s largest food retailer.  U.K. Decline  Tesco also said today that sales at U.K. stores open at
least a year fell 0.6 percent, excluding gasoline and value-
added tax, in the 13 weeks ended Nov. 24. That compares with the
average  estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a 0.8
percent drop. Same-store revenue gained 0.1 percent in the prior
quarter, snapping a sequence of six straight declines.  The decline in U.K. sales is another setback for Clarke,
who is investing 1 billion pounds to upgrade the stores, add new
products and hire additional staff. Tesco, which in January cut
profit guidance for the first time in 20 years, saw its market
share slip to 30.7 percent in the 12 weeks ended Nov. 25 as
discounters Aldi and Lidl and the upscale Waitrose chain gained
ground, researcher  Kantar Worldpanel  said yesterday.  Tesco said the drop in sales was led by non-food products,
only partly reflecting weak consumer demand. Same-store sales of
food rose 1.2 percent, outperforming the market, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  