-- MetroPCS Chief Says Stock Undervalued, Sees More Mergers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-12-05T21:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/metropcs-chief-says-stock-undervalued-sees-more-mergers.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  Chief
Executive Officer Roger Linquist said the company’s stock is
undervalued as investors focus too much on its pending merger
with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit.  MetroPCS stock, which has declined 26 percent since the T-
Mobile deal was announced, is “absolutely” not trading at its
fair value, said Linquist, speaking to investors at the UBS
Global Media and Communications Conference in New York today.  The Richardson, Texas-based company had been the center of
deal discussions with at least eight players before T-Mobile’s
agreement to give shareholders $1.5 billion and hold 74 percent
of the merged business. One of the previous offers was valued at
$13.39 a share, according to the company’s proxy filing. That
offer came from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , according to people
familiar with the matter. Linquist didn’t comment on whether
Sprint was working on a counterbid, though he said sooner or
later the companies would probably come together.  “Consolidation has to happen at some point,” Linquist
said in an interview after his presentation. “We are focused on
the deal 100 percent,” said Linquist of the T-Mobile agreement.
Looking beyond that, he saw more deals in the industry.  Industry consolidation “may take five years -- it may take
longer,” Linquist said.  MetroPCS Chief Financial Officer Braxton Carter, who was
also at the UBS presentation, declined to give any financial
projections. He said the company planned to give guidance
tomorrow during Deutsche Telekom’s analyst day summit in Bonn.  MetroPCS shares rose 1.4 percent to $10.10 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  