-- EU Carbon Gains Most Since April as Italy, Spain Back Supply Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-12-05T18:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/eu-carbon-gains-most-since-april-as-italy-spain-back-supply-fix.html
European Union carbon permits rose
the most since April after Italy and  Spain  said they are in
favor of an EU plan to sell fewer permits starting in 2013.  Allowances for December gained as much as 9.3 percent to
6.25 euros ($8.18) a metric ton and closed at 6.15 euros on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  today. The European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, is due next week to ask the
bloc’s nations to indicate their positions on a proposal to
delay sales of 900 million allowances. The plan, known as
backloading, aims to help prices rebound by curbing oversupply.  “Spain is in favor of backloading,” Federico Ramos de
Armas, the country’s secretary of state at the environment
ministry, said in an interview in Doha. “We need a stronger
price signal.”  To pass, the draft measure needs 245 out of 345 votes in
the EU Climate Change Committee, whose weighted ballot system
favors larger countries. Spain has 27 votes and Italy 29.  “For keeping the price we need backloading,” Italy’s
Environment Minister Corrado Clini said today in an interview in
Doha.  Italy and Spain joined  France  and the U.K., which earlier
this year signaled support for the commission’s proposal. The
four countries have 114 votes together. Lithuania, with 7 votes,
said yesterday that while it supports backloading in principle,
it would like the commission to consult  member states  before
adopting annual carbon-permit auction calendars.  While the Climate Change Committee, composed of experts
from national governments, won’t hold a formal vote on the
commission’s proposal, its Dec. 13 gathering should bring more
clarity about member states’ position, said Eric Bickel, an
analyst at Summit Energy Services in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Formal Decision  “The meeting may set the stage for some proposal to be
agreed upon which may then be adopted,” he said.  A formal decision by EU nations on backloading can take
place as early as March, after the European Parliament rules on
an amendment to the bloc’s emissions trading law in a plenary
vote, two EU officials, who declined to be identified, citing
policy, said earlier this week.  Poland , which is leading efforts to stop the commission’s
proposal, has 27 votes and needs 64 more against or abstaining
to build a blocking minority. In  Germany , which has 29 votes,
the  Environment Ministry  and Economy Ministry are at odds over
the plan. The country’s Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said
last month that the nation may abstain in any voting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  