-- Europe Fix for Auto-Industry Woes Hit by National Aims
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-12-05T23:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/europe-fix-for-auto-industry-woes-hit-by-national-aims.html
President  Francois Hollande  is intent
on ensuring auto jobs stay in the country as unemployment
continues to climb, even if that stands in the way of efforts to
fix  Europe ’s ailing car industry.  Pursuing the so-called Made in  France  policy, Hollande’s
government is preparing 7 billion euros ($9.2 billion) in loan
guarantees for PSA Peugeot Citroen’s lending unit. The financial
backing is being extended in exchange for greater influence,
including a seat on the board, as Europe’s second-largest
carmaker considers closing a factory near Paris and cutting
8,000 jobs.  France’s activist approach to industrial policy is an
example of the national objectives that undermine steps to
prevent cash-draining overcapacity in the Europe Union. While
the mismatch between supply and demand is hobbling carmakers, no
member state wants to pay the price for helping the industry
back on its feet by facilitating factory closures at home.  “The main hurdle to a European strategy is that national
temptations start rising,” Antonio Tajani, European
Commissioner for Industry, said in a telephone interview. “But
if we want to compete at a global level, the solution can only
be European and not national.”  The tension between EU obligations and national interests -
- at the heart of the sovereign-debt crisis -- is thwarting
efforts to restructure the region’s auto industry as demand
tumbles for the fifth straight year, prompting losses at most
carmakers in Europe.  U.S. Fix  The region’s inaction contrasts with the U.S. response when
sales plunged following the credit crunch in 2008 and 2009.
Pushed by a government-appointed  task force , the predecessors of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC closed 15 domestic
factories and cut 45,000 hourly jobs. They now report healthy
profits in  North America  and are rehiring people.  In a bid to coordinate a similar approach, the EU’s Tajani
invited executives from the region’s carmakers to a meeting
today in Brussels. The effort includes consultations with union
leaders and politicians. The chances for agreeing on a Europe-
wide plan look slim.  “My priority is ‘Made in France,”’  Arnaud Montebourg , the
country’s Industry Minister, said in October. “There’s a choice
that’s more important than any other and that is to preserve
France’s industrial base.”  With Hollande’s approval rating declining every month since
his May election and jobless claims at a 14-year high, backing
off that stance is unlikely.  National Production  “There is no such thing as a European motor industry,”
said Garel Rhys, president of the Center for Automotive Industry
Research in Cardiff, Wales. “There is a common market on the
demand side, but not in terms of production, where it is still
based on nationality and national companies.”  The efforts to reach a broad consensus on restructuring of
the  auto industry  comes as the region grapples with the debt
crisis, which stems from member states flouting European budget
rules. Measures to put the auto industry on solid footing could
cost 500,000 jobs at carmakers and suppliers, according to Lars Holmqvist, the former head of the European parts supplier
association Clepa. That makes for an unpalatable prospect for
politicians seeking to stem rising unemployment.  Reflecting the difficulties of achieving a consensus, EU
leaders also failed to agree on the 27-nation bloc’s next seven-
year budget last month. The U.K. defended a decades-old rebate,
while France clung to farm aid. Eastern and southern countries
said reduced financing for public works would condemn them to
lag behind the wealthier north.  French Loans  France’s backing of Peugeot isn’t an isolated case. The
country provided the manufacturer and fellow French carmaker
 Renault SA (RNO)  with a combined 6 billion euros in loans in 2009. At
the same time,  Germany  backed GM’s Opel unit with 1.5 billion
euros and sought to find a buyer for the carmaker. Germany,
France, the U.K. and  Italy  also boosted sales during the credit
crunch with cash-for-clunkers funds.  The support has meant that only two auto factories have
closed since the crisis started in 2008. Current plans to shut
another five factories fall short of the roughly 17 needed,
according to Goldman Sachs.  In concrete terms, the European Commission, the EU’s
executive body and the enforcer of the bloc’s rules, is
proposing to roughly double funds for research and development
in the auto industry to about 2 billion euros in the 2014-2020
budget. It also plans to simplify environmental regulations and
tighten conditions on trade agreements, said Tajani. He was
guarded on the Commission’s view on France’s support of Peugeot.  German Targets  “We’ll see what the effects and the actual decision will
be,” said Tajani. “If there is a violation of the competition
rules, we’ll see.”  In addition to diffences among member states, European
carmakers aren’t all suffering.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Germany’s
luxury-car makers Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz are gearing up for record sales this year on
growth in  China .  Peugeot, Renault and  Fiat SpA (F) , which don’t export from
Europe to the same extent as their German rivals, are faced with
a local market that’s about 20 percent below the 2007 peak. To
adjust operations, Europe’s mass-market carmakers are lobbying
for an end to government intervention to help wring concessions
from unions and mothball capacity.  Ford Losses  “Individual companies need to make their own decisions as
to how best to implement measures that will ensure their future
business success,” Wolfgang Schneider, head of legal and
governmental affairs for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in Europe, said by e-
mail. “What is important is that governments allow this to
happen without the kind of national self-interest we have seen
from some in recent years.”  Ford, which has forecast $1.5 billion in losses this year
and next in Europe, has announced the furthest-reaching
restructuring measures in the region. The U.S. carmaker will
shutter two sites in the U.K. and one in  Belgium  as it sheds
5,700 jobs and 18 percent of its European capacity.  Even that may not be enough, with industrywide sales set to
fall to their lowest level since 1995 this year. About 26
percent of European auto production is surplus to the industry’s
current needs, according to research firm IHS Automotive.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who also
serves as president of the ACEA auto-industry trade group, has
called on the EU to coordinate a regional effort to balance
industry restructuring and check national aid efforts.  “Intervention by the French government to help one single
carmaker, not done for us and for others, would be against” EU
rules, he said Oct. 10 in Brussels.  Still, Marchionne’s backing of the process has its limits.
The executive, who also runs Chrysler, isn’t attending the
meeting with Tajani today because of appointments in the U.S.,
according to people familiar with his schedule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  