-- Euro-Area Manufacturing, Services Contract for 10th Month
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-12-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/euro-area-manufacturing-services-contract-for-10th-month-2-.html
Euro-area  services and manufacturing
output  shrank for a 10th month in November, suggesting the
economy may struggle to pull out of a recession as governments
toughen spending cuts to fight the sovereign-debt crisis.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries rose to 46.5 from 45.7, London-based Markit
Economics said today. That’s above an initial estimate of 45.8
published on Nov. 22. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The economy of the  17 nations  that use the euro has shrunk
for two successive quarters and economists foresee a further
drop in the final three months of the year as the debt crisis
continues to weigh on confidence. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development projected last week that the euro-
area economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year and 0.1 percent
in 2013.  “The  euro zone ’s recession looks to have deepened in the
final quarter, with GDP likely to have fallen by considerably
more than the modest 0.1 percent decline seen in the third
quarter,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in
the report. “France, Spain and  Italy  continue to see strong
contractions, while a milder downturn is evident in  Germany .”  The euro was off its session highs against the dollar after
the data, trading at $1.3103 at 10:51 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.1
percent on the day.  Record Unemployment  Euro-area retail sales  decreased more than estimated in
October, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. Sales dropped 1.2 percent from September, when they
declined 0.6 percent. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.2
percent, the median of 26 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  GDP in the euro zone decreased 0.1 percent in the third
quarter after a 0.2 percent drop in the prior three months. The
 unemployment rate  is at a record 11.7 percent and the European
Commission forecasts the economy will expand just 0.1 percent
next year.  The main leading economic indicators “are firmly in
contraction territory,”  James Knightley , an economist at ING
Bank NV, said on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg - The First
Word.” “There’s little prospect of any meaningful growth in
the euro zone until the second half of next year.”  ‘Slowest Rate’  Still, Williamson at Markit said he sees “signs that the
recession may have reached a nadir,” noting that the final
euro-area composite figure was higher than the “flash”
estimate. “Services in particular surprised to the upside,
contracting to the least extent for three months, while
manufacturing output fell at the slowest rate for seven
months,” he said.  Markit’s index of services in the euro area was at 46.7 in
November, compared with 46 in October and 46.1 in September. A
manufacturing gauge published on Dec. 3 rose to 46.2 from 45.4.
In Germany, the region’s largest economy, the services gauge
jumped to 49.7 from 48.4, exceeding a Nov. 22 initial estimate
of 48.  China ’s services industries expanded at a slower pace in
November, damping hopes for a faster rebound in the economy
after a seven-quarter slowdown. The purchasing managers’ index
fell to 52.1 from 53.5 in October, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
said. That contrasts with a government-backed gauge of services
that rose to the highest level in three months in November.  In the U.S., growth in  services industries  probably slowed
last month, economists said before a report later today. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index, which
covers almost 90 percent of the economy, was at 53.5, down from
54.2 in October, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  