-- Ex-UBS Banker Sues Olenicoff for Malicious Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-05T21:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ex-ubs-banker-sues-olenicoff-for-malicious-lawsuit.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker who became a
whistleblower sued  Igor Olenicoff  over the California
billionaire’s failed lawsuit blaming the banker for his guilty
plea to filing a false tax return.  Bradley Birkenfeld, the former UBS banker who won a record
whistleblower award for telling the Internal Revenue Service how
the bank helped thousands of Americans evade taxes, seeks more
than $1 million in damages for malicious prosecution from
Olenicoff, according to a complaint filed last month in
California state court in Santa Ana. UBS filed a similar
complaint against Olenicoff in August.  Olenicoff, who built his fortune as the chief executive
officer of Newport Beach, California-based Olen Properties
Corp., pleaded guilty in 2007 to filing a false tax return. He
admitted that he failed to disclose about $200 million in
offshore accounts to the IRS.  After his plea, Olenicoff sued UBS and Birkenfeld in
federal court in Santa Ana,  California , claiming the Zurich-
based bank committed fraud by not telling him he owed taxes.
U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford dismissed that case on April
10. The judge said Olenicoff swore in his guilty plea that “he
was not an innocent dupe” and he could have pleaded not guilty
if UBS misled him.  Rich Americans  Birkenfeld told authorities how UBS bankers came to the
U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of their assets
and helped them cheat the IRS. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy
in 2008, a year after reporting the bank’s conduct to the
Justice Department, U.S. Senate, IRS and Securities and Exchange
Commission. He left prison on Aug. 1. He secured a whistleblower
award of $104 million, the largest individual federal payout in
U.S. history, in September.  Tom Newmeyer, a lawyer who represented Olenicoff in the
lawsuit against UBS and Birkenfeld, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office for comment on Birkenfeld’s complaint.  The case is Birkenfeld v. Olenicoff, 30-2012 00613161,
Orange County, California Superior Court (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 