-- Texas Oils Rise on Speculation Borger Refinery Resumed Output
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-12-05T21:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/texas-oils-rise-on-speculation-borger-refinery-resumed-output.html
Texas  oils rose as  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
refinery in Borger, Texas, began processing crude in units that
were shut down in September for maintenance.  The 146,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  is operating one of three
crude units and a fluid catalytic cracker, a person familiar
with the operations said.  West Texas Intermediate crude delivered in Midland, Texas,
rose $3.50 to an $11.50-a-barrel discount to the same grade
delivered in Cushing,  Oklahoma , as of 2:09 p.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. West Texas Sour,
another crude grade produced in West Texas, rose $4.25 to a
discount of $13.25 a barrel.  The Borger refinery processes mostly medium-sour crude from
West Texas, the Texas Panhandle,  Wyoming  and  Canada . Borger has
been down for maintenance since Sept. 22, and the company said
on Nov. 20 that the outage would be extended due to difficulty
making repairs. The news drove the Texas oil grades down to a
record $20 discount that day.  The Borger outage has contributed to a growing glut of
supply in West Texas. Pipelines taking oil out of the region are
running at capacity.  Texas oil  production  increased 33 percent to an average of
2.1 million barrels a day in September from a year earlier,
Energy Department data show. New drilling techniques have
unlocked oil in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s
output to the highest level since 1988.  Volatile Trading  Trading in the Texas spot crude market has been the most
volatile in more than three years. The 60-day  historical
volatility  in Midland crude has more than doubled from its
average level in October, reaching 58 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WTI crude delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
cost between the two delivery points. This year, the oil has
traded at an average discount of $3.27 because of pipeline
constraints.  Several projects are under way to relieve the bottleneck.
 Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  plans to reverse the flow of the
Longhorn pipeline to move crude from western Texas to Houston
early next year.  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  plans to complete
expansions in the Permian totaling 110,000 barrels a day in the
first quarter, Chief Executive Michael Hennigan said during the
company’s earnings call Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  