-- MF Global Trustee Says 28,000 Customer Claims Completed
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-12-05T16:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mf-global-trustee-says-28-000-customer-claims-completed.html
The trustee liquidating the failed  MF
Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  brokerage said only 200 of more than 28,000
commodities and securities customer claims filed haven’t been
completed in the past six months.  “However, the size and timing of future distributions on
customer claims remains dependent on the resolution of the major
contingencies facing the trustee,” particularly disputes over
claims with the brokerage’s U.K. affiliate and parent company,
trustee James W. Giddens said yesterday in a report filed in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Giddens has paid U.S. and foreign customers almost
$4.9 billion since the firm failed about 13 months ago, and has
$1.2 billion in hand, out of $1.4 billion in remaining assets,
according to data through Oct. 31 included in the report. Most
of the money in hand must be kept in reserves because of the
fights with affiliates and customers, Giddens said.  Commodity customers shouldn’t expect to get paid in full,
unless Giddens wins the key legal battles, he said. A U.K. trial
over his $911 million in client claims against the London-based
unit is set for April.  Giddens, who also is liquidating the Lehman Brothers Inc.
brokerage, lost a bid to claim $463 million in collateral from
MF Global’s U.K. unit. The lawyer expects to sue insurers to try
to recover $141 million in wheat futures losses by a trader in
2008, unless they agree to pay, he said.  Complex Issues  He also has joined a lawsuit against executives including
former New Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine , who headed the parent
company, and continues to negotiate to recover more money from
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Giddens said.  “The trustee does not wish to understate the difficulties
and complexities of some of the issues involved,” Giddens said.  The allowed 26,610 commodities customer claims have a total
value of about $6.7 billion, according to the report. U.S.
customers with allowed claims have about 80 percent of their
assets, while those with foreign futures accounts have received
only 5 percent, the trustee said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the parent company, filed the
eighth-largest bankruptcy in October 2011 after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing
listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  Parent’s Trustee  A trustee for the parent company has been unwinding that
company under Chapter 11 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  in an
effort to repay creditors.  Giddens is separately liquidating the brokerage to repay
customers under the Securities Investor Protection Act. Each
trustee has conducted his own probe into how the company failed
and they have sometimes been at odds over whether certain sums
belong to creditors or customers.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  