-- Facebook’s Instagram Limits Twitter Photo Integration
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-05T19:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/facebook-s-instagram-limits-twitter-photo-integration.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  photo-sharing service
Instagram is making it harder for users to display pictures on
microblogging site Twitter Inc. amid increased rivalry between
the social-networking websites.  Twitter users are experiencing “issues with viewing
Instagram photos,” the San Francisco-based company said in a
 blog  post. Instagram, a mobile-photo sharing service that
Facebook  bought  in August for $715 million in cash and stock,
has disabled a feature called  Twitter cards  for showcasing
photos and other media. Photos from Instagram now appear
cropped, Twitter said.  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social network, is
stepping up efforts to more directly challenge Twitter, a
service that has become the main outlet for many celebrities and
politicians to share their thoughts with millions around the
world. Instagram, which has more than 100 million users, wants
users to go back to its own Web service for viewing photos,
Kevin Systrom, co-founder of Instagram, said in a statement
provided by  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook .  “A handful of months ago, we supported Twitter cards
because we had a minimal Web presence,” Systrom said. “We’ve
since launched several improvements to our website that allow
users to directly engage with Instagram content through likes,
comments, hashtags, and now we believe the best experience is
for us to link back to where the content lives.”  Driving Traffic  The policy change better prepares Instagram for generating
revenue from its service by driving traffic to its own
properties where it might show advertisements, said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc. Facebook and Twitter are
fighting for the attention of users, who have only so much time
to devote to one service or another, he said.  “There is no doubt that the two services are going to
begin to clash,” he said. “This is an interesting move and it
will again affect users, who I think in many cases count on
Twitter to share their Instagram pictures.”  With Twitter’s card feature, outside developers are able to
display the content that is linked to their services. That can
include text, photos or a media player with video or audio.
Users on Twitter can click on a tweet and expand it to see a
picture without leaving their feeds.  The decision comes after Twitter earlier this year disabled
a feature that let Instagram users look through Twitter accounts
to find possible friends for the photo-sharing service.  At the LeWeb technology conference in Paris today, Systrom
apologized for the confusion around the decision on Twitter
cards. He said the move wasn’t a consequence of the acquisition
by Facebook, and was his decision.  Instagram users will still be able to post messages to
Twitter from the mobile-sharing service, Systrom said in the
statement.  “We will continue to evaluate how to improve the
experience with Twitter and Instagram photos,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  