-- Facebook Will Replace Infosys in Nasdaq-100 Next Week
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-05T14:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/facebook-will-replace-infosys-in-nasdaq-100-next-week.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will join the
 Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX)  next week after the exchange operator shortened
its waiting period for inclusion in the gauge, potentially
making the stock more attractive to fund managers.  The operator of the social network with more than 1 billion
users will replace  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  before the start of trading on
Dec. 12,  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. said, about seven months after
the company’s $16 billion IPO. The waiting period for entry into
the index was a negotiating point with Facebook as it considered
listing on Nasdaq or the New York Stock Exchange, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in April.  The addition to the index may attract  buyers  to Facebook
amid a 55 percent rebound from its low three months ago as funds
that track the Nasdaq-100 buy the shares. The stock had plunged
as much as 53 percent after selling for $38 a share in May. The
shares recovered after Facebook’s third-quarter sales rose 32
percent to $1.26 billion, topping analysts’ estimates, amid a
push to boost revenue from advertising on mobile devices.  “Adding Facebook to the index should create some
additional demand for shares,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst
at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco . “But more important
in our view is the progress Facebook is making since the summer
on mobile and with the ad exchange.”  Facebook shares added 1 percent to $27.74 at 9:31 a.m. in
New York.  Gaining entry to gauges tracked by investors is attractive
to public companies because it provides a guaranteed shareholder
base. Exchange-traded funds and other products linked to the
Nasdaq-100 managed about $49.4 billion at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Nasdaq.  Waiting Period  A person with direct knowledge of the matter said April 5
that Facebook decided to list on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Eight
days later, the exchange operator shortened to three months the
time a company must be listed on a “recognized market” before
becoming eligible for the Nasdaq-100. It used to be at least two
years, or one if a stock would be among the top 25 stocks in the
index by market value.  The rule change was implemented on April 23, the day
Facebook disclosed in a regulatory filing that it picked Nasdaq
over the NYSE.  Facebook’s addition to the Nasdaq-100 was anticipated by
investors and the benefits to the share price may be limited,
said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLC,
in a phone interview. His firm has about $2 billion tied to
indexes that track IPOs and has held Facebook shares since
September.  ‘Systematic Buying’  “It will be supported till Dec. 12 by systematic buying,
then after it may give away the short-term gains,” he said.
“Facebook has traded  pretty strongly  over the last five or six
weeks and will continue to outperform the Nasdaq-100. The fact
its inclusion is coming up will reinforce its outperformance
versus the Nasdaq-100.”  Nasdaq lists eight of the 10 biggest U.S. technology
companies by market value, including Apple Inc., Microsoft
Corp., Google Inc. and  Intel Corp . The NYSE is the home venue
for International Business Machines Corp., ranked fourth, and
Visa Inc., the eighth biggest.  Facebook has a market capitalization of about $30 billion
according to Nasdaq’s calculations, based on 1.1 billion Class A
shares outstanding.  Listing Switch  Infosys, a Bangalore, India-based consulting firm, became
ineligible to remain in the Nasdaq-100 after it decided to move
the listing for its American Depositary Shares to NYSE. The
company said in a Nov. 30 statement that switching to  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s Big Board would help it reach European investors. The
company will begin trading on the NYSE on Dec. 12.  Wayne Lee, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to comment
on the change beyond the announcement. Ashley Zandy, a
spokeswoman for Facebook, also declined to comment.  Facebook will also join the Nasdaq-100 Equal Weighted Index
and the Nasdaq-100 Technology Sector Index before the start of
trading on Dec. 12, Nasdaq said.  Nasdaq flubbed Facebook’s IPO on May 18 when its auction to
set the first traded price for the shares failed. The exchange’s
systems were overwhelmed by order updates and cancellations
before the stock began trading, causing the market operator to
make technology changes that prevented confirmations of orders
and trades from being disseminated for hours, leading to
confusion among investors, brokers and market makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  