-- Finnish Economy Joins Euro Area in Recession on Investments
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-12-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/finnish-economy-joins-euro-area-in-recession-on-investments-1-.html
Finland’s economy unexpectedly joined
the euro area in a recession in the third quarter as the
region’s debt crisis weighed on business confidence and sapped
investments.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.1 percent from the
prior quarter, when it shrank 1.1 percent,  Statistics Finland  in
Helsinki said on its  website  today. That missed the estimates of
three economist surveyed by Bloomberg for growth of 0.2 percent
to 0.4 percent. On an annual basis, GDP fell 1.2 percent.  “I’m afraid the final quarter is going to be even
weaker,” said Pasi Kuoppamaeki, Helsinki-based chief economist
at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  “It’s possible the trough will be in the
first quarter.”  Finland’s economy is stalling as businesses cut investments
amid concern over falling demand as the 17-nation euro area
struggles to contain a debt crisis now in its fourth year.
Investments fell 1.1 percent from the previous quarter, with
construction spending dropping 1.4 percent, and machinery and
equipment investments contracting 2.5 percent.  ‘Very Challenging’  The slump in the northernmost euro economy comes as the
government raises taxes and reins in spending to keep debt
growth in check. The austerity is exacerbating a slump as
companies such as Nokia Oyj, stainless steel-maker Rautaruukki
Oyj and paper-machine manufacturer Metso Oyj have responded to
declining demand with job cuts.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters today that the
economic situation is “very challenging,” even as the
government will stick to its austerity policies to keep
borrowing costs from rising.  “Creating new growth is more challenging than usual,” he
said today. “We can’t take risks at the expense of our public
finances, as we must defend our credibility.”  The government has agreed on 2.3 billion euros of austerity
measures next year, which will swell to 5.9 billion euros by
2016. The deficit will shrink to 1.2 percent of GDP in 2013 from
1.7 percent in 2012, the government said on Sept. 17.  The economy of the euro area  shrank  0.1 percent in the
third quarter after contracting 0.2 percent in the second,
according to preliminary data. It had stagnated in the first
three months of the year as growth eludes the single currency
bloc. Growth is also slowing in  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s
biggest.  Finnish exports grew 2.4 percent and  consumer spending 
expanded 0.8 percent from the prior three months. The increase
in exports is probably due to companies delivering old orders,
Kuoppamaeki said.  “I’m surprised exports showed an increase,” he said.
“Most statistical observations don’t support this. New orders
are weak and exports are in a downward trend. Companies are
probably working on older orders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  