-- Fitch Says Colombia Risk May Improve Without FARC Peace Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-12-05T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/fitch-says-colombia-risk-may-improve-without-farc-peace-deal.html
Colombia’s narrowing fiscal and
current account deficits may improve the country’s credit risk
even if it fails to reach a peace deal with Marxist rebels,
 Fitch Ratings  said.  “Even without a lasting peace agreement, the credit
fundamentals are improving,”  Erich Arispe , Director of
Sovereign Ratings at Fitch said. “We see good prospects for
continued fiscal consolidation, sustainable growth, low
inflation, and improvement in the external accounts.”  A lasting agreement between the government and guerrillas
of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, won’t
lead to any immediate benefit for Colombia’s credit risk, since
the gains to the economy could take years to materialize, Arispe
said yesterday in a telephone interview from  New York . Colombia
last year earned its first investment-grade ratings since 1999.  The yield on Colombia’s dollar bonds maturing in 2021 fell
to 2.315 percent yesterday, down from 3.44 percent at the start
of the year. Fitch rates Colombia BBB- with a stable outlook.  “The fundamentals of Colombia wouldn’t change in the short
term,” Arispe said. “Looking at credit, specifically, we will
have to wait and see how this plays out, in a very positive
context, regardless, for Colombia.”  Colombian government negotiators are meeting with FARC
rebels in  Havana  to try to reach a deal to end half a century of
civil conflict. Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said Nov.
2 that the peace talks will end no later than November next
year. The guerrillas have been fighting since 1964 for a Cuban-
style revolution in Colombia.  A deal with the FARC would boost confidence, increase
investment and improve the fiscal accounts by allowing the
government to reduce spending on security, Arispe said. At the
same time, some guerrilla fighters might refuse to disarm, and
form new criminal bands, while the rehabilitation of former
rebels would be an additional cost for the government, he added.  Attacks on oil pipelines almost tripled to 142 in the first
ten months of the year, from 52 in the same period in 2011,
according to Defense Ministry statistics.  Colombia ’s budget deficit narrowed to 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year, from 3.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  