-- Five Wal-Mart Vendors Made Clothes at Burned Bangladesh Factory
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-12-05T21:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/five-wal-mart-vendors-made-clothes-at-burned-bangladesh-factory.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which has
acknowledged one of its suppliers used the  Bangladesh  factory
where more than 100 people died in a Nov. 24 blaze, worked with
at least five suppliers there this year, documents found in the
ruins by a labor-rights group show.  Wal-Mart said the Tazreen Design Ltd. factory near Dhaka,
Bangladesh’s capital, was no longer authorized to produce
merchandise for the company and that it had cut ties with one
supplier that kept using the facility. It’s not clear if any
other suppliers continued to use the factory, which Wal-Mart had
de-authorized before the blaze, the company said.  Purchase orders, shipment statements, inventory reports and
other documents show that two New York-based suppliers for Wal-
Mart and a third in  California  had sourced merchandise from
Tazreen. Two companies in Bangladesh also manufactured apparel
there for Wal-Mart, the records show. As recently as September,
five of 14 production lines at the factory were making shirts
and pajamas for Wal-Mart, an income report shows.  Kevin Gardner , a Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to discuss
supplier relationships and to comment on whether additional
suppliers to the company had used the factory.  There was a “period in 2012 where the factory was
active,” though it was “de-authorized months before the
fire,” Gardner said in a telephone interview today.  The Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity photographed
the documents. The group passed them on to the Worker Rights
Consortium, a labor-rights monitoring group based in  Washington ,
which provided the documents to  Bloomberg News . Suppliers cited
in the documents include Topson Downs, of  Culver City ,
California. That supplier subcontracted work to Bismillah
Sourcing, a Bangladesh firm.  Faded Glory  Shorts branded Faded Glory, Wal-Mart’s private label, were
sourced by Success Apparel of  New York  from the Tazreen factory,
according to production reports dated in August. Success
subcontracted to Simco Group, a handwritten note on the reports
shows.  Various documents show Tazreen manufactured Khaki & Co.
shorts for Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club brand through a company called
IDG. The reports include IDG’s “production order” forms from
October 2011; a “fabrics inventory report” from February 2012,
which lists Tazreen, IDG and the shorts’ style number all on one
page; a “shipment status” report listing four IDG shipments of
those shorts between February and March of 2012.  In a telephone interview today, Haynes Holding, the
president of IDG, or International Direct Group, said his
company had not used the Tazreen factory.  Told that documents show a direct connection between IDG
and Tazreen, he said: “Maybe they took a bid. We have agents
who handle aspects of the business.”  ‘They’re There’  IDG workers “don’t sit in every factory all the time,”
Holding said. “We’re in New York. They’re there.”  An employee of Topson Downs said yesterday a worker who
deals directly with Wal-Mart would handle questions. She didn’t
return that message or another seeking comment today. Moin U
Ishaque, the New York contact for Bismillah Sourcing of
Bangladesh, acknowledged and didn’t respond to a request for
comment. Success Apparel and Simco couldn’t be reached.  The documents include an e-mail correspondence between a
Wal-Mart buyer in Bentonville,  Arkansas , and IDG highlighting
the pressure the world’s largest retailer puts on its suppliers.  In a January e-mail, Wal-Mart assistant buyer Shelley
Latham asks IDG for an early delivery of 266 pairs of its “Roll
Tab Short” for a new Sam’s Club opening. IDG complied. The
shorts, sold under the “Khaki & Co.” brand in such colors as
“moon light” and “ebony black,” retail for $9.81.  A variety of purchase orders, shipment statements,
inventory reports and other documents show that tens of
thousands of pairs of Roll Tab shorts had been produced for IDG
at Tazreen since at least the first quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  