-- Forest Protection Work Slowed by Rift Between Brazil, Norway
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-12-05T16:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/forest-protection-work-slowed-by-rift-between-brazil-norway.html
Efforts to produce a global set of
rules for protecting forests are being held up by a dispute
between Brazil and  Norway  over who should be responsible for
verifying the amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by trees.  Brazil’s envoy to the UN global warming talks in Doha said
actions to prevent deforestation are national measures that
should be governed locally and not by international bodies.
Norway is seeking stricter oversight for the program from an
international organization.  The disagreement threatens to disrupt efforts to create
rules on how to prevent deforestation and forest degradation,
known as REDD. The forest talks underway at the United Nations
conference are scheduled to finish today. At stake is whether
independent experts should measure and verify the emissions
prevented by safeguarding forests in exchange for finance.  “No developing country will have international
verification of its actions, especially if they are national
policies,” Luiz Alberto Figueiredo,  Brazil ’s under-secretary
for environment, said in Doha. “We’ll have a system to check
the accuracy of our data, done domestically.”  Greenhouse-gas discharges caused by deforestation represent
about 20 percent of the world’s total emissions, according to
the disclosures by the UN’s  REDD  program. Nations have been
discussing since 2008 how to incorporate REDD into global action
on  climate change . Under the program, developing nations protect
and manage their forest cover in exchange for funding to support
their efforts from developed states.  Donor countries including Norway are keen to have a greater
degree of international verification to ensure the emission
reductions generated are real and permanent.  Credible Figures  “We are willing to pay as long as we can be sure that we
are paying for actual emission reductions,” said Henrik Harboe,
Norway’s chief negotiator. “Donor countries need credible
figures as a basis for asking their parliaments for money for
this.”  Norway today signed a $30 million financing agreement to
support a second phase of REDD activities in  Vietnam , according
to a statement from the UN-REDD program.  “We don’t think international verification is necessary at
this stage,” Andre Correa do Lago, Brazil’s ambassador for the
global environment, said at an interview today. “Maybe we will
have a special line of finance for forests and maybe we can
explore that later.”  The disagreement over verification is overshadowing work on
identifying additional benefits from REDD activities and
ensuring they are reflected in negotiating text, according to
Stephen Leonard, the president of the Climate Justice Program
who has followed the UN talks since 2009.  Norway “wants a higher degree of verification than Brazil
is prepared to give,” Leonard said in an interview today.
“This causes huge delay while we’re losing forests at an
alarming rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Doha at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  