-- Four Charged With Exporting Carbon Fiber to Iran, China
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-06T01:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/four-charged-with-exporting-carbon-fiber-to-iran-china.html
Three men were charged by the U.S.
with illegally exporting carbon fiber used in  uranium enrichment 
and missile production to  Iran  and  China , while a fourth man
tried to send helicopter parts to Iran.  One of those arrested is an Iranian citizen while another
holds dual citizenship in the U.S. and Iran. A third arrestee is
a Turkish national. The fourth is American, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of New York, said in a statement today.  He called the laws they allegedly violated “critical” to
national security.  “Carbon fiber in the wrong hands poses a serious threat to
that security, and two of these defendants are charged with
arranging its export to Iran, where it most assuredly had the
potential to end up in the wrong hands,” Bharara said.  The American, Peter Gromacki, 48, of Orange County,  New
York , was arrested today. Accused of using his business to ship
more than 6,000 pounds of carbon fiber to China via  Belgium  in
June 2007 and of lying on a customs declaration, he faces
federal charges of violating the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act, conspiring to breach that law and of making
false statements.  Not Guilty  Gromacki was arraigned today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
George A. Yanthis in  White Plains , New York. He entered a plea
of not guilty and was released on a $400,000 personal
recognizance bond secured by his home, said Jericka Richardson,
a spokeswoman for Bharara.  He faces a maximum sentence of 30 years imprisonment if
found guilty on all charges.  Gromacki’s lawyer, Andrew Rubin of White Plains, did not
immediately reply to an after-hours voicemail message seeking
comment.  The dual citizen, Hamid Reza Hashemi, 52, of Iran, is
accused of working with co-defendant Murat Taskiran of  Turkey ,
to have carbon fiber sent to his company in Tehran in 2008.
Hashemi faces two counts of violating the IEEPA and one count of
conspiring to do so, and as long as 60 years in prison if
convicted.  Hashemi, who was arrested on Dec. 1 at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  in New York, entered a plea of not guilty
at an arraignment yesterday in White Plains before Yanthis,
according to Bharara’s office.  He is being held without bail, Richardson said. Taskiran,
who faces one IEEPA charge, one conspiracy charge and a possible
40-year sentence, is not in U.S. custody, according to
prosecutors.  Conspiracy Count  Also charged with one substantive count of violating the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act and one count of
conspiracy to do so, is Iranian Amir Abbas Tamimi, age 40.  Accused of trying to export helicopter parts from the U.S.
to Iran through  South Korea  last year, Tamimi was arrested at
JFK airport as he tried to enter the country in October and
arraigned then before U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken in
 Manhattan .  Facing a potential 40 year sentence if convicted, he too
entered a plea of not guilty and is being held without bail,
Richardson said.  Tamimi’s attorney, Judith Vargas of New York, didn’t
immediately reply to an after-hours voice-mail message seeking
comment on the charges. Hashemi’s lawyer, Paul Rinaldo of Forest
Hills, New York, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  “The law prohibits the exportation of goods to Iran and
certain goods to China,” George Venizelos, assistant director
of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said in a press
statement. “Whether motivated by greed or otherwise, these
defendants allegedly violated the law.”  The cases are U.S. v. Gromacki, 12cr302, and U.S. v.
Hashemi, 12cr804, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (White Plains) and U.S. v. Tamimi, 12cr615, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  