-- Freeport Deals Questioned by BlackRock’s Hambro Over No Vote
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-05T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/freeport-deals-questioned-by-blackrock-s-hambro-over-no-vote-1-.html
Evy Hambro, manager of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s $12 billion World Mining Fund, questioned Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s rationale for buying two oil and
gas companies and said investors should get to vote on the
deals.  Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer, said
today it agreed to acquire  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) 
and  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  for about $9 billion to diversify
into energy by adding  oil fields  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The amount of Freeport stock used as payment isn’t
sufficient to require a vote by shareholders, Chief Executive
Officer Richard Adkerson said on a conference call hosted by the
Phoenix-based company. A vote would be “fair,” Hambro said on
 the call. BlackRock held at least 3.1 percent of
Freeport on Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Congratulations on making one of the worst
teleconferences I’ve ever heard to justify a deal,” Hambro
said. “I haven’t heard anything on this call that in any way
justifies why these companies should be put together.”  Freeport  slumped  16 percent to $32.16 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Dec. 3, 2008.  “I hope you’re not going to be jumping to conclusions too
quick and look at the history of why we’ve been successful in
the past,” Freeport Chairman Jim Bob Moffett said on the call
in response to Hambro’s comments.  The Plains and McMoRan deals mark Freeport’s return to
energy after 18 years. McMoRan was spun off from Freeport-
McMoRan Inc. in 1994.  Investors have the freedom to diversify their own
portfolios “and don’t need management teams to do it for
them,” Hambro said. It’s “incredibly disappointing that as a
management team you’ve chosen to break the trust with investors
from the business that we chose to invest in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  