-- Freeport to Buy Plains, McMoRan for $9 Billion
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-12-05T21:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/freeport-to-buy-plains-mcmoran-for-9-billion.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, is paying
$9 billion in cash and stock for two U.S. oil and natural gas
companies that will expand it into a global natural resources
giant.  Investors questioned the company’s decision to get back
into the oil and gas business 18 years after its operations were
split between metals mining and fuel production. Freeport, based
in Phoenix, fell the most in more than four years after
announcing the plan to buy  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) 
and  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)   “Clearly the synergies between putting a mining company
and an oil exploration and production company together remain to
be seen,” said Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who has a hold rating on Freeport.  The deal would give Freeport access to oil and gas deposits
onshore and in the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico . Houston-based Plains
spent $6.1 billion for Gulf assets owned by  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in September. McMoRan, a company that was spun
off from Freeport-McMoRan Inc. in 1994, declined 34 percent over
two days last week after reporting continuing problems with its
Davy Jones well in the Gulf.  Freeport dropped 16 percent to $32.16 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since December 2008. Plains surged 23
percent to $44.50 and McMoRan jumped 87 percent to $15.82, the
biggest gains for both companies since they began trading
publicly.  ‘Worst’ Teleconference  “Congratulations on making one of the worst
teleconferences I’ve ever heard to justify a deal,”   Evy Hambro , manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $12 billion World Mining
Fund, told Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson on
the company’s conference call today. “I haven’t heard anything
on this call that in any way justifies why these companies
should be put together.”  Shareholders should get to vote on the deals, said Hambro.
BlackRock held 3.1 percent of Freeport as of Sept. 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount of Freeport stock used as payment isn’t
sufficient to require a vote by shareholders, Adkerson said.  Freeport will pay about $50 a share in cash and stock for
Plains, representing a takeover premium of about 39 percent
based on the company’s closing share prices yesterday, according
to a statement today. Holders of McMoRan will get $14.75 in cash
and 1.15 units of a royalty trust for each share.  ‘Huge Reward’  The structure of the transaction means McMoRan shareholders
won’t get the “big, huge reward” they’ve been waiting for as
the New Orleans-based company develops ultra-deep wells in the
shallow waters of the Gulf, said Joan Lappin, New York-based
chief investment officer for Gramercy Capital Management.
Instead, they will receive cash and participation in a trust
that may be capped in value.  “I have been a true believer that this play is enormous
and I am sure -- I have no doubt -- that it will accrue great
benefit,” Lappin said in a phone interview. “But it isn’t
going to go to me, it’s going to go to the shareholders of
Freeport.”  McMoRan is seeking to pioneer ultra-deep production with
Davy Jones, a well off the coast of  Louisiana  that descends
29,000 feet (8,800 meters). Complications have repeatedly
delayed the project since late 2011. The company said on Nov. 26
it has been unable to unclog the well to allow for a flow test
to determine viability.  Gas Production  McMoRan holders should be “thrilled” by the Freeport
offer, said  Leo Mariani , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Austin,  Texas  who doesn’t own Plains or McMoRan shares. “At the
end of the day, they’ve yet to produce any gas from the ultra-
deep shelf or prove that they can.”  Plains, which was spun off from Plains Resources Inc. in
2002, has assets in the Gulf of  Mexico , California, Texas and
Louisiana. Annual production has increased 58 percent from 2007
to 2011.  The company’s share price performance has lagged
competitors. During the past five years, Plains fell 28 percent,
compared with an 17 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s Energy
index. The company’s Gulf purchases from BP and Shell have it
poised to grow again, Curtis Trimble, an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in Houston, said in a telephone interview.  Ebitda Boost  The combined company may generate earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of about $12 billion and
operating cash flows of $9 billion in 2013, Freeport said.
Freeport’s reported Ebitda for the past 12 months was $6.88
billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Freeport operates mines in  Indonesia ,  Africa  and the
Americas. CEO Adkerson said in April that the company plans to
increase annual copper output by more than 25 percent in the
next three years through expansions in  Peru , the U.S. and the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo. Freeport posted third-quarter net
income of $824 million on $4.42 billion in sales.  Freeport and McMoRan have maintained ties since splitting
in the 1990s. The companies  share six   board members , including
McMoRan CEO Jim Bob Moffett, who serves as Freeport’s chairman.
B.M. Rankin, co-founder of McMoRan with Moffett, serves as vice
chairman of both boards.  Plains CEO James Flores is on the board of McMoRan because
his company owns a 31.5 percent stake. He stands to gain more
than $150 million from the deal, including payment in restricted
shares, according to a Plains regulatory filing from April.  Management Structure  Under the new structure, Moffett will continue as chairman
and Rankin will remain vice chairman. Adkerson will stay as CEO
and also be appointed vice chairman. Flores will be vice
chairman and head the company’s oil and gas operations.  Freeport received $9.5 billion of financing commitments
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to fund the cash portion of the two
deals and to repay debt owed by Plains.  Credit Suisse Group AG was financial adviser to the special
committee of Freeport’s board, providing fairness opinions on
both the deals. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal
adviser. Evercore Partners Inc. provided financial advice to the
special committee of the McMoRan board, while Weil, Gotshal &
Manges LLP served as legal counsel. Barclays Plc acted as
financial adviser to Plains and Latham & Watkins LLP was its
legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  