-- FTC Settlement Stops Consumer Data Collection by Advertiser
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-05T17:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ftc-settlement-stops-consumer-data-collection-by-advertiser.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
ordered online advertising company Epic Marketplace Inc. to stop
using “history sniffing” technology that allowed it to collect
data on the Internet browsing habits of millions of consumers.  In a settlement announced today, the agency also ordered
Epic Marketplace to destroy all the information it gathered
unlawfully from consumers.  “Consumers searching the Internet shouldn’t have to worry
about whether someone is going to go sniffing through the
sensitive, personal details of their browsing history without
their knowledge,” said FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  in a
statement. “This type of unscrupulous behavior undermines
consumers’ confidence, and we won’t tolerate it.”  Epic Marketplace put so-called cookies on the Internet
browsers of consumers who visited its sites that allowed the
company to track them outside its own network, including which
sites they visited and which advertisements they viewed, the FTC
said. In its privacy policy, Epic Marketplace claimed it would
only collect information about consumers’ visits to sites within
its own network, the FTC added.  “The history sniffing was deceptive and allowed Epic to
determine whether a consumer had visited any of more than 54,000
domains, including pages relating to fertility issues,
impotence, menopause, incontinence, disability insurance, credit
repair, debt relief, and personal bankruptcy,” the FTC said.  Epic Marketplace labeled consumers with interest categories
such as “Incontinence,” “Arthritis,” “Memory Improvement,”
and “Pregnancy-Fertility Getting Pregnant” and then sent
consumers targeted advertisements based on the category, the FTC
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  