-- GDF Suez Says Profit Will Fall Next Year as Europe Economy Slows
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-05T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gdf-suez-cuts-earnings-forecasts-on-european-economic-slowdown.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s largest utility
by market value, said earnings will fall next year because of a
“challenging” economic outlook.  Recurring net income will be 3.1 billion euros ($4 billion)
to 3.5 billion euros next year, compared with an expected 3.7
billion to 4.2 billion in 2012, France’s former gas monopoly
said in a statement yesterday. Profit will be “in the same
range” in 2014. The company said it would cut investment, while
maintaining dividend payments.  GDF Suez, which published the financial targets before an
investor day in Paris tomorrow, said the worsening outlook was
because of a “demand crisis” in Europe, the economic slowdown
and the boom in U.S. gas production.  GDF Suez plans to cut its share of profit coming from
Europe as the regional debt crisis slows demand. The utility is
seeking to double sales of liquefied natural gas to  emerging
markets  by 2020 in a push into faster-growing economies. Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet has said changing European
regulations will discourage investment.  The financial targets for 2013 are based on estimated
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of between 13 billion and 14 billion euros, the Paris-based
company said. This compares with an outlook for Ebitda of 17
billion euros this year.  Expects Rebound  The utility, which had debt of 45.9 billion euros at the
end of September, didn’t repeat a forecast from earlier this
year for recurring net income to reach 5 billion euros in 2015.
Yesterday’s statement only said they expect a “rebound.”  The gas distributor plans to reduce debt by one third to
around 30 billion euros by the end of 2014 and will cut spending
by about 20 percent to 7 billion to 8 billion euros a year in
2013 and 2014, according to the statement.  That’s lower than the outlook given this year for spending
at the “lower end” of a 9 billion- to 11 billion-euro range in
2013. The utility has targeted investment of 10 billion to 11
billion euros this year.  The lower debt will come partly from an end to an investor
pact regarding  Suez Environnement (SEV) , which will allow GDF Suez,
which owns 34 percent, to change the way it consolidates the
water utility.  This year was marked by higher taxes in  Belgium  and an
inability to “offset the rise in supply costs” in France, GDF
Suez said yesterday. Mestrallet has said European regulations
that don’t favor investment have hastened the company’s shift
toward faster-growing markets.  Growth Shift  GDF Suez agreed in April to buy the 30 percent of
International Power Plc it doesn’t own for 8.4 billion euros to
expand in  Asia  and  Latin America . After the deal, GDF Suez sees
capacity of 132,000 megawatts as  power plants  are built in
 Brazil ,  Indonesia  and  Thailand .  In France, the utility has about 86 percent of the
household gas market. The government allowed GDF Suez to raise
regulated gas prices by 2 percent on Oct. 1. The government is
scheduled to announce new rates Dec. 10 after the country’s
highest court struck down the price cap.  The dispute is the latest in a conflict over pricing
between GDF Suez and the government, which holds a 35 percent
stake in the utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  