-- GDF Suez to End Suez Environnement Investor Pact After 4 Years
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-05T19:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gdf-suez-to-end-suez-environnement-investor-pact-after-4-years.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  said it won’t reduce its
stake in  Suez Environnement SA (SEV)  even though an investor pact
ensuring control of the water company won’t be renewed.  The shareholders agreement, due to expire in July, will
lapse, representing “a major change for Suez Environnement,”
GDF Suez said today in a statement before an investor conference
tomorrow.  “The group reaffirms its willingness to remain both a
long-term strategic partner and the reference shareholder,” it
said. “GDF Suez has no intention to reduce its stake.”  GDF Suez’s 34 percent stake in Suez Environnement, whose
largest competitor in  Europe  is Veolia Environnement SA, stems
from a 2008 merger between nuclear utility Suez SA and state-
controlled Gaz de France SA to create GDF Suez. During Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet’s battle to push through
that deal, he fought to keep a controlling stake in Suez
Environnement backed by a five-year shareholder accord.  Under the pact, a group of investors controlling about 12
percent of Suez Environnement have first refusal on holdings
offered for sale. The group includes Areva SA, Caisse des Depots
et Consignations, Belgian billionaire  Albert Frere ’s Groupe
Bruxelles Lambert SA, Group CNP Assurances and Sofina.  The lapsing of the pact will mean GDF Suez can switch its
accounting treatment of GDF Suez from a full consolidation of
Suez Environnement to an equity consolidation, the company said.
GDF Suez announced separately a target to lower debt by one
third in two years.  Suez Environnement’s governance will be changed including a
cut to the number of GDF Suez directors, the water utility said
in a separate statement. Gerard Mestrallet will remain chairman
and some employees of the water utility may be added to the
board, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  