-- Geithner Says No Fiscal Deal Without Higher Tax Rates
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-05T22:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/geithner-says-no-fiscal-deal-without-higher-tax-rates.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the Obama administration “absolutely” is willing
to go over the fiscal cliff if Republicans don’t agree to raise
tax rates on the highest-income earners.  “There’s no prospect to an agreement that doesn’t involve
those rates going up on the top 2 percent of the wealthiest,”
Geithner said in an interview on CNBC today.  Congress and the Obama administration, with Geithner as its
lead negotiator, are trying to avert more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to start in January.  “The size of the problem, in some sense, is so large it
can’t be solved without rates going up,” he said. “There’s
very broad recognition of that reality now.”  Geithner also told CNBC that there has been “a little bit
of progress,” though “we’re still some distance apart.” The
talks include “a bit of inevitable orchestrated drama.”  U.S. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, said
Geithner’s comment that the administration is willing to go over
the fiscal cliff “is one of the most stunning and irresponsible
statements I’ve heard in some time. Going over the fiscal cliff
will put our economy, jobs, people’s paychecks and retirement at
risk, but that is what the White House wants, according to
Secretary Geithner, if they don’t get their way.”  A few dozen Republican lawmakers have joined a bipartisan
call to break the impasse between President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  over taxes on the highest-earning
Americans.  The Republicans signed a letter calling for exploration of
“all options” on taxes and entitlement programs, a signal that
some rank-and-file members are ready to bargain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  