-- Global Banking Under Siege as Nations Tighten Local Rules
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-12-05T16:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/global-banking-under-siege-as-nations-tighten-local-rules.html
Global banking, a model promoted for
more than 30 years by financial conglomerates cobbled together
through cross-border mergers, is colliding with the post-crisis
reality of stricter national regulation.  Daniel K. Tarullo, the Federal Reserve governor responsible
for bank supervision,  announced  plans last week to impose the
same capital and liquidity requirements on the U.S. operations
of foreign lenders as on domestic companies. The U.K. and
Switzerland also have proposed banking and capital rules
designed to protect their national interests.  Regulators want to curtail risks exposed after global banks
such as New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Edinburgh-based  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  took bailouts
in the biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Forcing lenders to dedicate capital and liquidity to multiple
local subsidiaries, rather than a single parent, may undermine
the business logic of a multinational structure.  “Being big and spread out all over the world isn’t what it
used to be,” said Mayra Rodriguez Valladares, managing
principal at New York-based MRV Associates, which trains bank
examiners and executives at financial firms. “You’ll see global
banks jettison divisions abroad and at home.”  Reversing Expansion  UBS, Citigroup and RBS are among banks already doing just
that, reversing decades of global expansion. UBS said in October
that it plans to cut about 10,000 jobs and retreat from most
fixed-income trading after Switzerland set capital rules for its
biggest lenders that are almost double international minimums
agreed to by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Citigroup and  Bank of America Corp. , the two U.S. lenders
that received the most aid during the financial crisis, have
been selling foreign operations and retreating from businesses.  Citigroup, whose former Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  used to extol the virtues of the bank’s “globality,”
said today it plans to cut more than 11,000 jobs and sell or
significantly scale back consumer operations in Pakistan,
Paraguay, Romania, Turkey and Uruguay. It will also cut branches
in Brazil,  Hong Kong , Hungary and Korea, as well as the U.S.  RBS, majority owned by the British government since being
bailed out in 2008, said it will close or sell its cash-
equities, mergers-advisory and equity-capital-markets divisions.  Overruled Locally  The Fed’s plan is part of a trend by national regulators
since the crisis to ensure they can protect local depositors and
creditors of global financial institutions in the event of a
failure. Even organizations such as the  International Monetary
Fund  and the Basel committee, which have sought to foster global
finance, have had to adapt their approaches or have been
overruled by national and regional interests.  “Globalization of financial markets took us decades to
build, it doesn’t look like it’s going to take us decades to
reverse the trend, does it?”  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Institute of International Finance, which represents more
than 450 financial institutions, said at a meeting with
journalists in New York the day after Tarullo’s speech.  Switzerland, whose banking system is five times the size of
the nation’s economy, proposed in 2010 to give priority to the
domestic units of its two largest lenders if they fail,
indicating that overseas businesses might be left on their own.
In the U.K., where banks’ assets are also five times gross
domestic product, regulators have said they plan to require
lenders based in Britain to insulate domestic consumer-banking
businesses from investment-banking and foreign operations.  ‘Backstop’ Banks  “The likelihood that some home-country governments of
significant international firms will backstop their banks’
foreign operations in a crisis appears to have diminished,”
Tarullo said on Nov. 28 at  Yale University  in New Haven,
Connecticut. “It also appears that constraints have been placed
on the ability of the home offices of some large international
banks to provide support to their foreign operations.”  Banks with large trading operations in the U.S., such as
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
probably would be subject to the Fed’s proposed requirements.
Tarullo’s plan follows moves by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
and London-based Barclays to discard their status as U.S. bank
holding companies, thereby evading local capital rules.  The role that foreign banks play in the U.S. has changed in
recent years. Through the 1990s, most borrowed from their parent
companies to lend in the U.S. and had excess cash reserves to
meet local requirements. The trend reversed early last decade,
when foreign firms started borrowing in the U.S. to lend
overseas. Their trading in the U.S. surged to 50 percent of
assets in 2011 from 13 percent in 1995, Tarullo said.  ‘Very Costly’  Meeting multiple local requirements could mean global banks
will have to maintain more capital than currently dictated by
their home countries or international capital minimums
established by Basel, according to Kim Olson, a principal at
 Deloitte & Touche LLP  in New York and a former bank supervisor.  “This new standard is going to be very costly for foreign
banks,” Olson said. “Some will have to raise additional
capital just to comply with U.S. rules. Moving it around from
the parent company won’t be enough because they’ll discover they
need more than what Basel requires overall.”  Jean-Yves Fillion, the New York-based CEO of  BNP Paribas 
SA (BNP) ’s North American corporate and investment bank, said “trends 
toward Balkanization” make it harder to be a global firm.  U.K. Regulations  “Is the cost of doing business in three or four continents
going to go higher?” said Fillion, whose Paris-based bank is
the largest in France. “Absolutely.”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority published a
 consultation paper  in September that proposes requiring foreign
bank branches in the U.K. be organized as subsidiaries under
British regulation if the home country has rules giving local
depositors priority when a lender becomes insolvent. The move,
known as subsidiarization, was a response to banking regulations
in the U.S. and other nations providing such preferences.  “For a lot of these banks, business outside of the U.S. is
conducted from a booking center, which is their London branch,”
said  Azad Ali , a financial-regulation attorney at Shearman &
Sterling LLP in London. “These London branches are not subject
to full-scale U.K. regulatory supervision, it’s shared between
the U.K. and the U.S., so I think the way things are developing
it is leaning toward subsidiarization.”  Capital Controls  Lenders also have to contend with efforts by countries from
Brazil to the Philippines that have sought to manage capital
inflows inflating their currencies and threatening to create
asset bubbles. Brazil, blaming the U.S. for sparking a global
“currency war” by keeping  interest rates  near zero, last year
imposed a 6 percent tax on firms that borrowed overseas in an
attempt to reduce capital inflows that were causing a jump in
the real. Brazil started rolling back the curbs in June.  Organizations such as the IMF have fostered the global
banking system by encouraging the elimination of exchange-rate
restrictions that hindered trade. This week, the organization
reversed its historic support for unrestricted flows of money
across borders, saying it would favor the use of capital
controls in certain circumstances.  The failure or near-failure of banks in nations such as the
U.S., U.K. and Switzerland, as well as smaller countries such as
Iceland and Ireland, taught regulators that companies once seen
as a source of national pride can lead to hand-wringing over how
to protect taxpayers.  ‘Die Locally’  “For the foreseeable future, then, our regulatory system
must recognize that while internationally active banks live
globally, they may well die locally,” Tarullo said.  When Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008,
European creditors alleged that $8 billion of cash had been
transferred to the firm’s New York headquarters days before the
bankruptcy. When Iceland’s banks failed that same year, the
government agreed to pay local customers while leaving British
and Dutch depositors trying to recoup more than $5 billion.  “When the system blows up, every country ring-fences the
assets and liabilities in their jurisdiction anyway,” said
 Sheila Bair , a former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. who helped stabilize the U.S. financial system. “The
Fed’s move is in a way doing that ring-fencing structurally.”  Bank managements probably will fight the moves. Ernest Patrikis, a former Fed official who’s now a partner at White &
Case LLP in New York, said he remembers doing just that when he
served as general counsel of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
before the crisis. Two years after Patrikis left in 2006, AIG,
once the world’s biggest insurer, was bailed out by the Fed.  Empirical Evidence  “When I worked for AIG, we fought countries trying to
force subsidiary structure on us,” Patrikis said. “Capital
gets stuck in each country when you do that. You can’t move it
around easily. Liquidity is even harsher. If the local unit has
to abide by liquidity rules, it can only take a limited portion
of the funds it raises in the U.S. outside.”  Shearman & Sterling’s Ali said that such structures
probably will be favored by regulators, who are warier of the
risks posed by branches not under local oversight.  “It depends upon how strongly the banks can demonstrate
that if subsidiarization was forced upon them that their
business model would be decimated and they would not be able to
conduct the same amount of business and there would be an
adverse consequence upon the markets or the economy and the
provision of credit to the economy,” he said. “That’s an
argument that needs to be backed up by empirical evidence.”  Research  has shown that stricter  capital requirements  can
help banks by giving creditors and customers more confidence in
their stability, Ali said.  ‘National Silos’  Ali’s own firm published a Nov. 29 warning that the Fed’s
plan could lead to “significantly increased costs of doing U.S.
business and threatening the attractiveness of the  U.S. dollar 
as a reserve currency.” Lawyers at  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP in
New York wrote in a Dec. 2 memo that it could lead to “higher
unemployment, lower output and more political instability.”  The British Empire and the gold standard supported an
earlier version of global finance that ended with World War II,
said Margaret Tahyar, a partner at Davis Polk who specializes in
advising on international transactions and regulation.  “We don’t want to go back to national silos like post-
World War II,” Tahyar said. “But there was, in recent years,
over-enthusiasm for global finance without having thought
through the institutional structures. So faith in that has been
shaken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  