-- GM’s Pickup Pileup Threatens 2013 Launches or Profits
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gm-s-pickup-pileup-threatens-2013-launches-or-profits.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , with more than
double a typical supply of trucks, is facing the prospect of
cutting production or increasing discounts, threatening to
squeeze 2013 profits.  Clearing away that inventory is critical. At stake is the
rollout of new versions of the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC
Sierras, scheduled for release next year, and which are key to
the company’s success in 2013. GM’s big pickups, which made up
23 percent of the automaker’s U.S. sales last year, are among
their most profitable models.  “If they continue to have these high inventories and then
bring out the new product, that’s going to hurt the launch” of
the new trucks, said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry
researcher Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “It
is more important to them that the new vehicles launch well.”  Most automakers try to have about 60 days’ worth of sales
on dealers’ lots. Last month, supplies swelled to 139 days from
110 a month earlier as the Detroit-based automaker was caught
off guard by competitors clearing out 2012 model-year pickups.  Adjusting production would be “first and foremost” in
dealing with high inventory levels, Kurt McNeil, GM vice
president of sales operations, told analysts and reporters on a
conference call Dec. 3. U.S. sales of the Chevrolet Silverado
decreased 10 percent to 30,674 last month compared with a year
earlier while GMC Sierra deliveries slipped 2 percent to 11,726.  Production Estimates  Brian Johnson , an industry analyst with Barclays Plc,
projected in October that GM would have to pare back first-
quarter truck production by 35,000. He said in an interview
yesterday that such a decision could cost almost $1 billion in
revenue.  After November’s results, Baum sees deeper cuts. GM will
probably reduce pickup production by almost half in the first
quarter of next year, to 106,000 down from 210,000 a year
earlier, before the new trucks start coming off assembly lines
in the second quarter, said Baum.  IHS Automotive, which has estimated GM will build 210,000
pickups in the first quarter, will probably lower that forecast,
said Tracy Handler, an analyst based in Northville, Michigan.  “I expect them to cut back a little bit,” she said.
“They really want to protect themselves from having no trucks
if anything were to go wrong with” the start of production of
the redesigned pickups in the second quarter.  Long Build-Up  GM didn’t just wake up Nov. 30 with too many trucks. Some
of the inventory build-up was, in fact, part of GM’s strategy to
manage supply as it switched tooling in its factories to prepare
for the new pickups. The automaker announced about a year ago
that it had scheduled 21 weeks without production at three full-
sized truck plants in 2012 to update the factories.  The company’s goal was to sell down its inventory to
200,000 to 220,000 by Dec. 31, giving it an 80 to 85 days’
supply on a selling-day adjusted basis.  “They’ve been talking about getting the pickup truck
inventory down to like 85 days for six months but then we’re at
the moment of truth and they’re blaming the competition,” Adam Jonas, an auto analyst for Morgan Stanley, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  At the end of November, GM’s pickup inventory rose 4.4
percent to 245,853 compared to a month earlier. That’s the
highest month-end figure since Aug. 31 and more than 25,000
trucks in excess of the year-end goal.  Inventory ‘Jeopardy’  “We’re going to be in the high end of” the projected
range and “might go a little above that, but not significantly
above that” 220,000 level, McNeil said. GM’s total inventory
goal of 660,000 to 670,000, which was increased from 650,000
vehicles a month ago, is in “jeopardy,” McNeil said.  Analysts, including  Kevin Tynan  at Bloomberg Industries,
said GM will also probably turn to incentives to help sell more
trucks.  “You’re basically giving back any operating profit on
those vehicles until you get rid of them” and start selling the
new model, he said.  GM decreased incentive spending on pickups in November
compared with a year ago, researcher Autodata Corp. said.
Average incentive spending on the Silverado decreased to $3,988
per unit last month compared to $4,459 a year earlier while
Sierra incentive spending slipped to $4,226 from $4,801 a year
ago, Autodata said.  That put GM’s incentive spending behind Chrysler’s $4,748
for the Ram pickup. GM’s spending was more than  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
$3,294 per unit.  GM’s Dec. 3 call with analysts was dominated by questions
about the decision not to compete with incentives.  Alan Batey, GM vice president for U.S. sales, said that
while they were caught off guard by levels of incentive spending,
especially by Chrysler, the priority was to maintain pricing.  ‘Remain Disciplined’  “It really was a test about whether we really were going
to remain disciplined,” Batey said. “We definitely gave up
sales and we gave up some share in the month. But what really
encourages us is the fact that we still have the best sales
since 2007 and that we go into December now in a very, very
strong position.”  Ram pickup sales rose 23 percent to 24,337 in November
while Ford’s F-Series deliveries increased 18 percent to 56,229,
the companies said in statements.  “If you were shopping based on price in November, GM
trucks looked much more expensive than the competition,”  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst at TrueCar.com, a website that
tracks car sales and discounts. “Part of it is seasonality, and
part of it is the fact that the competition is certainly not
being shy when it comes to spending money on trucks. That will
force them to bring their incentive levels up to that of the
competition.”  This month will be better, GM’s McNeil said.  “December should be an all-new ball game,” he said.
“It’s traditionally one of the strongest sales months of the
year for Silverado and Sierra. Consumers are feeling good,
housing is rebounding, and we remain confident that there’ll be
a resolution in  Washington .”  -- With assistance from Craig Trudell and  Keith Naughton  in
Southfield, Michigan. Editors: Jamie Butters, Rick Schine,  Bill
Koenig .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  