-- GMexico Plans to Double Offshore Oil Rig Leasing to Pemex
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-12-05T22:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gmexico-plans-to-double-offshore-oil-rig-leasing-to-pemex.html
Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB) , the country’s
biggest resources company by market value, expects to double the
amount of shallow-water rigs it leases to  Petroleos Mexicanos  as
the state-owned oil producer boosts output.  Grupo  Mexico  is seeking to buy two more rigs known as jack-
ups, Chief Financial Officer Daniel Muniz said yesterday by
telephone from Mexico City. The company bought two rigs earlier
this year for $355 million and two modular platforms for about
$200 million, according to company filings.  Pemex, as the largest operator of shallow-water rigs is
known, plans to lease about 12 jack-ups next year after delaying
the production increases at some fields amid a shortage of the
equipment. The crude producer is seeking to end a seven-year
streak of annual output declines after last month boosting by 2
percent its average production to 2.579 million barrels a day.  Grupo Mexico ’s size and flexibility allows it to respond to
Pemex’s demands for rigs better than some competing contractors,
Muniz said.  “It offers an extra value to Pemex that the company
leasing you the equipment is not a small contractor with limited
financing options,” he said. “When we ordered the jack-ups, we
had to make a $400 million decision before we get any financing.
Not everyone is able to do that.”  Bond Sale  Muniz sidestepped a question about whether the company is
interested in seeking projects where the contractor manages and
operates fields in exchange for cash payments based on volume.  Pemex’s shallow-water exploration efforts have been
diminished “amid a lack of equipment in the past two years,”
Jose Antonio Escalera, deputy director for technical exploration
at Pemex, said Sept. 11. “We can’t get our hands on all the
jack-ups we want,” he said at the time.  Credit Suisse estimates the new equipment to begin
contributing in 2014.  Grupo Mexico gets close to $30 million of annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a measure
of profit known as Ebitda for each jack-up,  Vanessa Quiroga , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Mexico City, wrote in a
note today. The new purchases are “a clear sign that the
company’s infrastructure branch wants to participate more
actively with Pemex,” she wrote.  Grupo Mexico rose 3.8 percent, the most since July 27, to
close at 44.72 pesos.  Grupo Mexico sold last week $575 million of debt due in
2032. The project bonds, issued through unit Mexico Generadora
de Energia, rose to 101.84 cents per dollar from 101.53, pushing
down the yield to to 5.35 percent from 5.37 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  