-- Gormley Challenges Michelangelo With Walk-In Sculpture
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gormley-challenges-michelangelo-with-walk-in-sculpture.html
In one respect at least the
contemporary sculptor Antony Gormley has outdone Michelangelo.  The latter, with tongue in cheek, once discussed installing
a colossal statue in the center of Florence with a barber’s shop
under its buttocks and a chimney inside one arm.  Gormley, however, has actually created a walk-in sculpture,
large enough -- if not sufficiently comfy -- for several family
homes.  It is the main exhibit in a show of new work by Gormley at
 White Cube  in London’s Bermondsey (until Feb 10). And even
Michelangelo would have been impressed by its vital statistics.  Made from 100 tonnes (110 tons) of weathered steel,
“Model” (2012) fills the largest gallery in the very spacious
new White Cube building.  It’s 106 feet (32 meters) long, 44.6 feet wide and 16 feet
high, and -- although you may not realize it at first glance --
it’s not really an “it,” it’s a “he.”  Like many of the other, smaller, Gormley works on display,
“Model” is based on the human body. It is an anatomy
“pixelated” -- the artist’s preferred word -- into a sequence
of rectangular box-like shapes.  The White Cube galleries are scattered with Gormley men
metamorphosed into angular structures resembling cubist petrol-
pumps, juke boxes and dock-side derricks.  Walk-in Artwork  Gormley has been playing around with this idea for decades,
and it goes back far into cultural history. Michelangelo himself
believed that the geometrical forms of architecture were derived
from a person’s arms, legs, head and torso.  With “Model,” Gormley has gone further than he has
before. This is not just a piece of art that looks a bit like a
building. It’s a sculpture to step into.  You enter, in fact, through one foot. Once inside, you
discover a series of rooms, dark passages, some with very low
ceilings and one -- not obligatory -- though which it is
necessary to crawl on hands and knees. Not surprisingly, but a
little unusually, visitors are asked to sign a form detailing
the dangers of engaging with “Model.”  In an ideal health-and-safety free world, the artist has
remarked, he would like people to clamber on top of it as well
as wander through its 24 internal spaces.  Personally, I must admit, that while prepared to shuffle
along a corridor as dark as an ancient coalmine and creep under
the lowest of thresholds, I’m not sure I’d want to risk a 16
foot drop onto the beautifully polished concrete floors of White
Cube (even if the gallery’s lawyers would allow it).  Cereal Packets  Going inside “Model” certainly is an experience. How does
it rate as art? The first impression of the piece isn’t
beguiling. It looks as you’d expect a set of windowless steel
boxes to look: grim. Because of its sheer scale, it takes some
time to comprehend that it’s body-shaped at all. A collapsed
stack of cereal packets made of metal sheet might look similar.  “Model” becomes more interesting as you explore his
interior.  That, perhaps, is its point. Bodies have insides, and most
sculptures do not (or at least, don’t have interiors you can
explore).  Gormley has spent his whole career playing around with the
possibilities of the human body -- usually starting from his
own. He has made a metallic angel with airplane wings, cast-iron
sentinels on the sky line, a giant of interwoven girders on a
Dutch shore.  Even for Gormley, “Model” is a first. While it’s not
beautiful, it is fun. It raises a question: what to do with a
work this vast after the exhibition? Perhaps, following
Michelangelo’s idea, someone could put some shops inside and add
a chimney.  Antony Gormley “Model” is at White Cube, 44-152
Bermondsey Street,  London  SE1, until Feb. 10, 2013. Prices of
the works start from 17,500 pounds ($28,200).  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Hephzibah Anderson on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 