-- Gross Recommends TIPS as U.S. Yields Lag Behind Inflation
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-05T09:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/gross-recommends-tips-as-u-s-yields-lag-behind-inflation.html
Bill Gross  recommended Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities as U.S. five-year yields lagged
behind the inflation rate by the most in six months.  Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said investors should avoid longer-
term Treasuries because policies to spur growth will boost costs
in the economy. Five-year notes  yielded  0.62 percent, versus 2.2
percent inflation, based on consumer prices. The so-called  real
yield  was negative 1.58 percent, the least since May.  “Current bond yields are not enough,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of fixed income in  Tokyo  at Fukoku Mutual Life
Insurance Co., which has about $70 billion in assets. “In the
short term, bonds are a safe haven. In the long term, inflation
is an invisible cost that not every investor can tolerate.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.61
percent at 9.28 a.m. London time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
November 2022 was 100 5/32. Suzuki said he’s waiting for 10-year
rates to rise past 2 percent before buying.  TIPS have returned 8.3 percent in 2012, versus 2.7 percent
for conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. U.S. corporate bonds handed investors 10
percent, the data show. Japanese bonds gained 2.1 percent.  Treasuries rose yesterday, pushing the yield down two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point. President  Barack Obama  said a
Republican offer on averting the so-called fiscal cliff of
pending tax increases and spending cuts doesn’t go far enough,
supporting demand for the relative safety of debt.  Spur Expansion  Economic growth may be less than 2 percent in the U.S. and
other developed nations, Gross wrote yesterday in his monthly
investment outlook on the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s  website . Efforts to spur the expansion may send 10- to
30-year yields higher over the next several years, he wrote.  Gross increased holdings of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in Pimco’s $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 24 percent of
assets last month from 20 percent in September, according to a
report on the money manager’s  website . The category includes
TIPS. Mortgages remained the fund’s largest holding at 47
percent. Pimco is a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Reports today will show growth in U.S. services industries
slowed, the pace of hiring ebbed and factory orders failed to
grow, according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  Following today’s private report on jobs by ADP Research
Institute, Labor Department data on Dec. 7 will show payrolls
rose by 87,000 workers last month, the smallest gain since June,
another survey showed.  Fed Purchases  To support the  U.S. economy  by capping borrowing costs, the
 Federal Reserve  is buying $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month.
It is also swapping about $45 billion of short-term Treasuries
from its holdings for longer-term debt each month under a
program scheduled to end by Dec. 31. The central bank plans to
buy as much as $5.25 billion of securities maturing from
February 2021 to November 2022 today according to the Fed Bank
of  New York ’s  website .  Policy makers will probably announce new Treasury purchases
for next year of $45 billion per month, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co., one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the central bank.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said on Dec.
3 that replacing the swap with outright purchases of the same
amount would represent a policy easing that could risk higher
inflation.  Strong Case  Eric Rosengren , president of the Fed Bank of  Boston , said
the same day he sees a “strong case” for the central bank to
buy bonds at the current monthly pace of $85 billion after the
exchange program expires to encourage economic growth. Bullard
and Rosengren both vote on monetary policy next year.  U.S. consumer price gains have averaged 2.5 percent over
the past decade, after rising to as high as 14.8 percent in
1980. The Fed’s preferred  measure  of inflation expectations was
2.69 percent as of Nov. 30, based on the most recent data
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year, five-year forward break-
even rate has averaged 2.75 percent over the past decade.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager
overseeing $3.67 trillion, is also warning against yields that
fail to keep up with prices in the economy.  “You’re already losing money even without having to have a
forecast about rising interest rates,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , the
New York-based chief investment strategist for fixed income at
BlackRock, said Nov. 29 on the “Bloomberg Surveillance” radio
program with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  in New York. “There
are other ways to have that safety. There are not-so-risky
corporate bonds that offer higher yields, not tremendously
higher, but at least the yield is above the level of
inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  