-- Grover Norquist’s Dirty Little Secret
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-12-05T21:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/grover-norquist-s-dirty-little-secret.html
Grover Norquist  looks and sounds like
the leader of the  Republican Party .  Norquist, the president of Americans for  Tax Reform , will
go anywhere and eat anything for the opportunity to yammer
against taxes. If you are serving breakfast, lunch or dinner --
or just coffee, tea or soda -- and have a TV studio, radio show
or website, he will come to you. Can offer only a glass of water
and a Twitter account? He may still come. (He had soda today
at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.)  Norquist’s influence stems in part from his accessibility.
But the key to his power is that it has never really been
challenged. We may soon find out what happens when it is.  Over the past 20 years or so, almost all Republican members
of Congress have signed Norquist’s  Taxpayer Protection Pledge .
They have essentially promised -- crossed their hearts and hoped
to die -- never, ever, ever to vote to raise taxes.  Republicans hardly need Norquist to discipline them; most
would rather eat glass than raise taxes. But Norquist has melded
that sentiment into a juggernaut as the keeper of a simple
pledge, kept in a fireproof vault in his office, that has been
 signed by  279 members of the current Congress, all but three of
them Republicans. They defy it at their peril.  The promise, Norquist insists disingenuously, isn’t to him.
It’s to the American people. Cross him -- strike that, cross the
American people -- and you will face a primary challenge from
the right. That challenge now has a name. It is “Tea Party II,”
Norquist said, and  he predicts  its ability to defeat those who
go squishy on taxes and spending will dwarf that of “Tea Party
I.”  Making Love  No Republican, Norquist claims, has voted for increased
taxes in 22 years -- so he hasn’t had to make good on his threat
to defeat them. Norquist prefers to make love, not war.
Apostates are few and far between, and he speaks of them as lost
sheep who have been temporarily led astray by the media. He has
sympathy, he said over coffee, for someone trying to look
“reasonable and thoughtful” whose remarks are taken out of
context.  His sympathy persists even as a members of his flock wander
off.  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , recognizing that
President  Barack Obama  isn’t going to be rolled as easily in his
second term as he was in his first, said he’ll consider raising
revenues. Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  agreed. Representative
 Peter King  of  New York  said the pledge is past its sell-by date.  Heretics, all of them. Norquist isn’t used to being talked
back to, but like the parent of a teenager whose control is
waning, he knows to show some leniency, if only to save face. He
calls breaches little “burps” or “ impure thoughts .” They didn’t
really mean it, he said, because their pre-conditions for new
revenue -- for example, substantial entitlement reform -- won’t
be met.  Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , for example, got a
later curfew and keys to the family car even though he said, “I
care more about my country than I do about a 20-year-old
pledge.” He and Norquist had a quiet phone call during which
Norquist was reassured that the senator didn’t mean to “imply
they had major differences,” and he should have been more clear
and not “invoked my name,” Norquist said.  Norquist doesn’t admit it, but some members of Congress get
TV-studio indulgences, allowing them to play above-the-fray
statesmen, praising the sentiment behind the pledge (and maybe
even Norquist himself) while lamenting their inability to honor
the specifics of it. Everyone wins: Both the author of the
pledge and the men breaking it get more famous.  Dangerous Weapons  The strength of the pledge lies in not letting it be
tested. Like a nuclear weapon, it is most frightening when not
deployed. What would the pledge be worth if Chambliss or Graham,
both up for election in 2014, broke it and went on to win?  Norquist has been through all this before. During the debt-
ceiling debate last spring, some Republicans blinked as Norquist
stared them down. “We ended up with $2.5 trillion in spending
cuts and not a cent in increased taxes,”  he said .  Norquist has already articulated a flexible standard for
those who want to play with wolves but stay in the fold. As long
as Republicans  don’t have  their “fingerprints on the murder
weapon” -- that is, as long as they aren’t the architects of any
plan for new taxes -- he will judge them to have kept their
pledge. They would then be free to “run against the Obama tax
hike” without Norquistian interference in 2014.  That argues for a New Year’s Eve scenario whereby the Bush
tax cuts expire and are then restored -- fully for the middle
class and partially for the wealthy -- moments after the
champagne corks are popped. Republicans can say they delivered a
 tax cut  to everyone, including the top 2 percent, and Obama and
the Democrats can say they cut taxes for the middle class and
raised them on the wealthy.  In other words, everyone gets what he needs. Especially
Grover Norquist.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 