-- Miami Lowers Borrowing Costs as Latin-America Hub: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/miami-lowers-borrowing-costs-as-latin-america-hub-muni-credit.html
Miami, the Latin-American base for
companies such as  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , is set to lower its
borrowing costs after posting a  budget surplus  five times
greater than expected amid a real-estate revival.  Florida ’s second-biggest city, where median condominium
prices leaped almost 25 percent in October, is selling $50
million of tax-exempt bonds as soon as this week under the cloud
of a U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission investigation. The
agency is looking into possible fraud related to the disclosure
of financial information dating to fiscal 2007 and 2008.  Yet debt from a similar sale last year has gained as much
as 20 percent in value, and the city’s finance chief predicts a
lower  interest rate  than on that issue. Miami is benefiting in
part from a three-month rally in the $3.7 trillion local-debt
market. Investors are also drawn by a growing economy. The
area’s jobless rate is at a four-year low, while Miami’s airport
is the primary  Latin America  gateway for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines .  “You can’t deny the fact that it’s a thriving hub of
Latin-American business,” said Howard Cure, director of muni
research in  New York  at Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $3.8 billion. “And the real-estate market’s
picked up because of that and the foreign money that’s come
in.”  Best Performance  Miami, with a population of 409,000, is tapping investors
amid the best performance for munis in six years. City and state
debt is set to earn more than Treasuries for the second straight
year, the longest stretch since 2006, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Investors looking for safety in local
obligations have pushed yields to the lowest since 1965,
according to a Bond Buyer  index .  “We know the market is hungry,” Janice Larned, Miami’s
assistant city manager and chief financial officer, said in an
interview.  She anticipates Miami will pay a true interest cost of no
more than 4.25 percent on the planned offer, with the debt
maturing through 2030. By comparison, the city in July 2011 sold
revenue bonds due in 18 years to yield 5.64 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. This week’s deal is limited to
qualified buyers because of the SEC investigation.  Tunnel Funds  Bond proceeds will help finance a tunnel project that will
increase access to the Port of Miami through the city’s
downtown, Larned said. Miami had the most departing passengers
of any U.S. cruise port in 2010 and 2011, with 1.97 million last
year, according to the  U.S. Maritime Administration .  The debt will be repaid with non-property-tax collections,
as well as some revenue from development districts that stand to
benefit from the project, Larned said.  The city had a budget surplus of $45 million for the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30, according to unaudited numbers. That’s $37
million more than what officials anticipated, Larned said.  “We’ve gone through a thorough due-diligence process,”
Larned said. “We finished up the year with a very optimistic
number that we’re confident it’s going to hold.”  Since 2009, the SEC has been investigating Miami for
potential fraud regarding fiscal statements and bond
disclosures.  July Letter  SEC enforcement staff in July sent the city a letter
stating that it will recommend that the agency file civil fraud
charges against Miami based on transactions that occurred in
fiscal years 2007 and 2008, according to bond documents.  Larned said she and other city officials plan to meet with
the SEC’s director of enforcement as soon as this week.  “Our position is that we did nothing wrong,” Larned said.  Moody’s Investors Service last month assigned this week’s
sale an A3 rating, six steps below the top, with a negative
outlook in part because of the SEC investigation. Fitch Ratings
grades the debt one step lower, at BBB+.  Fitch said fiscal 2012 would mark the second straight year
the city has been able to bolster its reserves. Officials are
analyzing whether to enhance this week’s borrowing with bond
insurance, Larned said.  Investors can find extra yield on Miami bonds because of
the investigation and turnover in city management, said  Paul Brennan  of Nuveen Asset Management in  Chicago . The firm oversees
about $85 billion of munis.  Volatility Appetite  “You have to be willing to accept some volatility in the
ratings and potentially in the performance of the bonds until
these issues get resolved,” Brennan said.  Fitch in its report cited the city’s position as an
international trade center and tourist destination as bolstering
its economy.  The Miami-Fort Lauderdale area’s October jobless rate was
8.2 percent, down from 11.9 percent in 2010, U.S. Census data
show. The 2010 level was the highest in at least eight years.  At the same time, the median sales price for condominiums
in Miami-Dade County, which encompasses the city, jumped about
24 percent in October from a year earlier, according to a report
from the Miami Association of Realtors and the local Multiple
Listing Service system.  Miami hosts the Latin American headquarters for companies
including Visa Inc. and motorcycle manufacturer Harley-Davidson.
The city’s financial district along  Biscayne Bay  is lined with
banks such as  Brazil ’s  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , the largest
lender in Latin America.  The city’s airport this year doubled the size of its
terminal for international arrivals.  Following is a pending sale:  MASSACHUSETTS is set to issue about $381 million of
general-obligation bonds as soon as this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. (Updated Dec. 5)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  