-- India Government Agency Probes Wal-Mart Investments
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-12-05T10:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/india-government-agency-probes-wal-mart-investments.html
An Indian government agency is
investigating allegations that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  violated
legal restrictions on foreign investment in the retail industry,
Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  said.  The government received complaints alleging Wal-Mart
invested in the retail industry before a September decision to
loosen rules, Sharma told parliament today. Wal-Mart is “in
compliance with India’s laws,” Arti Singh, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  India’s central bank has referred the matter to the
Directorate of Enforcement, an agency that investigates
violations of rules relating to foreign investment, for further
probes, the minister said. He didn’t say who filed the
complaints.  The investigation adds to Wal-Mart’s troubles in India,
where it recently suspended some workers at its joint venture,
Bharti Walmart Pvt., as it examines potential violations of U.S.
anti-bribery laws.  The government has received complaints that Wal-Mart and
its partners Bharti Enterprises Pvt. and Cedar Support Services
Ltd. have been engaged in retail trading that involves multiple
brands, Sharma said.  India  in September opened up its retail
market to allow foreign companies to own as much as 51 percent
of local ventures that sell more than one brand. Overseas brands
such as Wal-Mart had been banned from the supermarket industry
until then.  “All procedures and processes have been duly followed”
the Wal-Mart spokeswoman said in the e-mail.  Joint Venture  In 2007, Wal-Mart formed a joint venture in India for
wholesale stores and has been building a supply chain and
logistics network in the country.  Wal-Mart owns a 50 percent stake in the wholesale-venture
with Bharti. Closely held Bharti runs its own chain of more than
186 Easyday stores including supermarkets. Bharti Airtel Ltd.,
India’s largest mobile phone carrier, is a part of the Bharti
group.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer on Nov. 15 said it
started inquiries into potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in India,  Brazil  and  China . The  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
are looking into allegations Wal-Mart systematically bribed
Mexican officials so it could more quickly open stores.  Lawmakers will today vote in parliament on whether they
support the government’s decision to allow overseas retailers
access to India’s retail market, estimated at $505 billion by
Technopak Advisors Pvt., after opposition parties insisted on a
debate on the matter.  While the decision to allow foreign investment in retail
doesn’t require parliamentary approval to become law, rejection
of the proposals in today’s ballot would expose the weakness of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s minority administration and sap
investor enthusiasm for the centerpiece of his policy drive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  