-- India Proposes 9 Gigawatts Solar Capacity to 2017
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-12-05T13:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/india-proposes-9-gigawatts-solar-capacity-to-2017.html
India  released a draft policy with
the goal of building 9,000 megawatts of grid-connected solar
plants by 2017, more than eight times its current capacity.  Plans include auctioning 1,650 megawatts of photovoltaic
capacity by the central government in the next financial year,
grants to cut project costs and loosening curbs on the purchase
of equipment from overseas, according to the  draft  published on
the website of the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  The policy would for the first time fund the solar industry
with direct grants covering as much as 40 percent of the upfront
cost of building projects. That model has previously been used
to build roads, ports, railways and fossil-fuel plants in India.  This “will certainly increase investment in solar energy
in India,” Mohit Anand, a senior consultant at New Delhi-based
advisory firm Bridge to India Pvt., said today by e-mail.  Developers including  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC-backed Welspun Group and billionaire Vinod Khosla’s Sunborne
Energy Holdings LLC have so far built 1,045 megawatts of solar
capacity and cut average costs of photovoltaic power 51 percent
since India began its so-called National Solar Mission in 2010.
The program has sought to drive down the cost of solar power to
the level of other forms of grid-supplied electricity by 2017.  Private lenders have been slow to fund solar because of a
lack of confidence in the technology, according to the draft.
Upfront investment costs and fixed returns “make it essential
that the government supports infrastructure financing.”  Funding Costs  Higher  interest rates  and the short-term lending available
for renewable projects in India add as much as 32 percent to the
cost of clean power compared with similar projects in the U.S.
and  Europe , according to a report released today by the Climate
Policy Initiative and the Indian School of Business.  Developers submitting bids that need the least funding will
win solar auctions, according to proposed rules. Grants would be
paid in stages as projects reach milestones to prevent
developers from bidding too low and ignoring plant performance.  That approach seeks to avoid the large, drawn-out subsidies
taken on by European governments that pay fixed premium tariffs
to clean-energy plants for as long as 20 years.  Germany ,  Italy 
and the U.K. have rolled backed support as the cost of their
subsidies ballooned as installations boomed.  The grants would be financed with revenue from the National
Clean Energy Fund, which has been taxing coal producers 50
rupees (92 cents) a metric ton since July 2010 and was expected
to raise 25 billion rupees in its first year.  Domestic Content  The draft raises the possibility of doing away with a rule
that requires projects to buy crystalline cells and panels from
local manufacturers such as  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) ,  Websol Energy System
Ltd. (WESL)  and Jupiter Solar Power Ltd. Those companies have filed a
complaint alleging foreign competitors are dumping equipment
below cost in India after most projects circumvented the local
sourcing rule by importing cheaper panels using an alternative
thin-film technology from suppliers like  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)   The government may help cut the cost of Indian products or
require projects to source only part of their equipment locally
to promote domestic manufacturing, according to the draft.  The responsibility for building 60 percent of the targeted
9,000 megawatts will be shifted to individual states. Solar-
thermal technology, using sunlight to heat liquids to produce
steam for generators, would provide 30 percent of the total and
photovoltaic panels, turning it directly into power, the rest.  Funding Hurdle  Relying on states’ programs may pose a funding hurdle as
“investors have in the past preferred the central government’s
solar program over policies of many state governments” because
of a greater willingness of banks to lend, said  Bharat Bhushan ,
a solar analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  New Delhi .  The central government’s first auction will be for 1,650
megawatts of photovoltaic capacity to be built in the financial
year starting April 1. The following year it will award 870
megawatts of photovoltaic capacity and 1,080 megawatts of solar-
thermal capacity, according to the draft. It didn’t provide a
time line for how individual states would award 3,780 megawatts
of photovoltaic and 1,620 megawatts of solar-thermal capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  