-- Insurer Leads Jump as New Oriental Falls: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-05T22:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/insurer-leads-jump-as-new-oriental-falls-china-overnight.html
The benchmark index for  Chinese
equities (CH55BN)  in  New York  rose for the first time in three days as
gains in  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC)  overshadowed concern a U.S.
probe focusing on auditors of China-based stocks will spur
delistings.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.9 percent to 93.61
yesterday.  China  Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, surged the
most in five months while  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  traded at
the widest premium to Hong Kong stock in more than two weeks.
Education service provider  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  extended its steepest two-day drop since July and  E-
House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  sank to a record low.  New Oriental slid yesterday on speculation the Securities &
Exchange Commission alleging units of the Big Four auditors
aren’t cooperating in their fraud probe may spur Chinese
companies to withdraw from U.S. exchanges. While New Oriental
isn’t being investigated, the issue will weigh on their
valuation,  Wells Fargo & Co . said in a Dec. 4 note. China Life
extended its 4.2 percent jump in Hong Kong after the government
abolished a regulation limiting investment in commercial banks
by insurers.  Opening up what insurers can invest in “should improve the
profitability of those companies over time,” Jeff Papp, a
senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management, which invests in
Chinese companies, said by phone from Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday.
“It’s positive for insurers because they gain higher yields,
and for markets because clearly insurance companies haven’t been
able to buy securities in a fashion we would expect in more
developed markets.”  ETF Surges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., jumped 3 percent to $38.12,
the highest close since May 2. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.2 percent to 1,409.28 as better-than-forecast economic
reports outweighed a decline in Apple Inc., its biggest stock.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 2.9 percent
to 10,830.04 yesterday while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of
domestic shares gained 2.9 percent to 2,031.91, the biggest one-
day advance in three months. China will keep macroeconomic
policies stable and promote urbanization and expand domestic
demand, the Communist Party’s Politburo said in its first
assessment of the world’s second-largest economy, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 4.  China Life’s American depositary receipts surged 4.3
percent to $45.51, the biggest rally in five months.  Chalco’s Plans  Aluminum Corp, the biggest producer of the light metal in
China known as Chalco, advanced 3.2 percent to $10.98, the
biggest increase since Nov. 1. Its American depositary receipts,
each representing 25 underlying shares, traded 1 percent above
its  Hong Kong  stock, the highest  premium  since Nov. 19.  Beijing-based Chalco plans to build an alumina facility
with a capacity of 1 million metric tons a year in  Indonesia  as
it seeks to tap bauxite resources overseas after the southeast
Asian nation curbed exports, according to a Nov. 30 interview
with President Luo Jianchuan in Chongqing.  Three-month aluminum contracts added 0.5 percent on the
London Metal Exchange, to $2,105 a metric ton.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the fourth-largest coal miner in
China, added 3.5 percent to a one-month high of $15.72.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by passenger numbers, advanced 3 percent to $22.75 in New York,
the steepest rally since Nov. 23.  The Guangzhou-based airline agreed to buy 10 Airbus SAS
A330s after the European Union backed down in a dispute with
China over emission levies. Airbus will deliver the jets
starting 2014 to 2016, China Southern said in a filing to the
Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Short Sellers  New Oriental sank 9.2 percent to $16.41 after the previous
day’s 11 percent tumble, which was the biggest loss since July
18. The Beijing-based company was contacted by the New York
Stock Exchange “in view of the unusual market activity” in its
shares on Dec. 4, New Oriental said in a statement yesterday.
“The Company stated that its policy is not to comment on
unusual market activity,” New Oriental said.  Wells Fargo analyst Trace Urdan said on Dec. 4 the company
is at risk of being delisted after the SEC’s investigation. In
an updated note the same day, Urdan said he had no reason to
believe New Oriental Education was subject of the probe. Urdan
maintained an outperform recommendation on the education
company.  New Oriental has been targeted by short seller  Carson Block 
and his research firm  Muddy Waters  LLC for allegedly inflating
cash balances to gain auditor approval. The company said in
September that a committee of independent company directors
found no evidence to back up Muddy Waters’ allegations. Block
countered this by saying he was “more convinced than ever”
they were misleading investors.  E-House, a Shanghai-based property agent, dropped 7.5
percent to $3.1, the lowest level on record.  ‘Catastrophic Effect’  U.S. and Chinese regulators will have to come to a
compromise in their conflict over auditor oversight to prevent
Chinese companies traded in the U.S. from being delisted, Steven Winegar, Kong-based partner at law firm Paul Hastings LLP, said
on a conference call yesterday.  “That of course has a catastrophic effect on the market
value and on the companies themselves.” he said. “It’s almost
unthinkable that it will get to that stage.”  Thirty-day volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge
increased to 20.2 yesterday from 19.6 a day earlier, the highest
level since Aug. 24. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that gained U.S.
listings after buying firms that already trade, sank 1.7 percent
yesterday, the biggest slump since June 21. The gauge has lost
61 percent over the past two years.  Should Chinese ADRs continue to trade the way they do now,
they “don’t need SEC to delist them - they’d be happy to get
privatized themselves,” Junheng Li, founder and senior equity
analyst at researcher JL Warren Capital LLC in New York, said in
an e-mail Dec. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  