-- Intel CEO Otellini Sees Successor Coming From Inside
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-06T15:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/intel-ceo-otellini-sees-successor-coming-from-inside.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
computer-chip maker, is most likely to choose its next chief
executive officer from among internal candidates, current CEO
Paul Otellini said.  “It’s not up to me, but I think that’s the most likely
outcome,” Otellini, 62, said at a Sanford C. Bernstein
conference yesterday. “I’m very comfortable with the internal
candidates.”  Intel said Nov. 19 that Otellini will retire in May,
stepping down three years before the company’s mandatory
retirement age. The same day, the company promoted Chief
Operating Officer Brian Krzanich, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith and software head Renee James to the position of executive
vice president, marking them as the primary candidates to lead
the 44-year-old company. The chipmaker has never filled its top
spot with an executive from the outside.  Intel rose to dominate the personal-computer processor
business with industry-leading spending on its production
 facilities . While that eliminated almost all opposition over the
years, under Otellini and his deputies, Intel has failed to make
headway in chips for mobile phones and tablets. Those devices
are now threatening the PC market as consumers turn to
smartphones and tablets to get online.  “I don’t expect our strategy to change,” Otellini said
yesterday. “I think the board is very comfortable with the
strategy and assuming we stay inside, I think the management
team is as well.”  Bringing in someone from outside would take that person two
years to be able to understand Intel’s systems and culture no
matter how talented they are, Otellini said.  “In this environment, why take the risk and take the
time?” he said. “So my sense is that they will stay inside.”  Intel  shares  rose 1.4 percent to $20.14 at 10:02 a.m. in
New York. Through yesterday, stock had dropped 18 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  