-- Drone in Iran Appears to Be U.S.-Made, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-12-05T22:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/iran-says-it-pulled-data-from-drone-can-protect-airspace.html
The drone  Iran  says it captured
appears to be a U.S.-made ScanEagle, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said, in a change from the initial U.S. rejection of the
Iranian claim.  While Iran said it extracted valuable data from the
unmanned aerial vehicle, Little told reporters yesterday that it
was “highly improbable” that useful intelligence could be
gained from the relatively unsophisticated drone. He said it
couldn’t be determined if it was operated by the U.S.  The ScanEagle, made by  Boeing Co. (BA) , is used by a number of
countries and is less advanced than other unmanned aircraft
employed by the Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency,
such as the Global Hawk and Predator.  Iran said its capture of the drone proves the Persian Gulf
nation can protect itself from foreign aggression. The drone’s
mission was to “gather military data and information pertaining
to the energy sector and shipment of crude from Iran’s oil
terminals,” Brigadier General Ramezan Sharif, head of the
public relations department of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps,
said in a report published yesterday in the Tehran-based  Etemaad 
newspaper.  The state-run Press TV news channel showed images yesterday
of what it said was a ScanEagle drone that had been captured
intact. The aircraft was seized after violating the Islamic
Republic’s airspace, Iranian officials said.  The seizure of the ScanEagle “is not something Americans
can easily deny,” Sharif said. The evolving comments from
officials in  Washington  underscored his point.  ‘No Evidence’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said Dec. 4 that the
U.S. has “no evidence Iranian claims are true.” The U.S. Navy
“has fully accounted for all unmanned aerial vehicles operating
in the Middle East region,” Commander Jason Salata, a spokesman
for the U.S. Fifth Fleet in Bahrain, said the same day.  Yesterday, Little said, “I can’t rule out the possibility
that at some point in the past a ScanEagle dropped into the Gulf
and was picked up.” He said it couldn’t be determined “whether
or not this ScanEagle was a U.S. ScanEagle or somebody else’s.”  A ScanEagle “will offer very limited sensitive
technology” to Iran,  Philip Finnegan , an aerospace analyst at
the Teal Group Corp., a Fairfax, Virginia-based defense-market
analysis firm, said Dec. 4 in an e-mailed statement. The system,
made by the Insitu unit of Chicago-based Boeing, has been around
for almost a decade and is being superseded by a new model
called the Integrator, “which will carry considerable more
payload,” he said.  Commercial Fishing  “The ScanEagle was never a state-of-the art system,” such
as the Global Hawk or Predator drones or the Navy’s Broad Area
Maritime Surveillance system, known as BAMS, Finnegan said. It
“was originally built for the commercial fishing market and
then adapted to military requirements.”  The ScanEagle weighs 40 pounds (18 kilograms) and has a 10-
foot (3-meter) wingspan. The system carries cameras and is used
“individually or in groups to loiter over trouble spots and
provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance data,”
according to Boeing’s  website . The aircraft can reach altitudes
exceeding 16,000 feet and can be launched from U.S. Navy ships.  ‘Defense Capability’  Ramin Mehmanparast, Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, said
yesterday the capture of the drone shows the Islamic Republic’s
“defense capability reached a point where we can rely on the
talent of the country’s youth to protect our airspace, sea and
territory,” according to a report by the state-run  Fars  news
agency.  Iran’s announcement that it captured the drone came days
after the  U.S. Senate  approved new sanctions against the country
to curb its nuclear program, which the U.S. and its Western
allies say may conceal the development of nuclear-weapons
capability. Iran says its atomic program is for peaceful
purposes.  The Senate voted on Nov. 30 to impose financial penalties
on foreign businesses and banks involved in Iran’s energy,
ports, shipping and shipbuilding industries and in metals
trading with the Islamic Republic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  