-- ISM Services Gauge in U.S. Unexpectedly Rose in November
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-05T22:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ism-services-gauge-in-u-s-rose-to-54-7-in-november-from-54-2.html
Service industries in the U.S.
unexpectedly grew at a faster pace in November, showing the
biggest part of the economy is weathering concern about looming
federal tax increases and spending cuts.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index rose to 54.7 last month from 54.2 in October, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. Economists projected a decline
to 53.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The report runs counter to the group’s factory survey this
week showing manufacturing shrank last month, indicating
companies such as retailers and construction firms that make up
about 90 percent of the economy are more resilient to the risk
of the so-called fiscal cliff. A housing rebound, lower fuel
costs and gains in employment are leading to a pickup in
consumer confidence that may boost holiday sales.  “The consumer is carrying a lot more of the economic
momentum into the end of the year, given the cautiousness of
business leaders,” said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff
Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania . “That bodes
well for next year.”  Other reports today showed orders for business equipment
such as machinery and communications gear rebounded more than
previously estimated in October, worker productivity accelerated
in the third quarter and superstorm Sandy limited employment
gains last month.  Shares Advance  Stocks rose, following a two-day drop in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, amid optimism lawmakers will reach a budget
agreement before the end of the year. The S&P 500 Index rose 0.2
percent to 1,409.28 at the close in New York.  Estimates for the services index in the Bloomberg survey of
75 economists ranged from 51 to 54.7. The index has averaged
53.4 since the recession ended in June 2009.  In the U.K. today, services unexpectedly grew at a slower
pace in November as demand fell for the first time in two years,
increasing the chance the economy will shrink again this
Quarter, data from Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply showed in  London  today.  A separate report showed services growth in  China  slowed,
damping expectations for a faster rebound in the world’s second-
largest economy after a seven-quarter slowdown.  The increase in the U.S. services gauge was driven by jumps
in business activity and new orders. The ISM’s  employment 
measure fell.  ‘Feeling Good’  “Consumers are feeling good, housing is rebounding, and we
remain confident that there’ll be a resolution in Washington”
on budget deficits, said Kurt McNeil,  General Motors Co. (GM)  vice
president of sales operations, said during a teleconference on
Dec. 3.  Auto dealers saw demand  rebound  in November after Sandy.
The annualized industrywide sales rate of cars and light trucks,
adjusted for seasonal trends, rose to 15.5 million last month,
the best since February 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive
Group.  Apart from the storm,  consumer confidence  has been on the
rise, which could lift demand for services. The Conference
Board’s sentiment index climbed this month to the highest level
since February 2008, a report showed last week.  Households felt good enough to head to shopping centers on
Black Friday weekend. Retail sales rose 13 percent to $59.1
billion in the four days starting Nov. 22 after a 16 percent
increase in the similar period last year, according to the
National Retail Federation.  Construction Spending  Housing is also fueling growth. Construction spending
climbed almost three times more than forecast in October.
Homebuilder confidence rose to a six-year high in November,
according to the National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo index of builder confidence, released Nov. 19.  This week’s ISM factory index showed manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted last month by the most since July 2009.
Manufacturers pointed to the uncertainty surrounding the more
than $600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases set to take
effect next year as the major reason for the slowdown, survey
chairman Bradley Holcomb said.  Services -- including utilities, health care, housing and
finance -- are less dependent on capital spending, which has
declined in the face of the fiscal cliff, and export demand,
which has weakened as the euro-zone economy contracts.  ‘Very Diverse’  “The non-manufacturing sector is very diverse,”  Anthony Nieves , the ISM survey’s chairman, said in a telephone interview
from his office in Beverly Hills,  California . “Because it’s
made up of 18 industries with a slew of companies, small, medium
and large, it’s like having a diverse stock portfolio. You’re
not heavy in one particular sector or investment, so the overall
effects or impacts from political uncertainty are not as
immediate as you would see on the manufacturing side.”  Another report today showed employment cooled in November,
restrained by Sandy. Companies added 118,000 workers after a
revised 157,000 gain, according to Roseland, New Jersey-based
ADP Research Institute. The report indicated that the storm
reduced payrolls by about 86,000.  Other figures today signaled the recent slump in business
investment may be ending. Bookings for non-defense capital goods
excluding aircraft, a proxy for future spending, rose a revised
2.9 percent in October after dropping 0.5 percent in September,
the Commerce Department reported. The gain was previously
estimated at 1.7 percent, according to last week’s durable-goods
report.  Also today, Labor Department dated showed worker
productivity expanded more than previously estimated in the
third quarter as companies cut labor expenses to preserve
profits. The measure of employee output per hour climbed at a
2.9 percent annual rate, the biggest gain in two years and up
from 1.9 percent in the prior three months, revised figures
showed. Costs per worker fell at a 1.9 percent rate, more than
previously estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  