-- Ivory Coast Donors Pledge $8.6 Billion to Spur Development Plans
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-05T13:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ivory-coast-donors-pledge-8-6-billion-to-spur-development-plans.html
Foreign donors have pledged about
$8.6 billion to help finance a development plan meant to create
jobs and improve infrastructure in  Ivory Coast , the West African
nation’s government said in a statement.  That’s more than double the amount initially sought at a
World Bank-backed donor meeting in  France ’s capital, Paris. At
least $4 billion was needed to fund the plan, Planning and
Development Minister Albert Toikeusse Mabri said yesterday in an
interview before the conference.  During the meeting, lenders said the Ivorian government
still needs to find adequate responses to “major challenges”
including good governance, rule of law and the general business
climate, according to the statement e-mailed today.  Ivory Coast, with the biggest economy in the eight-member
West African monetary union, is recovering from a post-election
crisis in 2011 that halted cocoa exports and contracted growth
by 4.7 percent. The world’s top cocoa grower ranks 177 out of
185 countries on the  World Bank’s Doing Business index , which
measures the ease of starting and operating a local company.  Between 2013-2015, about $8.4 billion is needed for the
public development, while the private industries require as much
as $10.6 billion in investments, the statement said. Ivory Coast
said in the statement it wants to have “one of the best
business climates in  Africa .”  The economy is expected to grow 8.6 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said on Oct. 2. Ivory Coast’s
government is targeting 9 percent growth in 2013.  Ivory Coast had $4.4 billion of its debt canceled in June
after completing an economic-reform program backed by the
International Monetary Fund and the  World Bank . The  Paris Club 
granted a further $4.73 billion of bilateral debt relief to the
West African nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  