-- Japan Can End Deflation in Months, Shirakawa Professor Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-12-05T05:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/japan-deflation-beatable-in-months-in-shirakawa-professor-s-view.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s former professor said the next head of the central
bank could end decades of deflation in months by going beyond
the current governor’s “very weak” efforts.  The BOJ should ease until inflation of 2 percent or 3
percent is reached, Koichi Hamada, 76, a retired Yale University
economics professor who taught Shirakawa at Tokyo University,
said in a phone interview yesterday. That would be “no
problem” if opposition leader Shinzo Abe, whom Hamada advises
on policy, wins national elections this month as polls suggest
and appoints a more aggressive central-bank chief, he said.  Politicians including Abe are increasing pressure on the
BOJ for more monetary stimulus before a leadership change at the
bank that offers any new government the chance to install a pro-
easing majority on the central bank board. Shirakawa, criticized
for his perceived failure to reverse years of deflation and
boost an economy at risk of recession, ends a five-year term on
April 8.  “Shirakawa forgot the right kind of economics,” Hamada
said from his home in Wallingford,  Connecticut , adding that his
former student merits a ‘C’ grade on an A-C scale for his
performance at the BOJ. “He sticks to his principles and
doesn’t use flexible political judgment.”  The yen fell to a seven-month low last month after Abe, 58,
called for unlimited monetary stimulus and an inflation target
of 2-3 percent, easing pressure on exporters including Toyota
Motor Corp. and pushing monetary policy to the foreground in
Abe’s campaign for the Dec. 16 election.  Recession Risk  An economy at risk of a second straight quarter of
contraction may spur an Abe-led government to seek a pro-easing
majority at the BOJ, as the terms of Shirakawa’s deputies,
Hirohide Yamaguchi and  Kiyohiko Nishimura , end in March and two
former private-sector economists on the nine-member board show
signs of favoring more stimulus.  Hamada taught Shirakawa in 1972. He said the central bank
governor was an “intellectual-looking” student who would
frankly criticize his opinions. As head of the BOJ, his policy
of buying short-term  government bonds  is “very weak,” Hamada
said.  Hamada, who in 2001 suggested that the BOJ should adopt an
inflation target of 1 percent to help change price expectations,
said the central bank could buy foreign bonds and debt with
longer maturities, as well as increase purchases of real estate
investment trusts and exchange-traded funds. Any inflationary
concerns could be eased by raising the benchmark  interest rate 
from the current 0.1 percent, he said.  Inflation Goals  A BOJ spokesman said that the central bank governor doesn’t
comment on remarks by individuals. Shirakawa, 63, said at a
press conference last month that a 3 percent inflation goal is
unrealistic and that unlimited money printing could worsen the
national debt.  BOJ Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura declined to comment
at a press conference today when asked about Hamada’s remarks.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  this week called a 2 percent
to 3 percent inflation target unrealistic and said that that the
bank shouldn’t be forced to buy bonds in the open market.  The BOJ set a 1 percent inflation goal in February and has
said it will pursue aggressive easing until that target is in
sight.  At its meeting on Oct. 30, the BOJ added 11 trillion yen
($134 billion) to its asset-purchase program, expanding its main
policy tool for the second time in two months, and unveiled an
unlimited program to support bank loans. Two new members of the
board, Takehiro Sato and  Takahide Kiuchi , voted at the meeting
for a more expansionary wording of the bank’s price outlook,
minutes of the session show.  Next Governor  Abe, who was elected head of the  Liberal Democratic Party 
in September after resigning the premiership in 2007 after one
year in office, is not guaranteed his first choice of BOJ
governor. Any nomination for the position can be blocked in the
upper house, where the LDP and its partner New Komeito hold
fewer than half the seats.  In 2008, the opposition-controlled upper house rejected two
candidates for governor put forward by an LDP government before
accepting Shirakawa’s nomination.  “What Abe says now as the head of an opposition party is
irrelevant,” Yoichi Takahashi, another economic adviser to Abe,
said in a separate interview last week. “I don’t think he will
say these things if he becomes prime minister.”  Contenders to succeed Shirakawa under an Abe administration
include Kikuo Iwata, an economics professor at Gakushuin
University and Kazumasa Iwata, president of the  Japan  Center for
Economic Research, Hamada said. He also named Heizo Takenaka, a
former economic policy minister and  Haruhiko Kuroda , president
of the  Asian Development Bank , as potential candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  