-- Jets’ Sanchez to Be Starting Quarterback Against Jaguars
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-05T17:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/jets-mark-sanchez-to-be-starting-quarterback-against-jaguars.html
Mark Sanchez will be the  New York 
Jets’ starting quarterback against the Jacksonville Jaguars, a
week after throwing three first-half interceptions and getting
benched in favor of Greg McElroy.  Coach Rex Ryan told the National Football League team today
that Sanchez, who received a three-year contract extension in
the offseason that included $20.5 million in guaranteed money,
will get the start at quarterback on Dec. 9 instead of backup
Tim Tebow or McElroy.  “When I looked at everything, the biggest thing that I
kept coming back to was who gives us the best opportunity to
win, in particular this week,” Ryan said at a televised news
conference. “When I kept coming back to that, I believe the
correct answer is Mark Sanchez. That said, he has to play
better, he has to protect the ball better.”  Ryan had said he needed time to make a decision on the
starter after McElroy replaced Sanchez and guided the Jets to a
7-6 win over the  Arizona  Cardinals on Dec. 2. Tebow was inactive
for the game because of cracked ribs.  Ryan said he talked with numerous people in the
organization before opting to stick with Sanchez, who was the
fifth pick in the 2009 NFL draft. Since the Jets went to
American Football Conference championship games in his first two
seasons, Sanchez has a 13-15 record and his 44 turnovers the
past two years are the second-most in the NFL.  Ryan said he didn’t get any pressure from Jets owner Woody Johnson on which quarterback should be starting, and that the
$8.25 million Sanchez is guaranteed for 2013 had “absolutely
zero” to do with his decision.  ‘My Decision’  “At the end of the day it’s my decision and I’m
comfortable with my decision,” Ryan said. “I’m actually
looking forward to seeing Mark play. It was one where obviously
I have to get this decision right and I believe I have.”  McElroy came off the bench to make his NFL debut with the
Jets trailing 3-0 in the third quarter and led the team to the
go-ahead touchdown on his first drive. McElroy’s entrance was
met by cheers from the home crowd at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey, after the Jets managed 159 yards of
offense on their first 45 plays.  Sanchez, 26, is one of five starting quarterbacks in the
NFL to throw more interceptions (13) than touchdown passes (12)
this season. He also has five fumbles, and his completion
percentage, at 55 percent, is the worst in the NFL.  Sanchez’s struggles have been magnified as the Jets have
gone 5-7 and are in jeopardy of missing the playoffs for the
second straight season. New York probably has to win its
remaining four games to have a shot at the postseason.  Seeking Improvement  “There are some interceptions that are going to happen,
those you can live with,” Ryan said. “Some of the other ones,
we have to do a better job of, and I believe Mark definitely
understands where I’m coming from.”  McElroy, a seventh-round pick in 2011, completed 5-of-7
passes for 29 yards and a touchdown against the Cardinals. He
said two days ago that the quarterbacks would be comfortable
with whatever decision was made by the coaching staff.  “It doesn’t change our relationship and it doesn’t change
how supportive we are of one another,” McElroy told reporters
on Dec. 3. “Whoever’s on the field, I know the other two guys
will be pushing for that person and supporting him every step of
the way and that’s been the case up to this point.”  While Ryan hasn’t decided on a second-string quarterback
for this week’s game in Jacksonville,  Florida , he said Tebow
would be the backup if he’s fully healthy.  “We have to see what happens during the week with Tim,”
Ryan said. “Right now, we’ll monitor his situation. I know he’s
been cleared, but if that was my son, I would not want him
playing. If he was completely healthy, Tim would be our No. 2.”  Tebow, acquired by the Jets in an offseason trade with the
Denver Broncos, won two national championships and a Heisman
Trophy while playing at the University of Florida in
Gainesville, which is about 70 miles southwest of Jacksonville.
The Jaguars’ 2-10 record is tied for the worst in the NFL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  