-- Kazakhstan Wealth Fund Sued in U.S. by BTA Bank Investors
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-12-05T23:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/kazakhstan-wealth-fund-sued-in-u-s-by-bta-bank-investors.html
Investors in  BTA Bank (BTAS) , Kazakhstan’s
third-largest bank by assets, accused its controlling
shareholder, the Central Asian nation’s sovereign wealth fund
Samruk-Kazyna, of defrauding them.  The investors claim in a lawsuit in Manhattan federal court
that BTA Bank, which isn’t named as a defendant, defrauded them
by inducing them to buy debt securities as part of a 2010
restructuring. The bank did so, the investors claim, by
promising that virtually no dividends or distributions would be
paid to X1Q6MH7D9182, which is a defendant.  “S-K Fund and BTA had devised a scheme to circumvent the
express restrictions on dividends,” according to the complaint.
“The scheme was implemented by BTA Bank, paying S-K Funds
interest on its deposits at an exorbitant above-market rate of
approximately 10 percent.”  The sovereign wealth fund is owned entirely by the Republic
of Kazakhstan, according to the complaint. The bank isn’t named
as a defendant because it’s now undergoing a second
restructuring in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  Plaintiffs including Atlantica Holdings Inc., Baltica
Investment Holding Inc., Allan Kiblisky and Jacques Gliksberg
say they purchased tens of millions of dollars of subordinated
debt securities issued by BTA Bank.  Separately, Almaty-based BTA Bank said today it won the
support of a majority of creditors for its $11 billion
restructuring, cutting its debt by about 70 percent.  A fund spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment after
business hours in Kazakhstan.  The case is Atlantica Holdings v. Samruk-Kazyna, 12-
cv-08852, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  