-- Kingsett Makes C$4.4b Cash Offer for Primaris Retail REIT
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-12-05T21:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/kingsett-makes-c-4-4b-cash-offer-for-primaris-retail-reit.html
KingSett Capital Inc., a Toronto-
based real estate investor, plans to bid for  Primaris Retail
Real Estate Investment Trust (PMZ-U)  in a deal valued at C$4.4 billion
($4.4 billion) to add shopping malls in  Canada .  A group led by KingSett is offering C$26 per unit of
Primaris Retail, KingSett said today in a statement. That’s 13
percent more than yesterday’s closing of C$23.04. Primaris units
surged above the offer price, indicating investors expect a
higher bid. Primaris, in a separate statement, said it hasn’t
received the offer and urged shareholders to take no action.  The proposed takeover would be the largest ever for a
Canadian REIT, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Toronto-
based Primaris owns a portfolio of 33 properties in 26 markets,
including the Burlington Mall, Oakville Place and Place
d’Orleans in Ontario, the company’s website shows.  “This is a strong and compelling offer, providing
unitholders with a premium price at a time of peak valuations in
the sector,” Jon Love, KingSett’s founder and managing partner,
said in the statement.  Primaris said its board would “evaluate any proposal and
recommend a course of action that is in the best interests of
Primaris and its unitholders,” according to the statement.  Primaris rose 15 percent to C$26.40 at the close in
Toronto, the most since November 2008. The  units  have gained 28
percent this year.  Bid ‘Insufficient’  “The current bid is insufficient,” Alex Avery, an analyst
with CIBC World Markets Inc. in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. It’s unlikely “to garner the support of the
shareholder base.”  A 13 percent premium “isn’t all that exciting,” Avery
said. For a lot of investors it makes more sense to hold on to
the shares and collect dividend payments than sell because of
the taxes they’d have to pay on a deal, Avery said.  KingSett’s Love said in an interview that he met with
Morrison yesterday evening to notify him that the company would
be making the offer. The proposed deal’s value is the sum of the
company’s existing debt and value of the equity, Love said.  “I visited with John in person and delivered him a letter
saying this morning we would be issuing a press release,” Love
said. “We had a very courteous meeting. He said that they will
commence a process.”  It took months to assemble the investor group, which
includes the Ontario Pension Board, Love said.  The bid needs the support of two-thirds of Primaris
shareholders, including KingSett and its partners, which already
hold 7 percent of Primaris.  RioCan Purchase  As part of the transaction,  RioCan Real Estate Investment
Trust (REI-U)  would buy a C$1.1 billion portfolio of Primaris properties
including five regional malls and three shopping centers.  The Canadian retail real estate market is “absolutely
fantastic” with low vacancy rates, Avery said. Retailers that
are looking to expand have limited choices because there isn’t
much space available and it is difficult for developers to find
sites across the country, he said.  Canadian REITs have been involved in 162 announced and
completed deals this year valued at $27 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. The  Bloomberg Canadian REIT Index (BBCREIT)  rose 2.3
percent today, the most since August 2011, and is up 13 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with a 0.3 percent increase for
the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)   The acquiring group is being advised by  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities and the law firms Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt
LLP and Bennett Jones LLP. KingSett Capital has completed
transactions worth C$12.5 billion in the past decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  