-- Kirkland on Baxter, Baker & McKenzie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-05T12:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/kirkland-on-baxter-baker-mckenzie-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) , the world’s second-largest maker of dialysis
products, on an agreement to buy Swedish competitor Gambro AB
for 18.3 billion kronor ($2.8 billion) to expand its kidney-
equipment business.  The Kirkland team was led by Chicago-based corporate
partners Scott Falk and Roger D. Rhoten.  Jones Day  provided
antitrust counsel, with Chicago partner Michael Sennett leading
the team. Local counsel for Baxter in  Sweden  was Vinge.  Linklaters LLP Stockholm corporate and mergers and
acquisitions partner  Roger Johnson  led the firm’s team advising
Gambro, a person familiar with the matter said. Linklaters
declined to comment through a spokeswoman.  Latham & Watkins LLP represented JPMorgan Chase & Co. as
financial adviser to Baxter in the transaction, with a corporate
team consisting of partners Charles Ruck in Orange County and
Adel Aslani-Far in  New York .  Gambro had about $1.6 billion in sales last year,
Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter said in a statement. Gambro is
jointly controlled by Sweden’s EQT Partners AB and  Investor AB (INVEB) ,
the investment firm controlled by Sweden’s billionaire
Wallenberg family. Including net debt, the deal is valued at
26.5 billion kronor, Gambro said in a statement.  Baxter and Gambro had been negotiating for almost a year, a
person familiar with the talks said last month. The deal
broadens Baxter’s kidney division, which had been smaller than
its other businesses, said  Matt Miksic , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray Cos. in New York. It also provides the company with a
way to use overseas cash, Miksic said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  South African Disputes Law Firm Joins Baker & McKenzie  Baker & McKenzie LLP’s Johannesburg office was joined by
the 23 lawyers and staff from Rudolph, Bernstein & Associates, a
South African law firm that focuses on matters in the energy,
mining, construction, infrastructure and banking sectors.  Gerhard Rudolph, Darryl Bernstein and Kate Daniels join
Baker & McKenzie as partners, along with six associates and
trainees. Seven more associates and trainees will join the firm
in January. The lawyers have experience in international and
domestic arbitration and litigation, as well as expertise in
business rescue and insolvency matters, the firm said.  “Gerhard and his team are leading players in the market
and we welcome them to Baker & McKenziem,” said Wildu du
Plessis, co-managing partner of the Johannesburg office. “We
have ambitious strategic growth plans in  South Africa .”  Baker & McKenzie  opened a South  Africa  office in May. The
firm will be moving to larger offices early next year. Among
recent deals the office has worked on are 13 renewables projects
that form part of the South African government’s plans to add
power capacity and reduce reliance on coal for its energy needs,
the firm said.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers in 72 offices
in 45 countries.  Linklaters Forms Alliance With South African Law Firm  Linklaters LLP will form an alliance with South African
corporate law firm Webber Wentzel starting in February.  Webber Wentzel has more than 150 partners and 400
professionals in 21 practices at offices in Johannesburg and
Cape Town. The firm’s client base includes many of South
Africa’s biggest companies in mining, banking, insurance, media,
property and telecommunications, the firm said.  “We are confident that this collaborative alliance will
further enable us to build lasting relationships with clients in
Africa and those outside looking to invest in this dynamic
market,”  Simon Davies , firm-wide managing partner of
Linklaters, said in a statement.  Linklaters has traditionally worked on projects throughout
Africa through its offices in London, Paris and Lisbon. The firm
currently has more than 200 matters relating to Africa in more
than 45 countries, the firm said.  “This arrangement is consistent with our strategy of
helping clients whenever they do business in Africa,” David
Lancaster, senior partner of Webber Wentzel, said in a
statement. “There is huge potential for Africa growth -- and
therefore legal work -- in a large and complex market.”  Linklaters has lawyers in 28 offices worldwide.  Moves  Bird & Bird Hires Two IP Partners in Paris  Bird & Bird LLP hired intellectual property lawyers Rebecca
Delorey and Nathalie Ruffin as partners in the firm’s Paris
office. Both women were previously partners at Gilbey Delorey,
the firm said.  Delorey and Ruffin focus their practices on trademarks and
industrial designs. Delorey has experience with protecting,
enforcing and managing trademarks, industrial designs and other
soft IP assets. Ruffin advises on anti-counterfeiting programs.  Bird & Bird has more than 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Asia .  News  SEC’s Disclosure Chief Cross Said to Step Down This Month  Meredith Cross, director of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission division that oversees public company
disclosures, initial public offerings and private-fund
registrations, is leaving the agency.  Cross, a former partner at  law firm  Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP, will step down as head of the Corporation
Finance division this month after guiding the unit through a
prominent role in SEC rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act,
according to a statement released by the agency yesterday.  Among the rules Cross has been overseeing this year are
elements of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act that lifts
restrictions on companies going public. The agency also approved
Dodd-Frank rules in August requiring U.S.-listed companies to
disclose whether they use so-called conflict minerals in their
manufacturing and what payments they make to foreign governments
to extract oil and gas.  Cross was a partner at law firm WilmerHale in  Washington ,
before joining the SEC in 2009. She had worked at the agency in
the 1990s before joining WilmerHale.  The SEC statement didn’t indicate what Cross plans to do
after her departure from the agency. WilmerHale didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Facebook Wins Tentative Approval of ‘Sponsored Stories’ Accord  Facebook Inc. (FB) , with a legal team led by Cooley LLP
litigation department Chairman Michael G. Rhodes, persuaded a
judge to grant preliminary approval of a $20 million settlement
of a lawsuit claiming it used subscribers’ names without their
permission to advertise products in its “Sponsored Stories.”  Under the revised settlement, users can claim a $10
payment, and funds left over will go to advocacy groups. An
earlier settlement proposed by the company would have given
users no payment, while lawyers for plaintiffs would receive as
much as $10 million, according to filings in federal court in
 San Francisco .  “The court is satisfied that the revisions to the terms of
the settlement are sufficient to warrant preliminary approval
under the applicable standards,” U.S. District Judge Richard Seeborg, who rejected the earlier proposal, said in an order
Dec. 3. He scheduled a June hearing to consider final approval
of the agreement.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
was accused in a 2011 lawsuit of appropriating the names,
photographs and identities of users to advertise products
without their consent. “Sponsored Stories” was a “misleading
advertising scheme” using material posted by Facebook users on
their profile pages, according to the complaint.  The company called the claims “meritless” in a court
filing.  The revised settlement doesn’t spell out how much the
users’ lawyers will be paid; they must submit a fee request to
Seeborg for approval. The fees will come out of the settlement
fund, according to court filings.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Jose ).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  