-- N.Z. Extends Cash-Rate Pause, Sees Stronger Demand Next Year
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-12-05T23:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/n-z-extends-cash-rate-pause-sees-stronger-demand-next-year-1-.html
New Zealand ’s central bank extended a
period of record-low  borrowing costs  that began in March last
year, sending the local currency to a four-week high on
expectations for faster growth over the next two years.  “The overall outlook is for stronger domestic demand and
the elimination of current excess capacity by the end of next
year,” Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement
released today in Wellington, after keeping the official cash
rate at 2.5 percent. “This is expected to cause inflation to
rise gradually toward the 2 percent target midpoint.”  Wheeler is betting that rising unemployment and falling
consumer spending don’t justify a rate cut because they will
reverse, while earthquake-related construction and housing
investment will boost growth next year. He indicated he may need
to hold borrowing costs unchanged through 2013 even as some
economists forecast that rising inflation may prompt him to
raise rates as early as the first half next year.  “Domestic conditions will be dictating the timing of the
first cash rate increase and the construction boom under way is
set to provide upside pressure to inflation,”  Annette Beacher ,
head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. in
 Singapore , said in an e-mailed note. She expects a rate rise in
June.  Kiwi’s Strength  New Zealand’s dollar gained, buying 82.92 U.S. cents at
11:55 a.m. in Wellington compared with 82.54 cents immediately
before the statement. The so-called kiwi reached its highest
since Nov. 7 and has advanced about 6 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, making it the strongest performer
among the Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Two-year swap yields rose to 2.67 percent from 2.59 percent
late yesterday.  The currency’s gains reflect New Zealand’s better economic
performance relative to the U.S. and the euro area as well as a
favorable terms-of-trade position, the RBNZ said in its monetary
policy statement also released today. The kiwi will remain
elevated, it said.  “The high  New Zealand dollar  continues to be a significant
headwind, restricting export earnings and encouraging demand for
imports,” Wheeler said.  Also curbing an expansion, the government is cutting
expenditures to achieve a  budget surplus  while households and
companies remain reluctant to spend, he said. The global outlook
remains soft although less threatening than earlier in the year,
he said.  Inflation Pressure  “The bank is closely monitoring indicators for any sign of
further moderation and is mindful of recent downside surprises
to employment and inflation outturns,” Wheeler said. “With the
reconstruction-driven pick up in investment now clearly under
way, the bank will also continue to watch for a greater degree
of inflation pressure than is assumed. On balance, it remains
appropriate for the  cash rate  to be held at 2.5 percent.”  Today’s rate decision was forecast by all 16 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. Three predict a rate rise in the first
quarter, 10 see an increase in the July-September period and
three see no change until 2014.  The central bank today forecast the three-month bank bill
yield will be 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter next year from
an estimated 2.6 percent in the current quarter. The forecasts
are seen as a guide to the direction of the cash rate.  Extended Pause  “Our projections don’t show an increase until 2014,”
Wheeler told reporters after releasing the statement. “The
outlook we have is for the cash rate to remain stable for quite
some period.”  Unemployment rose to a 13-year high of 7.3 percent and
retail spending fell in the third quarter, adding to the case
for weaker economic growth in the second half of the year. Gross
domestic product will expand 0.6 percent in the six months
through December, the RBNZ said. That’s down from a 1.1 percent
pace predicted in September.  The jobless measure may have overstated the weakness in the
labor market, the RBNZ said. Construction expanded the most in
10 years in the third quarter, boosted by rebuilding in the
South Island city of Christchurch which was devastated by
earthquakes in 2010-11.  Annual growth will accelerate to 3.1 percent next year, the
RBNZ forecast. In 2014, growth will be 2.8 percent, faster than
the 1.9 percent pace previously forecast, it said.  2% Target  Sluggish domestic demand and the rising currency slowed
annual inflation to 0.8 percent in the year through September,
beneath the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.
Wheeler, who took over from Alan Bollard in late September,
signed an agreement with Finance Minister  Bill English  in which
he undertook to keep inflation near the 2 percent midpoint of
the target range.  Inflation will accelerate to 1.6 percent by the end of 2013
and 1.8 percent a year later, the RBNZ forecast today. Price
pressures are emerging in the economy, mostly related to the
housing market and construction, it said.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March last year to allow the economy to recover after the
nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years. The February 2011
temblor struck Christchurch, New Zealand’s third-largest city,
and the surrounding Canterbury province, killing 185 people and
closing the central city.  The cost of reconstruction in Canterbury is now estimated
at NZ$30 billion ($25 billion) the central bank said.  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , the nation’s biggest construction
company and supplier of cement and wallboard, last month
forecast full-year earnings will rise as much as 22 percent,
buoyed by Christchurch rebuilding and home construction in
Auckland, the nation’s largest city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  