-- N.Z. Extends Interest-Rate Pause as Growth and Inflation Slow
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-12-05T20:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/n-z-extends-interest-rate-pause-as-growth-and-inflation-slow.html
New Zealand ’s central bank extended a
period of record-low  borrowing costs  that began in March last
year as rising unemployment and falling retail sales slow the
economic recovery and contain inflation.  Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler left the official cash
rate at 2.5 percent, according to a statement released today in
Wellington. The decision is the former World Bank official’s
second on borrowing costs since he took over from Alan Bollard
in late September.  Wheeler is betting that weakness in the economy doesn’t
justify a rate cut because earthquake-related construction and
housing investment will boost growth next year. Economists
forecast that benign inflation gives him scope to delay raising
borrowing costs until the second half of next year, or later.  “Given the outlook for inflation, we think it likely that
the RBNZ’s central projection will point to yet another small
delay in the expected timing of the first policy tightening,”
 Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Auckland, said ahead of the statement. He doesn’t expect a rate
rise until the first quarter of 2014.  New Zealand’s dollar gained, buying 82.75 U.S. cents at
9:02 a.m. in Wellington from 82.54 cents immediately before the
statement. Today’s decision was forecast by all 16 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Annual inflation slowed to the weakest pace in more than 12
years in the year through September, and fell beneath the 1
percent to 3 percent range the central bank targets, as a
stronger currency made imports cheaper.  The  New Zealand dollar  has gained 6.1 percent the past 12
months, the best performing Group of 10 currency.  The country’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to a 13-year
high of 7.3 percent in the third quarter, as retail sales fell,
adding to the case for gross domestic product to slow in the
second half of the year. Still, construction expanded the most
in 10 years in the July-September period, boosted by rebuilding
in the South Island city of Christchurch which was devastated by
earthquakes in 2010-11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  