-- Nathan Tinkler Loses Jet as Company Put in Receivership
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-05T02:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nathan-tinkler-loses-jet-as-company-put-in-receivership.html
Nathan Tinkler , the Australian mining
magnate who’s struggling to pay creditors, lost ownership of his
personal jet and helicopter after a financing company pushed
another of his companies into receivership.  Tinkler’s Dassault  Falcon 900C  jet and AgustaWestland  A109S 
helicopter were seized after TGHA Aviation Pty was placed in
receivership on Nov. 23 at the request of GE Commercial
Australasia Pty, Nathan Landrey, a partner at the receiver
 Taylor Woodings  in Sydney said today in a phone interview.  Tinkler owes as much as $700 million to lenders including
Farallon Capital Partners, Credit Suisse Group AG and Kuok Group,
three people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News last
month. His creditors may seek to take control of his stake in
 Whitehaven (WHC)  Coal Ltd., worth about A$591 million ($619 million)
at the current share price, if he fails to make payments on a
loan, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the
details are private.  Taylor Woodings is in talks with TGHA’s management and
creditors and Tinkler could refinance his debt, or pay it off,
to get his aircraft back, Landrey said. The receiver can also
sell the aircraft to repay the debts, he said. Landrey declined
to say how much GE Commercial is owed.  Tim Allerton of City Public Relations in Sydney, an
external spokesman for Tinkler, declined to comment today.  Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Pty was ordered liquidated by
a New South Wales state judicial officer on Nov. 20 after the
company failed to pay A$28.4 million for shares in coal
developer Blackwood Corp. His Patinack Farm Administration Pty.
was put in liquidation a day later by a federal judge in
Adelaide over a debt to Workcover Corp. of South Australia.  Tinkler Group Holdings Administration Pty is scheduled in
New South Wales Supreme Court on Dec. 10. Court officials
haven’t responded to e-mailed requests for more information
about the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at  