-- Nod to Gas Exports in U.S. Study Seen Downplaying Consumer Cost
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-12-06T00:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/natural-gas-exports-seen-expanding-on-positive-market-study-1-.html
A U.S. Energy Department report that
supports expanded exports of natural gas cheered drillers
wanting to sell overseas while drawing warnings from opponents
that it may have underestimated the potential costs to
consumers.  The  study , which was conducted by  NERA Economic Consulting ,
is an almost unqualified endorsement of exports, a win for
energy producers such as  Sempra Energy (SRE)  and  Dominion Resources
Inc. (D)  looking to alleviate a domestic natural gas glut that
earlier this year pushed prices down to a decade low. Energy
stocks and gas prices rose yesterday, when the report was
released.  The Energy Department asked for the analysis as it weighs
at least 15  applications  from energy companies looking to build
terminals for export. Initial reactions show the analysis won’t
end the debate in Washington over how to shape the U.S. energy
mix as a drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, unlocks once-inaccessible reserves in shale rock
formations.  “Forecasts and scenarios are worthwhile, but the
department has an obligation to consider the impacts of each of
the actual applications before it,” Senator Ron Wyden’s office
said in a statement.  Wyden, an Oregon Democrat and incoming chairman of the
energy committee, has said he’s worried more exports could raise
costs for U.S. consumers and trade away an economic advantage of
cheap gas.  Costs Rise  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said in a statement that the Obama administration “should not
rush to export our natural gas abroad.” Markey had pushed the
Energy Department to conduct the market analysis.  Both Wyden and Markey noted the study found that gas costs
would go up. The report says the impact on the economy of those
increases would be minimal.  Manufacturers also expressed skepticism and said they would
push for closer congressional scrutiny of the analysis.  The report “doesn’t account for what we consider to be a
massive increase in demand projected from growth in
manufacturing,” Peter Molinaro, vice president for federal and
state government affairs for Midland, Michigan-based  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) , said in an interview.  “Industrial demand for
manufacturing is discounted in this report.”  Net Positive  “Once export applications are approved, there is no
putting the genie back in the bottle,” said Paul Cicio,
president of Industrial Energy Consumers of America, a
Washington-based manufacturing group.  Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said the
report “should pave the way for the agency to move forward with
the review process for approving export license applications.”  The report said even unfettered exports would likely be a
net positive for the U.S., providing as much as $30 billion in
trade revenue.  Across all scenarios examined, “the U.S. was projected to
gain net economic benefits from allowing” exports of liquefied
natural gas, or LNG, the  study  concluded. Natural gas is
supercooled to a liquid for transport on tankers.  The market would determine the appropriate level of
exports, according to the study.  Market’s Role  “If the promise of shale gas is not fulfilled and costs of
producing gas in the U.S. rise substantially, or if there are
ample supplies of LNG from other regions to satisfy world
demand, the U.S. would not export LNG,” the report states.  Among the countries energy companies are eyeing as
customers is  Japan , which is looking for new sources of energy
since the Fukushima nuclear crisis last year.  U.S. permits are required to sell gas to countries that
aren’t free-trade partners with the U.S., a group that includes
Japan and Spain.  The report “is a very positive sign” that the department
will approve more export applications, Whitney Stanco, a senior
policy analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a note to
investors.  The report gives natural gas producers, who struggled as
natural prices hit a 10-year low in April, a positive sign that
exports could lift and stabilize prices, Ed Hirs, a professor of
energy economics at the  University of Houston , said yesterday in
an interview.  Help Producers  “This should help producers to plan,” he said. “One of
the challenges is dealing with the volatility in natural gas
prices. The addition of steady, predictable incremental demand
has to be welcome news to any producer.”  Various companies building or seeking approval from the
Energy Department for export facilities surged on news of the
report’s findings.  Sempra Energy of San Diego, which has signed three
commercial agreements to develop a liquefied natural gas
facility in  Louisiana , rose 3 percent to $70.30 at yesterday’s
close in New York, the biggest gain in more than a year and the
top performer in the Standard & Poor’s Utility Index. Dominion
Resources of Richmond,  Virginia , which is seeking approval for
an export facility in  Maryland , rose 2.6 percent to $51.73.  Dominion is negotiating terminal service agreements with
four to five customers for its Cove Point terminal in Maryland,
the only proposed facility in the shale-rich northeastern U.S.,
Dan Donovan, a Dominion spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Cove Point  Cove Point would cost $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion to
convert into an export facility with a capacity of about 750
million cubic feet a day, Donovan said.  Sempra said it expects to get Energy Department
authorization to export gas to non-free trade agreement
countries by early next year.  “We commend the Department of Energy for releasing the
assessment of LNG exports,” Paty Ortega Mitchell, a spokeswoman
for Sempra Energy, said in an e-mail message. “This is an
important step forward in bringing U.S. LNG to the global market
and providing significant economic benefits to the U.S.”  Natural gas also rose after the report. Futures for January
delivery gained 4.5 percent to $3.70 per million British thermal
units on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The increase is the
biggest since Nov. 13.  Comment Period  The Energy Department said it would begin deciding on a
“case-by-case” basis whether to approve the export licenses
after getting reaction to the NERA study. The comment period
will last about 75 days.  Dow’s Molinaro said the company, which uses natural gas as
a fuel and an ingredient in some of its products, planned to
list what it considers to be weaknesses in the analysis.  He said Dow supports “prudent policy that is mindful of
the need to make sure that domestic consumers are not put at a
disadvantage.”  The issue of natural gas exports underscores the changing
dynamics of U.S. energy policy brought about mainly from
fracking.  The process is producing natural gas from the Marcellus
Shale in the Northeast and crude oil in the Bakken formation in
North Dakota and Eagle Ford in  Texas , reducing imports and
creating thousands of jobs.  In fracking, oil and gas companies shoot a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals underground to crack shale rock
formations and free fossil fuels trapped inside.  “We have an unhealthy market at this point in time where
supply is in excess of demand,” Gordon Pickering, director of
fuels in Navigant Consulting LLC’s energy practice. “The global
market, not the regulators, will be the final arbitrator in
terms of how much LNG is exported from North America.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  