-- Nespresso Sued in Paris by Ethical Coffee for ‘Smear’ Campaign
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-12-05T15:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nespresso-sued-in-paris-by-ethical-coffee-for-smear-campaign.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  was sued in Paris by
capsule-coffee maker Ethical Coffee Co., which claimed the Swiss
food company’s Nespresso brand engaged in unfair competition
practices to stymie its rival’s growth.  Ethical Coffee filed a suit before the commercial tribunal
yesterday claiming a “systematic smear” effort by Nespresso to
bad-mouth its products and steer clients away from the
competition, the Fribourg, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement. Nespresso made such comments through its Nespresso
Club, on the Internet and through machine distributors, Ethical
Coffee said.  “It would have been fairer and far better if Nespresso had
tried to beat the competition in terms of quality and price,”
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said in today’s
statement. “However, where the consumer opted for our products,
Nespresso clearly tries, even through unlawful means, to
influence their decision.”  Nespresso, one of Nestle’s fastest-growing brands, faces
increased competition as other food companies including D.E
Master Blenders 1753 NV began offering coffee-filled capsules
that work in its machines. Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle has
taken legal action against Ethical Coffee and other capsule
makers in countries including France and  Germany , as well as at
home, arguing the rivals violate its patents.  “The allegations by ECC are without substance and we
believe that the complaint has no merit,” Nespresso General
Counsel Daniel Weston said today in an e-mail. “This is part of
an on-going pattern and is not the first time that this company
has made similar claims.”  Ethical Coffee has asked the court to order Nespresso to
cease such practices and is seeking unspecified “considerable
compensation” for the financial harm it’s suffered since
entering the market, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  