-- Netanyahu to Face Merkel Ire in Berlin on Settlement Plans
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-12-05T16:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/netanyahu-to-face-merkel-ire-in-berlin-on-settlement-plans-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  flew to  Europe  today to meet with German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  amid a wave of international criticism over plans
to expand settlements in  Jerusalem  and the West Bank.  Germany  joined with the U.S., the U.K. and France this week
in condemning Netanyahu’s decision to give preliminary approval
to the building of 3,000 new homes on land classified as
Palestinian under United Nations resolutions. German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert said the move “shrinks the geographic
space for a Palestinian state” and calls into question Israel’s
readiness to negotiate peace.  Israel approved building plans that include construction in
the West Bank area known as E1, less than 24 hours after the UN
General Assembly voted in favor of a resolution recognizing
 Palestine  as a non-member observer state on Nov. 29.  Before reaching Germany, Netanyahu stopped in  Prague  where
he thanked Prime Minister Petr Necas for the  Czech Republic ’s
“courage” in voting against the Palestinian resolution.  “Our conflict with the Palestinians will be resolved only
through direct negotiations that address the needs of both
Israelis and Palestinians,” Netanyahu said at a news conference
in Prague. “It will not be resolved through one-sided
resolutions at the UN.”  Building Rights  The E1 area, to the east of Jerusalem, is considered
particularly sensitive because Israeli construction there may
cut off Palestinians from their desired capital of east
Jerusalem in a future peace accord. Israel says it has reserved
the right to build in the area for the past 20 years.  In the West Bank, Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said his UN envoy contacted UN Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon and the president of the  Security Council  “to sound out
the possibilities for a council resolution against
settlements.”  A planning committee voted today to approve advancement of
the construction plan, which provides for the building of homes
in E1, Guy Inbar, a spokesman for the Israeli army’s Coordinator
of Government Activities in the Territories office, said by
telephone.  The decision doesn’t constitute a building permit, and
approval by the political echelon must still be given, a
spokeswoman for the committee said by telephone, reading from a
written statement. In addition, objections to the plan can be
filed with the committee for the next 60 days, she said.  No Sanctions  Merkel will tell Netanyahu he risks diplomatic isolation
over the settlements decision, though Germany is not considering
any sanctions against Israel, the  Haaretz  newspaper said today,
citing an unidentified German official. Israel’s trade with
Germany has included the purchase of four Dolphin-class
submarines, with two more on order.  “The chancellor will express her disapproval, maybe not in
blunt language, but it will be strong disapproval,” former
Israeli ambassador to Germany Yoram Ben-Zeev said today on  Army
Radio . “I don’t believe, though, there will be measures taken
on the issue, certainly not sanctions.”  The Czech Republic was one of only eight countries to join
with Israel in voting against the Palestinian UN upgrade, which
was supported in the General Assembly by 138 nations.  “The history of Israel and the Czech Republic teaches us
that we must cling to the truth even if the majority is not on
your side,” Netanyahu said in a statement from his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  