-- New Zealand Central Bank Holds Key Rate at 2.5% (Full Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-12-05T20:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/new-zealand-central-bank-holds-key-rate-at-2-5-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released on the website of the  Reserve
Bank  of New Zealand, which today left its official cash rate at
a record-low 2.5 percent.  The Reserve Bank today left the Official Cash Rate (OCR)
unchanged at 2.5 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said: “Economic
growth has slowed in recent months and has been accompanied by
low inflation and rising unemployment. However, over the next
two years, growth is expected to accelerate to between 2.5 and 3
percent per annum.  ‘‘The global outlook remains soft but appears less
threatening than was the case earlier in the year. The risk of
severe near-term deterioration in the euro area has decreased
and Chinese economic indicators have been more positive
recently. However, uncertainty around the US fiscal position is
constraining US growth.  ‘‘Repairs and construction in Canterbury continue to gather
pace, and the housing market is strengthening, particularly in
Auckland. Lower funding costs for  New Zealand  banks, along with
increased competition for lending, have seen mortgage interest
rates reduce.  ‘‘Dampening factors include the Government’s fiscal
consolidation and continued cautiousness by households and
businesses in their spending decisions. The high  New Zealand
dollar  continues to be a significant headwind, restricting
export earnings and encouraging demand for imports.  ‘‘The overall outlook is for stronger domestic demand and
the elimination of current excess capacity by the end of next
year. This is expected to cause inflation to rise gradually
towards the 2 percent target midpoint.  ‘‘ Monetary policy  remains focused on keeping future average
inflation near the 2 percent target midpoint. The Bank is
closely monitoring indicators for any sign of further moderation
and is mindful of recent downside surprises to employment and
inflation outturns. With the reconstruction-driven pick-up in
investment now clearly underway, the Bank will also continue to
watch for a greater degree of inflation pressure than is
assumed.  ‘‘On balance, it remains appropriate for the OCR to be held
at 2.5 percent.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  