-- New York Sued Over Traffic-Light Camera Tickets, Fines
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-05T23:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/new-york-sued-over-traffic-light-camera-tickets-fines.html
Three men who were ticketed by  New
York ’s red-light traffic cameras sued the city, claiming the
system’s yellow signals are shorter in duration than the law
allows.  Traffic lights changing to red display yellow for a shorter
time than the federal minimum of three seconds and the city has
installed 168 more cameras than state law permits, according to
the complaint filed today in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The city “must therefore refund the fines they illegally
collected without proper cause since the inception of the red-
light camera program in 1998,” according to the complaint, in
which the three men seek to sue on behalf of other  motorists 
nabbed by the cameras.  The state passed legislation in April 1998 allowing the
city to implement the program and install red-light cameras at
50 locations, according to the complaint. Other bills were
passed in June 2006 and April 2009 allowing 100 additional
cameras while the city operates a total of 318 cameras, the men
allege.  The plaintiffs are seeking an order halting the program
until it conforms with state and federal laws and a refund of
“illegitimately issued citations and improper fines.”  In an e-mail, Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the
city’s law department, declined to immediately comment on the
lawsuit. New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Running Lights  The city Department of Transportation’s cameras
automatically take high-resolution pictures of vehicles that run
red lights, including close-ups of license plates, and issue
summonses to the owners, according to the complaint. The program
has generated about $235 million in revenue since 2007,
including $47.2 million in 2011, the plaintiffs claim.  The AAA, a nonprofit group for drivers, recently found some
intersections where yellow lights operated for less than three
seconds, according to the complaint. AAA’s New York chapter
looked at about a half-dozen individual intersections in
response to member complaints and found that the lights were
“generally short,” spokesman Robert Sinclair Jr. said in a
telephone interview.  Three Seconds  Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the transportation
department, said the city’s traffic signals are all timed to
provide a yellow light for a minimum of three seconds and the
cameras take pictures 0.3 seconds after the light has turned
red. Some of the intersections identified in media reports
didn’t even have  red light cameras  or had only inactive cameras.  “This claim wasn’t true then and we’ve seen no evidence
that it’s true now,” Solomonow said in an e-mail. “In October
we inspected signals at red-light camera locations and confirmed
that they were all properly timed and some did not even have
cameras.”  The AAA believes the duration of yellow lights should be
based on characteristics of individual intersections such as the
prevailing speed of traffic rather than just the speed limit,
Sinclair said.  “We do still have our problems with  New York City ’s red-
light camera program but we haven’t done anything that could be
considered a study,” Sinclair said. “It’s certainly nothing to
be the subject of a lawsuit.”  The case is Luceno v. City of New York, 654239/2012, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  