-- Newron Shareholders Approve NeuroNova Purchase on Revised Deal
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-05T11:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/newron-shareholders-approve-neuronova-purchase-on-revised-deal.html
Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN) ’s
shareholders approved the acquisition of  Sweden ’s NeuroNova AB,
after offering 40 percent fewer shares to appease an investor
who previously blocked the deal.  Shareholders at a meeting in Zurich today voted unanimously
in favor of the purchase, Bresso, Italy-based Newron said in a
statement. The company will buy closely-held NeuroNova with
2,375,000 new shares, or 21 percent of its stock, in a deal that
values the Stockholm-based company at 19.8 million Swiss francs
($21 million) as of yesterday’s closing price.  The acquisition gives Newron experimental drugs against
Parkinson’s and  Lou Gehrig ’s diseases, and 16 million euros ($21
million) in cash to help develop safinamide, a Parkinson’s
treatment that is Newron’s most advanced project.  Zambon Company
SpA , Newron’s second-biggest shareholder, blocked the deal in a
September ballot when Newron’s board was offering a 33 percent
stake.  “The revised agreement to acquire NeuroNova experienced
strong support both from institutional and retail shareholders
demonstrating clearly that there is trust and support in
Newron’s strategy to broaden its development pipeline,” Newron
Chairman Rolf Stahel said in the statement.  Zambon, a family-owned maker of pharmaceuticals and
chemicals that’s also based in Bresso, paid 20 million euros for
the rights to safinamide and a 9.1 percent stake in Newron in
May, a month before Newron proposed the NeuroNova deal. Zambon
has since increased its stake to 18 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Newron is buying NeuroNova from HealthCap, a venture
capital fund manager with more than 900 million euros in
investments, and  Investor AB (INVEB) , the holding company of the
Wallenberg family that also controls SEB AB, Sweden’s fourth-
largest lender. The two companies, which hold more than 90
percent of NeuroNova between them, are based in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  