-- Nexans Sees Higher Connector Sales for Power-Line Communication
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-12-05T11:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nexans-sees-higher-connector-sales-for-power-line-communication.html
Nexans SA (NEX) , the world’s second-largest
cable maker, plans to boost sales of accessories such as
connectors and sensors as it develops a technology that allows
uninterrupted transmission of data through power lines.  “We’re developing complete solutions that will ensure
communications through transformers, which were acting as a dam
so far,” Alain Robic, general director of Nexans Power
Accessories France, said in an interview in Paris.  “This could add 30 percent to our accessories revenue at
some point,” Robic said, without giving a timeframe. Sales of
low- and medium-voltage accessories account for “a bit less”
than 200 million euros ($262 million) of annual sales, he said.  Nexans, based in the French capital, makes products ranging
from energy lines to cable for Airbus SAS aircraft. It had 6.92
billion euros of sales last year. The new technology, which is
being tested in five pilot projects and could be marketed
starting in 2015, will allow grid operators to monitor and
control networks through existing  power lines  without relying on
telecommunication operators, Robic said.  Nexans said on Oct. 22 that its second-half margin wouldn’t
rebound as much as it previously expected because of a slowdown
in Europe,  Brazil  and  Australia . The company predicted in July
that there would be a “significant” increase in second-half
profitability as it progressively fixed production issues at an
underwater-cable plant in  Norway .  The company’s total operating margin narrowed to 3.6
percent of revenue in the first half from 5.1 percent a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  