-- NHL Owners, Players Have ‘Best Day’ of Talks Since Lockout Began
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-05T06:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nhl-owners-players-meet-in-new-york-after-mediation-talks-fail.html
National Hockey League owners and
players planned to meet again today after talking yesterday for
about eight hours in what a union official said “might be the
best day we’ve had.”  Six owners and 18 players met until midnight in  New York ,
leaving NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman and NHL Players
Association Executive Director Don Fehr out of the negotiations.  “We thought it was a constructive day,” union special
counsel Steve Fehr, the younger brother of Don Fehr, told
reporters. “We had a good dialogue. In some ways I’d say it
might be the best day we’ve had, which isn’t too overly
optimistic of a picture.”  NHL Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly also sounded cautiously
optimistic.  “I appreciate the efforts of the players,” Daly said.
“Everybody is working hard. I think everybody wants to get a
deal done, so that’s encouraging. We look forward to hopefully
making more progress tomorrow.”  The meeting came after two days with federal mediators last
week yielded no progress toward reaching a new collective
bargaining agreement and ending a player lockout in its 12th
week.  The labor dispute has forced the cancellation of more than
a third of the NHL’s regular season so far, including the
outdoor Winter Classic, plus the All-Star Game.  The NHL owners attending the meeting, according to NHL.com,
are Jeremy Jacobs of the  Boston Bruins , Murray Edwards of the
Calgary Flames, Mark Chipman of the Winnipeg Jets, Larry Tanenbaum of the  Toronto Maple Leafs ,  Ron Burkle  of the
Pittsburgh Penguins and Jeff Vinik of the  Tampa Bay Lightning .  The NHLPA said in a release on its website that the players
included Penguins captain  Sidney Crosby  and Buffalo Sabres
goaltender Ryan Miller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  