-- Nigeria $10 Billion of ‘Hot Money’ Not Posing a Threat
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-12-05T17:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nigeria-10-billion-hot-money-not-posing-a-threat.html
Nigeria’s financial system is not
under threat from speculative investments valued at about $10
billion, Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  Nigeria would still have $36 billion in reserves if the
investments left the country, Sanusi said today at a conference
in Abuja, the capital. High interest rates have kept inflation
below forecast, stabilized the naira and helped raise foreign
currency reserves, he said.  “The policy is working” in providing  price stability , the
core mandate of the bank, he said. “I don’t like high interest
rates, but we have stability and that’s what I’m paid to do.”  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Sanusi, has left its
 policy rate  unchanged at a record 12 percent this year to help
support the naira and curb inflation. Inflation rose to 11.7
percent in October, staying below the central bank’s forecast of
as much as 15 percent after the government cut a subsidy on
gasoline in January.  Foreign investors account for 70 percent of transactions on
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange , according to Chief Executive
Officer Oscar Onyema. The value of Treasury bills sold by
Nigeria rose 31 percent to 2.1 trillion naira ($13.4 billion) in
the first half of this year earlier, while bonds increased 12
percent to 3.7 trillion naira, according to the central bank.  Biggest Obstacles  There’s no evidence that lower interest rates will
necessarily spur economic growth, as the biggest obstacles to
borrowing and credit are lack of power supply, roads and other
infrastructure that businesses need, he said.  “I do understand the pain that the borrowers” paying high
interest rates,’’ Sanusi said. Still, “let’s not exaggerate
this transmission, the potential of a lower  interest rate  to
increase gross domestic product,” Sanusi said.  A tight monetary policy stance helped to lift some of the
pressure on the naira caused by “leakages” including
fraudulent fuel subsidy payments and crude oil theft worth $7
billion last year, Sanusi said citing figures released by the
Petroleum Ministry.  “If that money had gone into reserves, we wouldn’t have
had the pressure on the naira that forced us to tighten,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  