-- Nigeria Seeks Farming Boom With $3 Billion Rail Plan: Freight
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-12-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nigeria-seeks-farming-boom-with-3-billion-rail-plan-freight.html
Nigeria  is pushing to reverse years
of neglect of its agriculture and mining industries by revamping
railways in a bid to reduce the economy’s dependence on oil.  The West African nation, the continent’s top crude producer,
is spending more than $3 billion to build about 300 kilometers
(186 miles) of rail lines in the next three years. That will
help move more of everything from peanuts to coal from the
northern Sahel belt to ports on the Atlantic coast, as well as
serving Nigeria’s growing consumer class.  Oil has dominated the economy since the 1970s, now making
up 95 percent of export earnings and 80 percent of government
revenue. Agriculture and non-oil mining have shrunk by more than
40 percent, making Nigeria more vulnerable to oil price shocks.
President Goodluck Jonathan plans to reverse that by expanding
and rebuilding railways, ports and power plants, benefiting
companies including  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) , the nation’s biggest
company, and  Flour Mills Nigeria Plc (FLOURMIL) , the largest miller.  “Profitability will increase and economic growth will be
achieved faster,” Ayo Teriba, chief executive officer of
Economic Associates Ltd., a business consulting firm in the
commercial capital, Lagos, said in a phone interview. “Rail is
necessary to grow Nigeria’s very diversified internal economy.”  Dangote, Flour Mills,  Oando Plc (OANDO) , a fuel retailer, and
Guinness Nigeria Plc, the second-biggest beer maker, have agreed
to transport contracts with Nigerian Railway Corp., operator of
the lines.  Chinese Builders  Still, rail expansion faces a lack of planning, as well as
corruption and violent conflict. Nigeria is ranked 143rd on
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index of 182
nations. While an armed insurgency in the oil-rich southern
Niger River delta region that cut oil production has eased since
2009, a wave of bomb and gun attacks in the mainly Muslim north
and in Abuja has killed more than 1,500 people, according to New
York-based  Human Rights Watch .  “A lot more needs to be done,” Teriba said. The
government needs the “political will” to push through with its
rail plans, he said.  China  Civil Engineering Construction Corp., or CCECC, on
Aug. 30 signed an agreement to build a 157-kilometer double
carriage railway between Lagos and Ibadan, Nigeria’s third-
largest city. CCECC is building another 186.5-kilometer double
carriage link connecting the northern city of Kaduna to Abuja,
the capital, at a cost of $875 million. The projects are partly
financed with loans from China’s Export and Import Bank.  Light Rail  The government is also building a two-line light rail
network for Abuja at a cost of $500 million to help ease
congestion.  Rail improvements “will break a lot of supply bottlenecks
and lower a huge chunk of manufacturing cost,” Chibuzo Ivenso,
head of research at Lagos-based ARM Equity Research Ltd., said
in a phone interview on Dec. 3. “It will also help create
markets that are much further off.”  ARM has a buy recommendation on Dangote, which has gained
8.2 percent to 121.5 naira in the past six months. Flour Mills
has climbed 12 percent to 66 naira in the period, while Oando
has dropped 23 percent.  Nigeria needs about $10 billion over the next five years to
repair and build new railways, according to James Milne, an
analyst at  Frost & Sullivan  in  Cape Town . Years of neglect of
railways while Nigeria was in political flux during military
rule that ended in 1998 resulted in freight-rail capacity
dropping to 15,000 tons a year in 2005 from 3 million tons in
1964, Milne said in a phone interview on Dec. 3. Most freight is
transported on worn-out and congested roads, he said.  Bigger Part  “The structure and network is still there for 3 million
tons of freight to be moved, but a large part of that has fallen
into disrepair,” he said. “If the rail network is improved, it
increases the likelihood of agriculture playing a bigger part in
the economy.”  Nigeria has gone from growing enough food to feed itself in
the 1960s to the world’s largest importer of rice and sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s biggest buyer of wheat and sugar. More than
half of the population of 160 million live in rural areas.  The government wants “to resuscitate and revamp the
railway” to become a “major component of economic development
and social integration,” Transport Minister Idris Umar said on
Aug. 30.  Rail investment will help benefit retailers and consumer-
goods companies, such as soap-maker  PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc (PZ) ,
trying to tap a growing middle class in Africa’s most populous
nation, said Milne. Nigeria’s economy is set to grow 7 percent
this year and 6.7 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “It’s such a huge population, and accessing the population
is very difficult,” Milne said. “A large part of the market is
informally structured, so easing transport problems is going to
give better access to that huge population.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  