-- Nokia Lumia, HTC 8X Gamble on Microsoft: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-12-05T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nokia-lumia-htc-8x-gamble-on-microsoft-rich-jaroslovsky.html
How should we think about the  Nokia (NOK1V) 
Lumia 920 and  HTC (2498)  8X?  Should we view them as the twin flagships of Microsoft’s
new Windows Phone 8 operating system? By that standard, they’re
impressive: two polished, highly capable new devices that show
off Microsoft’s colorful, innovative software to great effect.  Or do we take into account external issues, like the
business struggles of both companies and the fact that WinPhone
8 versions of such critical applications as Spotify, Instagram
and Pinterest are missing in action? In that case, these look
more like desperate efforts by two also-rans in hardware to
hitch their fates to an also-ran in mobile-device software.  I prefer to think the former. But a little caution is in
order.  On the surface, Windows Phone 8 looks a lot like its
predecessor, Windows Phone 7. It preserves the same distinctive,
tile-based interface, albeit with a few tweaks.  You can now, for instance, choose from three sizes of
tiles, giving you additional control over your start screen. New
“Kid’s Corner” parental controls let you lock down certain
features and content before you hand the phone over to Junior to
play with.  While the visible changes are few, things are vastly
different beneath the hood. Essentially,  Microsoft (MSFT)  pulled out
the engine and rebuilt it from scratch.  Powerful Processors  The operating system now supports more powerful processors
and higher-resolution screens than Windows Phone 7 could
handle. The flip side is that apps written for the new software
won’t run on WinPhone 7 hardware.  As for the new phones, if you put the Lumia 920 and 8X side
by side, it isn’t easy to tell them apart. The Lumia has a
marginally larger screen -- 4.5 inches, versus 4.3 inches for
the 8X -- but both displays are beautiful, with bright colors,
deep blacks and even more pixels per square inch than the iPhone
5’s 4-inch Retina display.  The glass is also rounded at the corners and framed by very
thin bezels. Both phones have polycarbonate bodies and are
available in a selection of colors.  Pick them up, though, and a big difference becomes
apparent: The Lumia is a brick.  Heavy Duty  At 6.5 ounces, it’s one of the heaviest current-model
smartphones -- 65 percent heavier than  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 and 39
percent heavier than the  Samsung (005930)  Galaxy S III, which has a
larger screen. It’s even heavier than Samsung’s Galaxy Note II,
which, with its enormous 5.5-inch screen, is almost more tablet
than phone.  And speaking of tablets, the Lumia is almost 50 percent
thicker than an iPad mini. In short, this is one big hunk of
hardware.  There are, however, offsetting benefits.  Start with the price: In the U.S., the Lumia costs only
$100 on a two-year contract with AT&T. For that, you get a
generous 32 gigabytes of storage, a  Qualcomm (QCOM)  Snapdragon S4
processor and, a specialty of Nokia’s, a high-quality 8.7-
megapixel camera with Carl Zeiss optics.  It also runs over  AT&T (T) ’s ultrafast 4G LTE network, if
you’re lucky enough to live in one of the 100 or so markets
where the service has been rolled out.  Neat Extras  Then there are the extras. One is the ability to charge the
phone wirelessly simply by laying it on top of an optional $49
charging pad. (AT&T is including the pad for a limited time at
no extra cost.) And there’s an excellent maps application.
(Nokia owns Navteq, one of the world’s major providers of
geographic data.)  While the Lumia 920 is so far available only on AT&T, HTC’s
8X is appearing on both AT&T and Verizon Wireless, where it can
access LTE, as well as on  T-Mobile (DTE) , whose non-LTE “4G” network
generally provides slower speeds. The  Verizon (VZ)  version also
supports wireless charging, though I wasn’t able to try it out
since my test unit was from AT&T.  The 8X has the same processor as the Lumia 920 but costs
twice as much for half the storage: $200 for 16 gigabytes. (AT&T
is also offering an eight-gigabyte model for $100.) It also has
a less-beefy battery (though both should get you through a full
day of normal use) and an eight-megapixel camera that’s OK, but
that I didn’t like as much as the Lumia’s.  On the other hand, the 8X is a far more compact package,
both lighter -- 4.6 ounces -- and thinner. And HTC has put some
extra effort into the audio, including  Beats  technology and an
amplifier for cranking up the volume.  So that’s your choice: value, power and camera versus
comfort, elegance and sound. With just a little question mark
about what the future holds for all three companies.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and Greg Evans
on  television .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 