-- Nomura Names Kimura Global Head of M&A as Novelli Leaves
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-12-06T03:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/nomura-names-kimura-global-head-of-m-a-as-novelli-leaves.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest
investment bank, named Kenji Kimura global head of mergers and
acquisitions as Piero Novelli leaves the firm.  Novelli, who has been co-head of global M&A, is departing
to “pursue other interests,” Nomura said in a November staff
memo obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by a bank official
in London. He used to share the job with Kentaro Okuda, who
became head of investment banking earlier this year.  Kimura, 51, was most recently senior managing director of
the CEO-COO office at Nomura Holdings. Jonathan Rouner was named
international head of M&A, a new role based in New York, the
company said. He will remain head of M&A Americas.  Nomura ranks 12th among firms in arranging global mergers
this year, up from 13th in each of the previous four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Tokyo-based company
plans to become profitable in all regions by March 2015, it said
this week in an investor presentation, as Chief Executive
Officer Koji Nagai targets $1 billion of cost cuts.  Kimura, who has previously served as head of Japan M&A,
will move to  Hong Kong , the firm said. Novelli, 47, a former  UBS
AG (UBSN)  banker who left the Swiss bank in 2008, was at Nomura for two
years. He declined to comment when reached by phone.  The bank is scaling back after a four-year struggle to
build a business overseas following the purchase of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units in 2008.
Nomura has posted pretax losses abroad for 10 straight quarters.  In Japan, the company is losing its four-year grip on
takeover advice after missing 2012’s biggest deal in the
country.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  overtook Nomura in October
after winning a role advising and managing funding for  Softbank
Corp. (9984) ’s bid for  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  