-- Ocwen Needs Monitor Under Mortgage Deal, New York Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-12-05T22:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ocwen-needs-monitor-under-mortgage-deal-new-york-says.html
Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , which won a
$3 billion auction for Residential Capital LLC’s mortgage
servicing business, must hire a monitor to review operations,
New York’s banking regulator said.  The monitor is required to ensure the company complies with
an agreement to reform servicing practices, the state’s
Department of Financial Services said in a statement today. A
review by the department found “indications” Ocwen violated
the agreement reached with the regulator.  “To protect homeowners facing the risk of losing their
homes, we must ensure that the companies are actually living up
to their promises,”  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the
department, said in the statement.  Ocwen reached an agreement with the state last year to make
changes to its servicing operations, according to the
department. In October, Ocwen and Walter Investment Management
Corp. won the bidding for ResCap’s loan servicing and
origination assets.  Department of Financial Services spokesman  David Neustadt 
said the department hasn’t yet approved the ResCap sale to
Ocwen. He declined to comment further.  Katarina Wenk-Bodenmiller, a spokeswoman for Ocwen, had no
immediate comment on the state’s announcement.  A department examination found indications that in some
instances Ocwen failed to provide a single point of contact for
borrowers and pursued foreclosures against borrowers who sought
loan modifications.  Under a consent order, Ocwen has 20 days to find an
independent monitor acceptable to the department. The monitor
will review the company’s operations and report on “corrective
actions” within 90 days, the state said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  