-- Oklahoma High Court Says Abortion Laws Unconstitutional
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-05T00:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/oklahoma-high-court-says-abortion-laws-unconstitutional.html
The Oklahoma  Supreme Court  struck
down as unconstitutional state laws that expanded rules for
doctors prescribing pregnancy-ending drugs and required women
seeking abortions to have ultrasound scans.  The court said today it was bound by standards imposed by
the U.S. Supreme Court in a 1992 decision called  Planned
Parenthood  v. Casey, which upheld Roe v. Wade and blocked
regulations that impose a substantial obstacle to women seeking
abortions before a fetus can survive outside the womb.  The Oklahoma law limiting the use of abortion-inducing
drugs required doctors to provide the medicines in accordance
with procedures tested and authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and barred any off-label uses of abortion drugs.  Abortion providers that sued said they couldn’t provide
medication-induced abortions under the law because complying
with its requirements isn’t possible. The FDA doesn’t test or
authorize protocols for the two-drug treatment commonly used to
end pregnancies.  State officials argued there’s evidence that off-label use
of abortion-inducing drugs lead to serious infections and death.  State judges previously blocked both laws, drawing appeals
from Oklahoma officials.  “We disagree with the court’s decision, particularly with
the fact that the question on whether Oklahoma’s constitution
provides a right to an abortion was left unanswered,” state
Attorney General  Scott Pruitt  said in an e-mail. “Our job is to
protect the citizens of Oklahoma and we will consider an
appeal.”  The cases are Oklahoma Coalition for Reproductive Justice v
Cline, 110765, and Nova Health Systems v Pruitt, 110813,
Oklahoma Supreme Court ( Oklahoma City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  