-- Holders of Argentine Euro-Bonds Ask to Join U.S. Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-05T21:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/holders-of-argentine-euro-bonds-ask-to-join-u-s-appeal-1-.html
Holders of  Argentina ’s euro-
denominated bonds asked a U.S. appeals court to let them join an
appeal of a  Manhattan  federal judge’s rulings in litigation over
defaulted debt.  Knighthead Capital Management LLC, Redwood Capital
Management LLC and Perry Capital LLC, which claim they hold more
than $1.6 billion in the Euro bonds, asked the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  New York  yesterday to allow them to join Argentina’s
appeal of a judge’s decisions in the dispute over $1.3 billion
in defaulted Argentine bonds.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in Manhattan ruled Nov.
21 that Argentina had to pay the $1.3 billion, which is claimed
by holders of the defaulted debt, into an escrow account by Dec.
15 if it made about $3 billion in scheduled payments on the
restructured debt this month. The rulings sparked a rout in
Argentine bonds and caused Fitch to cut ratings on the country’s
debt.  “Because the district court made no attempt to tailor
those orders, they would apply to all of the Republic’s alleged
‘agents and participants’ anywhere in the world -- even parties
that disburse monies to the holders of the euro bonds and reside
outside of the U.S., beyond the jurisdiction of the district
court,” the euro bond holders said in their court filing.  Argentina is appealing Griesa’s decisions, supported by
investors who participated in two debt restructurings.  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee for the restructured bonds,
has also asked the court for permission to participate in the
appeal.  The appeals court last week delayed the effect of Griesa’s
orders and set Feb. 27 for oral argument in the case.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  