-- Honda Plans to Become Net Exporter From North America
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-06T21:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/honda-plans-to-become-net-exporter-from-north-america.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s first
automaker to build cars in the U.S., said its vehicle exports
from North America will exceed imports into the region as
production outside Japan grows.  Honda will be a net exporter as its plants in the U.S.,
 Canada  and  Mexico  take more responsibility for developing global
models for sale in multiple countries, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement. The carmaker yesterday marked production of
its 1 millionth U.S. export, a 2013 Accord sedan heading for
South Korea, at its Marysville, Ohio, plant.  Three decades after the company began building vehicles in
Marysville, the company is adding a factory in Mexico to produce
Fit hatchbacks starting in 2014. U.S. sales of Honda and Acura
brand autos are rebounding this year, up 24 percent through
November, aided by a 57 percent surge in vehicle production at
its North American plants.  “It’s something they can do, and they’ve got a supply base
here they’re very comfortable with to achieve that,” said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry researcher Baum & Associates in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “They already import so little it’s
not that big a stretch for them to be a net exporter.”  With the addition of the Fit plant, Honda has said it will
have capacity to build at least 1.9 million vehicles in  North
America  annually, up from about 1.7 million this year.  Through November, 90 percent of Honda and Acura models sold
in the U.S. were made in North America, with only 10 percent
coming from Japan, the company said this week.  Supply Base  Revenue from about 90,000 vehicles being shipped abroad
from North American factories will reach $3 billion in the
fiscal year ending March 2013, Jim Burrell, Honda’s U.S.
assistant vice president for export sales, said in a phone
interview late yesterday. North American auto exports will rise
to more than 100,000 cars and trucks next year, Burrell said.  The first Honda auto exports from the U.S. began in 1987,
and “quality for the world, made in America, has been an
important Honda commitment for the past 25 years,” President
Takanobu Ito said in the statement.  Honda’s U.S. sales dipped 6.8 percent last year, the result
of production disruptions caused by natural disasters in  Asia 
that slowed North American plants for months due to parts
shortages.  The company expects to deliver almost 1.46 million Honda
and Acura brand vehicles this year in the U.S., up from 1.15
million a year ago,  John Mendel , Honda’s U.S. executive vice
president, said in an interview last month. The company’s U.S.
deliveries totaled 1.29 million through November.  Toyota, Nissan  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s largest automaker,  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  and other Japanese carmakers are also expanding production
at North American plants and export to markets beyond the region
to counter the threat of a strong yen eroding the profit of U.S.
sales.  “While Toyota doesn’t have a specific target, the U.S.
will continue to be a significant export hub for the company, as
evidenced by a 52 percent increase in volume this year,” said
Javier Moreno, a spokesman for Toyota’s North American unit.
“We expect that number to continue to increase in the future.”  Nissan is also “trending” toward exporting more autos
from North American plants than it imports into the region, said
Travis Parman, a spokesman for the Yokohama-based company.  “Though not there yet, the tipping point comes when we
localize production of Rogue at the end of 2013,” Parman said
today in an e-mail. Nissan is preparing to build a redesigned
version of the Rogue compact crossover, now produced in Japan,
at its Smyrna, Tennessee, plant starting next year.  Honda’s U.S. headquarters are in Torrance,  California . The
company’s American depositary receipts gained 1.2 percent to
$33.27 at the close in  New York . They’ve risen 8.9 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  