-- London Airports Closed During Morning Rush as Snow Hits Britain
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-05T09:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/london-airports-closed-during-morning-rush-as-snow-hits-britain.html
London ’s  Stansted (FER)  and Luton airports
were closed this morning and road, rail and subway journeys
disrupted as the first significant snows of the winter hit
southern Britain.  Stansted, the No. 1 base for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , shut for
at least two hours beginning at 6 a.m., causing flights to be
cancelled during the peak time for morning departures. Luton’s
runway was closed for an hour starting 6:40 a.m. and services at
both locations remain affected by the backlog of planes.  “There will be a knock on effect from the closure this
morning,” said Melvyn Nice, a spokesman for  Stansted  owner
Heathrow Airport Ltd. Passengers should call airlines to check
their flight’s status and leave extra time for travel, he said.  Dublin-based Ryanair,  Europe ’s top discount carrier, said
by e-mail that all morning flights from the two London airports
would be affected, adding that Stansted was likely to reopen at
10 a.m. and that Luton was open “but with limited movements.”  While there were delays at Luton, the headquarters of
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Britain’s biggest low-cost airline, a spokesman
said there have been no cancellations at the airport, which is
located in the Chiltern hills northwest of London.  “The runway was shut during the peak rush hour but the
closure was fairly short so we should get through the backlog
quite quickly,” said David Roach, a spokesman for  London Luton
Airport Ltd.   Tube Disruption  On London’s Tube, five out of thirteen routes suffered
delays during the morning commute. The website of  Transport for
London , which runs the subway network, reported delays on
northern reaches of the Metropolitan line in the Chilterns
“while we deal with snow and ice on the track.”  Snowfalls were heaviest to the north of London, where
Stansted is located, with flights due to land there diverted to
 Gatwick airport , almost 60 miles to the south.  London Heathrow ,
Europe’s busiest hub, isn’t currently affected by the adverse
weather, spokeswoman Lizzie Bysshe said.  The U.K.’s  Met Office  issued a Level 3 Cold Weather Action
alert, meaning that there’s a 90 percent probability of cold
weather including overnight frosts and ice through Dec. 9.  “Wintry showers will lead to some snow accumulations in
places,” the national weather service said on its website.
“Wednesday night will be particularly cold with a widespread,
sharp frost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  