-- Hong Kong Air Seeks A380 Order Swap for Smaller Aircraft
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-05T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/hong-kong-air-seeks-a380-order-swap-for-smaller-aircraft.html
Hong Kong Airlines, holder of the
biggest backlog of Airbus SAS A380 orders in Asia, is seeking to
swap some planes for smaller models because of a new focus on
short-haul routes.  The carrier is discussing changing at least some of its 10
on-order A380s for A330s, and delaying deliveries, President
Yang Jianhong said by phone yesterday, without giving a
timeframe for when talks may be concluded. Airbus doesn’t
comment on negotiations with customers, said spokesman Sean Lee.  Hong Kong Air, which is backed by  China ’s HNA Group, said
in August it was reviewing the A380 orders after a slump in
long-haul travel caused by slower growth in  Europe . The slowdown
has also forced  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Hong Kong’s biggest
carrier, to pare capacity and begin a cost-cutting drive.  “We won’t resume long haul routes in the short term,”
Yang said. “Now, we are trying to do a better job in
operations.”  Airbus, based in Toulouse,  France , held 168 orders for
A380s at the end of October, based on data on its  website . That
included the 10 from Hong Kong Air and five from Indian carrier
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which suspended services in October.
The double-decker plane carries about 525 passengers and has an
average list price of $389.9 million.  Regional Focus  Hong Kong Air’s focus on regional services means it will
make a profit this year, Yang said, without giving a detailed
forecast. The closely held carrier is also winning back
customers after disruptions during a typhoon, he said. Hong
Kong’s aviation regulator capped the size of the airline’s fleet
after the cancelations because of concerns about the carrier’s
ability to manage a larger operation. There are no safety issues
about its current size.  Hong Kong Air is also seeing “pretty good” travel demand
for the Christmas period, except for  Japan , Yang said. Cathay
Pacific is facing possible industrial action by cabin crew then
because a pay dispute.  Hong Kong Air ended an all-business class service to  London 
earlier this year as it withdrew from long-haul routes. It has
also delayed the arrival of six  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 freighters to at
least mid-2014 from next year. The carrier and affiliate Hong
Kong Express fly to about 30 cities, mainly in China, based on
its website.  Hong Kong Express will complete its transformation into a
low-cost carrier by May or June, Yang said. The carrier will
compete with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and China Eastern Airlines
Corp.’s Jetstar Hong Kong, which is due to start flying in the
first half of next year. Spring Airlines Co., China’s biggest
privately-owned carrier, is also considering a venture in Hong
Kong as part of an overseas expansion push.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  