-- Montoro Signals Spain May Miss 2012 Budget-Deficit Target
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/montoro-signals-spain-may-miss-2012-budget-deficit-target.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro signaled for the first time the nation may miss its
budget goal, as the government tries to narrow the deficit
without tipping the economy deeper into its five-year slump.  Spain  is aiming for a deficit of 6.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, while the European Commission
estimates a gap of 8 percent, or one percentage point less if
aid to banks is excluded.  “The formal target continues to be what it is, the formal
one, and the European commissioner himself said he estimated the
deficit would be around 7 percent,” Montoro told reporters late
yesterday in Madrid, referring to Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn . “But the important thing is to reduce
the deficit, the quicker the better, without deepening the
recession as a result -- that’s the limit.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to shrink the
deficit to stave off a European bailout even with the economy
suffering its second recession in three years. As austerity
measures prompt street protests while failing to tame borrowing
costs, Rehn eased pressure on Spain on Nov. 14, saying the
country was doing enough to reorder its finances.  Montoro said Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions trimmed
their shortfall to 1.14 percent of GDP in the first nine months,
compared with 2.2 percent a year earlier. Including the impact
of payments to the regions that the central government brought
forward, the shortfall was 0.93 percent, he said.  Regional Responsibilities  Still, the minister said regions must continue to rein in
spending to reach their share of the deficit goal, which is 1.5
percent of GDP at year-end. The government will make sure the
states, which control schools and hospitals, implement their
budget pledges in the last quarter, he said.  “Is the 1.5 percent deficit target achieved? No,” Montoro
said.  Most regions are locked out of financial markets and the
central government created an 18 billion-euro ($24 billion)
bailout fund in July to spare them from default. The central
government plans to extend the fund that was designed as a one-
off for another year and is calculating how much it will need to
do so. The central government alone plans to issue 207 billion
euros of gross debt next year, according to the budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  