-- Opting Out of Coverage Seen Creating Employee Backlash
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/opting-out-of-coverage-seen-creating-employee-backlash.html
 Maggie Wilderotter, chief executive
officer at cable, Internet and phone provider  Frontier
Communications Corp. (FTR)  says it’s her “fiduciary responsibility”
to study ending medical benefits long provided by her company.  “Frontier, like a lot of companies, is likely to at least
consider dropping health-care benefits” in 2014, she said.  As President  Barack Obama  presses ahead with plans to
broaden insurance coverage, many U.S. executives say his health-
care law has them rethinking their options. Starting in 2014,
the law’s $2,000 fine for not offering coverage appears to be
far less than what most businesses pay for benefits.  In the end, though, companies will probably find compelling
reasons to continue providing health coverage. Among them:
Employers value coverage as a tool for recruiting and keeping
workers healthy and also fear a backlash, especially among
higher earners who might have to pay far more for their
insurance than they do now, said  Tracy Watts , a partner at
Washington-based benefits consultant Mercer Inc. Employees might
spend as much as $2,000 a month more in the law’s new online
exchanges, she said.  “Some employees would end up spending a huge percentage of
their incomes for health care if companies drop coverage,”
Watts said in a telephone interview. “Employers couldn’t make
it up in raises.”  Bad Deal  The biggest argument against opting out is that it may
simply prove a bad deal for employers. The $2,000-per-employee
penalty imposed on companies that deny coverage isn’t deductible
like other business expenses. And employees told they’re losing
coverage are likely to demand some of it back through cash or
other perks, said Randall Abbott, a senior consultant at  Towers
Watson & Co. (TW) , a New York-based human resources consultant. While
health benefits are tax-free, wages aren’t, he said.  “By the time you get done, if your intent is to make up
the lost wages, exiting can be more expensive than retaining
your health plan,” Abbott said.  A  survey  released in June by Mercer found only 6 percent of
businesses plan to discontinue coverage in 2014. In July, the
 Congressional Budget Office   estimated  that the legislation will
result in a loss of benefits for 2.5 percent of the 161 million
workers expected to receive coverage through work by the end of
the next decade -- or 4 million people. (At the same time, 30
million uninsured people are expected to obtain coverage through
the new health law.)  Future Decisions  It’s still early and any changes that occur are probably a
ways off. Frontier CEO Wilderotter commented about possibly
dropping health-care benefits in response to a question from an
employee at a meeting Nov. 6 about the company’s third-quarter
 performance . The telecommunications company hasn’t yet analyzed
the pros and cons of dropping health care and “nothing will
change in 2013,” she told employees at the meeting Frontier’s
 Stamford , Connecticut headquarters. The company employs about
15,000.  Doing away with health benefits can sound appealing to some
companies at first glance. The average family policy is expected
to cost $12,000 by 2014, with employers typically picking up 80
percent of the bill, or $9,600, according to Towers Watson.
That’s almost five times more than the $2,000 per worker fine,
which applies to any company that employs 50 or more workers.  Ending benefits would free companies of the hassle of
running insurance plans and negotiating rates with carriers and
hospitals, not to mention the burden of ever-rising medical
costs.  “Most people who went into business didn’t get into it to
run a health plan,” said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an economist who
advised U.S. Senator  John McCain  and former President  George W.
Bush  “I think they’d be very happy to get out of it.”  Economic Gravity  At Dallas-based  AT&T (T) , the nation’s largest phone company,
CEO  Randall Stephenson  said he expects large employers to
gradually shift away from providing benefits. While the CEO said
he has no plans to do so for his 241,000 workers, “economic
gravity will take over” for most businesses “and companies
will stop providing coverage.”  Restaurants are looking at similar steps. Landry’s Inc.,
owner of McCormick & Schmick’s, and Carl’s Jr.-parent  CKE Inc. (CK) 
plan to shift jobs from full time to part time to avoid the
health law’s requirements for offering coverage. Jamie
Richardson, a vice president at hamburger-chain White Castle
System Inc., said he’d be “shocked” if competitors weren’t
studying the idea, although he says his company isn’t.  The insurance exchanges to be created by the health law
were designed with low- and moderate-income buyers in mind. They
offer subsidies on a sliding scale to anyone making as much as
four times the U.S.  poverty level  -- about $44,000 for a single
person and $92,000 for a family of four this year.  Paying More  For a low-wage fast-food worker, the exchange approach
might offer a better deal, said Abbott of Towers Watson. Those
who make too much for subsidies -- from office workers to senior
managers -- would end up paying more, said Mercer’s Watts. A
typical family may spend $2,000 a month on the exchange compared
with the $300 to $400 a month they average now for their share
of premiums in a company plan, Mercer estimates.  Dropping benefits may make most sense in low-wage, high-
turnover industries like retail, restaurants and hotels, where
there’d be less pressure to make up for the lost benefits,
Abbott said. Even there, the Mercer survey found only 9 percent
of retail and hospitality employers likely to terminate plans.  At family owned White Castle, Richardson said the law may
raise the company’s $30 million in annual health insurance costs
by 25 percent in 2014. The Columbus, Ohio-based chain is
pondering changes to its health plans to defray some of the
increase. Not on the table, at least so far, is an end to
benefits, Richardson said.  Last Choice  “For us, it’s such a strong cultural value, providing what
our founder called ‘freedom from anxiety,’” Richardson said in
a telephone interview. “I don’t see us making that our first
choice. I think it may be the last choice.”  White Castle and its 10,000 workers may have more
flexibility than publicly traded companies, Richardson said.
While he knew of no competitors in the restaurant business who
have talked of ending benefits, “I’d be shocked if they weren’t
considering it,” he said.  At the National Business Group on Health, a Washington-
based trade group representing large employers including  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , no members are planning to drop insurance “as far
as we can tell,” said Steven Wojcik, the vice president for
public policy.  Foot Locker Inc. (FL)  Chief Executive Officer Ken Hicks said the
New York-based sports-shoe retailer plans to keep its health
plan even though he expects the Affordable Care Act will raise
costs. He said he doubts the government can do as good a job
keeping premiums down as he can.  “There’s more to business than just saving money,” Hicks
said in a phone interview. “We think it’s the best thing for
our associates to be able to offer them a good program that
they’re used to. We will try as long as we can to do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  