-- Mortgage-Bond Issuance in U.S. More Than Triples to $7.4 Billion
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-12-05T19:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mortgage-bond-issuance-in-u-s-more-than-triples-to-7-4-billion.html
Issuance of U.S. home-loan bonds
without government backing has more than tripled this year to
$7.4 billion, according to Deutsche Bank AG, as debt created
before the housing slump rallies.  Notes sold in so-called non-agency securitizations of new
loans, all of which were prime “jumbo” mortgages, reached $3.2
billion, Deutsche Bank analysts Ying Shen and Jason Wu wrote
today in a report. Sales tied to older mortgages totaled $2.4
billion, while securities backed by non-performing debt were
$1.8 billion. Issuance fell 13 percent last year to $2 billion.  While far from the $1.2 trillion issuance peak in each of
2005 and 2006, sales by Redwood Trust Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG of new-loan bonds have lifted the total from less than
$700 million last year as buyers seek higher returns after
Treasury yields reached record lows. Firms including Carrington
Mortgage Holdings LLC and  Lone Star Funds ’ Vericrest Financial
Inc. have also tapped the market to finance investments in
soured debt.  New issuance of all non-agency securities next year should
be a “few billion over $20 billion” when including potential
deals involving rental homes, the analysts wrote. “The rising
new issuance should attract more investors to the non-agency
market,” they said. “However, the supply of new paper should
not dampen demand for higher-yielding legacy” securities that
have rallied this year.  Shrinking Market  As defaults and refinancing outside of the market erases
debt, the amount of outstanding non-agency bonds will probably
shrink to about $860 billion by the end of next year, from about
$1 trillion now, according to Deutsche Bank.  The collateral for existing debt ranges from riskier so-
called subprime and Alt-A loans to bigger jumbo mortgages, those
larger than allowed in government-supported programs. That’s
currently as much as $729,750 for single-family properties in
some areas, with limits ranging from $417,000 to $625,500 for
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for
borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  Returns on non-agency securities average 19 percent this
year, according to a report today by Amherst Securities Group
LP. The debt continued to outperform assets such as  high-yield
company bonds  and notes with lower  default risk  last month,
beating most fixed-income categories by at least 0.5 percentage
point, the broker said.  Housing Wind  Bruce Richards , chief executive officer of Marathon Asset
Management LP, which manages $10 billion of assets, said
yesterday that he’s continuing to bet on subprime mortgages in
“a very big way.”  Even after price increases that helped a Marathon fund
whose investors include U.S. taxpayers gain 50 percent this
year, a recovery in housing is “a wind to our back that will, I
think, cause these securities to rise even further,” Richards
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle .  Marathon’s so-called Public-Private Investment Fund, which
three years ago received $475 million of equity and $949 million
of financing from the Treasury Department as the U.S. sought to
aid banks by boosting the value of mortgage securities, has
ended its investment period, he said. Cumulative returns totaled
81.5 percent through Sept. 30, according to a Treasury  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  