-- Osborne Cuts Corporation Tax Rate to Boost U.K. Competitiveness
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-12-05T14:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/osborne-cuts-corporation-tax-rate-to-boost-u-k-competitiveness.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an additional cut in the rate of Britain’s
 corporation tax  in a bid to spur economic growth.  The tax will be charged at 21 percent from April 2014,
which Osborne said will be the lowest rate of company tax in any
major western economy. He previously planned to cut it to 22
percent in 2014.  “I want Britain to have the most competitive business tax
regime of any economy in the world,” Osborne told lawmakers as
he delivered his Autumn Statement to Parliament in London.
“This is an advert for our economy that says, ‘Come here,
invest here, create jobs here, Britain is open for business.’”  The reduction is part of a suite of tax reductions for
companies following a report into how best to spur growth by
former Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine. It comes amid a
controversy over the tax after lawmakers criticized executives
from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Amazon.com Inc. and Google Inc. for using
complex accounting methods to reduce their U.K. tax liabilities.  Osborne said the U.K.’s corporation tax rate compares with
40 percent in the U.S., 33 percent in  France  and 29 percent in
 Germany .  Banks will not be allowed to benefit from the reduction in
the tax rate and the bank levy rate will be increased to 0.130
percent next year, the chancellor said.  ‘Not Enough’  “A cut of 1 percent in corporation tax and a cancellation
of a fuel duty hike might grab a headline, but it’s not going to
enough to stimulate growth meaningfully, something that our
economy so desperately needs,”  Angus Campbell , head of market
analysis at Capital Spreads in London, said in an e-mailed
statement. “There was little he said that will achieve this.”  Companies will also see the annual tax-free investment
allowance for plant and machinery increased to 250,000 pounds
($402,000) from 25,000 pounds, while the government plans to
create a Business Bank with 1 billion pounds of capital. The
small business rate relief program will be extended for a year,
until April 2014.  Corporation tax cuts “helped British companies and frankly
left other countries scrambling to keep up,” Osborne said.
“Countries like ours risk being out-smarted, out-worked and
out-competed by the new emerging economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  