-- Osborne Prepares to Breach Fiscal Rules Amid U.K. Slump
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-05T11:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/osborne-prepares-to-breach-fiscal-rules-amid-u-k-growth-slump.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne faces the prospect of breaching his self-imposed
budget rules as an economy struggling to escape recession drives
debt higher and erodes his political capital.  Osborne said this week it’s taking longer than planned to
balance the public finances, suggesting he’ll say in his autumn
statement to Parliament today he’s no longer on course to cut
the burden of government debt in 2015 and may have to extend
austerity for another year.  The announcement will leave Osborne open to attacks from
the opposition Labour Party, which says he is hampering the
economy by trying to cut the deficit too quickly. The chancellor
is already struggling to rebuild his reputation after a decision
to cut income taxes for the highest earners in his March budget
and a series of policy U-turns cost his Conservative Party
support with voters.  “He’s in a really difficult place,” said John Curtice,
professor of politics at Strathclyde University in Glasgow,
 Scotland . “The spring budget bombed and his personal
credibility is damaged. People have come to doubt the economic
competence of the government.”  The challenge facing Osborne will be underlined when he
outlines new economic forecasts from the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , a non-partisan panel of economists that judges
whether he has a realistic chance of meeting his fiscal rules.  ‘Little Growth’  According to the average of  independent forecasts  published
by the Treasury last month, the economy will contract by 0.2
percent this year and grow just 1.1 percent in 2013 as the
crisis in euro region saps demand in the biggest market for
British exports. In March, the OBR predicted growth of 0.8
percent and 2 percent.  “You can criticize the government because we have had very
little growth since the election because austerity has been too
harsh,” said George Buckley, chief U.K. economist Deutsche Bank
AG in  London . “In his defense, this is not just a U.K. issue.”  The slump has hit tax receipts and fueled expectations that
the five-year target for erasing the structural deficit --
originally set for the next general election in 2015 -- may be
rolled forward to 2018, extending austerity to the middle of the
next parliament. It also means Osborne may miss his target of
cutting debt as a share of gross domestic product by 2015-16.  Fitch Warning  Fitch Ratings said in September that pressure on Britain’s
AAA rating had increased and there was little room to “absorb
further adverse economic shocks in light of the U.K.’s elevated
debt levels and uncertain growth outlook.” Net debt stands at t
almost 68 percent of GDP last month, according to the statistics
office.  Investors often ignore the actions of ratings companies and
many say letting the debt target slip is preferable to risking
the recovery by sharply tightening fiscal policy, providing he
demonstrates a commitment to deficit reduction. Ten-year U.K.
government bonds currently pay just 1.8 percent, a third of the
yield on similar-maturity Spanish debt.  Osborne may signal further cuts to welfare, while placating
his Liberal Democrat coalition partners by raising taxes on the
wealthy. Extracting more from the rich may help Osborne reassert
his claim to be cutting the deficit fairly. The Conservatives
lost support after Osborne cut the top 50 percent income-tax
rate in the March budget and the party remains around 10
percentage points behind Labour in  opinion polls .  Cabinet Briefing  Osborne briefed Cabinet colleagues on the contents of the
autumn statement this morning. “The central message was that
Britain is on the right track, that we are dealing with our
deficit and our debts in a fair way and that means everyone must
make a contribution and we are equipping Britain to succeed in
the global race,” Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman
Steve Field told reporters in London today.  While Osborne has ruled out a so-called mansion tax on the
most expensive homes, he’s vowed to crack down on tax avoidance
following a public outcry over international companies including
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  that minimize their liabilities in the U.K.
He may also increase taxes on the pension savings of the
wealthiest, the Sunday Telegraph reported.  To spur economic growth, Osborne will say he is cutting 5
billion pounds ($8 billion) from government departments to pay
for capital spending on transport, education and science. He
will also outline plans to approve as many as 30 new gas-fired
power stations to replace ageing coal, gas and nuclear plants,
people familiar with the plans said yesterday.  The budget deficit is on course to overshoot the 120
billion pounds forecast by the OBR in March. In the first seven
months of the fiscal year, the deficit climbed to 73.3 billion
pounds from 68.3 billion pounds a year earlier.  The OBR will present fiscal projections including and
excluding the transfer to the Treasury of billions of pounds of
cash held by the Bank of England under its asset-buying program.
The decision is designed to address concerns expressed by
economists and Labour lawmakers that the transfer flatters the
public finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  