-- Ospraie Says Block’s Olam Accounting Claims ‘Exaggerated’
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-12-05T21:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ospraie-says-block-s-olam-accounting-claims-exaggerated-.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that Muddy Waters LLC says may fail, is facing
“exaggerated” allegations about its accounting, said  Dwight Anderson , founder of commodity and industry hedge fund Ospraie
Management LLC.  Olam has declined 13 percent in Singapore since Nov. 19,
the day Muddy Waters founder  Carson Block  said the trader had
“accounting gaffes” that may be indicative of fraud. Short-
seller Block has valued Olam’s debt at 14 to 33 cents on the
dollar.  “I don’t think he’s right where the assets are going to be
worth cents on the debt’s dollar,” Anderson said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker  yesterday. Anderson’s Ospraie, based in New York,
manages about $1 billion. “They have been aggressive in
accounting but fraudulent, the extent that he’s talked about, I
think is more exaggerated than reality.”  Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, and  Muddy
Waters , a research company led by short-seller Block, have
argued about whether the company is solvent since Block said
last month he expected the company to fail due to mounting
debts. Block said he was selling Singapore-based Olam’s shares
short -- borrowing them to profit by buying them at a lower
price later.  Muddy Waters rated Olam a strong sell in a 133-page report
posted on its website last month, saying it values Olam on a
“liquidation basis, because our opinion is that it is likely to
fail.”  ‘Accounting Gaffes’  Olam dropped 9.1 percent to $1.20 in over-the-counter
trading in New York yesterday.  “Olam has produced some of the worst accounting gaffes
we’ve ever seen, in both the quantity and substance of these
revisions,” according to Muddy Waters’ Nov. 26 report. “Olam’s
accounting track record, at the very least, strongly suggests
incompetence (to say nothing of calling its risk management
claims into question). At worst, these issues could be
indicative of fraud.”  Olam sued Muddy Waters and Block in  Singapore  on Nov. 21.  Zach Kouwe, a spokesman for Muddy Waters who works for
Dukas Public Relations Inc. in New York, declined to comment on
Anderson’s statements.  Louis Dreyfus Corp. is the biggest rice trader, according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  