-- Consultant Meyer Avoids Jail in New York Pension Scandal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-05T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/houston-consultant-meyer-avoids-jail-in-n-y-pension-case.html
The founder of a Texas consulting
firm was spared prison or probation for his role in a pay-to-
play scheme involving  New York  State’s employee retirement fund.  State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone in Manhattan
today sentenced Saul Meyer, 42, of Houston, the founder of
Dallas-based pension consultant Aldus Equity. The judge imposed
the sentence, called conditional discharge, saying Meyer’s
cooperation with investigators was instrumental in uncovering
wrongdoing and securing convictions.  “What you did obviously was unacceptable, but you made up
for it by cooperating,” Stone said. “I don’t think there is
any value in incarceration at this point.”  New York’s then-Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the
state’s governor, started a probe in 2007 of the fund, the
third-largest public pension fund in the U.S. Its value was
$150.6 billion as of March 31, according to the state
comptroller’s office.  Meyer is one of eight people who pleaded guilty in
connection with the investigation. They included former
Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , who was sentenced last year to as many
as four years in prison. Hevesi was granted parole last month
and may be released as soon as this month.  Paid $300,000  Meyer admitted during his guilty plea in October 2009 that
he paid $300,000 to Hevesi’s former adviser, Hank Morris, to
secure business from the pension fund. New York state in 2009
banned the use of placement agents or lobbyists in investments
with the pension fund, and banned contributions from those who
do business with the fund.  Morris pleaded guilty in November 2010 and was sentenced to
as long as four years in prison in February 2011 after admitting
the fund’s investment process was manipulated to benefit him,
his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s campaign. Morris was
denied his request for parole last month.  Aldus Equity in December 2010 agreed to pay $1 million in
restitution to the state’s pension fund, one of more than 20
firms that have settled with the state attorney general’s office
over the probe. Meyer has forfeited more than $1 million
himself, Stone said.  Meyer’s attorney, Paul Shechtman, said his client’s life is
“in tatters” and he has few assets remaining. A married father
of two boys aged 4 and 7, Meyer “lost his moral compass,”
Shechtman said.  “The world of public pensions in New York and elsewhere is
a cesspool,” Shechtman said. “It’s too often pay-for-play.”  The case is New York v. Meyer, SCI-04755-2009, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  