-- Mozambique Opposition Says Stronghold Attacked by Police
-- B y   B a y a n o   V a l y   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-12-05T11:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/mozambique-opposition-says-stronghold-attacked-by-police.html
Mozambican opposition group Renamo
said a police unit yesterday attacked its stronghold in the
central Sofala Province in some of the worst armed violence
since a 15-year civil war ended in 1992.  Some people were killed and wounded in the attack by the
police unit, known by its Portuguese acronym FIR, in the
Gorongosa area, Gilberto Chirindza, deputy head of information
for the opposition party, said by mobile phone today, declining
to give further information and saying a press conference will
be held tomorrow. Calls to the Mozambican police weren’t
answered.  Renamo leader Afonso Dhlakama returned to Gorongosa in
October, Agence France Presse reported citing the party, which
said he was readying to re-train soldiers for a possible war.
His party fought against the ruling party Frelimo in the civil
war.  “Reports are still coming in bit by bit, but we were
attacked by FIR and our leader Afonso Dhlakama was present when
the attack took place. So far that is all we know,” Alberto
Masango, a Renamo official in neighboring Manica Province said
by mobile phone.  Renamo, started by Rhodesian intelligence agencies to
destabilize  Mozambique  in the 1970s and later backed by  South
Africa ’s apartheid government, ceased fighting after peace was
brokered by church groups. The party contested elections in
1994, losing to Frelimo. During Rhodesia’s own civil war rebel
groups fighting the then whites-only government operated from
Mozambique.  Mozambique is the site of an aluminum smelter operated by
 BHP Billiton  while Rio Tinto Ltd. and Vale SA have coal
operations in the country. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Eni SpA
have discovered natural gas off its coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  