-- Pfizer Experimental Drug Slows Late-Stage Breast Cancer
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-12-05T21:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/pfizer-experimental-drug-slows-late-stage-breast-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental breast
cancer drug stopped progression of an incurable form of the
disease for more than two years in a study, a dramatic delay for
those with the second-deadliest cancer in women.  Patients were given the medicine, called PD 0332991, along
with  Novartis (NOVN)  AG’s Femara. The findings, reported today at the
 San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium , showed no tumor progression
for a median of 26.1 months, compared with 7.5 months in those
who received Femara alone. Results were from the second of three
stages of testing normally needed for U.S. approval.  The medicine is the first in a new class of agents that
works by blocking a protein critical in the cancer cell cycle,
said lead researcher  Richard Finn . It’s also among the most
promising in New York-based Pfizer’s drug development pipeline,
with the potential for generating $5 billion in annual sales for
breast and other tumor types,  Andrew Baum , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , wrote in a note to investors.  “This magnitude of benefit is probably one of the largest
with any new agent in  breast cancer , or perhaps any solid
tumor,” Finn, an associate professor of medicine at the Jonsson
Comprehensive Cancer Center at the  University of California ,  Los
Angeles , said in a telephone interview. “It’s dramatic to see
this level of benefit with a new agent.”  Noteworthy Findings  The findings are noteworthy because of the size of the
benefit and comparative safety of the experimental treatment,
said Claudine Isaacs, an oncologist and professor of medicine at
 Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center  in  Washington .
The study, involving 165 patients with  metastatic disease , was
small and must be confirmed in larger trials, she said.  The study included women with tumors fueled by the hormone
estrogen, the most common type of  breast cancer . All had
metastatic disease, which had spread to other parts of the body
and is no longer considered curable.  Breast cancer is the most  common tumor  in women. Almost
230,000 women in the U.S. will be diagnosed with it this year,
and more than 39,900 will die from it, according to the  American
Cancer Society .  Lung cancer  is the deadliest form of the disease
for women.  “It does make you stop and look,” Isaacs said in a
telephone interview. The results are “much more marked than we
typically see. It’s hard to ignore that,” she said. “It’s not
something that is changing practice today, but it’s definitely
something to keep one’s eye on.”  ‘Mega-Blockbuster Potential’  Investors have overlooked the drug’s “mega-blockbuster
potential,” said Baum, the Citigroup analyst. Pfizer is at
least two years ahead of its closest competitors,  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY)  and Novartis, with similar cancer drugs in development, he
said in his Nov. 29 investment note.  Pfizer rose 1.9 percent to $25.64 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
The shares have gained 29 percent in the past 12 months. Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which licensed rights to the experimental
drug to Pfizer, rose 3.4 percent to $77.05.  The results presented today stem from an interim review of
the data and come on top of potent treatment, Finn said.  Forty-five percent of patients given the drug combination
responded to therapy, compared with 31 percent given Femara
alone. When the researchers included women who had stable
disease for six months or more, 70 percent given both drugs
benefited, compared with 44 percent of those given Femara.  Pfizer is moving the compound into the final stage of
testing needed for approval as quickly as possible, with an
international trial in the same type of cancer slated to begin
next year, said Mace Rothenberg, senior vice president of
clinical development in the company’s oncology unit. Additional
research is examining other types of tumors, he said.  Regulatory Discussion  The company is also talking to regulators to determine what
kind of information will be needed to win marketing approval of
the medicine, he said in a telephone interview. While the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  typically requires two studies
confirming the benefits of an investigational agent, it has
leeway to expedite the process for promising drugs.  About one in three patients needed to have their dose of
the experimental drug lowered during the study. Side effects
included  low levels  of infection-fighting white blood cells,
anemia and fatigue, though there weren’t any serious cases of
fever tied to the low white blood cells.  The first 66 patients were post-menopausal women with
estrogen-receptor positive cancer. The second 99 patients also
had tumors that were fueled by estrogen, though they had genetic
alterations the researchers hoped could further identify people
who would benefit from the therapy.  Advanced Disease  About half the women were initially diagnosed with advanced
disease and hadn’t gotten previous drug treatment. The other
half had previously received chemotherapy or treatment after
surgery to remove the tumor, Finn said. Laboratory work
conducted before the study began suggested the Pfizer medicine
was particularly potent against estrogen-receptor positive
cancers.  There were no differences in response among women with the
biomarkers and those who didn’t have them, Finn said. Both sets
of patients had a significant benefit.  “The drug obviously hits a critical pathway in estrogen-
receptor positive breast cancer,” he said. “If we took triple
negative breast cancer, we wouldn’t expect this result.”  Pfizer is reaching out to cancer experts to help devise the
most efficient studies to answer questions about when and how
the drug should be given, and what other medicines should be
given with it to maximize the benefit, Rothenberg said.  “It’s an irony of having a drug moving forward as quickly
as we can,” Rothenberg said. “There will be gaps in our
knowledge of how to give it and when. We’re trying to move
forward with a thoughtful, methodical approach.”  Metastatic Cancer  The study targeted women who were newly diagnosed with
metastatic, or spreading, breast cancer. There are several other
effective treatments available even after the experimental
compound stops working, Finn said.  “The magnitude of this benefit I don’t think should be
underestimated,” Finn said. “These are patients who have
incurable breast cancer. A lot of drugs in oncology have been
approved or are getting a lot of traction because of
improvements that last weeks to a few months. We have gone from
7 months to 26 months. That’s groundbreaking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  