-- Philips Gets Record EU Cartel Fine With LG Over Video Tub
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-05T14:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/philips-lg-and-others-fined-1-47-billion-euros-by-eu-for-cartel.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  are among companies fined a  record  1.47 billion
euros ($1.9 billion) by European Union antitrust regulators over
price-fixing deals on now-obsolete cathode-ray tubes used in
televisions and computer monitors.  Philips was fined 313.4 million euros, while LG faces a
295.6 million-euro penalty, the European Commission said in a
 statement  today. Philips and LG also share a fine of 391.9
million euros for a unit they jointly owned.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  was
fined 157.5 million euros and shares an 86.7 million-euro
punishment with Toshiba Corp. and MTPD, a Panasonic unit.
Panasonic and MTPD also share a 7.9 million-euro fine.  “These tubes accounted for 50 to 70 percent of the price
of a screen,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters. “This gives an indication of the serious harm that
these cartels have caused over a decade, both to the
manufacturers of TVs and computers and ultimately to final
consumers who had to pay a higher price than they should have.”  The companies’ agreements sought to halt the slide in sales
of cathode-ray tubes after customers switched to slimmer liquid-
crystal and plasma display sets, Almunia said. Antitrust
watchdogs in the EU,  Japan  and South Korea raided companies in
2007 over concerns they colluded to fix prices. Philips and
 Technicolor SA (TCH) , previously known as Thomson SA, received
objections in the EU probe in 2009.  Planned Appeals  Joost Akkermans, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips,
said the fine was “disproportionate and unjustified” and
related to a unit it divested in 2001. Philips will appeal the
EU decision, he said in a telephone interview.  The fines exceed an earlier record of 1.38 billion euros
imposed by the EU in 2008 on makers of glass for car windows.  Meetings among the companies’ top management in  Asia  and
 Europe  to fix prices were often followed by a golf game, the EU
said in statement. The firms fixed prices, shared markets,
allocated customers between themselves and restricted their own
output in two worldwide cartels between 1996 and 2006.  Samsung SDI Co. Ltd., an affiliate of Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., was also told to pay 150.8 million euros. Toshiba was
separately fined 28 million euros and Technicolor was fined 38.6
million euros.  Chunghwa Picture Tubes (2475)  Ltd. wasn’t punished
because it was the first to inform regulators of  the cartel .  Shares Fall  Technicolor fell as much as  2.7 percent  in Paris trading
after it said in a statement that it would seek a payment
schedule from EU regulators for the fine. The fine will be
booked as a one-off item for the second-half of 2012, it said.
It sold its cathode-ray unit in 2005.  The EU decision is “factually and legally erroneous as it
applies to Panasonic and MTPD,” said Keiichiro Yoshida, a
spokesman for Osaka-based Panasonic. The company will carefully
review the decision and consider options for an appeal, he said
in an e-mail.  “Toshiba believes that the European Commission’s
conclusions are unfounded, and is currently considering
appealing the decision to the European General Court,” said
Toru Ohara, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  Ken Hong, a spokesman for LG in  Seoul , said the company
would comment after it has reviewed the EU decision. Samsung SDI
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment outside
normal business hours in  South Korea .  Samsung SDI, Philips and Technicolor received reductions to
their fines for cooperating with the investigation, the EU said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 