-- Philippines, Muslim Rebels Nearing Deal on Wealth, Power Sharing
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-12-05T07:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/philippines-muslim-rebels-nearing-deal-on-wealth-power-sharing.html
Muslim rebels in the southern
Philippines are close to a power and wealth-sharing deal with
the government, rebel leader Al Haj Murad Ebrahim said,
signaling that the group’s 40-year insurgency is near an end.  The Moro Islamic Liberation Front expects to complete the
agreement by the end of the year to attain broad autonomy and
divvy up taxes and other income from the region, Murad said
today in an interview in Johor Bahru,  Malaysia .  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  signed a framework pact
with the rebels on Oct. 15 as he tries to end an insurgency that
has killed as many as 200,000 in the southern island of
Mindanao. He’s also pushing to end death squads, clan wars and
kidnappings that have blocked companies from tapping mineral
deposits worth an estimated $312 billion.  “There seem to be no major differences in the negotiators’
positions,”  Ramon Casiple , executive director of Manila-based
Institute for Political and Electoral Reform, said by telephone.
“There’s optimism about the parties being able to finish this
before Aquino leaves office in 2016. The issue is how to package
it in such a way that it will be accepted by the president,
Congress and the  Supreme Court .”  The peace accord provides a road map to establish a
political entity called the Bangsamoro that will replace the
failed Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao set up in 1989. The
11,000-strong Moro Islamic Liberation Front must abandon its
pursuit of a separate state in return for more power, revenue
and territory, according to the deal, which must be passed by
Congress and approved by a local referendum.  Handling Defense  The sides are now considering a proposal for a 75 percent
share of revenue in the autonomous region in favor of the Muslim
rebels, Murad said, adding that the Bangsamoro administration
may be allowed to own natural resources. The central government
will handle defense, monetary policy and foreign affairs, while
the autonomous region may set up its own police force, he said.  “This will be a long process, so it’s not outright, but
what is important now is the amount of violence on the ground
has gone down,” Murad said. “So we just want to sustain that
and gradually promote peace in the area.”  Negotiators are discussing whether the central government
or Bangsamoro should have authority to direct the police, Murad
said. “There is exclusive power for the Bangsamoro government
and this will allow them to enjoy a certain limit of self-
governance with less interference from the central government.”  Most Entrenched  The Mindanao conflict is one of the most entrenched in the
region, along with a separatist movement in southern  Thailand 
and decades-long ethnic minority rebellions in Myanmar. While
peace in Thailand remains evasive, Myanmar’s government has
reached cease-fire agreements with 10 armed groups.  Indonesian authorities in 2006 reached a peace agreement
with rebels in Aceh province after a three-decade conflict that
had killed about 15,000 people.  Sri Lanka ’s military defeated
Tamil guerrillas in May 2009 to end a 26-year war that killed as
many as 40,000 civilians in its final stages.  The Philippines is targeting $1 billion of investments in
Mindanao following the peace agreement, Board of Investments
head Cristino Panlilio said on Oct. 15. The nation is also in a
renewed push to attract Shariah-compliant investors to the
region.  “The power-sharing and the wealth-sharing scheme will be
fair” to both the government and the rebels, Aquino’s
spokesman, Edwin Lacierda, said. Asked about the wealth-sharing
ratio, he said it’s still being worked out.  The ARMM has per capita gross domestic product of 26,000
pesos, the lowest among the 17 provinces and below the national
average of 103,366 pesos, according to the government’s  National
Statistical Coordination Board . Muslims account for 5 percent of
the  Philippines ’ 103 million population, according to  estimates 
by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  Catholic settlers outnumber the Muslim population by about
five-to-one in Mindanao, home to about a quarter of the
country’s people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  