-- Ping An Rises on HSBC Stake Sale to Thai Group: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-05T08:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ping-an-rises-on-hsbc-stake-sale-to-thai-group-hong-kong-mover.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  shares
rose the most in nine months, leading Chinese insurers higher,
after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said it will sell its entire stake for
$9.4 billion to a Thai company, removing investor uncertainty.  Ping An, China’s second-largest insurer,  advanced  4.9
percent to close at HK$60.50, the most since March 8 and above
the price HSBC agreed to sell the shares. The stock was the most
actively traded in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  today by value and had
the steepest gain among its members, with nearly HK$17.9 billion
($2.3 billion) worth of shares changing hands.  “The announcement of the sale of the entire stake removed
some overhang concern on Ping An’s share price,” Arjan van Veen,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said.  The  HSBC (5)  deal, expectation of Chinese government policies
in support of the stock market and relaxation of industry
investment rules spurred gains in other Chinese insurers, with
New China Life Insurance Co. surging nearly 10 percent on the
 Shanghai  stock exchange, its biggest gain since June 13. China
Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest insurance company,
added 4.2 percent in Hong Kong trading. China Pacific Insurance
(Group) Co. jumped 5.6 percent in Shanghai, its biggest gain
since June.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value, is selling the
15.6 percent stake at the equivalent of HK$59 a share to
 Thailand ’s Charoen Pokphand Group Co., it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The price is higher than Ping An’s closing
price of HK$57.65 in  Hong Kong  yesterday.  Welcome Investment  Ping An will continue to explore cooperation opportunities
with HSBC that are mutually beneficial, the insurer said in an
e-mailed statement. It respected HSBC’s decision, it added.  The Chinese insurer welcomes Charoen Pokphand as a long-
term strategic investor, Sheng Ruisheng, spokesman for Ping An,
said in a telephone interview today. The company will keep its
existing management system, governance model and culture, he
said.  “Charoen Pokphand Group fully agrees to and trusts Ping
An’s strategy, culture, business model and management team,
which will encourage us to be more resolute on the company’s
strategy, its existing management systems, governance model and
operational culture,” Sheng said. “We respect HSBC’s choice
and thank them for their contributions in the past 10 years.”  Ping An Chairman Peter Ma has overseen the expansion of
Ping An into the world’s third-largest insurer by market value,
as well as banking, securities and money management operations,
since he founded the company in the southern Chinese city of
Shenzhen 24 years ago.  The company’s new  business value , which gauges the
estimated profit from new policies sold, may grow a “strong”
13 percent in the second half of this year as agent sales shift
back to long-term risk-protection products, improving from a 9
percent drop in the first half, Barclays Plc said in a report e-
mailed Nov. 14.  Founded in 1988 as  China ’s first joint-stock insurer, Ping
An has grown into the nation’s second-biggest insurance company,
with 74 million clients, more than 175,000 employees, and about
500,000 agents.  “HSBC helped Ping An to improve its corporate governance
and risk management systems and provided its rich experience and
technical support, assisting Ping An as it quickly grew into a
world-class financial group company,” said Sheng. “HSBC and
Ping An will continue to explore various cooperation
opportunities and deepen the reciprocal cooperative relationship
in different areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  