-- Poll Says Same-Sex Marriage Gaining Support From U.S. Voters
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-05T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/poll-says-same-sex-marriage-gaining-support-from-u-s-voters.html
A plurality of U.S. voters support
same-sex marriage, a reversal from four years ago when the
public clearly opposed such unions, a poll released today shows.  Most voters also support the legalization of marijuana,
according to the survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University . In the Nov. 6 election, voters in three states
approved measures legalizing same-sex marriage and in two states
legalized recreational marijuana use.  The poll shows 48 percent backing same-sex marriage while
46 percent oppose it. In a 2008 Quinnipiac survey, 55 percent
were against same-sex marriage while 36 percent favored it.  “It seems pretty clear that attitudes toward same-sex
marriage in American society are changing rapidly,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of Quinnipiac’s polling institute.
“While the country remains split on the issue, supporters have
come pretty far in the last four years.”  Much of the support comes from voters ages 18 to 29, who
back it by almost 30 percentage points -- 63 percent to 35
percent.  Most men are against same-sex marriage, though that
opposition has eroded from a 30-point margin four years ago, 61
percent to 31 percent, to a seven-point margin in the latest
survey, 50 percent to 43 percent.  Among women, 52 percent back the unions while 42 percent
oppose them. In 2008, the numbers were almost exactly the
reverse, with 51 percent in opposition and 40 percent in favor
of same-sex marriage.  State Measures  Voters in  Maine ,  Maryland  and  Washington  state approved
referenda legalizing same-sex marriage in last month’s election,
marking the first time such measures have passed. Previously,
same-sex marriage became legal in states including  Massachusetts 
and  New York  as a result of legislation or court rulings.  Also in the election, possession of up to one ounce of
marijuana was approved in Washington and  Colorado .  The Quinnipiac poll found 55 percent of voters nationwide
supporting marijuana’s legalization, with 41 percent opposing
it.  “American voters seem to have a more favorable opinion
about this once-dreaded drug,” Brown said.  As with same-sex marriage, the backing was strongest among
younger voters, with those from 18 to 29 in favor of
legalization by almost 40 percentage points -- 67 percent to 29
percent. Voters over 65 opposed legalization, 56 percent to 35
percent.  ‘Matter of Time’  “This is the first time Quinnipiac University asked this
question in its national poll, so there is no comparison from
earlier years,” said Brown. “It seems likely, however, that
given the better than 2-1 majority among younger voters,
legalization is just a matter of time.”  By 53 percent to 37 percent, voters declined to blame
superstorm Sandy that battered the Northeast U.S. -- especially
parts of New York and  New Jersey  -- on global warming. A
partisan divide was evident on the question, with 55 percent of
Democrats attributing the storm to  climate change , compared with
37 percent of independents and 14 percent of Republicans.  Overall, 66 percent said they were very or somewhat
concerned about climate change, while 34 percent said they
weren’t too concerned or not concerned at all.  The survey of 1,949 registered voters, conducted Nov. 28-
Dec. 3, has an error margin of plus or minus 2.2 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 