-- Principal Names Dunbar Chief Investment Officer
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-06T00:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/principal-names-dunbar-chief-investment-officer.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
life insurer with a  $71.5 billion portfolio , selected Tim Dunbar
as chief investment officer, replacing Julia Lawler.  Lawler, 52, takes over responsibility for investment
services, Des Moines, Iowa-based Principal said today in a
statement. Dunbar, 54, will retain duties overseeing capital
markets. The changes take effect in January, and both Dunbar and
Lawler remain senior vice presidents.  Insurers including  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  and  Aflac Inc. (AFL) 
have named new investment chiefs as  interest rates  near record
lows weigh on profits. The companies invest customers’ cash in
bonds and other assets to back future payouts on life insurance
policies and annuities.  “We continue to see short-term pressures, such as
continued low interest rates,” Terry Lillis, Principal’s chief
financial officer, said on a Nov. 27 conference call with
analysts.  Lawler will oversee Principal’s retirement and mutual fund
platforms and monitor performance, according to today’s
statement.  Dunbar began working at Principal in 1986 as an asset
manager representative. He’s also worked in commercial real
estate and equity management, and helped oversee Principal
International in Monterrey, Mexico. He was appointed last year
to run  capital markets , corporate strategy and corporate
treasury areas.  Lawler joined Principal in 1984 as a commercial real estate
representative and worked as head of capital markets before
becoming chief investment officer.  Principal gained less than 1 percent to $27.88 in New York
today. It has advanced about 13 percent this year, compared with
the 15 percent climb in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  