-- Productivity Picks Up as U.S. Companies Cut Labor Costs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-05T13:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/productivity-picks-up-as-u-s-companies-cut-labor-costs.html
The  productivity  of U.S. workers
expanded more than previously estimated in the third quarter as
companies cut labor expenses to preserve profits.  The measure of employee output per hour climbed at a 2.9
percent annual rate, the biggest gain in two years and up from
1.9 percent in the prior three months, revised Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 58 economists called for a 2.8 percent rise.
Costs per worker fell at a 1.9 percent rate, more than
previously estimated.  Concern about slowing global demand and the looming fiscal
tightening signals companies may restrain hiring and keep a lid
on wages until sales accelerate. The decline in labor costs
indicates inflation will remain subdued, giving Federal Reserve
policy makers room to keep pumping money into the economy to
spur growth.  “The productivity gains should help companies’ profit
margins,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS Securities
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who accurately forecast the
decline in labor costs. “There’s going to be continued downward
pressure on labor costs given the high rate of unemployment.”  Another report today showed companies added fewer workers
in November than a month earlier after superstorm Sandy
battered the East Coast and temporarily shuttered some
businesses. An 118,000 increase in employment followed a revised
157,000 gain in October that was smaller than initially
estimated, data from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research
Institute showed.  Sandy’s Impact  The report showed Sandy reduced payrolls by about 86,000.
The median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 125,000 rise in November.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing this
month rose 0.2 percent to 1,408.2 at 8:56 a.m. in  New York .  Economists’ forecasts for productivity ranged from
unchanged to 3.5 percent. The government’s prior estimate was a
1.9 percent gain.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were revised down from a previously reported 0.1 percent drop,
and compare with a projected 1 percent decrease, according to
the Bloomberg survey median. They fell at a 0.5 percent pace in
the second quarter, revised down from a previously reported 1.7
percent gain.  Yearly Change  Worker efficiency rose 1.7 percent over the past four
quarters, the biggest year-over-year gain since the last three
months of 2010. Labor costs climbed 0.1 percent, the smallest
12-month advance in almost two years.  Today’s figures reflected updated data on worker pay. Wages
and salaries in the third quarter rose by $30.4 billion, less
than the initially reported $43.3 billion, Commerce Department
figures showed on Nov. 29. Wage gains in the prior period were
also cut, to a $23.3 billion second-quarter gain that was about
half the prior estimate of $55.2 billion.  The productivity report showed output rose at a 4.2 percent
rate, following a 2.1 percent gain the prior quarter.  Hours worked rose at a 1.3 percent pace, while compensation
for each hour worked climbed at a 0.9 percent annual pace.  Hourly Earnings  Adjusted for inflation, hourly earnings decreased at a 1.4
percent rate after increasing at a 0.6 percent pace.  Commerce Department data released last week showed gross
domestic product climbed at a 2.7 percent annual rate from July
through September after a 1.3 percent pace in the previous three
months. A narrower trade deficit and gains in inventory
overshadowed a smaller increase in  consumer spending .  The GDP report also showed corporate profits climbed 3.5
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months, and
rose 8.7 percent from the same period last year.  The so-called fiscal cliff, or more than $600 billion in
tax increases and  government spending  cuts slated to take effect
if lawmakers fail to act by year’s end, is one reason businesses
are cautious about hiring and  capital spending .  Sandy, the largest Atlantic storm ever to hit the U.S.,
will also trim growth this quarter and hurt employment.
Reflecting the hit, payrolls rose by 87,000 in November after a
171,000 gain in October, according to the Bloomberg survey
median ahead of a Labor Department report due Dec. 7. The
jobless rate probably held at 7.9 percent, economists predicted.  Closing Branches  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , the eighth-largest U.S. commercial
lender by deposits, said this week it is closing branches
and trimming staff as it seeks to cut costs, according to Chief
Executive Officer William Rogers.  The reductions may come at an “increased pace,” Rogers
said Dec. 4 at an investor conference in New York sponsored by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The Atlanta-based lender expects to
finish 2012 with 5 percent fewer employees from a year earlier,
Rogers said.  Slowing business investment may also limit productivity
gains. Corporate spending on equipment and software fell 2.7
percent last quarter, the first decline since the economy was in
a recession in 2009, according to the GDP report on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  