-- Qualcomm Chip Shortage Eases on Samsung, TSMC Output
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-12-05T21:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/qualcomm-chip-shortage-eases-as-samsung-tsmc-increase-output.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest seller of
mobile-phone semiconductors, said a shortage of its advanced
smartphone processors is almost resolved as manufacturing
partners including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  boosted production.  “It’s virtually behind us,” Chief Operating Officer
Steven Mollenkopf said in an interview in  Hong Kong  today. Three
major partners -- Samsung, Globalfoundries Inc. and  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  -- are all “ramping up”
output, he said.  Qualcomm said earlier this year that supplier TSMC couldn’t
keep up with orders for smartphone chips offering the fastest
connections to the Internet. The San Diego-based company
increased spending and enlisted other vendors to meet demand
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  as they released new
products to win customers in the estimated $219 billion
smartphone industry.  “We did have a situation where I don’t think our fab
partners were quite ready for the fact we had some incredible
demand,” Mollenkopf said. “We believe we’re going to be out of
the supply situation by the end of this year.”  The shortage of smartphone chips with a circuitry measuring
28 nanometers had been a “big issue” until as recently as
October, Mollenkopf said. One nanometer, equal to one billionth
of a meter, measures the size of connections within a chip. A
smaller number implies more advanced technology, allowing
semiconductors to be smaller and more powerful.  Low-Power Displays  “It’s almost an arms race in smartphones,” he said.  Samsung plans to start mass producing its own brand of 28-
nanometer processors for mobile devices by early next year, said
Chris Chung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the company. He
declined to comment on the foundry business with Qualcomm.  Qualcomm has capitalized on the popularity of devices that
allow users to download games, play movies and surf the
Internet. The company’s chip sales will probably grow 27 percent
this year, making it the world’s third-largest chipmaker,
industry researcher IHS ISuppli said Dec. 4.  “It’s been a pretty good year for us,” Mollenkopf said.
He declined to say whether the IHS estimate is in line with the
company’s own projections.  Apart from chips, Qualcomm is also betting on low-power
display technologies that let screens stay lit constantly,
Mollenkopf said. As part of the plan, the chipmaker agreed to a
capital tie-up of as much as $121 million with  Sharp Corp. (6753)   Sharp Deal  Sharp, the Osaka, Japan-based TV maker that warned last
month about its ability to survive, will sell 30.12 million
shares to Qualcomm this month for 4.94 billion yen. Sharp may
sell another 4.94 billion yen of stock if certain conditions are
met, it said in a statement yesterday.  “Obviously, they’ve had some difficult times,” Mollenkopf
said. “We’ve had numerous times where we worked with people
through good times and bad times on their side. We hope it’s
going to be a very different picture moving forward for them.”  The companies plan to cooperate on developing displays
using Sharp’s IGZO technology and Qualcomm’s Micro Electro
Mechanical System, or MEMS, display technology, Sharp said.  “This technology probably fits a need that doesn’t exist
today,” Mollenkopf said. “You are going to see things like
displays that are on all the time. It’s not clear if you can get
there with the existing, traditional display technologies.”  Qualcomm  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $63.63 in  New
York  trading, leaving them up 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at +815-2977-4628 or
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at +852-2977-2109 or
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  