-- RBA’s Lowe Calls Australian Dollar ‘Uncomfortably High’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-05T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rba-s-lowe-calls-australian-dollar-uncomfortably-high-.html
Australia ’s exchange rate is
“uncomfortably high” and business confidence subdued, breaking
with past experience during interest-rate reductions, Reserve
Bank Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  “Countries that are in relatively good shape and have not
seen large-scale expansion of the central bank balance sheet are
experiencing stronger currencies than those that are in
relatively poor shape,” Lowe said in a speech yesterday in
Sydney. “In response to this, interest rates are lower than
they otherwise would be to offset some of the effects of an
uncomfortably high exchange rate.”  Lowe highlighted a split between Australian households,
where data have “picked up somewhat” in response to 1.75
percentage points of rate cuts in the past 14 months, and
businesses, where confidence and conditions have not. “This
difference will obviously bear close watching over the period
ahead,” he said.  The No. 2 RBA official’s speech titled ‘What Is Normal?’
sought to place Australians’ higher savings and lower retail
spending, as well as stagnant asset prices in the context of the
economy’s performance of the past 30 years. He said consumers
were “prudent” rather than “cautious” and indicated that
their behavior was simply returning to pre-boom levels.  The RBA lowered rates  six times  in the past 14 months to 3
percent, matching a half-century low reached at the height of
the 2009 global recession. Lowe said it is possible that lending
rates will be “somewhat lower” for a period, reflecting global
weakness and fallout from the credit boom last decade.  Currency’s Strength  The Australian dollar has risen 7.4 percent in the past six
months. Lowe said the sustained strength wasn’t unexpected.  “This is one of the mechanisms through which the weak
conditions in most of the advanced economies are transmitted to
the rest of the world,” he said. “Many of the countries that
avoided the financial crisis are experiencing uncomfortably high
exchange rates and low  interest rates . Australia is one of
these.”  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
currency. The Aussie has averaged about $1.03 in the past two
years, compared with about 73 U.S. cents in the prior decade.  Responding to audience questions, Lowe said the central
bank had factored in much of the lower projections for business
spending in the fiscal year that were revealed in a capital
expenditure report last month. He said resource investment was
likely to “plateau” in the first half of next year.  Intervention Option  He reiterated comments he has made this year that while the
central bank doesn’t rule out intervention in  currency markets ,
it would be a big step to take.  “The floating exchange-rate regime has served us very
well,” Lowe said in response to a question. “So we wouldn’t
rule out intervention but it would be a very significant step to
take and quite a departure from the set of arrangements that
have served us so well for so long now.”  Asked about the threshold for unconventional monetary
policy, Lowe said hypothetically it would be “around 1 percent,
plus or minus a bit,” or a long way from where policy is now.  The failure of the RBA’s monetary easing to spur an upswing
in industries outside of resources has led to questions about
the effectiveness of the nation’s  monetary policy  transmission.
Lowe said the current response to lower borrowing costs was in
line with past experiences.  “Monetary policy still looks like it is working,” he told
the Australian Business Economists forum in his prepared
remarks. “There are lags and different parts of the economy
respond differently, but lower interest rates are still
effective in providing a boost to the overall economy.”  Asian Demand  Lowe said Australia can extend its 21 recession-free years,
saying it is “well placed” to benefit from growth in  Asia 
because of the nation’s skilled workforce.  “Whether we can take advantage of the opportunities that
lie ahead and continue to enjoy the rate of increase in our
 living standards  that we have become used to depends upon
productivity growth,” he said. “The contribution the  Reserve
Bank  can make here is to maintain low and stable inflation and
to keep the economy on an even keel.”  A government report scheduled for release today may show
Australia’s unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent in November,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists. That would be the highest level since April 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  