-- Real Rallies as Brazil Loosens Capital Controls to Boost Economy
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-12-05T20:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/real-rallies-as-brazil-loosens-capital-controls-to-boost-economy.html
The real rose the most since June as
 Brazil  further loosened capital controls to support economic
growth that was less than half the pace forecast by analysts in
the third quarter.  The currency advanced 1.5 percent to 2.0879 per U.S. dollar
at the close in Sao Paulo, the biggest advance since June 29.
The real climbed the most among 25 emerging-market currencies.
Swap rates on contracts due in October 2014 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.41 percent.  The real extended its gain after a central bank official
said in an interview that policy makers considered the
currency’s drop excessive. Brazil reduced today the maturity of
foreign loans subject to a 6 percent tax to one year from two
years after announcing yesterday it would exempt exporters from
the same level of tax on some borrowing.  “The government seeks to establish liquidity in the
exchange-rate market,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist
at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The measures today are more potent than those yesterday
and are having a bigger impact.”  Policy makers maintain that the real has weakened to a
level that doesn’t correspond to the country’s economic
fundamentals, said the central bank official, who asked not to
be identified because he is not authorized to discuss the
matter publicly. Traders wrongly bet that the government is
working to keep the exchange rate within a determined range, the
official said in an interview.  Brazil’s Intervention  Policy makers intervened in the currency market on Dec. 3
to stem the real’s decline after it closed last week at a three-
year low.  The currency tumbled after the statistics agency reported
Nov. 30 that gross domestic product increased 0.9 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, trailing the 1.9 percent
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The real is at a level where Finance Minister Guido Mantega
projects that the government won’t need to take measures that
affect market prices.  “There are now more conditions in place for the market to
establish the exchange rate,” Mantega said in an interview in
Brasilia yesterday. “We’ll allow the exchange rate to float.
With lower interest rates, capital flows decelerate. There is
already room for the market to regulate itself more.”  ‘Currency War’  Mantega used the term “currency war” in 2010 to describe
the use of monetary policy by developed countries such as the
U.S. to boost exports. That year, Brazil introduced taxes on
capital flows to weaken the real.  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and selling reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real from strengthening.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps in two
auctions on Dec. 3 and $1.6 billion in a Nov. 23 offering to
stem the real’s declines. From August through October, the bank
sold reverse currency swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per
dollar and make Brazil’s exporters more competitive.  The unwinding of capital controls and currency swap
auctions are a signal the government is pursuing an exchange
rate of 2.1 per dollar, Banco BNP Paribas Brasil SA analysts
 Diego Donadio  and Thiago Alday said today in a research note.  “While a weaker real is supportive of the domestic
industrial sector, a fast pace of depreciation is clearly a
threat to the inflation outlook,” the analysts wrote. “The
government will act to assure a stable exchange rate.”  Industrial Output  Industrial production increased 0.9 percent in October from
a month earlier, the national statistics agency reported
yesterday. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for 1.2 percent growth.  Swap rates fell on reduced concern that a falling real may
cause inflation to accelerate and force policy makers to begin
boosting borrowing costs.  “The market still considers the government as yearning for
a depreciated real, but with a gradual depreciation,” Rostagno
said.  Since August 2011, the central bank has reduced the
benchmark interest rate by 5.25 percentage points to a record
7.25 percent. Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on the
direction of borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  