-- Recession Defaulters May Repeat After Exchanges, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-12-05T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/recession-defaulters-may-repeat-after-exchanges-moody-s-says.html
Companies that defaulted using a
distressed exchange during the Great Recession may not have
improved their capital structure enough to prevent it from
happening again “down the road,” according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Thirty-five percent of initial defaults in 2009 were
through a distressed exchange, above the average of 11 percent
from 1970 through 2007, Moody’s said in a report. In a
distressed exchange, a borrower offers creditors a new or
restructured piece of debt that has less value than the
original, allowing the company to avoid a bankruptcy filing.  Some companies may re-default if credit conditions weaken
because of the debt crisis in  Europe  or a slow economic recovery
in the U.S, even though Moody’s expects the U.S. default rate to
remain low next year, according to the report’s authors led by
David Keisman, senior vice president.  “Three years after U.S. corporate defaults reached their
peak during the great recession, an analysis of the more than
1,000 defaults listed in Moody’s Ultimate Recovery Database
suggests some may be poised to re-default,” Keisman wrote in
the report.  Moody’s doesn’t expect a surge of re-defaults, according to
the report, and the current forecast calls for a low default
rate in 2013 because of a healthy high-yield market, solid
corporate liquidity and narrowing credit spreads.  Moody’s estimates the U.S. speculative-grade default rate
will be 3 percent or less for most of 2013, below the average
4.6 percent since 1992.  Chapter 22  “The debt crisis in Europe, slow economic recovery in the
U.S. and concerns over  China ’s growth rate are factors that
could weaken the credit environment and make some companies more
vulnerable to a re-default,” the authors wrote.  The most common re-default is two Chapter 11 filings, also
referred to as Chapter 22. About two-thirds of companies with
more than one default, including Twinkies maker Hostess Brands
Inc., experienced a Chapter 22, according to the report.  Hostess went through a second Chapter 11 because “it
failed to solve all of its problems during its first turn in
bankruptcy court,” according to the report. Ten companies in
Moody’s database have filed for bankruptcy three different
times, including Anchor Glass Container Corp., and two have
filed four different times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  