-- Repsol Sues Chevron Over Argentine Shale Development
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/repsol-sues-chevron-over-argentine-shale-development.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Madrid-based oil and
gas company, accused Chevron Corp. in a lawsuit in federal court
in  Manhattan  of improperly obtaining rights to develop Argentine
shale and natural gas resources.  In a complaint filed yesterday, Repsol accuses Chevron of
getting those rights from Buenos Aires-based  YPF SA (YPF)  in
negotiations with officers appointed by  Argentina ’s government,
which expropriated the company, not “legitimate managers”
appointed by Repsol as its majority shareholder.  “Chevron nevertheless has assured Argentina and the
government-appointed managers that it is willing to overlook
this illegal conduct and partner in Argentina’s illegal scheme
to deprive Repsol of its rightful interest in the energy
assets,” according to the Spanish company’s complaint.  Accusing San Ramon, California-based Chevron of unjust
enrichment and interfering with its contractual relations,
Repsol seeks a court order blocking Chevron’s development of the
Vaca Muerta formation, which holds the equivalent of 23 billion
barrels of oil, and other assets, according to Repsol’s
complaint.  There is no legal basis for this lawsuit against  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  or the unit that signed a memorandum of understanding with
YPF in September, said James Craig, a spokesman for the company.  “Chevron Argentina stands by the legitimacy of its
MOU,” Craig said in an e-mailed statement. “The company also
remains firmly committed to its long-standing business
relationship with YPF and to helping Argentina achieve its goal
of returning to energy self-sufficiency.”  The case is Repsol SA v. Chevron Corp., 12-cv-8799, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  