-- Republican Lawmakers Argue Obama Appointments Unlawful
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-05T20:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/republican-lawmakers-argue-obama-appointments-unlawful.html
Republican lawmakers who failed to
block President  Barack Obama  from installing administration
officials without Senate approval in January asked a federal
appeals court to rule the appointments unconstitutional.  Miguel Estrada, a lawyer representing Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell and 41 other Republican senators, told a
three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
today that the president usurped the Senate’s powers with his
appointment of three National Labor Relations Board members.
Senate Republicans were allowed to argue the case along with the
canning company that challenged the appointments.  Upholding the appointments would take a “break-glass-in-
case-of-emergency” power and turn into “a background rule that
allows our president to evade the role of the Senate,” Estrada
told the judges during a one-hour argument while McConnell
looked on from the audience.  Today’s argument was the second heard by a federal appeals
court over objections to the president’s naming the NLRB members
on Jan. 4 while the Senate was holding so-called pro-forma
sessions that sometimes involved a single senator appearing in
the chamber every third day.  Chicago Case  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago 
heard argument on Nov. 30 in two cases brought by union members
who are seeking to reverse board rulings made by the Obama
appointees.  Obama cited his constitutional power to make so-called
recess appointments while the Senate is out of session when he
put the officials in their posts.  The Washington case is being considered by U.S. Circuit
Judges David Sentelle, Karen LeCraft Henderson and Thomas Griffith, all three of whom were appointed by Republican
presidents. The judges didn’t say today when they may rule in
the case.  Disputes Avoided  Griffith, who was appointed by President George W. Bush,
told the parties the appeals court has “assiduously stayed
away” from separation of powers and appointments disputes,
asking why Congress doesn’t use its own powers to “fight back”
against the president rather than “drag us in.”  To prevent Obama from making appointments after Congress
started a holiday break last December, House and Senate
Republicans refused to adopt a resolution to formally adjourn.  Congressional Republicans were seeking to block the
president from appointing former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray as the first head of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, having refused a confirmation vote since he was
nominated in July.  NLRB Appointments  Obama also put Cordray in the post on the same day as the
NRLB board members. That appointment is also being contested in
a lawsuit in federal court in Washington. The validity of the
NLRB appointments has been raised in at least three other cases.  Beth Brinkmann, a Justice Department lawyer, argued that
the Senate wasn’t in session or acting as a legislative body
from Jan. 3 to Jan. 23 because no legislation was passed, no
votes were held and no nominations were considered.  “Under the petitioners’ view, they create an appointment
vacuum,” Brinkmann said.  The president used his authority to fill positions that if
left vacant would have “substantially impaired the functioning
of an executive branch agency,” the Justice Department said in
court papers.  Recess Appointments  Obama named Sharon Block, Richard Griffin and  Terence Flynn 
to the NLRB after Board Member Craig Becker’s recess appointment
ended on Jan. 3, leaving the five-person panel short of a
quorum. The NLRB still has one vacant seat.  The Washington case was filed by Noel Canning, a unit of
closely held Noel Corp. The Yakima, Washington-based company is
challenging the labor board’s Feb. 8 order requiring in part
that it execute a collective bargaining agreement from December
2010.  Without a legal quorum, the board had no authority to issue
the order, Noel Canning said in court filings.  Griffith pressed Brinkmann to identify the impetus for the
president’s use of the power in January, noting that the Recess
Appointments Clause of the Constitution was designed to allow
senators to go home without disrupting the ability of the
president to fill critical positions.  Executive Frustration  “What it’s being used for now is when the president
becomes frustrated with the appointment process,” Griffith
said. “The purpose has changed dramatically.”  Brinkmann said 285 appointments have been made during
recesses. She said the president’s power is limited in that
these appointments are only temporary.  Griffith and Sentelle asked whether two-year appointments
could be considered temporary, noting that Congress couldn’t
remove them from office.  Brinkmann said the Senate has the ability to refuse to pay
the officials.  The judges asked where to draw the line on a Senate break
that triggers the Recess Appointments Clause. Sentelle, who was
appointed to the court by President Ronald Reagan, asked whether
stopping business for the weekend or lunch would be sufficient.  “What’s the constitutional difference between two days and
three days,” he asked.  ‘Shared Understanding’  Brinkmann said there’s a “shared understanding between the
executive and legislative branches for more than a century”
that the recess occurs when the Senate is not available to
conduct business.  The president doesn’t have the authority to decide whether
the Senate is in session or not, Estrada said.  “The court must defer to the Senate calling its work a
session absent evidence that that is a clear subterfuge,”
Estrada said.  The case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1115, 12-1153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 