-- Republicans Race Clock as Wisconsin Shows One-Party Rule May End
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/republicans-race-clock-as-wisconsin-shows-one-party-rule-may-end.html
When  Wisconsin  Governor Scott Walker
pushes a tax cut and changes to education funding next year,
he’ll make the pitch to friends: Fellow Republicans will be
controlling the legislature.  Walker, 45, has two years to act before voters can reshape
government again in a state famous for political volatility.
Five months ago, residents made him endure a recall vote after
he pushed limits on unions. On Nov. 6, they elected to the U.S.
Senate Tammy Baldwin, a Democratic representative with a 100
percent American Civil Liberties Union approval rating.  “I’m not naive enough to think that everyone in this state
believes in everything that we’re doing,” Walker told a
gathering of executives Nov. 28 in Madison, the capital.  Still, interest groups expect his government to approve
abortion restrictions, eliminate same-day voter registration and
end workplaces closed to nonunion employees. Walker is touring
the state to talk with voters about the road ahead.  Wisconsin government mirrors divisions in U.S. capitals.
One-party rule is on the rise after the Nov. 6 elections, with
37 states to be controlled solely by Republicans or Democrats
when legislative sessions convene next year.  Single-party dominance carries opportunities and risks when
many governors face re-election in 2014.  “People expect problems to be solved, and they don’t care
for ideological combat,” said David Yepsen, director of the
Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at Southern  Illinois 
University. “Voters are unhappy with government in general and
they expect results.”  Fetal Scanning  With a two-year window for each party to get what it wants,
legislative agendas are taking shape, including higher taxes on
the wealthy in  Minnesota  and requiring publicly traded companies
in Illinois to reveal how much they pay in income taxes. Both
states are dominated by Democrats. Abortion restrictions may be
ahead in Republican Ohio and Wisconsin --which supported
Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s re-election by 200,000
votes.  Wisconsin Right to Life, which has long supported Walker,
wants a ban on taxpayer-funded abortions for state employees as
well as a law requiring a woman seeking the procedure to view an
ultrasound of her fetus.  “The silver lining in the November 6 elections is that
Wisconsin has a right-to-life Governor, Scott Walker, and strong
right-to-life majorities in both houses of the legislature!”
Barbara Lyons, the group’s director, wrote in a Nov. 15
newsletter.  Politics Resumes  In  Ohio , one of the first bills the legislature considered
in the lame-duck session after last month’s elections was to set
priorities for public money for family-planning services. A
House committee made Planned Parenthood last in line.  The bill passed Nov. 15 along party lines, with Democrats
accusing Republicans of continuing a “war on women” to defund
Planned Parenthood because it performs abortions.  In Minnesota, where Democrats took control of the
legislature, Democratic Governor Mark Dayton said Nov. 6 he will
push for “a fairer tax system where the richest Minnesotans pay
more.”  Meanwhile, Republicans in  Michigan  are discussing a so-
called right-to-work proposal to end closed union workplaces
similar to one that passed in  Indiana  in February.  The one-sided nature of legislatures is the product of
majority parties using their advantage after the 2010 elections
to redraw legislative and congressional boundaries, said Paul Beck, a political-science professor at Ohio State University.  “Majorities and sometimes supermajorities can do what they
wish, without anyone able to stop them,” Beck said. “The
dominant party knows that just because they can do something,
they go ahead and do it.”  Polarized States  The number of states where Democrats and Republicans shared
control peaked at 31 in 1988 and 1996, according to the NCSL.
Divided governments have dropped significantly since 2004.  During the next two years Republicans will dominate 24
states while Democrats will control at least 13, according to
the National Conference of State Legislatures. Ruling parties
act with urgency because they know partisan control doesn’t last
forever.  Walker, elected in 2010, was forced into a recall election
after using Republican majorities in 2011 to enact collective-
bargaining curbs on most public employees.  Ouster campaigns forced three Republican senators from
office, tipping control of that chamber to the Democrats in
June. While Walker’s party will return to dominance next month,
the state’s volatility was underscored Nov. 6.  “It’s a mixed message,” said Charles Franklin, a
political scientist who runs the Marquette Law School Poll.
“The statewide results are very sobering to any party that
thinks it has fundamentally shifted the state politically.”  Walker Barnstorms  Walker began traveling the state Nov. 27 as part of a
“Talk with Walker” tour to discuss next year’s budget. The
governor has sketched out priorities in general terms, building
his agenda around job creation, workforce development, education
changes and infrastructure development. He has talked about tax
cuts, though he hasn’t been specific about which levies would be
reduced or by how much.  “Less time me talking, and more time you talking,” Walker
told 20 nonunion employees at a ship-building factory in Green
Bay. The governor said he will hold sessions across the state
during the next two months.  Noisy Beginning  When Walker ran for election in 2010, he didn’t mention
collective-bargaining curbs. He unveiled them in February 2011,
six weeks after taking office. The unexpected introduction
provoked weeks of protests.  “Not that everything’s perfect, but the good news is that,
since June, things have quieted down in this state,” Walker
said in his Madison speech last week.  The claim of a new era of good feeling is a debatable point
for some Democrats. Six months after the recall election,
protesters still gather daily in the Capitol, singing, demanding
the removal of Walker and prompting objections from voters who
are tired of the fighting.  “If someone’s voted in and he’s been recalled and is voted
back in, give it up,” said Dan Hahn, 64, a retired truck driver
from Port Washington who confronted the protesters last week.
“Give it up.”  Still, Senator Chris Larson, who leads the chamber’s
Democratic minority, wonders how much listening Walker is
actually doing.  “The tone is really set by the executive,” Larson said.
“This governor in particular has ruled on a divide-and-conquer
strategy, moving toward an ideology instead of trying to get
stuff done.”  No Scapegoats  When Walker ran for election in 2010, he pledged to create
250,000 private jobs by the end of 2014, the close of his four-
year term. About 25,000 jobs have been added since he took
office in 2011, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  With 31 governors, including Walker, up for re-election in
2014, the pressure will mount on one-party governments to get
beyond satisfying their political bases and producing results
for voters who don’t care about partisanship, Franklin said.  “In this situation, they can’t blame the other party if
something doesn’t get done,” Franklin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Green Bay, Wisconsin at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  