-- Rhode Island’s Pension Cuts: Necessary and Legal
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-12-05T20:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rhode-island-s-needed-pension-cuts-pass-the-legal-test.html
From  Athens  to  Rome  to Providence,
Rhode Island, the painful truth about pensions is the same:
Unfunded liabilities need to be reformed, and unions don’t like
it.  The difference: Europeans go to the streets when they are
unhappy, and Americans go to the courts. In Rhode Island, a
pension-reform plan hailed as a national model is being
challenged as unconstitutional. Striking down reform would be a
disastrous move -- not only for budgets but also for
constitutional governance itself.  It’s easy to sympathize with workers’ desire not to have
their pensions touched. Many have built decades of expectations
on the basis of generous pension plans, and it seems unfair that
they should lose out because benefits negotiated on their behalf
turn out to be fiscally unsustainable. Moreover, employees,
including public employees, think of themselves as protected by
contracts that specify those benefits -- and according to the
federal and many state constitutions, states are not supposed to
make laws impairing the obligation of contracts.  Yet the equation of benefits with inviolable contractual
rights is too hasty, both legally and morally. As a legal
matter, many public-pension plans are in fact created by
statute, and it is well established that what a legislature may
do by law, it may also undo. Most of the  Rhode Island  pension
plans are  clearly statutory .  Fiscal Viability  Even when benefits are created by contract, the states’
obligation to respect those contracts has long been interpreted
to allow for them to be altered or even eliminated when public
necessity demands it and the modification is deemed reasonable.
The looming fiscal crisis in Rhode Island -- and in many other
states and cities -- certainly satisfies the condition of
necessity. Changes to the age of retirement and the mix of
public and private guarantees are reasonable by any measure. In
the end, the point of modifying pension plans is to preserve the
fiscal viability of the government, which is much better for its
creditors than seeing it collapse under the burden of
obligations it cannot meet.  The moral justification for this legal rule is
straightforward: The government creates property rights, and so
the government can modify those rights when necessary. The same
principle underlies taxes, which  Supreme Court  Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. memorably called the bill for civilization.
The government may take some of the money I’ve earned because
without its protection I wouldn’t be able to keep it -- or earn
it in the first place.  It’s certainly unfair that some people get penalized when
the government finds it has overreached, and it’s especially
painful when the victims are working class rather than
financiers. But the same principle that allowed the government
to pay Chrysler’s senior secured creditors 29 cents on the
dollar applies equally to unions. In a pinch, the government may
curtail some property rights to preserve the health of the whole
system. No one ever likes it -- and everyone, regardless of
political preferences, makes the same conservative property
argument against it.  So what protection does anyone have against a government
that runs into crises and has to resolve them by spreading the
pain around? The answer, bluntly, is democracy. If debt-holding
hedge-fund managers didn’t like the  Barack Obama 
administration’s Chrysler strategy, they could try to take him
out of office (and, believe me, they did). If unions ultimately
don’t accept that pension reform is necessary to save the
governments on whom they rely for their jobs, they can go after
the politicians who designed it. To this extent, the Europeans
have it right: The proper response to policies you don’t like is
to protest, not to sue.  Political Judgment  In fact, the courts are the worst possible avenue for
trying to block reform. The judgment that the system is broken
and needs to be fixed is the very model of a political judgment
best left to elected officials. They are the ones who understand
practical realities -- and they are the ones who lose their jobs
if real-world problems aren’t fixed.  The constitutional separation of powers is designed to
preserve crucial political decisions for the political branches.
True, judges can and should defend vulnerable minorities against
discriminatory legislation passed by the majority. But this
important role applies when there is a serious example of
discrimination or when civil liberties are infringed. It
shouldn’t serve as a cover for blocking the majority from doing
what is economically necessary to keep the state alive and
healthy.  The lesson of judicial restraint on economic matters has
been hard-won in U.S. history. In the early decades of the 20th
century, conservative, property-protecting judges blocked
progressive legislation on the grounds that it infringed the
liberty of contract. It took the New Deal and President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s court-packing threat to persuade the Supreme
Court to allow Congress to legislate freely in the economic
sphere. The legal challenge to Obama’s health-care reform was
another example of conservatives using the cover of
constitutional doctrine to disrupt a political result that they
didn’t like. It took Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s principled
stand for judicial restraint to uphold the law.  In the bad old days, judges were conservative because they
were drawn from the property holding class. Today, judges in
Rhode Island may have a common class interest with other public
employees because they also have pension plans that are subject
to reform. (Indeed, the state is seeking to have the judge
assigned to the case  removed  over conflict of interest.) It
would be equally conservative -- and equally inappropriate --for
those judges to block necessary reforms on the ground that they
impair the obligation of contracts.  The Rhode Island courts should respect the law, restrain
themselves, and make sure that their state continues to be seen
as a leader in fiscal reform, not in judicial backlash.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 