-- Singapore Wages May Worsen Fastest Rich-World Inflation: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-06T06:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rich-world-s-fastest-inflation-may-escalate-on-singapore-wages.html
When dozens of Chinese bus drivers
held Singapore’s first strike in 26 years last week, the island
deported the perpetrators. Getting rid of the soaring prices
that are emboldening calls for higher wages won’t be as easy.  Rising housing, transportation and business costs have
given the city state the fastest inflation among the developed
world’s biggest economies. The illegal protest by the  SMRT Corp. (MRT) 
drivers in late November may herald a further escalation in
price pressures, as even foreign laborers whose cheaper wages
have helped restrain inflation express dissatisfaction with
their incomes.  “All price go up, only salary no up,” Delowar Hussin, a
Bangladeshi laborer, said as he hauled a bag of concrete debris
into a dumpster outside a Singapore office tower housing  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Hussin, 41, said he earns a basic
wage of S$18 ($15) a day, a rate that hasn’t changed in the past
four years even as his monthly living costs jumped to as much as
S$400 from less than S$300.  Singapore is grappling with the elevated inflation that
comes with years of  economic growth  and population expansion on
an island smaller than  New York  City, with rising demand fueling
record property and car prices. The country tightened monetary
policy this year while neighbors from  Thailand  to the
 Philippines  cut interest rates, spurring gains in the currency
even as the government predicts gross domestic product will rise
at the slowest pace in three years.  Adjustment Period  “Singapore Inc. is facing an adjustment period and there
is no easy way out,” said Kit Wei Zheng, an economist at
Citigroup who previously worked for the Monetary Authority of
Singapore. “The work-cheap model is reaching its limits
especially since the cost of living is high. With inflation
likely to stay above historical averages, macroeconomic policy
will likely remain on a tightening bias.”  Singapore  has the highest  inflation rate  among 27 economies
with GDP of at least $100 billion and classified by the
International Monetary Fund as advanced. Price gains on the
island of 5.3 million people have reached 4 percent or more
every month bar one since November 2010, more than double the
1.9 percent average in the past two decades.  Inflation is forecast by the central bank to average more
than 4.5 percent this year and be in a 3.5 percent-to-4.5
percent range in 2013. “Persistent tightness” in the  labor
market  will support slightly stronger wage increases in 2013,
which will continue to be passed through to consumer prices, the
central bank and Trade Ministry said last month.  More Strife  “I wouldn’t be surprised if labor strife becomes a more
frequent occurrence going forward,” said  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “High
inflation will very likely persist in the years ahead. Workers
will surely demand higher wages to compensate for their loss in
real income.”  In a country that’s host to 2 million foreigners, many
hotels, restaurants, builders and shipyards rely on overseas
workers willing to toil for lower wages than Singaporeans, and
employers are bracing for the possibility of further discord.
Two workers from China refused to come down from the top of a
crane today, Channel NewsAsia reported on its website. Police
said the incident was related to a work dispute and that
Singapore Civil Defence Force and Ministry of Manpower officials
are also at the scene.  Singapore Health Services Pte , the country’s largest
healthcare group with more than 16,000 employees, is reviewing
its business contingency plans in the aftermath of the drivers’
strike, said Goh Leong Huat, deputy group director of human
resources for the government-linked operator of hospitals and
polyclinics.  The government said in March it will spend about S$200
million to increase salaries of healthcare workers. About 20
percent of public healthcare employees were foreigners at the
end of 2011, according to the Health Ministry.  China Salaries  Average urban salaries in China increased 12 percent in the
first nine months from a year earlier without adjusting for
inflation, after climbing 14.4 percent for all of 2011 and 13.3
percent in 2010, government data show. In  Indonesia , the
government said it may raise the lowest required wages to 2
million rupiah ($208) a month, while  Malaysia  this year joined
Thailand and  Vietnam  in implementing a minimum income. Singapore
doesn’t have such a rate.  “Wages in neighboring countries are playing huge catch-up
and in China in particular, wages have been outstripping GDP
growth,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “People will start assessing whether
the trade-offs to come to a foreign land, working long hours and
being away from the family is worth it.”  Job Creation  Median monthly incomes in Singapore rose 7.1 percent this
year without adjusting for inflation, after climbing 8.3 percent
in 2011, according to a  preliminary report  on the island’s
workforce by the Manpower Ministry last month.  Singapore’s  jobless rate  fell to 1.9 percent last quarter,
while  Australia  reported today its unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped in November. New Zealand’s central bank
kept interest rates unchanged, while South Korea’s economy grew
less than initially estimated in the third quarter.  The European Central Bank and the Bank of England will
probably keep their benchmark rates unchanged today, according
to Bloomberg surveys. A report may show the euro-area economy
succumbed to a recession for the second time in four years last
quarter, reiterating an earlier estimate. The U.S. Labor
Department may say fewer Americans filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week, a survey showed.  Currency Gains  Singapore, which uses the exchange rate to manage inflation,
unexpectedly refrained from slowing the pace of its currency’s
appreciation in its October policy review even after the economy
contracted last quarter. The Singapore dollar’s 6.3 percent gain
this year has done little to damp inflation stemming from
domestic price pressures.  Home prices climbed to a  record  in the third quarter, and
the cost of a permit for a small car rose to an unprecedented
S$78,523 on Dec. 5, from S$46,889 at the start of the year. The
country auctions limited vehicle permits to control congestion
and pollution.  Adding to price pressures is a government drive to cool the
inflow of foreign workers, after voter anger against competition
for jobs, education and housing boosted support for the
political opposition in elections last year. Opposition parties
have said that the large numbers of overseas workers have
depressed local wages.  Higher car and property prices and the measures to tighten
rules on hiring overseas workers are driving up the “overall
cost structure” of the economy, spurring inflationary pressures
that are a result of “self-imposed” policies, according to
DBS’s Seah.  Losing Edge  “Singapore used to have the upper hand on inflation but
somehow has been losing its edge in this aspect in recent
years,” said Seah, who formerly worked for Singapore’s Trade
Ministry. “Inflation will remain significantly higher than
normal for as long as those policy measures remain in place. The
policies are growth-limiting and pushing Singapore closer and
closer toward the brink of recession.”  The city-state avoided falling into a technical recession
after second-quarter GDP data was revised to show the economy
grew. The $240 billion economy is forecast by the government to
expand about 1.5 percent this year and 1 percent to 3 percent in
2013.  The dispute between SMRT and more than a hundred of its bus
drivers from  China  led to the repatriation of 29 protesters,
while five others were charged in court for instigating the
strike. Of the five, one was sentenced to six weeks’ jail on Dec.
3 while the rest were allowed bail after appearing in court
today.  Wage Disparity  At the core of the disagreement was a disparity in wages
that the company pays the Chinese nationals and their Malaysian
and Singaporean counterparts. Even before the strike, SMRT, the
island’s biggest subway operator and one of its two main bus
companies, had said that rising wage costs would impact its
profitability.  The incident highlighted lingering public resentment for
the presence of some foreigners in the country, even as it
showed overseas laborers demanding better treatment from their
Singapore employers.  In a snap poll of 313 Singapore citizens conducted by a
 government feedback unit  and released after the strike, about
eight of 10 respondents said the Chinese drivers should be
“punished to the full extent of the law” and authorities have
“acted swiftly” to bring the situation under control.  For Hussin, who has to support his wife, child and mother
in Bangladeshi city of Khulna, the repercussions of asking for
higher pay may be more than he can afford.  “Not happy also no choice, have to work,” he said. “I
want to ask my boss for more money but scared he will scold and
tell me to go back to  Bangladesh . Maybe after my contract over,
I look for other company that pay me more or go home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  