-- Poland Cuts Main Rate Second Month Amid Recession Threat
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-12-05T15:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/trichet-deja-vu-haunts-poland-as-rates-set-to-fall-again.html
Poland’s central bank cut borrowing
costs for a second month and said it will ease policy further as
the European Union’s biggest eastern economy faces the risk of
its first recession in two decades.  The only central bank in the 27-nation EU to raise rates
this year lowered  the benchmark  seven-day  reference rate  25
basis points to 4.25 percent today, in line with the forecasts
of 33 of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two predicted a 50
basis-point decrease.  “The Monetary Policy Council is working hard and can’t
afford a pause in easing,” Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news
conference in Warsaw, adding there’s a “high probability” of
another cut in January. “The situation’s serious, the slowdown
considerable, but we’re far from believing that it’s dramatic.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski last month cut rates for the first
time since 2009 and Belka announced the start of an easing cycle
after economic  growth  slowed to the weakest pace in almost three
years. Since then, inflation decelerated to below the upper end
of the bank’s tolerance range for the first time in almost two
years and the economy further deteriorated, prompting analysts
including Marcin Mazurek at  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , the local unit of
Commerzbank AG, to predict a recession next year.  The zloty pared gains after the announcement, trading down
more than 0.1 percent at 4.1242 per euro at 4:30 p.m. in Warsaw.
The currency has gained 8.3 percent against the euro this year,
the world’s second-best performance after the Hungarian forint.
The  yield  on two-year  government bonds  was up one basis point to
3.36 percent.  Bank Statement  “Should upcoming information confirm a protracted economic
slowdown, and the risk of an increase in inflationary pressures
remain limited, the Council will further ease monetary policy,”
the central bank said in a statement. With growth set to remain
moderate, there’s a “risk of inflation declining below the
NBP’s inflation target in the medium term.”  Belka said that while some MPC members favor abandoning
positive real  interest rates  in the face of the worsening
economy, the central bank prefers a “gradual” approach to
monetary easing. The bank doesn’t believe an economic recovery
is imminent, he said.  Monetary easing over the next 12 months will total 150
basis points, according to BRE Bank’s Mazurek. That’s above the
market expectations, even after traders boosted bets for
monetary easing following the release of the third-quarter data.  Rate Forecasts  They now predict a total of 123 basis points in cuts over
the next 12 months compared with 100 before, according to the
gap between the equivalent forward-rate agreement prices and the
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in October from 3.8 percent
a month earlier and will “record a remarkable decline in
November,” according to Jaroslaw Janecki, Warsaw-based
economist at  Societe Generale (GLE) , who expects the rate at 2.8
percent. If confirmed by the  Central Statistical Office  on Dec.
13, that would be a two-year low.  The central bank predicts consumer-price growth will
decelerate to the 2.5 percent target next year, when the economy
will expand 1.5 percent, the least since 2002. The central bank
recognizes that inflation is slowing and some policy makers are
concerned about the inflation forecast’s credibility, Belka said
today.  Economic growth in the third-quarter weakened to 1.4
percent from a year earlier on a second straight decline in
domestic demand, including a 0.1 percent increase in  consumer
spending . That was the lowest since the first quarter of 2003 as
companies offered no new jobs for the past four months and
inflation outpaced wage growth. Belka said that he’s “most
concerned” by the demand drop.  “Consumers hit a wall,” Mazurek said. “In the fourth
quarter, we’ll be able to refute the alleged impossibility of
negative consumption growth in  Poland .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  