-- Michigan May End Mandatory Union Dues in Labor Bastion
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/right-to-work-issue-inflames-labor-in-uaw-michigan-home.html
Michigan , home to carmakers and
labor’s United Auto Workers, may ban mandatory union-dues
payments if Republicans who run the Legislature pass such a law,
making it the 24th U.S. right-to-work state.  The issue has inflamed organized labor, which lost a costly
ballot campaign in November to enshrine collective bargaining
rights in the state constitution. Unions have urged members to
visit the capitol personally to lobby lawmakers on the issue.  “Right-to-work is on the agenda; we are having discussions
on it,” Republican Governor Rick Snyder told reporters in
Lansing yesterday after emerging from a meeting with the party’s
legislative leaders. “We haven’t made any decisions.”  A compromise may be forged with unions on the issue by
tomorrow, averting a vote. No right-to-work legislation has been
introduced for consideration in the lame-duck session that ends
later this month. If such a measure passed, Michigan would
become the second Midwest industrial state to adopt a mandatory
dues ban in the past year, following Indiana in February.  Snyder previously dismissed the issue as divisive and “not
on my agenda,” while stopping short of saying he’d veto a
right-to-work bill. Last week, he met with UAW President Bob
King to discuss the matter, according to Sara Wurfel, a
spokeswoman for the governor. This week, the state Chamber of
Commerce came out in favor of such a measure.  Wisconsin Discussion  Before Indiana took action, right-to-work states were
concentrated in the South, Plains and Rocky Mountain regions,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures in
Denver. Similar measures were considered in 21 other states this
year, without passage. A right-to-work bill is being discussed
in  Wisconsin , where Republican Governor Scott Walker this year
survived a recall after curbing collective bargaining for most
public-employee unions.  Labor rights in Michigan, home to General Motors Co., Ford
Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, carry historic weight. Walter P. Reuther, who led a bloody drive to organize Ford workers,
later served as the UAW’s president from 1946 to 1970. Called
“the most dangerous man in Detroit” by American Motors
executive and future Governor George Romney, Reuther helped to
unite the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor organization, in 1955.  James P. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, is a Michigan native. His father, Jimmy Hoffa,
moved to  Detroit  as a child and led the union for 14 years,
increasing its membership to more than 2 million.  Union Opposition  Labor leaders oppose right-to-work laws, which make it
harder for their organizations to raise money. The statutes
generally let workers refuse to join unions or pay dues, even
though they may benefit from contracts that labor groups
negotiate, according to the conference of legislatures.  While no right-to-work bill is pending in Michigan,
hundreds of union members have traveled to the capitol to lobby
against it, according to the UAW’s website.  “It’ll take away our ability to collectively bargain,”
said Dia Pearce, an organizer with Unite Here, a union
representing hotel, restaurant, stadium and casino employees.  The issue is a matter of personal liberty, said Brian
Pannebecker, a spokesman for Michigan Freedom to Work, a group
of business groups and individuals lobbying for such a law.  “If the unions are providing a valuable service to the
workers, the workers should be allowed to decide whether they
want to join and financially support” them, said Pannebecker,
53, a UAW member at a Detroit-area Ford plant. He said many
autoworkers resent paying dues to a union that almost
exclusively supports politicians and policies that they reject.  Dominant Issue  Debate over right-to-work has dominated the state’s lame
duck session, which includes lawmakers who are leaving office.
Supporters of such a measure said a bill must be introduced by
tomorrow to fit the legislative schedule.  “I’m more confident than I was yesterday we have the
votes,” said state Representative Mike Shirkey, a Republican
from Clarklake who has prepared a right-to-work measure.  States that ban compulsory union dues have greater growth
in jobs, personal income and population than those that don’t
prohibit the practice, Shirkey said.  Such a contentious issue shouldn’t be considered in a lame-
duck session, said state Representative Richard Hammel, the
Democratic Leader in the House from Mt. Morris Township. He said
right-to-work states have higher jobless rates, and that such
data should be considered in public hearings and in a full
legislative debate.  Employees in right-to-work states make an average of $1,500
a year less than those that don’t have such a law, according to
the Michigan AFL-CIO.  Hammel, who is stepping down because of term limits, said
passage of a right-to-work bill now would “poison the water”
for lawmakers entering the next legislative session.  “There will be no cooperation on issues that are important
to a lot of folks,” Hammel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 