-- Rivelle Beats Gross as Mortgages Pay Off: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-12-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rivelle-beats-gross-as-mortgages-pay-off-riskless-return.html
Tad Rivelle decided in 2008 that
prices for some bonds got so low after Bear Stearns Cos. and
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed that they made sense
only if the U.S. was headed into another Great Depression.  Convinced it wasn’t, he bought bank debt and mortgages not
backed by the government in his $23.7 billion  Metropolitan West
Total Return Bond Fund (MWTIX) , a move that paid off in 2009 and 2010 as
those bonds rebounded with the economy. That helped Rivelle beat
 Bill Gross  and the managers of all other large intermediate-term
bond funds over the past five years when adjusting for
volatility, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.  “We were willing to stand up and say the world is still a
going concern and it is time to go long on certain assets,”
Rivelle said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles , where
Met West parent TCW Group Inc. is based.  Rivelle, who oversees about $81 billion as TCW’s chief
investment officer of fixed income, and his co-managers are
value hunters. They buy securities they see as bargains based on
long-term fundamentals and sell them when prospects for more
gains dim. The managers reduced such speculative holdings as
high-yield debt this year because the bonds look expensive after
doubling since March 2009. They added to safer securities
including Treasuries and higher-quality mortgages.  Rivelle, 51,Stephen Kane, 50, andLaird Landmann, 48, have
worked together for 17 years and run the Met West fund since it
was created in 1997. Earlier, all three were employed at Gross’s
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., home of the  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest
mutual fund.  ‘Bottom Up’  The Pimco experience, Kane said, taught them the importance
of sticking with a disciplined process that can consistently
produce alpha, or market-beating performance. The managers
pursue that goal differently from their Pimco mentors.  “They are top down and we are bottom up,” Kane said.
Gross and his team running the $285 billion Total Return Fund
have flourished by making big-picture judgments about the
economy and  interest rates , he said. The Met West group focuses
on bond market segments and individual securities that look
mispriced.  Both funds rank in the top 2 percent of the intermediate
bond category over the past 15 years, according to Chicago-based
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “Over time the two funds stand out,” Landmann said.  Met West Total Return gained 12 percent, adjusted for price
swings, in the five years ended Nov. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the best of 21 intermediate-term
bond funds that buy government and corporate debt and have at
least $2 billion in assets. The fund had the greatest total
return with about average volatility.  Pimco, Janus  The Pimco Total Return Fund returned 11 percent and ranked
third adjusted for risk, blending the second-best absolute
return with the eighth-highest volatility.  The $5.7 billion  Janus Flexible Bond (JAFIX)  Fund had a risk-adjusted return of 11 percent, placing second, slightly ahead of
Pimco.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Rivelle’s decision to buy mortgage and financial securities
during the 2008 crisis illustrates his approach to finding
value. He increased non-agency mortgages to 12 percent of assets
as of June 30, 2008, from 9.5 percent the prior quarter, after
Bear Stearns’ collapse. He lifted financial bonds to 19 percent
on June 30, 2009, from 15 percent on Sept. 30, 2008,  regulatory
filings show .  ‘Devastating’ Aftershocks  The logic was simple, Rivelle said. Once  Lehman Brothers 
failed in September 2008, triggering a worldwide freeze of
credit markets, it was clear the U.S. government wouldn’t allow
another major bank to shut down.  “The aftershocks would have been devastating,” he said.
“Policy makers put their arms around those banks.”  Bank bonds gained 18 percent in 2009 and 9 percent the next
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
helping the Met West fund outperform most peers. The debt
advanced 15 percent this year through Nov. 30.  The fund’s bet on non-agency mortgages followed a similar
pattern. The debt plunged in 2008 as the housing crisis worsened
and investors dumped speculative assets. Rivelle bought a blend
of subprime, or below-investment-grade, mortgages; Alt-A loans,
which don’t require the usual amount of documentation; and prime
mortgages, which meet stringent underwriting guidelines.  Too Early  “People were saying these securities were too complex and
that no one knew what was in them,” Landmann said. Met West had
extensively researched the loans being packaged into mortgage-backed securities, concluding that defaults would be fewer and
recoveries to investors greater than the market was
anticipating.  Rivelle’s fund began adding to non-agency debt too early in
hindsight because prices kept falling late in 2008, Landmann
said. The debt rallied when the economy recovered in 2009,
climbing 34 percent, Met West data show. It gained 26 percent in
2010, declined 7 percent in 2011 and returned 28 percent through
Nov. 30 this year as the housing market bounced back.  “They have been preaching that non-agency represented the
best value in the marketplace and it has come true,” Patrick
Ryan, portfolio manager with Madison Asset Management in
Madison,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview. The firm,
which oversees $16 billion,  owns shares  in the Met West fund.  ‘Pretty Calm’  Mortgages hurt the fund in 2011, Rivelle said, when
concerns about the European sovereign crisis and a political
standoff over raising the U.S. debt ceiling prompted investors
to flee risky assets. The fund returned 5.2 percent last year,
trailing 59 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We were pretty calm about it,” said Rivelle, who used
the dip in prices to buy more non-agency mortgages, boosting
them to 19 percent of the fund as of March 31 from 16 percent a
year earlier, company data show.  Rivelle built up his non-agency stake gradually in 2009,
2010 and 2011. The incremental strategy mitigates risk and
smooths out results over time, and it’s impossible to know
precisely when prices for any group of bonds have reached a peak
or a bottom, Rivelle said.  “Our approach lends sanity to the process and is
understandable to investors,” he said.  The fund’s holdings of U.S. Treasuries more than doubled to
21 percent of assets in this year’s first nine months, company
data show. High-yield bonds dropped to 4.9 percent from 6.2
percent.  ‘Stretched’ Prices  The managers have also made changes in their non-agency
holdings, shifting into higher-rated mortgages, Miriam Sjoblom,
a Morningstar analyst, wrote in a note published last month.  “A lot of the juice has been squeezed out,” Sjoblom said
in a telephone interview. “It’s going to be difficult for this
fund and others to outperform the way they have,” she said,
referring to the rally that has resulted in the narrowing of
yield spreads across a range of bond categories.  She described the fund’s position as “less aggressive”
than in the past. “They take risk but they make sure they get
paid for it,” Sjoblom said.  The moves are based in part on Rivelle’s view of the
dangers still posed by the  European debt crisis  and the
possibility the  U.S. Congress  and President  Barack Obama  won’t
be able to avert the $607 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts, dubbed the fiscal cliff, set for January.  ‘Risky Assets’  Rivelle expects the U.S. economic recovery to stay
sluggish, with growth of about 1.5 percent to 2 percent a year.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the economy to expand 2
percent next year, based on data from 80 respondents.  “At that rate of growth, risky assets are a bit
expensive,” Rivelle said. “They may not be grotesque, but they
are stretched.”  The spread of junk bond yields above Treasuries has shrunk
to less than 6 percentage points from more than 17 in March
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The bonds have
doubled in value over that time.  It made sense for the managers to “take a little bit of
risk off the table,” said Madison Asset’s Ryan. “There is so
little value in the fixed-income markets. You are playing with
fire at this point.”  The fund has topped 97 percent of rivals this year in total
return, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the managers
switched direction. Landmann said the rally in riskier assets
that drove the fund’s results for the past four years may have
run its course.  “That is frustrating for investors,” he said. “They want
to know what the next great thing is. The fact is value has been
taken out of the market and we need to be conservative.”  As Rivelle put it, “We are no longer being paid to
underwrite risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  