-- Roche, Pfizer, Sanofi Plan $72.7 Million Stem-Cell Bank
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-12-05T14:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/roche-pfizer-sanofi-plan-72-7-million-stem-cell-bank.html
Drug companies and universities are
spending 55.6 million euros ($72.7 million) to develop a bank of
 stem cells  to use in testing potential treatments for hard-to-
treat diseases.  The effort, known as  Stembancc  and managed by the
 University of Oxford  in England, will focus on generating 1,500
induced pluripotent stem cell lines, researchers said at a
London news conference. The cells will be used by drugmakers
including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  to test
treatments for peripheral nervous disorders, pain, dementia,
migraine, autism, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and diabetes
and to perform toxicology tests.  “This is a pioneering effort,” said Zameel Cader, a
neurologist at Oxford and one of Stembancc’s leaders. “We want
to be a flagship project within Europe.”  The researchers chose to use induced pluripotent stem
cells, which are adult stem cells that can be reprogrammed to
generate any type of cell, because they probably have the
genetic information needed for studying the diseases, Cader
said. John Gurdon of the U.K. and Shinya Yamanaka of Japan won
the 2012  Nobel Prize  in Physiology or Medicine for work on
induced pluripotent stem cells.  The  Innovative Medicines Initiative , a public-private
collaboration of the European Union and the European Federation
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, is contributing
26 million euros of the cost; the EFPIA is contributing 21
million euros; and other organizations are giving 8.6 million
euros.  The project, initiated by Roche, involves 10 drugmakers and
23 universities, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement. Other companies involved include  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Johnson & Johnson ,
 Merck KGaA (MRK) ,  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and  Orion Oyj. (ORNAV)  