-- Russia Isn’t Meeting WTO Pledges, May Face EU Complaints
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-12-05T16:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/russia-isn-t-meeting-wto-pledges-may-face-eu-complaints.html
Russia  is failing to fulfill its
obligations as a World Trade Organization member months after
joining the global trade body and may face legal action as a
result, European Union Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said.  “Three months have now passed and I must say the picture
is, if anything, less promising than it was then,” De Gucht
said in a speech in Brussels today, according to an e-mailed
copy of his remarks. Recent actions by Russia’s government
“present a less encouraging outlook. In these areas, far from
using its new membership of the WTO as a tool for broader
reform, Russia is not even meeting its commitments.”  Russia became the 156th member of the WTO in August after
almost two decades of negotiations, bolstering President
 Vladimir Putin ’s efforts to gain greater influence in global
affairs. The country had been the largest economy outside the
Geneva-based trade arbiter.  “We’re aware of the EU’s concerns,”  Maxim Medvedkov ,
director of the trade negotiations department in Russia’s
Economy Ministry, said by telephone.  “It’s not up to the European Commission to decide if
measures comply with WTO rules or not,” he said. “We also have
complaints about the EU that we’ve been talking about for years,
and the EU’s position on these hasn’t changed since Russia’s
accession to the WTO. We hope that all of the issues in dispute
will be resolved.”  The 27-nation EU is “looking closely” at some Russian
policies that may violate global trade rules and is prepared to
haul the government before a WTO dispute panel,  De Gucht  said.  ‘Particular Concern’  “We would prefer to negotiate our way to a solution,” he
said. “That is the quickest and most cost-effective way to
resolve things. However, if that does not prove possible, we are
most certainly prepared to use all the legal avenues at our
disposal. And since Russia’s accession, that includes dispute
settlement at the WTO.”  De Gucht identified four areas that are “of particular
concern.” These include a decree on fees for recycling cars
that he said discriminates against European producers and an
import ban on live animals from  Europe  that is a “clear-cut
breach” of WTO rules, according to De Gucht.  Russia’s decision to raise the level of tariffs it applies
to hundreds of imported products also may violate global trade
rules, he said.  Finally, referring to the EU’s agreement with Russia on
wood exports that was central to the country’s accession deal,
De Gucht said the procedure to export lumber at lower duties is
“very burdensome -- much more burdensome than procedures for
selling wood on the domestic market. This created incentives for
producers to discriminate against sales to exporters,” he said.  Debt Crisis  Putin says Russia’s $1.9 trillion economy must expand at
least 6 percent annually to become one of the world’s five
largest economies in terms of purchasing power. He is
championing a bigger role for Russia and other leading emerging-
market nations in navigating the global economy, saying richer
countries failed to contain the debt crisis.  Russia’s entry into the WTO, which marked the biggest step
in global trade liberalization since  China  joined in 2001, was
expected to add $162 billion each year to economic output in the
long term by improving  market access  and attracting foreign
investment, the  World Bank  said in March. WTO members carry out
97 percent of global trade, according to the Washington-based
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  