-- Rwandans Aided Congo Rebel Attack on Goma, UN Is Told
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-12-05T01:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rwandans-aided-congo-rebel-attack-on-goma-un-is-told.html
Rwanda Defense Force soldiers
provided direct support to M23 rebels in the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo who last month captured the eastern city of Goma near
the countries’ border, according to the UN Group of Experts.  Rwanda’s General Emmanuel Ruvusha and the M23 commander,
Sultani Makenga, “jointly led the Goma offensive,” according
to a Nov. 27 letter from the experts group to the  United Nations
Security Council . As many as 1,000 Rwandan troops crossed the
border to support operations in the village of Kibumba,
according to the letter, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The letter offers an account of the Rwandan military’s
involvement in the offensive, citing former Rwandan officers and
senior Congolese commanders. It also includes seven photos that
show the crossing points and mortars supplied by  Rwanda , along
with uniforms worn by Rwandan officers and M23 rebels that are
either identical or virtually indistinguishable.  “When the M23 began its offensive on Goma, it benefited
from direct RDF support during combat on the frontlines at the
village of Kibumba,” the UN Experts Group on the Democratic
Republic of Congo said in its three-page letter. As rebels
advanced toward Goma on Nov. 19, Rwandan forces “operated
alongside M23 in combat at the airport and close to one of
Goma’s border posts into Rwanda.”  After controlling the city for two weeks, M23 fighters
withdrew from Goma on Dec. 1 in anticipation of direct
negotiations with Democratic Republic of Congo’s President
 Joseph Kabila . The rebels have remained in a ring around the
city, within a 20-kilometer (12-mile) neutral zone they had
agreed to leave, according to Brigadier-General Bansi Ponnappa,
the commander of the UN’s North Kivu brigade.  Mineral Deposits  Congo and Rwanda have fought directly or by proxy since the
late 1990s. At stake in the eastern part of Congo bordering
Rwanda and  Uganda  are deposits of tin ore, gold, tungsten and
coltan, a mineral used in laptops and mobile phones. The
fighting in  Africa ’s second-largest country has left civilians
without protection and created a security vacuum.  Armed groups, including the Democratic Forces for the
Liberation of Rwanda, a mainly Hutu militia that opposes the
Rwandan government, have thrived in eastern Congo’s remote hills
for more than a decade.  Rwanda has consistently rejected the findings of the UN
Group of Experts monitoring an arms embargo on Congo. The letter
comes in addition to a 44-page report that said Rwandan
officials have commanded the seven-month rebellion. Uganda also
helped the M23 militia with “logistics,” the UN experts said.  The UN Security Council has so far shied away from directly
naming Rwanda as taking a key role in commanding the M23.  The 15-member body last month demanded “that any and all
outside support to the M23 as well as other armed groups cease
immediately.” That language is indirectly aimed at neighboring
Rwanda, accused by the Congolese government and a UN panel of
experts of providing support for the M23 insurgents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ; 