-- Rwanda May Delay Eurobond Sale, Cut Growth Forecast on Aid Cuts
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2012-12-05T13:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/rwanda-may-delay-eurobond-sale-cut-growth-forecast-on-aid-cuts.html
Rwanda  may reduce its growth forecast
for 2013 to as low as 6 percent and delay a global debt offering
because of aid cuts over the country’s alleged backing of a
rebellion in Congo, central bank Governor Claver Gatete said.  The extent of the slowdown will depend on how deeply the
government needs to cut capital spending, he said today in an
interview in Kigali, the capital. In June, Finance Minister John Rwangombwa forecast the economy would grow 7.7 percent this year
compared with 8.6 percent in 2011.  “We had projected 7.5 percent next year and the impact now
could be between 1 and 1.5 percentage points,” he said.  “That
depends on how the government is going to re-prioritize what to
cut -- if it’s an electricity or water project, a road project -
- and how that will affect the economy.”  Donors including the U.K., the Netherlands and  Germany 
suspended aid to Rwanda after a United Nations group of experts
accused the country of supporting rebels fighting in the eastern
Democratic Republic of Congo. Rwandan President Paul Kagame
denies the allegations.  The cuts equal about 12 percent of planned expenditure
through June 2013, Gatete said. Lawmakers are scheduled to vote
on any proposed budget adjustments in January, he said.  The government will also hold back on plans for its first
global debt offering as early as this month because the
“political” situation has rattled market confidence, which may
drive up borrowing costs, Gatete said. Rwangombwa said in May
the country planned to raise $300 million in U.S.-dollar
dominated bonds in 2013.  ‘Political Atmosphere’  “You can imagine when there is an atmosphere like this
one, you need the public to understand what is going on,” he
said. “We don’t want them to take into account the rumors going
on here, the political atmosphere, the allegations, the cutting
of aid.”  Rwanda’s ratings outlook was lowered to stable from
positive at Standard & Poor’s in October, which cited the aid
freeze as a reason. S&P and Fitch Ratings have both assigned
Rwanda a B long-term sovereign credit rating, five steps below
investment grade and on par with the African nations of Uganda,
Mozambique and  Seychelles .  Rwanda is trying to wean the economy off outside budgetary
aid, which accounts for about 40 percent of planned expenditure
for 2012-13, partly because the country doesn’t want to be
beholden to the agendas of foreign governments, Gatete said.  Development Fund  The government is operating a development fund, known as
Agaciro, which means dignity in the local Kinyarwanda language,
with voluntary contributions from citizens and other
benefactors, raising 25 billion francs ($40 million) since it
started in August, said Gatete. The proceeds will help develop
infrastructure and advance education and health programs.  “For Rwanda, now we understand whether you are genuine in
terms of giving your money or not,” Gatete said. “What we can
see now is that it’s money tied to politics.”  Growth in 2012 is expected to “surpass” the 7.7 percent
forecast earlier this year as almost every part of the economy
has performed better than expected, while growing private
lending has stoked domestic demand, he said. Still, a sustained
slowdown in  Europe  will pose a risk to Rwanda economy next year
as it may damage the main sources of the country’s foreign
exchange earnings including tourism, coffee and tea exports,
Gatete said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kigali at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Saul Butera in Kigali at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  