-- Saipem CEO, Eni CFO Resign Amid Algeria Contract Probe
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-12-05T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/saipem-said-to-hold-extraordinary-board-meeting-as-shares-slide.html
Saipem SpA (SPM)  Chief Executive Officer
Pietro Franco Tali and Alessandro Bernini, chief financial
officer at parent company  Eni SpA (ENI) , resigned amid an Italian
investigation into contracts in  Algeria .  Saipem,  Europe ’s largest oil contractor by market value,
appointed Umberto Vergine to replace Tali, the company said in a
statement to the stock exchange. Massimo Mondazzi will replace
Bernini, Eni said separately. Tali, 62, had been CEO since 2000;
Bernini served as Saipem’s CFO until 2008.  A Saipem contract in Algeria is being scrutinized there as
part of a broader inquiry into executives at oil company
Sonatrach, the Wall Street Journal reported Feb. 10, citing
people familiar with the situation. Saipem has offered its full
cooperation to the Milan Prosecutor’s office.  “Saipem believes that its business activities have been
conducted in compliance with applicable law,” it said. The
probe won’t have “material adverse effect on results.”  Bernini believes that while his actions were “right and
proper,” Eni is better served by his resignation, Eni said.  Saipem fell 4.3 percent to 32.68 euros in Milan today
before being suspended for the rest of the session pending a
statement. That trimmed the market value to 14.4 billion euros
($18.8 billion). Eni fell 1.8 percent to 17.9 euros.  Saipem also suspended the chief operating officer of its
engineering and construction unit, Pietro Varone, who also is
under investigation in the probe, and another unidentified
manager, the Milan-based company said. Vergine, a director, will
oversee the engineering and construction unit, Saipem said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  