-- Sao Tome and Principe Premier, Government Removed by Decree
-- B y   E d l e n a   B a r r o s
-- 2012-12-05T15:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/sao-tome-and-principe-premier-government-removed-by-decree-1-.html
President Manuel Pinto da Costa of
Sao Tome and Principe dissolved the government of Prime Minister
Patrice Trovoada, according to a decree read on state
television.  The broadcast didn’t say whether Trovoada and his
government will be replaced via an election or whether his party
will be asked to form another government.  “The government continues in office until the appointment
and swearing in of the new prime minister of the new
constitutional government,” Amaro Couto, an official with the
presidency, said during the broadcast.  The minority ruling party on Nov. 29 urged street
demonstrations against Trovoada’s Independent Democratic Action
government, which was censured by opposition lawmakers from
three groups a day earlier over budget plans. The opposition
groups in their censure motion said that living conditions are
worsening, with citizens “plunging into poverty, hunger and
misery.”  Cocoa, Slavery  The cocoa-exporting archipelago, which has a $244 million
economy, was uninhabited until  Portugal  claimed it in the 15th
century and later imported African slaves for labor, according
to the CIA World Factbook. It ranks 144th out of 187 nations on
the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development
Index.  Its dobra currency has been pegged at 24,500 a euro since
2009, after it signed an agreement with Portugal. It traded at
18,735 a dollar by 2:21 p.m. in Sao Tome, the capital.  Sao Tome and Principe is  Africa ’s second-smallest country
by population after Seychelles, with about 169,000 people. It’s
located about 308 miles (496 kilometers) south of  Nigeria ’s
coast in the Atlantic Ocean’s Gulf of Guinea, where the two
countries have a joint oil and gas exploration agreement.  Pinto da Costa became leader after the archipelago gained
independence from Portugal in 1975. He established a one-party
state and led until 1991, after the country legalized opposition
parties and held free elections. He returned in September 2011,
after winning a presidential runoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryson Hull in Nairobi at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  