-- Sharp Gains on $121 Million Qualcomm Capital Tie-Up: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-12-05T12:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/sharp-gains-on-121-million-qualcomm-capital-tie-up-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
that warned last month about its ability to survive, reached a
two-month high after saying it plans to raise as much as 9.9
billion yen ($121 million) selling shares to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   Sharp, the world’s second  worst-performing  major stock,
rose 4 percent to 181 yen in Tokyo trading, its highest close
since Oct. 4. The Osaka-based company will sell 30.12 million
shares at 164 yen apiece to Qualcomm this month for a 2.6
percent stake, and may sell another 4.94 billion yen of stock if
certain conditions are met, the TV maker said in a  statement 
after the market closed yesterday.  Japan ’s largest liquid-crystal-display maker turned to
Qualcomm, the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, after failing
to get a planned 67 billion-yen investment from  Taiwan ’s Foxconn
Technology Group. Sharp needs to restore its  balance sheet  after
hemorrhaging 103 billion yen in cash from operations in the
fiscal first half amid falling demand and competition from
Samsung Electronics Co.  “Sharp has some really interesting technology, and we’re
happy to be working with them on that,” Steven Mollenkopf,
president and chief operating officer of San Diego-based
Qualcomm, said in an interview today. “Obviously, they’ve had
some difficult times. We think they’ll be successful.”  Sharp Targets  The second share sale is based on certain conditions,
including securing the resources needed for research and
development, according to the statement. Other targets include
Sharp posting an operating profit in the six months to March
2013, and holding 125 billion yen in cash and 100 billion yen in
 net assets  as of March 31, according to the statement.  “The investment from Qualcomm removed investors’
anxiety,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co.
in  Tokyo . “The amount is not big but the fact Qualcomm will
invest in Sharp is important because it means Qualcomm considers
Sharp won’t go bankrupt.”  He rates Sharp the equivalent of hold.  The companies plan to develop displays using Sharp’s IGZO
technology and Qualcomm’s Micro Electro Mechanical System, or
MEMS, display technology. The screens would be “on all the
time,” Mollenkopf said.  “This technology probably fits a need that doesn’t exist
today,” he said.  Foxconn Deal  Sharp initially agreed in March to sell a 9.9 percent stake
to Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou’s Foxconn, the assembler of
Apple Inc. iPhones and iPads, at 550 yen a share. Sharp’s
forecast for bigger losses caused the shares to plunge,
prompting the two companies to renegotiate terms.  The second share sale with Qualcomm, scheduled in March
2013, would total $60 million and the yen denomination figure
may change subject to the currency rate, according to the
statement. The two companies may postpone that sale until June
30, according to the statement.  Sharp said last month there was “material doubt” about
its ability to survive after forecasting a record 450 billion-
yen full-year loss because of sluggish demand for its panels.
The company is selling assets and cutting jobs to revive profit
after posting a record 376 billion-yen loss in the fiscal year
ended March 31.  The company will book a 25.3 billion-yen, one-time charge
in the quarter ending Dec. 31 to eliminate 2,960 jobs, it said
Nov. 20.  “We made a small investment to help them and also to de-
risk a little bit of the work together,” Mollenkopf said.  Qualcomm has announced 21 acquisitions, totaling $289
million, in the past 12 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Qualcomm rose 0.2 percent to $63.47 in  New York  trading
yesterday and has gained 16 percent this year. It had $3.8
billion in  cash and near-cash  as of Sept. 30, down 30 percent
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qualcomm sells baseband chips that connect phones to
cellular networks. It also is expanding into the market for
application processors, which run programs in phones and tablet
computers, and will be supplying its Snapdragon processors to
computer makers using the new version of Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows software.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  