-- Sheldon Adelson's $100 Million Union Bust
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-12-05T14:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/sheldon-adelson-s-100-million-union-bust.html
Sheldon Adelson, the chairman and chief executive officer of Las Vegas Sands
Corp., spent about $100 million to defeat Democrats and elect Republicans over
the past year. As the upcoming inauguration of President  Barack Obama  confirms,
it didn't do much good. Adelson donated millions to  Newt Gingrich 's ego in the Republican primary,
then switched his allegiance to  Mitt Romney 's cause, donating $20 million to the
biggest Romney super-PAC, Restore Our Future, which with just three words and
$142 million managed to capture both the futility and incoherence of the
Republican Party circa 2012. Adelson gave to so many Republican, conservative and right-wing groups it's a
wonder he can keep track. Perhaps he can't.  Here is what he told the Wall Street
Journal  about his political views: "We're pro-abortion rights, pro stem cell
research," said Mr. Adelson. He also favors the Dream Act, a law that would
allow some illegal immigrants to attain legal status. As for health care, he
said, "I'm in favor of a socialized-like health care," similar to the system in
 Israel . ...  Mr. Adelson ... noted that some of his beliefs are at odds with GOP
policy. Yes, some are. So what drives a pro-choice, socialized-health-care loving
billionaire into the arms of the Republican Party? (Did I forget to mention
Adelson's "company-wide initiative to make our resorts the most eco-friendly in
our industry.") There are many possibilities, including an Obama Justice
Department investigation into Adelson's company, and his conservative views on
Israel. But the Journal reports that Adelson's opposition to unions is what
"divides Mr. Adelson from the Democratic Party." So Adelson spent $100 million on electoral politics because he doesn't want
to deal with unionized workers? That seems a tad inefficient, doesn't it? If
Adelson wanted to keep unions at bay, he could just as easily have given every
one of his 40,000 workers a $2,500 bonus this year instead of frittering away
$100 million on failed political campaigns espousing beliefs he says he does not
share. Either something else contributes to  Sheldon Adelson 's political behavior, or
he's one boss who really, really, really hates unions and really, really, really
wastes a lot of money showing it. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .            