-- Shell Shifts Gas Business to Singapore on Asia Demand Growth
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-12-05T15:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/shell-shifts-gas-business-to-singapore-on-asia-demand-growth-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil producer, plans to move its natural-gas business to
Singapore from The Hague in response to growing demand for
liquefied natural gas in  Asia .  “We see the major gas trading, the growth of the gas
market, the growth of the integrated gas business will be Asia-
based,”  Andy Brown , upstream director at Shell, said today in
 London . “The LNG business is going to be in the  Far East , and
Singapore is a central part of the Far East trade.”  Asian demand for LNG, which is gas cooled to a liquid for
transport by tanker, has grown as China feeds its booming
economy and cuts reliance on coal for power generation. Japan
has also increased purchases since shutting almost all its
nuclear capacity following the Fukushima reactor disaster, while
consumption in Europe is weakening as economic growth slows.  “We still see potential in Europe with some growth, but
the major growth will come now in Asia,” Brown told reporters.  Shell plans to open its new Singapore gas business at the
start of 2013 after gaining approval from local authorities.  “If we get all permissions we are looking for, we are
going live on Jan. 1,” Brown said. “This is our integrated gas
business, our global LNG business, and it’s an important step
for us to demonstrate how important Asia is for us.”  LNG Growth  Global LNG trade will double to 500 million metric tons a
year by 2025, he said. While the biggest Asian buyers are Japan,
 South Korea  and China, Shell has forecast an increase in demand
in the  Philippines ,  Vietnam , Malaysia and Indonesia. The company
has 22 million tons of annual LNG capacity, 7 million tons under
construction and options to develop 20 million tons, Brown said.  Singapore, Asia’s biggest center for oil trading, said Oct.
24 it will build a fourth LNG tank to meet growing demand and
take advantage of increased spot trading. The S$500 million
($410 million) tank, to be built by 2016 or 2017, will boost the
capacity of Singapore’s LNG terminal to 9 million tons a year,
S. Iswaran, second minister of trade, said in October.  The city-state’s first two LNG storage tanks, as well as a
regasification plant and a jetty, will begin operating on Jurong
Island in the second quarter of 2013, according to Neil McGregor, chief executive officer of operator Singapore LNG
Corp. A third tank, expanded processing facilities and two more
jetties will be completed in 2014.  While the U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/)  plans to be among suppliers
to the terminal, Shell hasn’t committed to provide fuel.  Petrochemical Plans  The Anglo-Dutch energy company also has petrochemical
expansion plans in Singapore, adding capacity at its Pulau Bukom
ethylene plant to tap growing demand in  Southeast Asia .  Engineering work to increase output at the facility by more
than 20 percent will take place during the next maintenance
shutdown, the company said Nov. 15, without specifying dates.
The Singapore site is its largest petrochemicals production
center in Asia, according to the company.  “There is going to be a little bit more news coming in the
next few months about things that we are pursuing in
Singapore,” Ben van Beurden, executive vice president for Shell
Chemicals, said today in London. The company is building a
“large, integrated refining petrochemical hub” to access new
markets, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  