-- Silverstein Said Moving Toward Two Deals at Trade Center
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-12-05T20:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/silverstein-said-moving-toward-two-deals-at-trade-center.html
Larry Silverstein  has formal
proposals from two potential tenants for 3 World Trade Center,
which if accepted would allow the developer to build the
skyscraper to its full 80 stories, two people with knowledge of
the negotiations said.  Group M, a division of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, and law firm  White & Case  LLP have sent
statements saying they are interested in taking as much as 1.1
million square feet (102,000 square meters) combined at the
tower, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. No terms have been agreed upon, they said.  Silverstein, founder of Silverstein Properties Inc., has
discussed capping the building at seven stories if anchor
tenants aren’t found quickly enough, two people with knowledge
of his position said in January. He must fill at least 400,000
square feet at the tower, which is slated to have 2.8 million
square feet, before the  Port Authority  of  New York  and  New
Jersey  will help him finance the project.  White & Case has expressed interest in taking about 500,000
square feet, while Group M is looking at 550,000 to 600,000
square feet, according to the people familiar with the plans.  It’s “public knowledge” that Group M has been considering
relocation options, said John Wolfe, a spokesman for the firm.
“At this time we have no comment on the status of any specific
negotiation.”  Francine Minadeo, a spokeswoman for White & Case, said,
“We don’t comment on this kind of speculation.”  Bud Perrone , a
Silverstein spokesman, declined to comment.  Development Rights  Silverstein has rights to develop three of the four towers
planned for the 16-acre (6.5-hectare) site where the original
World Trade Center stood before its 2001 destruction by
terrorists. Four World Trade Center, the smallest of the
buildings, is scheduled to be completed late next year. He also
is constructing the base of 2 World Trade Center, the second-
tallest, which won’t be developed to its full height until
market conditions permit.  The site’s tallest building, the 1,776-foot (541-meter) 1
World Trade Center, is being developed by the Port Authority.  It’s a challenging environment for finding new tenants. New
York’s financial companies have reduced staff and trimmed  office
space . The 81-year-old developer said earlier this year that he
was “optimistic” that he’d be able to sign a 3 World Trade
Center lease in time to complete the tower in 2015.  The terms of a 2010 agreement require Silverstein to raise
at least $300 million before he can qualify for $200 million
each of support from the Port Authority, New York City and New
York State, as well as $1.3 billion of tax-advantaged  Liberty
Bonds  and other financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  