-- SouthWest Energy of Ethiopia to Raise $100 Million in Equity
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-05T07:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/southwest-energy-of-ethiopia-to-raise-100-million-in-equity.html
SouthWest Energy Ltd. , an Ethiopian
oil and gas exploration company, said it plans to raise $100
million via a private placement in the first quarter of 2013 to
help finance a three-well drilling program in the Ogaden basin.  The company has pushed back the date for sinking the first
well to the third quarter, from the first half, as it analyzes
data and decides on one of 15 possible targets in blocks 9, 9a
and 13, Chairman Tewodros Ashenafi said in an interview.
SouthWest may also try to sell a stake in the fields, he said.  “Potentially, we will go out to raise money from selected
private equity players,” Tewodros, 43, said in an interview
yesterday in Rwanda’s capital, Kigali. The company may also seek
a partner to bring “international resources and technical
additions,” he said.  Landlocked  Ethiopia , sub-Saharan Africa’s seventh-biggest
economy, produces no oil or gas and relies on coffee and other
agricultural exports for annual foreign-exchange earnings of
about $3 billion. While only 18 exploratory wells have been
drilled in the country, investment is accelerating now that
explorers have discovered oil and gas in East Africa, spurring
interest in a previously overlooked region, he said.  Mozambique  and  Tanzania  have large-scale natural gas
deposits, while Uganda is scheduled to start pumping its first
crude by 2014 and  Kenya  announced an oil discovery in March.  ‘Interesting’  “East Africa has become very interesting,” Tewodros said.
“The trend is moving from Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda, now
Kenya, and I think next will be Ethiopia, which had been ignored
as an oil- and gas-potential country,” he said.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , based in  London , and Canada’s  Africa Oil
Corp. (AOI)  in March announced they struck oil in Turkana, a northern
region in neighboring Kenya. The companies hired China’s BGP
Inc. to survey similar terrain across the border in Ethiopia’s
South Omo Block.  Tullow will start drilling its “first exploration well”
in South Omo next month, the Addis Ababa-based Reporter
newspaper said on Dec. 1, citing people it didn’t identify.  SouthWest, which is based in Ethiopia’s capital, Addis
Ababa, and registered in Hong Kong, also has the rights to a
block in the Gambella region and it plans to buy more
exploration acreage outside of Ethiopia in other East Africa
nations either next year or in 2014, he said.  The company recorded no security incidents while surveying
the Somali-bordering Ogaden basin, logging 1 million man-hours,
he said. The Ogaden National Liberation Front has fought a low-
level insurgency in the area since 1984 seeking greater
autonomy. In April 2007, the banned group attacked a site
operated by  China ’s Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau,
killing nine Chinese workers and 65 Ethiopians.  Peace talks between the ONLF and Ethiopia’s government
stalled in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Kigali at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  