-- South Africa’s ANC May Ignore Moody’s by Increasing Mining Taxes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n n e   S w a r d s o n
-- 2012-12-05T08:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/south-africa-s-anc-may-ignore-moody-s-by-increasing-mining-taxes.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress will ignore ratings company advice and call
for an increase in mining taxes, said Enoch Godongwana, the
party’s economic policy head.  The ANC must ensure the lives of poor black South Africans
improve or risk giving an opportunity for populist leaders to
stir up social unrest and erode the ANC’s dominance, Godongwana,
who heads the ANC’s Economic Transformation Committee, said in
an interview in Johannesburg yesterday.  “Unless we do some radical transformation, we’ll create
fertile ground for an uncontrollable revolution,” he said.  Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have
downgraded the nation’s debt, citing slower economic growth
after the worst mining strikes since the end of apartheid and
political pressure to raise spending. The ANC holds its five-
yearly electoral conference this month, with nominations showing
that President Jacob Zuma may face a challenge from his deputy,
Kgalema Motlanthe, amid calls for radical policy changes to
tackle a 25.5 percent unemployment rate.  Workers at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s three biggest
platinum producers, defied unions by striking for higher pay.
The demonstrations spread after police killed 34 protesters at
Lonmin’s Marikana platinum mine on Aug. 16.  Julius Malema , the
expelled leader of the ANC’s youth wing who led a campaign to
nationalize South Africa’s mines, used the demonstrations to
help boost his support and criticize Zuma.  Mine Nationalization  Moody’s lowered South Africa’s credit rating by one level
to Baa1 and kept it on a negative outlook on Sept. 27, saying
the government was unable to “handle the current political and
economic situation.” Standard & Poor’s cut its rating by one
level to BBB two weeks later, citing concern the strikes would
stoke social unrest.  “We’re kind of in a Catch-22 situation because there are
people who listen to Moody’s and when we go out there and raise
money, it becomes expensive,” Godongwana said. “We may take a
hit. We’ve got to make a choice, do we please Standard and
Poor’s and Moody’s or do we deal with the kind of constituencies
we’re facing. We’re walking that tightrope.”  While Godongwana ruled out the ANC conference agreeing to
any form of mine nationalization, he said increased taxes on
mining is possible. The party hasn’t identified which minerals
would need higher tax as delegates need to consider the effect
on the mines, he said.  “It may well be that we will not increase tax on gold
because most of the gold mines are marginal,” Godongwana said,
referring to their profit margins in comparison to other types
of mines.  Rising Risk  South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of platinum
and chrome and the fifth-largest miner of gold. The country has
an estimated $3.3 trillion of mineral wealth, including coal,
gold, copper, platinum and palladium, according to the
Department of Mineral Resources last month.  The cost of protecting South African government debt
against non-payment using credit default swaps over five years
has jumped 17 basis points since the start of the mining strikes
on Aug. 10, signaling a deterioration in risk perception.  The rand fell 8.1 percent against the dollar over the same
period, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
was little changed at 8.7919 a dollar by 9:50 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  The ANC needs to improve how it runs the government, fixing
a “very, very bad” education system and clamping down on
corruption, Godongwana said.  After being a banned organization battling against
apartheid which members joined for a liberation struggle, 18
years in power has allowed elitism, patronage and corruption to
creep into the ANC, Godongwana said.  “Being in government and having access to resources has
eroded our value system,” he said. “We’ve got to have some
serious introspection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Anne Swardson in Paris at 
 aswardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  