-- Spanish Regions to Add $39 Billion to Funding Gap: AFI
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-12-05T07:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/spanish-regions-to-add-39-billion-to-funding-gap-afi.html
Spanish regions will add at least 30
billion euros ($39 billion) to the nation’s 207 billion-euro
funding needs next year as the nation extends its bailout of
cash-strapped states, according to consulting company AFI.  The 30 billion-euro estimate is based on regions such as
Madrid maintaining  market access  and not having to apply for aid
from  Spain ’s most recent rescue fund for the regions, known as
the FLA, said Cesar Cantalapiedra Lopez, an Analistas
Financieros Internacionales partner in Madrid who specializes in
public administrations.  “Remaining outside the FLA currently involves an
additional premium” of about 250 basis points on top of the
Treasury’s borrowing costs instead of 30 with the FLA,
Cantalapiedra said in an interview. “If things become very
complicated, the Treasury will have to centralize everything.”  As most large regions remain locked out of financial
markets, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  plans to extend the fourth
one-off bailout mechanism he’s created this year into 2013.
Rajoy, fighting to maintain market access for the Spanish
Treasury, is still calculating the cost of doing so after his
 People’s Party  proposed an initial 23 billion euros.  That is half the 17 regions’ global funding needs that will
amount to 46 billion euros next year, including redemptions for
bills, bonds and bank loans, Cantalapiedra said.  Madrid, Galicia and Castile-Leon are among the regions
avoiding the FLA because “there is a political stigma attached
to it,” he said. Still, their ability to attract foreign
investors through private operations may disappear if markets
deteriorate, he said. “If any one gets any help, if there is a
bailout tomorrow, they’ll want one interlocutor, not 18, and
that’ll be the Treasury.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  