-- Sperm Quality Sags in France, Raising Fertility Concern
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2012-12-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/sperm-quality-sags-in-france-raising-fertility-concern.html
French men’s sperm quality is
dwindling.  A study of 26,609 men whose semen samples were tracked over
17 years, published today in the journal  Human Reproduction ,
found declines in both sperm concentration and in the number of
normally formed sperm. Concentration alone dipped by about a
third during the study period.  The study sample is probably one of the largest in the
world on the topic and raises concern that modern lifestyles may
harm  fertility  and health, the researchers wrote. Possible
causes include environmental factors such as  endocrine
disruptors  -- chemicals found in plastics or food that interfere
with the body’s hormones -- or changes in body mass index and
levels of stress, they said.  “These results indicate a severe and generalized decrease
in semen quality in France, possibly since the 1970s, which
constitutes a serious public health warning,” wrote the
authors, led by Joelle Le Moal of the  Institute for Public
Health Surveillance  in Saint Maurice,  France . “This issue could
be a growing cause of concern for the next generation’s
health.”  The men studied were partners of women who were infertile
and sought assisted reproductive procedures. Their sperm
concentration fell about 1.9 percent a year, or 32 percent over
the 17 years. The percentage of normally formed sperm declined
33 percent in the study period, which ran from 1989 to 2005.  The concentration values reached at the end of the study
were  low enough  to affect the time it takes to conceive,
according to the authors.  Le Moal and her colleagues plan to delve back into the data
to see whether men born at certain times were more affected than
others and whether they can find geographic patterns. They will
also be working with data collected after 2005 to see if the
decline continued in subsequent years, she said in a telephone
interview.  Beyond the fertility concern, the state of male sperm can
be viewed as a gauge of public health, Le Moal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  