-- Standard Chartered Adds Commodity Traders on China’s Demand
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-12-05T11:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/standard-chartered-adds-commodity-traders-on-china-correct-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which gets
most of its revenue in  Asia , increased its global commodity
headcount by 25 percent this year and is adding more as demand
expands in  China , the top user of energy and copper.  The bank added 20 front-office people on a net basis,
taking the total to 100, said Arun Murthy, the global head of
commodities based in Singapore. The increase includes traders
and sales people in oil, coal, metals and agriculture, he said
in an interview. The bank may add 10 to 20 in the next six
months in places such as Dubai, Shanghai and Johannesburg.  Raw materials  measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
increased 0.2 percent in 2012, poised for the smallest gain in
four years as the  European debt crisis  and slow economic growth
in China and the U.S. curb demand. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecasts a 7 percent return from commodities over the next 12
months. Trafigura Group, the third-largest independent oil
trader, expects  China’s economy  to improve in the first half.  “China is going to be the strongest driver for our
commodity business,” Murthy said yesterday. “We expect
consumption of commodities to be going higher. We want to be
well-positioned for that.”  A manufacturing gauge in China rose to a seven-month peak
of 50.6 in November, data showed on Dec. 1, increasing evidence
that growth is rebounding from a three-year low. The economy may
accelerate to 8.1 percent in 2013, according to the median of
analysts’ forecasts tracked by Bloomberg.  Metals Trading  The bank is setting up a so-called wholly owned foreign
enterprise in  Shanghai  mainly for physical metals trade in
China, said Tim Wilson, global head of commodity sales who
joined from JPMorgan Chase & Co. in June. The new unit will open
in the first quarter, the bank said.  While the debt crisis in  Europe  and budget talks in the
U.S. may limit gains now, the bank expects raw-material prices
to advance next year, said Murthy.  “Of all commodities, gold is a good bet if you want an
upside as a hedge against inflation during this economic
downturn,” said Murthy. “The least bullish of the complex
would be aluminum” because of oversupply, he said.  Gold climbed 8.9 percent to $1,702.49 an ounce this year
and reached a record $1,921.15 in September 2011. Aluminum for
three-month delivery rose 3.9 percent to $2,098.50 a metric ton.  Standard Chartered  established its commodities unit in
2007. Revenue advanced 63 percent in 2011 and annual growth
averaged 20 percent in the past five years, according to bank
data which don’t give specific figures. The bank seeks to double
revenue from the unit in the next four years, it said.  “We’re still in a growth trajectory, next year and
beyond,” said Murthy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  