-- Steak Price Rising as Cattle Seen 20% Higher at JBS: Commodities
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-05T16:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/steak-price-rising-as-cattle-seen-20-higher-at-jbs-commodities.html
The world’s top beef producer expects
U.S. cattle prices will jump 20 percent to a record next year as
rain on grazing fields and corn crops prompts ranchers from
 Texas  to  Nebraska  to feed animals instead of sending them to
slaughter.  Beef output  in the world’s biggest producing country will
slide as much as 6 percent in 2013 because of reduced
processing,  JBS SA (JBSS3)  Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista said
in a Nov. 30 interview from his Sao Paulo headquarters. That
compares with a 4.2 percent drop to 24.6 billion pounds (11.2
million metric tons) forecast by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture last month.  Record corn and soybean prices that followed the worst U.S.
drought since 1956 boosted the cost of raising cattle sold to
JBS and other major meatpackers, leading ranchers to cull
animals. Next year, ranchers probably will rebuild herds and
send fewer head to meatpacking plants, creating a shortage of
slaughter-ready animals that will boost prices, Batista said.  “Lower grain prices mean ranchers will be able to retain
cattle for a longer period, reducing the availability of animals
for slaughtering,” said Batista, 42, whose family’s abattoir in
western  Brazil  grew over six decades into a $37 billion
operation spanning 10 countries including the U.S. “We believe
prices will keep going higher.”  The U.S. cattle herd shrank to the smallest since at least
1973 as of July 1 as ranchers culled herds after the dry spell
in the Midwest boosted feed costs. Cattle reached a record
$1.32925 a pound on Nov. 23 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Futures are down 1.5 percent from the record at $1.31 a pound at
10:24 a.m. on the CME.  Steak Prices  Retail beef prices in the U.S. rose to $4.772 a pound in
October, according to the USDA. Wholesale  choice beef , high-end
cuts that include most steaks, rose to a record $1.9938 a pound
on Oct. 24. The price has gained 19 percent in the past two
years as droughts in 2011 and this year scorched grasslands in
Texas, the biggest producer of cattle in the U.S.  The USDA expects food inflation of as much as 4 percent in
2013, compared with an average of 3 percent since 2004. Food
costs, including beef, may rise 5 percent to 8 percent next year
for the Louisville, Kentucky-based steakhouse chain Texas
Roadhouse, CEO Wayne Kent Taylor said on a conference call with
analysts Nov. 1.  Global food costs  have jumped 6.5 percent since
the end of June, United Nations data show.  JBS, the Sao Paulo-based meatpacker that bought  Pilgrim’s
Pride Corp. (PPC)  in 2009 and Swift & Co. in 2007, expects to be able
to pass on the higher cattle prices through to customers,
Batista said.  U.S. Operations  The company, which gets 76 percent of its revenue from
American and Australian operations, raised U.S. beef prices 1.1
percent in the third quarter, according to its earnings report.
U.S. and Australian sales rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier
to $7.19 billion in the quarter. The overseas units, whose sales
the company doesn’t break down by country, also process hogs and
poultry.  Batista’s outlook for higher cattle prices depends on
prospects for rain in the U.S. next year after this year’s
drought, Ryan Turner, a livestock analyst at INTL FCStone Inc.
in Kansas City,  Missouri , said in a telephone interview.  “If it rains you will see guys hold back and heifer
retention will go up,” he said. “The big thing now is when do
we start getting rain in the west and southwest and see those
herds move back to those areas.”  Rain Outlook  The rainy weather prospects may not materialize, said
Darrell Holaday, the president of Advanced Market Concepts in
Wamego, Kansas.  Little rain is forecast for the U.S. southern Great Plains,
where cattle graze on grass and leaves from wheat plants,
Holaday said. With little or no precipitation through the middle
of next year, no pasture land would be available in the spring
for cattle and corn prices wouldn’’t fall, he said.  “If in May and June we’re still in the thralls of the
drought, which would be so devastating, all of these cattle will
have to be liquidated,” Holaday said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve had two years of breeding herd liquidation and we will
see another huge round of liquidation.”  The U.S. drought has created scenes reminiscent of the
1930s Dust Bowl era as strong winds have caused walls of dry
dirt to shut down highways in parts of Oklahoma and  Kansas . The
dry weather also has sapped water from ponds from which cattle
would normally drink.  Because of high corn costs, feedlots bought 2.18 million
head of cattle in October, the lowest for the month at least
since the USDA started tracking the figure in 1996. Feedlots
probably lost about $112 a head on cattle sold in October,
according to McHenry, Illinois-based Allendale Inc.  “It’s been a terrible year for cattle ranchers and meat
companies,” Batista said. “Hopefully we are heading to a year
which will be good for us all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  