-- Swedish Household Debt Growth Is Swedbank’s Biggest Worry
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-05T08:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/swedish-household-debt-growth-is-swedbank-s-biggest-worry.html
Sweden ’s biggest mortgage lender is
deliberately losing market share in an effort to protect itself
from impairments amid record household indebtedness.  Sweden’s housing market probably faces “some sort of
adjustment,”  Michael Wolf ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  chief executive officer,
said in an interview at the bank’s headquarters in Stockholm
yesterday. “You are seeing it gradually as we speak. I am not
concerned about a house bubble -- I am more concerned about the
debt level.”  The threat posed to Sweden’s financial stability by rising
household debt burdens has prompted Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves to warn he’ll respond with monetary measures. Ingves,
who’s also the chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , said yesterday central banks can’t ignore credit-
driven imbalances in property markets. Sweden now needs to “de-
risk” itself by cutting private debt, according to Wolf.  Household debt has surged to 170 percent of disposable
incomes, compared with 90 percent in 1996, central bank data
show. Other Nordic lenders have indicated they’re wary of
developments in Sweden.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , which is cutting 3,000
jobs after enduring housing busts in Denmark and Ireland, said
last month it’s bracing for a possible adjustment in Sweden’s
housing market.  Stricter Rules  Sweden has responded by requiring its banks, which control
assets more than four times the size of the $550 billion
economy, to meet stricter capital standards than those set
elsewhere. Finance Minister  Anders Borg  told banks last month
they face higher risk weights on their mortgage assets, and the
regulator has since tripled its requirements.  Sweden is pursuing a pro-active regulatory policy after
enduring a banking meltdown in the 1990s, which saw the
government step in and take control of toxic loans. Household
debt levels now are even higher than they were at their peak
during that crisis.  “After 1992-1994, the debt level peaked at 135 percent,
and that gives you at least a proxy for what might be
sustainable,” Wolf said. For now, Swedes are “addressing their
debt levels and  house prices  are gradually sort of flattening
out,” he said. “Sweden is de-risking itself.”  Lost Market  Swedbank has lost market share in the past three years, and
the lender now has about 8 percent to 12 percent of new
mortgages. While Swedbank controlled 29 percent of the total
Swedish mortgage market in 2007, its share fell to 27 percent in
2010 and to 26 percent in 2011, according to  information  on the
lender’s website.  The bank’s proportion of new lending should rise to as high
as 25 percent once “the market is pricing risk correctly and
lending standards become more stringent across the banking
sector,” Wolf said.  Swedbank advanced 0.5 krona, or 0.4 percent, to 125.1
kronor as of 9:05 a.m. in  Stockholm  trading. The Swedish krona
weakened 0.3 percent to 8.6529 against the euro.  Swedbank, which suffered severe losses in the Baltics after
expanding there before the former Soviet states’ boom turned
into a bust in 2009, has been more restrictive in its lending
practices since, Wolf said. Mortgages make up half of Swedbank’s
balance sheet and account for 15 percent of its profit, he said.  Measures Discussed  The central bank has discussed the possibility of
introducing loan limits relative to household incomes, or
forcing borrowers to amortize their mortgages to stem
imbalances. While an 85 percent cap on loans relative to
property values was introduced in 2010, more measures could be
needed to curb debt levels further, the Riksbank said.  Though household borrowing has slowed since the loan-to-
value cap was introduced, mortgage lending was still growing an
annual  4.6 percent  in the third quarter.  Household borrowing should slow to match Sweden’s economic
growth rate, Wolf said. Gross domestic product expanded 0.5
percent in the third quarter from the three months through June.
GDP will probably expand 0.9 percent this year and 1.8 percent
in 2013, the central bank estimates.  Sweden’s banks already have ratios that exceed the 12
percent core Tier 1 capital they need to hold by 2015, and next
year’s 10 percent target.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and Swedbank,
the European Union’s best-capitalized major banks, had core Tier
1 capital ratios of 17.9 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively,
at the end of September.  ‘Safe Distance’  “You should be at a very safe distance from the minimum
requirements and I think we’re meeting that criteria,” Wolf
said. “In light of that, then, of course it’s efficient for
society if we can distribute capital. With the profit and cash-
flow generation we have now and the very limited credit demand,
there is no need for that capital that is being built to be
used, because there is no demand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  