-- U Carbon’s Record Low Lures Buyers in Australia
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-12-05T00:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-carbon-s-record-low-lures-buyers-in-australia.html
An unprecedented slump in global
carbon prices is luring polluters in Australia seeking to reduce
emission costs and protect against the threat of their own
market being scrapped.  More than 100 companies have applied for licenses to trade
imported allowances, according to the  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission . The nation’s largest polluters, subject
to a fixed rate of A$23 ($24) a metric ton on their emissions,
can buy EU permits for one-third as much after prices dropped to
an all-time low yesterday of 5.68 euros ($7.44). United Nations
offsets also touched a record low of 57 euro cents.  Australia linked its carbon markets with Europe’s in
August, opening the door to EU permits before prices rebound and
the country shifts to cap and trade in 2015, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Companies are buying imported
permits to protect against price swings and the pledge by
Australia’s opposition party, favored to win next year’s
elections, to scrap carbon trading immediately.  “It’s a very nice time for Australian compliance entities
to make a natural hedge,” said  John Davis , the Australian
specialist at CF Partners LLP, an energy trading company in
 London . “The EU market should be stronger than it is now in
three years.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has staked her political
future on putting a price on greenhouse-gas emissions linked to
 climate change . The law she pushed through Parliament in
November 2011 established a fixed rate starting July 1 and a
transition three years later to cap and trade, giving more than
300 of the country’s largest emitters the chance to buy and sell
domestic as well as imported carbon units.  Trailing Opposition  Trailing in the polls behind opposition leader  Tony Abbott 
and facing complaints from businesses that  Australia ’s carbon
permits are the most expensive in the world, Gillard agreed to
the program’s first overhaul in August. The revisions enabled
Australian emitters to begin buying EU permits immediately for
compliance after 2015. They also scrapped a complex and
unpopular provision that would have set a carbon floor price at
A$15, said Martijn Wilder, head of global environmental markets
with Baker & McKenzie International in Sydney.  The changes triggered a “big rush” to supply imported
carbon, Wilder said. While buyers will remain cautious as long
as Abbott threatens to end carbon pricing, the link to overseas
markets has made trading safer for Australian emitters.  Fall-Back  “This is a fall-back option that didn’t exist three months
ago,” said Alex Wyatt, chief executive officer for Melbourne-
based Climate Bridge, Australia’s largest developer of emission
credits under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism.  Wyatt’s company was among the first to get the newly
required Australian Financial Services License for companies
offering trading services or advice on emission permits. Climate
Bridge will help Australian customers with spot trades as well
as futures and options for EU allowances and UN credits.  Carbon trading is a “natural extension” and a matter of
survival, said Wyatt. Climate Bridge’s original business of
creating UN credits known as CERs has been hit by the slump in
prices. With the offset market wracked by an oversupply of
credits and less-than-forecast demand, CERs traded below 60 euro
cents on the ICE Futures  Europe  Exchange in London yesterday.  Market Revival  Opening Australia to European permits and getting rid of
the floor price has revived the market, according to Phil Cohn,
a director at Ramp Carbon, a Melbourne-based carbon developer
with about 10 employees and a branch in Mexico City.  “Deals are coming together, and it’s really encouraging,”
said Cohn who predicts Ramp will have its trading license by
year end. “Before the government got rid of the floor price and
allowed in EU permits, no-one was thinking about trading.”  COzero, a Sydney-based developer that started out creating
CER credits, unveiled a platform last month for selling EU
allowances and CERs in Australia.  “We are actively promoting these products and definitely
seeing some interest,” said Nick Armstrong, the CEO of COzero.
“You would be silly not to hedge.”  For now, EU prices are cheaper than ever. Allowances for
December dropped to an all-time low yesterday, down 38 percent
from last month’s high of 9.10 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  cut its
forecast on Dec. 3 for EU permits to an average 5 euros in 2013,
citing likely delays in plans to temporarily withhold supply.  Price Recovery  By the time Australians can use EU supply, prices will be
significantly higher, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Prices will rise to 29 euros by 2015 as the bloc wins approval
for “backloading” allowances. Australia’s carbon units will
track EU prices starting in 2015, whereas CER prices will still
trade for less than 1 euro, said Seb Henbest, a Sydney-based
analyst for New Energy Finance.  “It’s a risk to do nothing,” said Geoff Rousel, managing
director of commodities, carbon and energy at Westpac
Institutional Bank in Sydney. Most of Australia’s largest banks
are buying and selling permits to accommodate clients, Mike McKensey, a director in Rousel’s unit, said at a conference in
Melbourne last month.  Banks and emitters have begun to trade EU and UN carbon
units, according to Davis at CF Partners, who declined to name
any clients, citing confidentiality.  He has sold contracts including options, futures and
forward agreements, where the buyer and seller trade over the
counter, with payments generally not due until 2015 or later.
“The risk is small,” he said.  Lacking Support  While Davis won’t rule out future revisions of Australia’s
carbon market, the odds that it will be thrown out entirely are
less than 10 percent, he said. Even if Abbott wins the next
election, he is unlikely to have support for dismantling carbon
trading altogether, Davis said.  The ruling  Labor party ’s primary vote was at 36 percent,
with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition at 43 percent,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on Nov. 26. While the coalition has led in almost
every poll for more than 18 months, Gillard’s minority
government has closed the gap as voter concern waned about the
impact of carbon pricing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  