-- U.K. Stocks Climb Amid China Optimism as Tesco Advances
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-12-05T17:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-k-stocks-climb-amid-china-optimism-as-tesco-advances.html
U.K. stocks  rallied to a six-week
high, led by mining companies, on speculation China will
increase stimulus to support growth in the world’s second-
largest economy.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  Rio Tinto  Group both gained more
than 2.5 percent as copper rose.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  added 3.3 percent,
its biggest advance in two months, after announcing a review of
its Fresh & Easy unit in the U.S.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  fell 3.5
percent after its revenue and dividend missed forecasts.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 23.04 points, or 0.4 percent,
to 5,892.08 at the close in  London , its highest level since Oct.
19. The equity benchmark slipped less than 0.1 percent yesterday
as U.S. lawmakers continued to debate a new budget. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also rose 0.4 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.5 percent.  “It does seem to be all about China today,” said  Keith Bowman , an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers
Ltd. in London. “There were nerves about the change of
leadership, so from what we’ve heard, they do appear to be
supportive as far as the economy is concerned.”  Stocks rallied in Asia after China abolished a rule
limiting insurance companies’ investments in commercial banks
and the government pledged to promote urbanization.  The Communist Party’s Politburo said in its first
assessment of the economy under new leader Xi Jinping yesterday
that the government will keep macroeconomic policies stable,
making adjustments as needed to deal with difficulties.  Growth Forecasts  In the U.K., Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said the economy will contract this year and the  budget deficit 
will take longer to bring under control than he had planned.  Forecasts from the independent  Office for Budget
Responsibility  showed the economy will shrink 0.1 percent in
2012 instead of the 0.8 percent growth predicted in March, and
expand 1.2 percent next year instead of 2 percent, Osborne said
in his  autumn statement  to Parliament today.  A  gauge of mining companies  climbed 1.8 percent as copper
rose as much as 0.5 percent on the London Metal Exchange.
Vedanta advanced 2.6 percent to 1,094 pence, Rio Tinto, the
 world’s second-largest mining company , increased 3.1 percent to
3,226 pence and larger rival  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rose 2.4 percent
to 1,998 pence.  Tesco jumped 3.3 percent to 337.5 pence after saying it
will probably leave the U.S. after announcing a review of its
Fresh & Easy unit and the departure of the head of the
unprofitable business.  The  U.K.’s largest retailer  will consider all options for
the U.S. chain. Tesco said it has received approaches for all
and part of the Fresh & Easy business over the last few months.
The company has hired investment bank Greenhill & Co. to assist
with the review.  Home Retail  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  rallied 6.8 percent to 121 pence
after Bank of America Corp. raised its recommendation for the
retailer to buy from neutral, saying its Argos catalog chain has
become more competitive with online rivals.  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  climbed 5.9 percent to 308.7 pence
after the company reported first-half pretax profit of 124
million pounds ($200 million), beating the  average analyst
estimate  of 114 million pounds. Adjusted earnings per share of
16.8 pence also exceeded estimates.  Sportingbet Plc (SBT)  advanced 4.2 percent to 49.5 pence,
extending yesterday’s 8 percent rally. The online-gambling
company will recommend William Hill Plc and GVC Holdings Plc’s
offer of 56.1 pence a share for the company. They have until
Dec. 18 to make a firm bid, subject to due diligence.  Thomas Cook  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  surged 9.3 percent to 29.5 pence as
Credit Suisse Group AG initiated coverage of the company with an
overweight recommendation, meaning investors should buy the
shares. The company is one of the 10 most  shorted stocks  on the
FTSE All-Share with 8.5 percent of shares outstanding, according
to Markit.  Sage fell 3.5 percent to 300.4 pence, the biggest decline
on the FTSE 100. The U.K.’s biggest software maker reported
underlying full-year revenue of 1.3 billion pounds. That missed
the  average analyst estimate  of 1.35 billion pounds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company proposed a  final
dividend  of 6.67 pence per share, which also missed estimates.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  declined 2.9 percent to 1,254 pence, falling
for a third day. Tullow Oil Vice President of African business
Tim O’Hanlon said at a conference in Rwanda today that oil
output from Uganda will be delayed.  Separately, Africa Oil Corp. Chief Executive Officer Keith
Hill said combined costs will increase in the companies’ Kenyan
operations next year to “half a billion dollars,” from “a
couple million” in 2012.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100 companies
was 8.3 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  