-- U.K. Services Barely Grow as Contraction Risk Looms
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-05T11:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-k-services-barely-grow-as-demand-from-customers-falls-1-.html
U.K.  services growth  unexpectedly
slowed in November as demand fell for the first time in two
years, increasing the chance the economy will shrink again this
quarter.  A  gauge  fell to 50.2, the lowest in 23 months, from 50.6 in
October, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in  London  today. The reading is
barely above the 50 line that divides contraction and expansion.
A separate report showed services growth in  China  slowed.  The U.K. economy is struggling to shake off a double-dip
recession with the  Bank of England  forecasting a “zig-zag”
pattern for  economic output  and predicting a contraction this
quarter. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  delivers his
autumn economic statement to Parliament today as he tries to
balance calls to provide more investment to spur the recovery
and his commitment to the fiscal squeeze.  “Britain probably returned to contraction in the fourth
quarter,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg in London
who worked at the Bank of  England  until earlier this year. “The
underlying picture is of an economy continuing to bounce along
the bottom.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was trading at $1.6097 as of 10:30 a.m. in London.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. government bond rose 2
basis points to 1.83 percent.  ‘Tough’ Climate  While the U.K. emerged from recession in the third quarter
with growth of 1 percent, the strongest since 2007, recent data
have been mixed. Markit reports this week showed that
 manufacturing  and construction both shrank in November.  Economists had forecast that the services index would
increase to 51, according to the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  In the services report, Markit said that new business fell
for the first time since December 2010 amid a “tough economic
climate” and poor weather, while confidence dropped to the
lowest this year. Still, employment rose, while companies raised
prices for a second month as costs increased.  “The service sector ground almost to a halt,” said Markit
chief economist  Chris Williamson . This “adds to worrying signs
that the economy faces a renewed slide back into contraction.”  Vicky Redwood, an economist at  Capital Economics  in London,
said a weighted average of Markit’s three surveys indicates
gross domestic product will fall this quarter. She forecasts a
0.4 percent contraction.  Euro Weakness  In the euro area,  services and manufacturing output  shrank
for a 10th month in November, according to Markit, though by
less than initially estimated. A composite index of both
industries rose to 46.5 from 45.7, above an initial estimate of
45.8 published on Nov. 22.  Separately, China’s services industries expanded at a
slower pace in November, damping hopes for a faster rebound in
the economy after a seven-quarter slowdown. The purchasing
managers’ index fell to 52.1 from 53.5 in October, HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit said. That contrasts with a government-backed
gauge of services that rose to the highest level in three months
in November.  In the U.S., growth in  services industries  probably slowed
last month, economists said before a report later today. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index, which
covers almost 90 percent of the economy, was at 53.5, down from
54.2 in October, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Osborne’s Plans  As Osborne prepared for his autumn statement, the British
Chambers of Commerce called yesterday for measures to boost
company investment. The chancellor said this week it’s taking
longer than planned to balance the public finances, suggesting
he’ll say today he’s no longer on course to cut the burden of
government debt in 2015 and may have to extend austerity for
another year.  To spur economic growth, Osborne will say he is cutting 5
billion pounds ($8.1 billion) from government departments to pay
for  capital spending  on transport, education and science. He
will also outline plans to approve as many as 30 new gas-fired
power stations to replace aging coal, gas and nuclear plants,
people familiar with the plans said yesterday.  The chancellor’s statement, which will include new economic
forecasts, comes a day before Bank of England policy makers
announce their monthly decision. The Monetary Policy Committee
will probably leave the target for  asset purchases  at 375
billion pounds, according to all 36 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The bank will announce its decision at noon in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  