-- British Banks May Escape Calls to Bolster Capital, UBS Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-05T14:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-k-banks-could-dodge-capital-increase-on-lending-ubs-says.html
British banks may escape calls from
regulators to bolster capital as authorities are unlikely to
find shortfalls in provisions for future losses,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.  Risk-weightings -- the probability of default lenders
assign to loans -- are difficult to “systematically
manipulate” because regulations force banks to recalibrate
their models to reflect actual losses, UBS analysts led by
London-based Alastair Ryan wrote in a note to clients today. If
U.K. banks used the strictest risk-weightings to set their
capital needs, they would require about 17 billion pounds ($27
billion) of equity to maintain their ratios, they estimated.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King last week asked the
Financial Services Authority to review whether banks have
adequate capital, saying lenders may need to make bigger
provisions for future loan losses. Risk-weightings may also be
inappropriate, he said, when presenting a report which said the
capital ratios may be overstated by as much as 35 billion pounds
by the country’s  four biggest banks .  “We see limited risk of material challenges being
discovered by the FSA in its review,” the UBS analysts wrote.
Still, each bank may “have to offer up something” such as a
payment of preferred dividends in equity, they said.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said in
the record of its Nov. 21 meeting, released yesterday, that the
U.K.’s economic recovery depends on banks doing more to improve
capital buffers and rebuild confidence in their balance sheets.
UBS said that banks “are likely to step up lending,” led by
mortgages, while “delivering strong” earnings-per-share growth
in the next two years.  U.K. banks already have stronger Tier 1 capital ratios, a
measure of financial strength, than lenders in the U.S., Spain,
 Italy ,  Germany  and  France , according to the note.  “With the banks now robustly positioned, we believe they
will return to growing what are, at current funding costs,
attractively profitable U.K. loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  