-- U.K. Needs a Yuan Swap to Boost Trade, Ex-PBOC Adviser Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-06T14:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-k-needs-yuan-swap-deal-to-boost-trade-ex-pboc-adviser-says.html
The U.K. needs to build closer ties
with  China ’s central bank to unleash London’s potential market
in offshore  yuan  trading, according to a former adviser to the
People’s Bank of China.  While Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who cut
Britain’s growth outlook yesterday, is pushing for London to
become an offshore center for yuan trading, the U.K. is falling
behind other countries in facilitating foreign-exchange flows
through currency swap agreements, Xia Bin said at a meeting of
the London Advisory Council for China yesterday. Seventeen
countries have currency swap agreements with China and the U.K.
isn’t one of them, Xia said.  The U.K. “has huge potential for developing this
business,” Xia said. “This potential is not unleashed yet.”  Cross-border trading of yuan has expanded four-fold since
August 2010 to almost 200 billion yuan ($32 billion) in October
this year, Euroclear Bank SA said in a statement yesterday,
citing the  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority’s figures.  UBS AG in London and HSBC Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong branch
carried out their first repurchase agreement in yuan by using
Euroclear and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to manage the
collateral, Euroclear said in a statement. The repo allows
international financial institutions to use securities held with
Euroclear as collateral to access liquidity from Hong Kong in
yuan and other currencies, according to the statement.  Repo  The repo agreement totaled 60 million yuan ($9.7 million)
Paul Gooding, the head of European  renminbi  business development
at HSBC, said in an interview today in London. The next few
deals will be of similar size until the trade has been
“comfortably standardized,” he said without providing an
estimate.  The  Bank of England  should push to expand the market
further by discussing setting up a currency swap agreement with
China, Xia said. London is a step behind Hong Kong, which has
closer communication with the mainland central bank, he said.  The Bank of  England ’s position is that if the swap
agreement is “necessary, it will certainly consider it,” Mark Boleat, policy chairman of the City of London Corp., which
oversees Britain’s main financial district, said at the meeting
in London yesterday.  Merck & Co., the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
drugmaker was among about 150 companies attending the meeting
with U.K. officials yesterday. The company supports the
“internationalization of the renminbi,”  Ronald Rogers , a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail after the meeting.  Yuan Debt  London has the capacity to boost issuance of yuan-
denominated debt known as Dim Sum bonds, Katherine Tsang,
chairwoman for  Greater China  at Standard Chartered, said at the
meeting. Whether the U.K. can boost yuan liquidity depends on
having a currency swap line, Tsang said.  The yuan weakened less than 0.1 percent to 6.2282 per
dollar as of 9:43 p.m. in  Shanghai , China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices show. It has strengthened 19 percent in the past
five years, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. In Hong Kong’s offshore market,
the currency traded at 6.2098 from 6.2108 yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan is making final preparations to become a second
offshore yuan center and  Singapore  is also seeking to become a
hub for trading and investment in the currency. China has
currency-swap agreements totaling about 1.8 trillion yuan ($289
billion) with countries including Australia, South Korea,
Malaysia and Turkey, the Taipei-based Chung-Hua Institution for
 Economic Research  said in a report published on Nov. 20.  Offshore Trading  The potential for growth of the market for offshore yuan
trading will depend on the investment climate, according to Wang Jianxi, executive vice president of China Investment Corp.  “If it’s very turbulent, very volatile, a crisis after
crisis, it will definitely delay the opening up of China’s
domestic market,” he said in an interview at the meeting in
London, referring to global market volatility.  The U.K. Treasury’s effort to build a market for yuan
transactions drew executives from more than 60 companies and
China’s sovereign wealth fund to meetings in London with bankers
and regulators yesterday.  “The group realization is that a huge wealth of solutions
is available today -- a lot can be done,” Philippe Lintern,
regional head of global markets for  Europe  at  Standard Chartered 
Bank, said in a phone interview after attending yesterday’s
meeting. “We are now at a stage in the game where a huge amount
of stuff is possible”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  