-- U.K.’s Iron Chancellor Should Take It Easy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-k-s-iron-chancellor-should-take-it-easy.html
The bad news never stops for U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne . On Dec. 5, he had to
announce that economic growth this year will fall below zero and
that the country’s debt will go on  rising  as a share of the
economy even longer than he had pledged.  Osborne’s midyear budget  statement , an annual set piece of
Westminster’s political theater, was the moment for him to relax
austerity and introduce convincing measures to stimulate the
anemic levels of investment and growth that now threaten long-
term damage to the economy. Unfortunately, Osborne continued to
play the role of Iron Chancellor,  arguing  that to loosen fiscal
policy now would spook markets, drive up the U.K.’s low
borrowing costs and put it on “the road to ruin.”  In lieu of real change, he proposed a set of well-
intentioned but ultimately insignificant policies, restricted by
the need to make the package as a whole fiscally neutral.
Osborne didn’t need to be so cautious.  To understand why, consider the lack of market reaction to
Osborne’s statement, in which he not only revealed the dire
economic growth figures -- now forecast to be minus 0.1 percent
this year and a feeble 1.2 percent next -- but also confirmed
that he would miss his debt-reduction target. That’s one of the
targets on which market confidence in the U.K. is supposedly
based. Yet yields on 10-year bonds fell slightly, not because of
Osborne’s revelations but on news that the government will sell
fewer bonds than expected.  Consider also that with the exception of the euro area,
with its specific currency-related troubles, most major
economies now enjoy low borrowing costs, whatever their fiscal
virtue. That’s because, as the  International Monetary Fund  said
in its most recent  staff report  on the U.K., “bond yields have
been driven more by growth expectations than fears of a
sovereign crisis.”  To his credit, Osborne did act to redirect government money
in a few ways likely to produce growth. He said he would reduce
the nominal rate of  corporation tax  to 21 percent from 24
percent in 2014 (compared with 35 percent in the U.S.). He also
increased by a factor of 10 the amount of  capital investment 
that U.K. companies can make  exempt from tax  each year, to
250,000 pounds ($400,000) from 25,000 pounds.  Osborne scraped together $8 billion to spend on school
construction, transportation and flood defenses. He squeezed the
money from further public-sector staff cuts, holding benefit
increases below inflation; he also made some sharp moves on
taxes, such as shrinking the amount of cash the wealthy can put
into their pensions tax-free each year to a still-generous
$64,000.  In addition, he set up a body to eliminate the regulatory
gridlock that’s blocking development of shale gas in the U.K.
and promised tax breaks for exploration, ahead of a new policy
directed at increasing the U.K.’s production and use of natural
gas. These are all intelligent ideas that might boost
construction and employment in the near term, and growth in the
longer term.  The scale of the projects, however, is too small to be
significant. The Ernst & Young  Item Club , an independent group
that examines U.K. budgets, figured that the $8 billion
infrastructure package might increase growth by 0.2 percent. It
recommends a package of similar spending worth $22.5 billion.  The chancellor might also consider more idiosyncratic steps
to temporarily increase demand, such as giving employers a
vacation from social security payments of, say, two years, which
could help job growth.  We don’t argue with Osborne’s initial decision to embrace
austerity -- the hole that the banking crisis blew in the U.K.’s
finances was huge. It was impossible at the time to predict with
certainty how credit-rating companies and bond markets would
react if the government wasn’t taking drastic action to stop the
bleeding. Unlike the U.S., the U.K. doesn’t enjoy a reserve
currency that makes it immune to market concerns over borrowing.  A lot has changed over the past two or three years,
however, and Osborne should recognize it. The benefit of his bid
for credibility is that if he sets out a clear plan to bring
down debt in the medium term, markets will probably believe him
and understand the need to give a modest boost to the economy as
growth flatlines. In the next few months the U.K.’s chancellor
should use the trust he has built to ease austerity’s grip.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 