-- U.S. Third-Quarter Productivity and Cost Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-12-05T13:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-s-third-quarter-productivity-and-cost-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
productivity and costs report for the third quarter released by
the Labor Department.  Nonfarm business sector labor productivity increased at a
2.9 percent annual rate during the third quarter of 2012, the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. The increase in
productivity reflects increases of 4.2 percent in output and 1.3
percent in hours worked. (All quarterly percent changes in this
release are seasonally adjusted annual rates.) From the third
quarter of 2011 to the third quarter of 2012, productivity
increased 1.7 percent as output and hours worked rose 3.5
percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.  Labor productivity, or output per hour, is calculated by
dividing an index of real output by an index of hours worked of
all persons, including employees, proprietors, and unpaid family
workers.  The measures released today were based on more recent
source data than were available for the preliminary report.  Unit labor costs in nonfarm businesses declined 1.9 percent
in the third quarter of 2012, while hourly compensation
increased 0.9 percent. Unit labor costs rose slightly, 0.1
percent, over the last four quarters.  BLS defines unit labor costs as the ratio of hourly
compensation to  labor productivity ; increases in hourly
compensation tend to increase unit labor costs and increases in
output per hour tend to reduce them.  Manufacturing sector productivity declined 0.7 percent in
the third quarter of 2012, as output decreased 0.7 percent and
hours were unchanged. Productivity fell 1.6 percent in the
durable goods sector and increased 0.2 percent in the nondurable
goods sector. Over the last four quarters, manufacturing
productivity increased 1.3 percent, as output increased 4.0
percent and hours worked rose 2.6 percent. Unit labor costs in
manufacturing grew 3.2 percent in the third quarter of 2012 and
increased 1.5 percent from the same quarter a year ago.
Nonfinancial corporate sector productivity decreased 4.0 percent
in the third quarter of 2012.  The concepts, sources, and methods used for the
manufacturing and nonfinancial corporate output series differ
from those used in the business and nonfarm business output
series; these output measures are not directly comparable. See
Technical Notes for a more detailed explanation.  Revised measures  The measures released today are based on more recent source
data than were available for the preliminary report. Tables B
and C present previous and revised productivity and related
measures for the major sectors: nonfarm business, business, and
manufacturing, as well as nonfinancial corporations.  In the third quarter of 2012, nonfarm business productivity
growth increased 2.9 percent, rather than 1.9 percent as
reported November 1. The revision was due solely to an upward
revision to output. Unit labor costs were revised down and
decreased 1.9 percent, due to both the upward revision to
productivity and a downward revision to hourly compensation. In
the manufacturing sector, productivity declined 0.7 percent, as
revised. Unit labor costs increased 3.2 percent, due primarily
to a large upward revision to hourly compensation.  In the second quarter of 2012, nonfarm business
productivity, output, and hours were unrevised. Unit labor costs
decreased 0.5 percent rather than increasing 1.7 percent, the
result of a downward revision to hourly compensation. In the
manufacturing sector, output and productivity growth were
revised down by 0.3 percent. Unit labor cost growth was revised
up, to 9.0 percent, reflecting a large upward revision to hourly
compensation.  Second-quarter 2012 measures of productivity and costs were
revised for the nonfinancial corporate sector. Productivity
decreased 2.4 percent rather than increasing 1.6 percent, as
previously reported.  The preliminary Productivity and Costs press release for
fourth-quarter 2012 is scheduled to be released on Thursday,
February 7, 2013 at 8:30 a.m. (EST). 