-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Nov. 30 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-12-05T15:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-nov-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending November 30, 255 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 90.6 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging over 4.8 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 8.2 million barrels per day
last week, up by 112 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.0 million barrels per day, 848 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 513 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 155 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 2.4 million barrels
from the previous week. At 371.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 7.9 million barrels last week and are in the upper
half of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories
and blending components inventories increased last week.
Distillate fuel inventories increased by 3.0 million barrels
last week but remained well below the lower limit of the average
range for this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories
decreased by 0.3 million barrels last week, but remained well
above the upper limit of the average range. Total commercial
petroleum inventories increased by 5.9 million barrels last
week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged over 19.0 million barrels per day, up by 2.6 percent
from the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.6 million barrels
per day, up by 0.1 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged over 3.9 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 1.8 percent from
the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 1.2
percent lower over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  