-- U.S. to End 16-Year Ban on Commercial Flights to Iraq
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-05T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-s-to-end-16-year-ban-on-commercial-flights-to-iraq.html
The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  is lifting a 16-year-old ban on commercial
flights by U.S. carriers to two airports in Kurdish northern
 Iraq , citing increased stability in the region.  Civilian flights to that nation, which had been the scene a
U.S.-imposed no-fly zone and then a war to depose President
 Saddam Hussein , were halted in 1996 for safety reasons, the FAA
said in a  notice  to be published in the Federal Register
tomorrow.  The agency will now allow flights into Erbil and
Sulaymaniyah airports in northern Iraq’s Kurdistan region.
Flights by commercial operators from other nations have used the
airports without incident for years, the FAA said in the notice.  “The FAA has determined that flights by U.S. operators may
now be conducted safely to these two airports under certain
conditions,” it said.  U.S. civilian flights have been allowed to operate over
Iraq at altitudes above 20,000 feet (6,096 meters), and the FAA
has granted permission for some commercial flights into that
country under contract by the military or other agencies.  The  Transportation Security Administration , which oversees
security issues, also must approve U.S. carrier operations in
Iraq, according to the FAA notice.  The FAA said it is evaluating other airports in Iraq to
determine if additional lifting of the restrictions might be
warranted.  While U.S. political and commercial relations with the
Kurdistan regional government are stable, tensions with the
central government of Shiite Muslim Prime Minister Nouri al- Maliki have been strained by reports that Iraq is allowing  Iran 
to ship weapons through Iraqi airspace to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  