-- U.S. Offshore Wind Market Becoming ‘Real’ With European Interest
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-12-05T21:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-s-offshore-wind-market-becoming-real-with-european-interest.html
European energy companies are
considering participating in U.S. offshore wind-farm auctions, a
sign of increasing confidence in the viability of marine-based
wind power off U.S. shores, according to Arcadia Windpower Ltd.
President Peter Mandelstam.  Developers including Spain’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , Electricite de
France SA and Ireland’s Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd., have
filed official “indications of interest” for the first
competitive lease auction for U.S. offshore wind farms,
scheduled for next year.  U.S. companies have been planning offshore turbines for
more than a decade and none have been built. Having large
European wind veterans evaluate the lease auctions shows that
the “market is real,” said Mandelstam, who ran one of the
early players in the industry, Bluewater Wind LLC.  “The Europeans have been doing this since 1991,”
Mandelstam said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a
badge of honor for the U.S. industry that the Europeans are
here.”  The U.S. Interior Department announced Nov. 30 plans to
offer leases for wind farms off the coasts of  Massachusetts ,
Rhode Island and  Virginia . The auction will be the first for
commercial  wind energy  in federal waters more than three miles
(five kilometers) from shore.  The government has also awarded two offshore wind-energy
leases, in Massachusetts in 2010 and in Delaware in October, to
U.S. companies through non-competitive offers that each involved
a single company.  Delaware Lease  The Delaware lease was awarded to  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  for a
project initially developed by Bluewater. Mandelstam sold the
company to NRG in 2009.  The U.K.’s Renewable Energy Systems Ltd. and Spain’s Orisol
Corp. Energetica SA also filed indications of interest in the
U.S. offshore wind market, according to  documents  from the
Interior Department’s  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management .  Mandelstam expects the offshore wind industry to evolve
similarly to the onshore industry, with smaller developers like
Arcadia completing “upfront work” such as negotiating leases
and power contracts, and then selling the projects, or stakes in
them, to larger companies.  “That has been the model on land, that was the Bluewater
model in Delaware, and I expect that that will continue,”
Mandelstam said. Arcadia, based in Hoboken,  New Jersey , plans to
bid for offshore projects on the Atlantic coast “from  Maine  to
the Carolinas,” according to its website. Mandelstam said he
owns and funds the company.  Smaller companies are able to bid for power-purchase
agreements and pursue permits, Mandelstam said. For later steps,
“to have billions of dollars in construction equity and be able
to borrow the construction debt, you need to have some sort of
relationship with the larger, more established players,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  