-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall; Humana Sells $1 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-05T22:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-humana-sells-1-billion-in-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell to the lowest in a month as  China  signaled further policy
support and a group of Republican lawmakers joined a bipartisan
call to break an impasse over tax increases for the highest-
earning Americans.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.6
basis points to a mid-price of 97.8 basis points at 4:36 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest since the measure reached 96.3 basis points Nov. 6.  China’s regulators eased restrictions on investing in
commercial banks, and Xinhua news agency said yesterday the
country will promote urbanization and expand domestic demand,
adding to optimism the country’s leaders will foster growth.
Signs the global recovery is gaining strength may ease investor
concern that the financial slowdown will damage corporate
balance sheets and hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  “Some of the positive momentum that began in  Asia  filtered
through to our markets and gave us a bit of a lift,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna
International Group LLP, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “We’re grasping for some positive news, because people
are in pretty much of a wait-and-see mode with respect to what’s
going on in  Washington  with the fiscal cliff debate.”  Chinese stocks rose the most in three months after the
government abolished a regulation on insurance companies’
investment limits in commercial banks. The country will expand
domestic demand, actively promote urbanization and strengthen
real-estate controls, Xinhua said yesterday, citing a statement
issued after a meeting of top leaders.  Budget Negotiations  A few dozen Republicans joined a bipartisan call to break
the impasse between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker
 John Boehner  over taxes for the highest-earning Americans,
signing a letter calling for exploring “all options.”  U.S. firms added 118,000 workers in November, the ADP
Research Institute showed today, below the median forecast of
125,000. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index rose to 54.7 last month, above the 53.5 median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Humana Bonds  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the health care company that is acquiring
Metropolitan Health Networks Inc., sold $1 billion of bonds in
its first sale in more than four years to help fund the
purchase. The insurer sold $600 million of 3.15 percent 10-year
notes and $400 million of 4.625 percent 30-year debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement
it expects to grade the securities BBB, two levels above
speculative-grade.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 22.7 basis points to 493.5 basis points, the
lowest since Oct. 22, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Media and entertainment, oil and gas, and retail and
restaurant industries have the highest levels of credit stress
in the U.S. this year, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “These sectors accounted for 19 of the 41 U.S. defaults in
2012,”  Diane Vazza , an analyst at S&P, wrote in a report
yesterday. Companies in these sectors had the highest risk among
distressed issuers, weakest links and potential bond downgrades
in October.  Freeport Acquisition  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  rose 16.3 basis points to
151.8 basis points as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The world’s largest publicly traded copper producer agreed
to acquire Plains Exploration & Production Co. and McMoRan
Exploration Co. for about $9 billion. Freeport will pay about
$50 a share in cash and stock for Plains, representing a
takeover premium of about 39 percent based on the company’s
closing share prices yesterday, Phoenix-based Freeport said
today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  