-- Ukraine Rating Cut by Moody’s as IMF Agrees to Delay Trip
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-12-06T11:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ukraine-bond-rating-cut-to-b3-by-moody-s-as-economy-deteriorates.html
Ukraine’s credit rating was lowered
by Moody’s Investors Service as the  International Monetary Fund 
delayed a trip for talks on a third bailout in five years at the
former Soviet republic’s request.  Moody’s last night cut its rating one step to B3, six
levels below investment grade, citing dim economic prospects.
While Parliament approved the 2013 budget today, the Washington-
based IMF will visit the capital, Kiev, in the second half of
January, instead of tomorrow as planned, allowing a new cabinet
to participate after Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  resigned.  Ukraine, which neighbors  Russia  to its east, is seeking IMF
aid to meet $10 billion of debt payments due in 2013 and help
stabilize an  economy  that shrank 1.3 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter. President  Viktor Yanukovych  dismissed the
Cabinet Dec. 3 after Azarov stepped down following his election
to Parliament. The government remains on a temporary basis.  “There’s a combination of news that suggests Ukraine is
becoming more receptive to the idea it needs to go back to the
IMF,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief Russia and Commonwealth of
Independent States economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow,
said today by phone. “The downgrade will also make Ukraine’s
life more difficult and makes an IMF program more likely.”  Bonds, Hryvnia  The yield on Ukraine’s government dollar-denominated bonds
due 2022 rose to 7.726 percent as of 12:04 p.m. in Kiev from
7.541 percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
hryvnia was little changed at 8.1835 per dollar, while the cost
of insuring government debt for five years using  credit-default
swaps  rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 618.  Moody’s, whose downgrade left Ukraine’s rating on a par
with Argentina, Jamaica and Belarus, retained its negative
outlook, an indication further cuts are possible.  “The primary driver underlying Moody’s one-notch downgrade
of Ukraine’s government bond ratings is the rating agency’s
assessment of a deterioration in the country’s institutional
strength, against the backdrop of poor policy predictability as
well as reduced data transparency,” Moody’s analysts said
yesterday in a statement.  Ukraine is rated B+ by  Standard & Poor’s  and B by  Fitch
Ratings , four and five levels short of investment grade,
respectively.  ‘Deteriorating’ Story  “Ukraine is a deteriorating credit story,” Tim Ash, head
of emerging-market research at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said
in an e-mailed note. “I would expect further ratings downgrades
from the other agencies.”  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for Standard &
Poor’s. The data measured yields after a month relative to U.S.
Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  IMF representatives will now arrive in Kiev next month
because “the Ukrainian authorities have indicated this will
allow participation of the new Cabinet,” Max Alier, head of the
lender’s office in Ukraine, said in an e-mailed statement.  Loan Freeze  The east European nation agreed on its most recent bailout
in 2010 after its  economy  shrank 14.8 percent the previous year.
The $15.4 billion facility has been frozen since March 2011
because the government refuses to trim heating subsidies.  The government will have to repay $5.7 billion to the IMF
next year, according to the lender’s  website , with an initial
payment of $404 million due Jan. 30 and a further $2.4 billion
scheduled by May 10. It raised $1.25 billion by selling
Eurobonds Nov. 20 and had initially sought to prolong its
current IMF deal, saying conditions imposed by the lender under
a new program would probably be tougher.  A failure to agree on IMF financing may trigger another
rating downgrade, Moody’s said.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Erste Bank Group AG predict Ukraine’s
economy will contract in the second half because of lower prices
for metals, the country’s biggest export earner. Gross domestic
product may advance by 1 percent for the year as a whole,
according to the government.  The 2013 budget, which envisages 3.4 percent economic
growth and a deficit of 3.2 percent of GDP, was backed today by
242 of the Kiev-based Parliament’s 450 lawmakers.  While the government targeted a fiscal shortfall of 2.7 of
GDP this year, the actual figure will be closer to 3.7 percent,
according to Kiev-based Dragon Capital, which said the IMF may
seek a narrower 2013 deficit than planned in the budget.  “While the government successfully tapped external markets
in recent months, capitalizing on the global risk-on mood, its
further debt-raising endeavors are increasingly dependent on the
resumption of IMF funding, for which more fiscal consolidation
effort may be required,” Dragon said yesterday in an e-mailed
note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net 
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  