-- UN Set to Delay Hot Air Debate as Surplus Harmless Until 2020
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-05T15:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/un-set-to-delay-hot-air-debate-as-surplus-harmless-until-2020.html
Nations are poised to sidestep the
issue of excess  Kyoto Protocol  emission permits this year as
climate negotiators say the banking of those excess rights until
2020 poses little threat to current pollution-reduction targets.  Unused greenhouse-gas emission permits from the first five-
year period of the protocol won’t have buyers in the second
phase starting next year, according to officials from the
European Union and the  United Nations . That may avoid the risk
of trading “hot air,” as environmental lobbies including
Greenpeace call the surplus, whose carry-over they say would
undermine any future deal to reduce pollution.  The issue of transferring Assigned Amount Units into a
later period is set to return to the spotlight within the next
three years as climate envoys will need to decide whether or not
to allow those unused permits to be eligible in a new post-2020
deal they want to iron out by 2015.  “It’s important to get the issue of surplus into the right
proportion,” European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  told reporters in Doha, where negotiators from more
than 190 countries are holding a second week of talks. “We can
spend oceans of time dealing with this issue, but the reality is
nobody is going to use it in the second period of Kyoto.”  The AAUs, handed out to 38 developed nations under the 1997
protocol, represent a cap on those countries’ emissions in the
five years through 2012, known as the first Kyoto commitment
period. Countries that exceed their pollution limits may buy
AAUs from those that enact deeper emission cuts to cover their
discharges.  Economic Transformation  Supply of surplus AAUs comes mainly from  Russia , Ukraine
and eastern EU member states, where economic transformation and
a slump in industrial output following the fall of communism led
to a decline in emissions. The biggest source of demand is set
to dry up as  Japan  said it is not planning to adopt a new target
under the  Kyoto treaty  from 2013.  The 27-nation EU, which has an internal binding target to
cut emissions by 20 percent in 2020 and has said it will match
that target under the UN protocol, does not allow using AAUs for
compliance in its emissions trading system. The cap-and-trade
program covers almost half of the bloc’s carbon-dioxide
emissions.  Other countries that are planning to extend their Kyoto
targets, including Australia, Switzerland and  Norway , also
signaled they won’t accept surplus AAUs, Hedegaard said.  No Buyer  “It’s for the governments to decide how they want to solve
that, but where I certainly agree with Connie Hedegaard is that
it’s not going to be one of the issues that stops any
agreement,” UNFCCC Executive Secretary  Christiana Figueres  said
in an interview on Dec 2. “There’s no natural buyer for AAUs
currently.”  Should the unused AAUs from all countries with targets
under the first Kyoto period be allowed for use in a post-2020
regime, the surplus could risk inflating new caps by as much as
16.6 billion metric tons of carbon-dioxide equivalent, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. That’s approximately
equal to the total emissions from Russia, Australia and Japan
from 2008 through 2012, according to BNEF.  Developing nations, which do not have binding emission
goals under the Kyoto treaty and agreed at last year’s summit in
Durban to adopt greenhouse-gas limits under the new deal,
continue to press industrialized nations to tackle the glut.  “That’s something that is still unresolved but is very
important because it has to do with the ambition and
environmental integrity of the system,”  Brazil ’s chief
negotiator Luiz Alberto Figueiredo said yesterday.  No Restrictions  Russia may have 8.9 billion tons of surplus AAUs, the
biggest amount among countries with binding targets for the
first commitment period, according to BNEF. The nation is not
planning to join the second phase and opposes restrictions on
carry-over of emission rights, Alexander Bedritsky, the head of
Russia’s delegation in Doha, said today.  Ukraine ranks second with a surplus of 2.8 billion AAUs and
Poland third with 0.9 billion by the end of this year, BNEF
estimates showed. The deadline for compliance for the first
Kyoto period expires in 2015.  “The surplus is a hot potato issue,” Bas Eickhout, a
Dutch member of the Green group in the European Parliament, said
in an interview in Doha. “I could live with it in Kyoto 2 but
we will need a decision about post-2020, especially
cancellation, as soon as possible.”  “Otherwise Russia, Ukraine and other countries will start
reheating the issue in the context of the new deal,” he said.  Poland , which has led central and eastern EU member states
in opposing restrictions on the banking of AAUs, said the unused
emission rights reflected deeper-than-required greenhouse gas
reductions and funds from their sales are used for projects to
cut pollution further.  “The clock is ticking and we don’t deal with important
issues as we’re bogged down in philosophical discussions,”
Poland’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said. “We all want
a second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol and let’s focus
on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  