-- Hungary, Bulgaria Lead Bank Funding Drop in EU’s East
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-12-05T12:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/hungary-bulgaria-lead-bank-funding-drop-in-eu-s-east.html
Bulgarian and Hungarian lenders
suffered the largest funding drop of seven eastern European
countries surveyed by  Fitch Ratings  as western parent banks seek
savings since the onset of the financial crisis.  Funding withdrawals, although slowing, remained significant
in the first half of the year, suggesting that “changes in risk
appetite, a weaker medium-term economic outlook and limited
attractive lending opportunities were the main drivers,”
according to a survey of 43 foreign-owned banks in central and
eastern  Europe  published by Fitch today.  Central and eastern European economies are struggling with
subdued growth or recession as the  European debt crisis  saps
demand for exports and fiscal measures damp consumption and
demand for credit across the region. The EU’s eastern members
will see expansion of 0.3 percent to 2.2 percent next year,
according to the latest European Commission forecast published
on Nov. 7.  Group funding at eastern European banks decreased by 20
percent to 62 billion euros ($81 billion) between the end of
2008 and July 2012 , representing a “moderate” 4 percent of
total liabilities, the survey said. The drop in funding has been
largely replaced with domestic deposits, it said.  The most significant reductions in parent funding were in
 Bulgaria , by 47 percent, and  Hungary , by 38 percent, approaching
10 percent of gross domestic product in each country. The other
countries surveyed are Croatia, Romania, Poland, the  Czech
Republic  and Slovakia  “In Fitch’s opinion, outflows from Hungary also reflected
weak prospects for the local economy as well as unorthodox
policies implemented by the Hungarian government in respect of
the banking system,” the survey said.  Hungary imposed special levies on lenders and forced them
to swallow losses on foreign-currency mortgages offered to
households.  Foreign-owned banks control a large majority of total
banking assets in the seven countries covered by the report,
with most owners coming from euro-area countries, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  