-- UPS Said to Offer Concessions in 13 Nations for TNT Deal
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-12-05T17:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/ups-said-to-offer-concessions-in-13-nations-for-tnt-deal.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  proposed
concessions in 13 of the European Union’s 27 countries as it
tries to push through its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.75 billion) bid
for  TNT Express NV (TNTE) , two people familiar with the matter said.  UPS is offering to predominantly sell TNT businesses in
smaller European markets, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  UPS, which is based in Atlanta, submitted an offer to
regulators last week that included the sale of some business
units and granting access to its air network. UPS has twice
pushed back the target date to complete the biggest acquisition
in its 105-year history, which will double its size in  Europe ,
as the merger review continues. European regulators’ official
deadline for a ruling is now Feb. 5.  UPS’s rivals and customers are being asked to comment on
the company’s proposal and their feedback will be used by the EU
to determine whether the offer is sufficient to resolve
competition problems. Regulators sent formal objections to UPS
in October, saying the acquisition would remove one of its few
serious rivals in the European delivery-services market,
according to a person familiar with the regulators’ complaint.  “We have carried out a market test of the remedies
proposal,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told
reporters in Brussels today. He said he’d come back to the two
companies “informing them of some of our concerns given the
results.” The market test process hasn’t yet been completed,
Almunia’s spokesman Antoine Colombani said in an e-mail.  TNT  closed  at 7.64 euros in Amsterdam trading today,
valuing the Dutch company at 4.15 billion euros. The stock is
trading 24 percent below the offer price of 9.50 euros per
share.  Smaller Subsidiaries  While they don’t exclude UPS units, the concessions
submitted largely affect smaller TNT subsidiaries, assets,
customer contracts and personnel, one of the people said. That
would allow UPS to retain the most important synergies in the
biggest markets, another person said.  “We said on Friday we won’t get into details, and we’re
not going to,” Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for UPS, said today
regarding the proposed remedy package. Hoofddorp, Netherlands-
based TNT spokesman Ernst Moeksis could not immediately be
reached for comment.  Should the European Commission rule in favor of the
remedies, UPS would then have about six months to complete the
asset sales, one of the people said.  UPS’s bid for TNT required “substantial remedies” to
eliminate EU antitrust concerns, Almunia said in a Nov. 2
speech. Regulators still have time before they need to prepare a
decision on the UPS-TNT deal, he said today.  Simple Remedies  “After Christmas we will need to have a draft decision and
for this time we will need to make up our final opinion
regarding the capacity of the remedies finally proposed by UPS
and TNT,” he said.  EU regulators prefer merger remedies that are “simple,
workable and easy to implement,” Alexander Italianer, the
antitrust agency’s most senior official, said at a Brussels
conference today.  An offer to access critical technology or infrastructure
needs to be straightforward and must be monitored effectively to
be successful, he said. He didn’t refer to the UPS-TNT
transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  