-- Murky Laws Complicate Insider Cases, Ex-Prosecutor Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-12-05T18:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/murky-laws-complicate-insider-cases-ex-prosecutor-says.html
Insider-trading laws are “a little
bit murky” and confusing to investment professionals, the lead
prosecutor on the Raj Rajaratnam case said during a panel
discussion in New York.  “There’s incredible confusion on what is or is not
illegal, and it’s a real problem,” Jonathan Streeter, a former
 Manhattan  assistant U.S. attorney now with Dechert LLP, said
today at the Bloomberg  Hedge Funds  Summit. “The law is very
complicated and the lines are a little bit murky.”  He said the cases he worked on seemed sufficiently “over
the line.”  New York defense lawyers  Gerald Shargel  and  Ira Sorkin 
joined Streeter on the panel to discuss the government’s
insider-trading investigations, which have centered largely on
hedge funds since Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam was
arrested in 2009.  Sorkin, who represented Ponzi schemer  Bernard Madoff , said
prosecutors and civil enforcement agencies are working more
closely than in the past on insider-trading cases, creating a
more complicated legal landscape for defendants.  “Today, parallel investigations take place all of the
time,” Sorkin said, with each agency “looking for a pound of
flesh.”  More Cases  Along with the case against Rajaratnam, who is serving an
11-year prison sentence, federal prosecutors in Manhattan have
brought insider-trading cases against Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson, former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  and former SAC
Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, among
others, as part of a nationwide crackdown.  All three men have denied wrongdoing.  Chiasson and Newman are on trial in Manhattan federal
court. Martoma, who was arrested last month and was also sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is free on bail.
The panelists declined to speak about specific cases.  Prosecutors have also brought cases over hedge fund
employees’ alleged inappropriate use of so-called expert-network
consultants to obtain confidential information. Streeter said
there are some uses of consultants that the government would
find acceptable.  Using an expert in a drug under development to get a sense
of how the product would be used is “totally appropriate, and
the government will never question it,” Streeter said.
Obtaining information about confidential clinical trials would
not be appropriate, he said.  Martoma is accused of using a tip from a consultant about
the progress of a clinical trial for an Alzheimer’s drug to help
his firm make $276 million.  More than 80 people have been sued by regulators or charged
by prosecutors since 2008 for passing or getting inside tips
about pharmaceutical, biotechnology or other health-care stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  