-- Van Hollen and Corker Predict Budget Deal by Year’s End
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-12-05T18:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/van-hollen-and-corker-predict-budget-deal-by-year-s-end.html
The odds are good that Congress and
President  Barack Obama  will reach a deficit-reduction deal by
the end of the year if Republicans agree to increase tax rates
for top earners, Maryland Representative Chris  Van Hollen  said.  “I think it’s better than 50 percent that we are able to
get an agreement before Jan. 1,” Van Hollen, the top Democrat
on the Budget Committee, said today at a Bloomberg Government
panel in Washington.  Van Hollen said his confidence presumes that Republicans
will yield on allowing the top tax rate to rise above the
current 35 percent, which House Speaker  John Boehner  and other
Republican leaders have opposed.  “If that doesn’t come true, it’s less than 50 percent,”
Van Hollen said.  Congress and the president are trying to avert more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts set to start in
January -- the so-called fiscal cliff.  Speaking at today’s panel, Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia
Democrat, Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, and former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , a Republican, said they also
think a budget deal will be reached this month.  ’Close Loopholes’  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , stood firm today on keeping
tax cuts for top earners, telling reporters at the Capitol that
“there are ways to limit deductions, close loopholes” as
alternatives that will provide the additional revenue Obama
seeks as part of a deficit-reduction deal.  Unless Congress acts, taxes on income,  capital gains ,
dividends and estates will rise and automatic federal spending
cuts, known as sequestration, will begin in January.  “I think it’s 80 percent-plus that we will avoid
sequestration,” said Warner, a member of a bipartisan group of
senators who had been trying independently of congressional
leaders to craft a broad plan.  Corker and Pawlenty said Obama has focused too much on
taxes, and that to reach a deal, greater emphasis must be given
to finding savings in entitlement programs, such as Medicare.
Unlike the question of raising rates for top earners, on which
most Democrats agree, congressional Democrats are divided over
what changes to entitlement programs they could accept.  ’One-Trick Pony’  “You basically have a president, let’s face it, that not
to be too pejorative, that’s been a one-trick pony,” Corker
said. “The rate is all he’s been talking about.”  Pawlenty, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, a
banking trade group, said the two sides must discuss “what can
you live with, what is your red line and is there some overlap
between those two things” to put a deal together.  “You can’t push people to a place where they can’t go, and
leaders in negotiations have to understand that and communicate
and figure out where the common space is,” Pawlenty said. “You
can’t corner people with no way out because then you’ll have a
failure.”  Corker said he hoped that “instead of spiking the ball”
and letting the tax cuts expire, Obama would work personally
with Boehner to hammer out an agreement.  “I hope they’ll sit down and mesh something together that
Republicans could be OK with, that generates the kind of
revenues that we need, but also the kind of entitlement
reforms,” he said.  Response Sought  Boehner told reporters that Obama must respond to a $2.2
trillion plan the speaker proposed Dec. 3 to come up with a
proposal that can pass the Republican-controlled House and the
Senate, where Democrats have the majority.  “We need a response from the White House,” he said. “If
the president doesn’t agree with our proposal and our outline, I
think he’s got an obligation to send one to the Congress -- and
a plan that can pass both chambers of Congress.”  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, told
reporters yesterday that Boehner would have to get most  House
Republicans  on board for any plan he’d agree to with Obama.  “That is just politics 101,” Cole said. “When you are
cutting a deal with the opposite party they’ve got, politically,
to be able to sell this deal to the majority of their members.”  Cole has suggested his party accede to the Obama’s demand
that Congress extend the tax cuts for families with incomes less
than $250,000 a year while grappling with other issues -- an
idea Boehner rejected.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, told reporters today that “there are probably
dozens of other Tom Coles in the House who don’t feel free to
speak their mind.”  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  Republican Representative  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , chairman
of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said his party’s
leadership is working on a “comprehensive solution” to avert a
possible fiscal crisis rather than focusing solely on the tax-
rate issue.  “At this point it’s still how do we get to a comprehensive
solution,” Camp, a Michigan Republican, told reporters.
“Obviously you have to think about all the options potentially.
I think people are thinking about it, but I think we want to see
if we can get a comprehensive answer at this point.”  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid today again called on
Boehner to schedule a vote on a Senate-passed tax-cut bill. He
said every Democrat in the House would support the one-year
extension of expiring tax cuts for income of individuals up to
$200,000 a year and married couples up to $250,000.  “You have the ability, and you’re the only one who has the
ability to put this on the floor for a vote,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said on the Senate floor. It would take 26
“reasonable Republicans” in the House to pass the bill, he
said.  Business Owners  House Republican leaders are meeting today with a group of
small business owners who the Republicans say would face higher
taxes under Obama’s proposal.  Members of AARP, a Washington-based group that advocates on
issues affecting older Americans, fanned out across  Capitol Hill 
today to lobby lawmakers against any deal that cuts Medicare and
Medicaid benefits. In particular, they oppose any effort to
raise the Medicare eligibility age and change the way Social
Security cost-of-living payments are calculated. Both of these
concepts were part of failed talks between Boehner and Obama
last year on a deficit-reduction agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  