-- VTB Capital Opens Australian Dollar Market for Russian Borrowers
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-05T04:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/vtb-capital-opens-australian-dollar-market-for-russian-borrowers.html
VTB Capital is marketing the first
Australian dollar-denominated bonds from a Russian borrower.  The investment bank may price five-year notes to yield from
7.5 percent to 7.6 percent, a person familiar with the matter
said. VTB Capital may sell the securities as soon as today, with
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. helping it to manage
the offer, the person said, asking not to be named because the
terms aren’t set.  Australia’s bond market has provided funding for 73 issuers
since June 30, the most for any six-month period since the
second half of 2006, as investor demand for assets tied to the
highest benchmark rate among major developed nations swells.
 Russia ’s central bank may seek to hold as much as 10 percent of
its reserves in the so-called Aussie, up from a 1 percent target
it flagged last year, the Australian Financial Review reported
Nov. 30, without saying where it got the information.  “Russia’s central bank buying the Australian dollar
perhaps means the market has become more visible to borrowers
like VTB,” said Martin Whetton, a Sydney-based interest-rate
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “It also suggests the Aussie
market is becoming more sophisticated in its view on global
credits.”  VTB Capital, part of VTB Group, is based in Moscow and
offers investment banking services, according to its  website .  Australia’s dollar has climbed 49 percent against the
greenback since the end of 2008, the most among more than 150
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. No Russian borrowers have sold
bonds in the South Pacific currency, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  