-- Wall Street Rocks Battle of the Bands Ends in Tie: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-05T16:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/wall-street-rocks-battle-of-the-bands-ends-in-tie-scene.html
The Subscribettes writhed gangnam-
style in red-and-purple leggings and tank tops around Timothy
Wheeler, a bankruptcy attorney, who wore sunglasses, a bright-
blue tuxedo jacket and skinny jeans.  Wheeler, the lead singer of the Subscribers, belted out the
global hit from South Korean rapper Psy last night in the final
Battle of the Bands of  Wall Street  Rocks.  The contest ended in a tie between the Subscribers, also
featuring Chris Heasman of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Scott Hendrickson of
Permian Investment Partners, and Stone Hedge, a Moore Capital
Management bunch including Web administrator and bassist Barbara
Bootz.  The event culminated a year of live music that raised
about $300,000 for the Wounded Warrior Project and ReservAid,
which assist veterans. Sandy relief efforts also benefited from
the finale, which was postponed by the superstorm.  Helping the area hit hardest in Staten Island, where he and
his wife grew up, motivated Peter Carrara to pick up his drum
sticks. Carrara, head of infrastructure for wealth management
and capital markets at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , got his band the
Blues Brothers Project back together just for this event. Like
the Spin Doctors, it was among those entertaining, not
competing.  Stone Hedge’s set cycled through the ’60s to the ’80s, with
“Love Me Two Times” by the Doors, AC/DC’s “Highway to Hell”
and “In God’s Country” by U2. The musicianship was strong and
the audience listened intently.  Midriff Cutout  What got Aubrie Fine of UBS Securities LLC and Laura King
of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  dancing were the Subscribettes, who first
appeared in black unitards with cutouts at their midriff. Their
band the Subscribers favored danceable tunes:  Kelly Clarkson ’s
“Stronger” and  Michael Jackson ’s “Beat It.”  James Macedonio, an  executive director  at Morgan Stanley,
helps run Wall Street Rocks on a volunteer basis.  “A lot of charity events are not the let-your-hair-down,
have-a-good-time variety,” Macedonio said. “People on Wall
Street want to come out and play and we want to provide a
platform for that.”  What is the attraction of Wall Street to rock ’n’ roll?  “Decadence, there’s no better word that fits,” Skid Row’s
drummer, Rob Affuso, said. He recently played a 70th birthday
party in Shanghai for a man from Switzerland who flew his
friends in for the event.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
 Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 