-- Water Wars Pit Dakotas Against Barges for Missouri Flow
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-12-05T18:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/water-wars-pit-thirsty-dakotas-against-barges-for-missouri-flow.html
The  Missouri  River has blessed and
cursed Kevin Schmidt, alternately nourishing or overrunning his
farmland. This year its water saved his cows, and it may do so
again next year if a lack of rain dries out his soil.  The river sustains farmers and ranchers in its upper basin,
1,000 miles from where shippers are pushing to have more of its
water released into the drought-depleted  Mississippi  River to
avert a suspension of barge traffic on the nation’s busiest
waterway later this month.  “I need irrigated acres for a guaranteed feed source for
my cattle,” said Schmidt, 55, whose property south of Bismarck,
 North Dakota , was first homesteaded by his great-grandfather in
the late 1800s. Talk of drawing down the Missouri’s water makes
him nervous, he said.  Under pressure from U.S. senators along the Mississippi,
the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers last week said it would
reconsider its seasonal reduction in water flow through dams it
operates to protect the supply that Schmidt and others depend
on. Lawmakers from states along the Missouri River fired back
with a  letter  to President  Barack Obama , arguing the Army Corps
has no authority to increase the river’s flow to help the
Mississippi.  Army Corps  Time is running short. The Army Corps said it would report
back to the lawmakers this week as the usual Midwest dry season,
combined with the region’s worst drought since 1956, is
projected to push Mississippi levels so low shipping would have
to be halted in a section near the river’s midpoint south of  St.
Louis . At risk are 20,000 jobs and $130 million in wages and
benefits if the river is closed for two months, the American
Waterways Operators, a lobbying group based in Arlington,
 Virginia , estimates.  If the Army Corps does decide to release more water,
shippers say it would take two weeks for the increased flow to
reach the parched portions of the Mississippi, which the
Missouri joins near St. Louis.  The fight over whether the Missouri should be used to shore
up a dry Mississippi looks very different upstream. The barge
traffic that dominates debates downriver doesn’t exist.
Hydropower, recreation -- and, in recent years, supplying a boom
in hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas that’s given
North Dakota the lowest U.S.  unemployment  rate -- all require
the Missouri’s water.  ‘Very Intense’  “Disputes over the river become very intense, and you can
never please everyone,” said Bernard Shanks, a fellow at the
 Mill Valley , California-based Resource Renewal Institute and
former director of Washington state’s Department of Fish and
Wildlife. “It’s a classic East-West dispute for which there are
simply no easy solutions.”  Shippers already have begun to reduce the loads on barges
to keep them from scraping bottom, something that drives up the
cost of moving the $7 billion worth of grain, coal and other
goods that the Waterways Operators say typically ship on the
Mississippi in December and January.  The Army Corps says navigation will be impaired by Dec. 11
and a record low-water mark will be set on Dec. 22, barring any
unexpected rain or other event. The Waterways Operators and the
Waterways Council Inc., another trade group also based in
Arlington, Virginia, say traffic will be impeded Dec. 10 from
St. Louis south about 180 miles (290 kilometers) to Cairo, where
the Mississippi meets the  Ohio River .  Blasting Pinnacles  The groups successfully lobbied to have the Army Corps
hasten a project to remove massive limestone rock formations,
known as pinnacles, that stud the riverbed near the Illinois
towns of Thebes and Grand Tower and obstruct vessels at low
water. The U.S. will begin demolishing the rocks by Jan. 3,
speeding up the project by about a month, the Army Corps of
Engineers said earlier this week.  Increasing the flow of Missouri River water is a more
contentious issue, and one that has engendered strong
opposition.  In their letter to Obama last week, the North Dakota
congressional delegation, along with the state’s governor and
officials from South Dakota,  Montana  and  Kansas , said increasing
the outflow of the Missouri’s water “will undoubtedly have a
negative impact on the people and many businesses in the states
we represent, which are also suffering overwhelmingly from the
effects of drought.”  Missouri’s Waters  Because of the drought, the Mississippi has received as
much as 78 percent of its water from the Missouri this year,
compared with 60 percent in a normal year,  according to  Missouri
Governor Jay Nixon. Even more may be needed to stave off
economic catastrophe, the shippers argue.  Agriculture groups including the  American Farm Bureau
Federation , the biggest U.S. farmer organization, wrote Obama
yesterday, saying shipment of 500,000 tons of fertilizer
shipments -- up to 60 percent of what farmers will need for
spring planting -- may be disrupted without action.  “Reduced supplies in export positions would pressure farm
prices and erode the  United States ’ ability and reputation as a
reliable supplier of agricultural products to serve foreign
buyers,” the groups wrote.  Emergency Declaration  The Army Corps has the authority to provide additional
water flow for downstream interests and has done so several
times in the past, Missouri Governor Nixon said in a statement
released by his office last month. Upstream lawmakers disagree.
In their letter to Obama,  they said  even the presidential
emergency declaration their counterparts along the Mississippi
are seeking is only permitted to save lives or property -- not
for economic assistance.  The Missouri River has other uses that affect economies
from its mouth near St. Louis to its headwaters in western
Montana’s  Rocky Mountains , said Jody Farhat, chief of Missouri
River Basin water management in the Omaha District for the Army
Corps.  The restriction of water flow from the Gavins Point Dam
near Yankton, South Dakota, that began last month is governed by
a congressionally mandated manual for the Missouri that spells
out eight uses for that river that the Army Corps must take into
account: hydropower, water supply, water quality control, fish
and wildlife, recreation, irrigation, navigation and flood
control.  Master Manual  The so-called Master Manual, first published in the 1960s
and revised in 2004 to create more stringent drought-management
rules, guides yearly operating plans that balance those uses,
Farhat said. Dams along the river act in tandem under the plan,
with levels adjusted in one location affecting other reservoirs
up and downstream, she said.  To meet irrigation needs, for example, the Army Corps is
required to set aside a reserve that can handle 12 years of
dryness, a period in length comparable to the Dust Bowl, Farhat
said. This year, about a fifth of the supply already has been
used, “and this is the first year. Droughts don’t normally last
only one year in this part of the country,” she said.  For the  Standing Rock Sioux Tribe , whose lands cross the
border of North Dakota and  South Dakota , water for drinking and
other uses besides irrigation is the need. Low levels at Lake
Oahe, created by the nearby Oahe Dam, caused  severe water
shortages  during a drought nearly a decade ago, temporarily
closing its hospital and forcing tribe members to drive hours to
buy supplies from other towns.  That won’t happen again, said Phyllis Young, a member of
the tribal council.  ‘Not a Commodity’  “Water is not a commodity,” she said. “When it comes
down to our reliance on this system for clean drinking water,
human consumption for my people is a more critical need than the
barges,” she said.  North Dakota was relatively unscathed by this year’s
drought. Floods that in 2011 overwhelmed the Missouri’s banks
and inundated thousands of farms left soil with extra moisture
going into this year’s planting. That won’t be repeated for the
next crops, as the drought has migrated northward and much of
southern North Dakota is now suffering under  “severe”  dry
conditions, according to the government.  About  97 percent  of the state’s reservoir water is held in
two man-made lakes, Oahe and Sakakawea, the country’s third-
largest artificial lake. When water levels decline “it starts
to affect our fisheries, the  power plants  in our region,
recreation businesses,” said Michelle Klose, assistant state
engineer for the North Dakota State Water Commission in
Bismarck. “The importance for drinking water in our state is
huge,” she said.  Fracking Boom  Missouri River water also plays a role in hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, a process in which millions of gallons
of water, sand and chemicals are pumped into the ground to free
oil and natural gas from rock formations.  A small amount of Missouri River water near the Williston
area in the west of the state is used for fracking, though
drillers mostly rely on underground aquifers, Klose said. The
state would like to see more of the river go for fracking to
relieve its other water sources, she said.  The fracking boom has allowed North Dakota this year to
pass  Alaska  and become the second-biggest U.S. oil-producer
after  Texas . The growth will give the state a two-year budget
surplus of $1.6 billion by the end of June, its government
projected in September.  “Everyone in each portion has needs that are important to
them,” Klose said. “You can’t drain one basin to support
another basin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  