-- Wells Fargo Banker Sued by SEC in Probe of Insider Trading
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-05T22:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/wells-fargo-banker-sued-by-sec-in-probe-of-insider-trading-1-.html
A  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  investment banker
was at the center of a 10-person insider-trading ring that took
in $11 million in profits from tips on pending mergers, U.S.
regulators said.  John W. Femenia from March 2010 to July 2012 passed his
friends confidential information about four deals involving
Wells Fargo clients, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
today in a complaint filed at U.S. District Court in  North
Carolina . The SEC sued nine others for taking part in the ring.  “Here you have an investment banker who clearly knew
better that inside information can’t form the basis of trading
decisions,” William P. Hicks, associate director for
enforcement in the SEC’s Atlanta office, said in a statement.
“Instead he basically started a phone tree of nonpublic
information.”  Femenia, 30, typically made his first call to disseminate
the tips to Shawn Hegedus, a longtime friend who worked as a
registered broker, the SEC said. He and Hegedus, who was also
named as a defendant in the lawsuit, then tipped other friends
who passed the information to their own friends or family
members in a ring that spread across five states.  In some instances, Femenia and Hegedus, 31, were paid
portions of illegal trading proceeds in exchange for the tips,
which involved acquisitions of ATC Technology Corp. in 2010,
Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. and K-Sea Transportation Partners
LP in 2011, and  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  this year.  Femenia worked for Wells Fargo in Charlotte, North
Carolina, when most of the alleged activity occurred and later
in  New York  where he lives now, according to the SEC. He didn’t
return a call to his office seeking comment on the SEC’s case,
and  Mary Eshet , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Efforts to reach Hegedus by telephone weren’t immediately
successful.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, is based in  San
Francisco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  