-- West Ham First-Ranked Bidder for London Olympic Stadium
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-05T13:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/west-ham-named-first-ranked-bidder-for-london-olympic-sta.html
West Ham United moved closer to
taking over London’s Olympic Stadium after the  soccer club  was
chosen as the “first-ranked bidder” by the organization
overseeing the post-Games use of the facilities.  “Today’s decision on the stadium represents an important
milestone towards reopening the Olympic Stadium,” Dennis Hone,
chief executive officer of the London Legacy Development Corp.,
or LLDC, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “If we are to have a football tenant, West Ham and other
parties will need to meet the conditions that the board has set
out today. If a deal is not possible then we will bring the
stadium back into use as soon as possible.” That might be in
the middle of 2013, he said.  Any agreement with the Hammers would be conditional to a
number of issues being resolved, the LLDC said. These include
changes to the stadium, getting planning permission and
completing commercial terms, “including a mechanism to protect
the taxpayers’ investment in the stadium were the value of the
club to increase significantly through a change in location.”  Should a soccer team move into the stadium, which was the
centerpiece of the London Olympics and Paralympics in July and
August, the site would have to have a retractable seating
solution to make sure it can also function as an athletics
venue, the LLDC said. The organization said it is starting a
detailed design for a non-soccer option.  ‘Taxpayers’ Interests’  “My position on the future of the stadium remains what it
has always been: that we can secure a terrific future for this
much loved and iconic venue with or without a football team
playing there,” London mayor  Boris Johnson  said in the
statement. “I hope the detailed negotiations with West Ham can
succeed, but I am determined that any deal should protect the
interests of taxpayers who have paid for the stadium and would
have to pay more for adaptations to make it suitable for
football.”  It’s the second time West Ham has been picked as preferred
bidder for the 537 million-pound ($865 million) stadium. The
Hammers and Newham were selected as long-term tenants in
February 2011 over a joint bid by Premier League club Tottenham
Hotspur and AEG, a U.S.-based entertainment facility operator.
In October, that agreement collapsed following a series of legal
challenges from Tottenham and east London soccer team Leyton
Orient and an anonymous complaint to the European Commission.  “For the last three years it has been my firm, unwavering
belief that the stadium can truly become a multi-use destination
of which east  London  and the nation as a whole can be proud,”
Karren Brady, vice chairman of West Ham, said on the club’s
website. West Ham plays at Upton Park, which seats about 35,000.  The Olympic Stadium, which hosted the 2012 opening and
closing ceremonies and the athletic events, will be reduced in
size before being used as host for the 2017 World Athletics
Championships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  