-- My Pathetic Weakness for ‘Downton Abbey’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-12-05T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/my-pathetic-weakness-for-downton-abbey-.html
As an Anglophile, I’m as pathetic as
the next chap.  My idea of a good time is to be in  London , drinking at
lunch with some well-lubricated British journalist friends,
stumbling out when it’s already getting dark, tea at a fancy
hotel, and then theatre in the evening. Then repeat.  And, yes, when I’m not in London (that is, almost all the
time) I rarely miss an episode of “ Downton Abbey .” But at least
I have the decency to be ashamed about it.  The shameless popularity of this blue-blood soap opera,
which starts  its third season  in the U.S. next month, is
astonishing. We just had an election in which European-style
social class divisions -- possibly for the first time -- were
the predominant theme, and the working-class side of the
argument won. That is social class, not wealth.  “Downton Abbey” gets this right: For its characters, having
too much money -- or, worse, making too much money -- is vulgar.
True aristocrats are in debt. If  Mitt Romney  had just a bit more
of the common touch, his fortune wouldn’t have hurt him. As it
was, the notion that he didn’t really give a damn about people
did him in.  But here’s the puzzle: Wouldn’t you guess that the PBS
audience went for President  Barack Obama  in a big way? Yet it
goes just as big for a costume drama in which it is top and
bottom against the middle, and (spoiler alert!) the middle
loses. “Downton Abbey” always sides with the toffs.  Not Art  Ever since “ Upstairs, Downstairs ,” which aired in the mid-
1970s, the traumas of the British upper class have been PBS’s
bread and butter. “Brideshead Revisited,” the almost excessively
scrupulous 250-part  adaptation  of the Evelyn Waugh novel that
aired in the 1980s, also sided with the toffs. Waugh, though
middle-class himself, was a legendary snob. In “Brideshead”
there was no pretense of concern for the servants. (It might as
well have been called “Upstairs, Further Upstairs.”)  Then, too, “Brideshead Revisited” is great art (certainly
the book, and I’d say the TV series as well), and great art gets
to play by its own rules. “Downton Abbey” -- not based on a
literary classic but written to order by its executive producer,
British ITV’s Julian Fellowes -- gets no such dispensation.  Here is a typical subplot. In an echo of “Pride and
Prejudice,” a family full of daughters but no sons is due to
lose its fortune to a distant relative (a lawyer this time,
rather than a minister) when the patriarch dies, due to the
bizarre and complicated British rules of inheritance.  Unlike Jane Austen’s Mr. Collins, Mr. Crawley is charming
and handsome. Nevertheless he is middle class, and has no time
for aristocratic nonsense. Or so he thinks. Then he discovers
that he has hurt the feelings of his valet by insisting on
choosing his own cuff links. A stern, self-righteous lecture
from the head of household teaches him -- and us -- that the
employment of maids, footmen, valets and so on creates jobs, and
so the lawyer submits to the indignity of being served hand-and-
foot.  “Downton Abbey’s” plotting in general is amazingly lazy,
backing out of every interesting situation it creates. A problem
will arise that threatens the tranquility and order of the
household. It hovers in the air briefly then dissipates.  For example, a male character comes back from the Great War
paralyzed from the waist down (and you know what that means).
Will his fiancee lose interest in marrying him? Well, just as
we’re all sweaty with nervousness over that question, it turns
out that he’s not permanently paralyzed after all. The doctor
made a misdiagnosis! All is fine in love and war. Problem
resolved. Next?  Not Believable  So why is Carson the incredibly upright butler stealing
potatoes? Carson explains it all to the assembled company in a
touching speech reminiscent of the scene in “Tootsie” in which
Dustin Hoffman unravels the plot of the soap-opera-within-a-
movie. Except that this one, within the context of the drama, is
supposed to be true.  Are you ready? (Spoiler alert.) Well, wouldn’t you know:
(Answer: No. How could you possibly know?) Carson -- now a dour
enforcer of aristocratic tradition -- in a former life had been
a Vaudeville song-and-dance man. Can you believe it? (Answer:
No.) When his former dance partner showed up to blackmail him
over this disgrace in his past, Carson had stashed the fellow in
one of the estate outbuildings while he contemplated his next
move.  This situation is rife with fairly obvious possibilities of
murder and mayhem, which any red-blooded U.S. TV series would
have found impossible to resist. But in “Downton Abbey,” the
butler didn’t do it, and nor did anyone else.  Carson confesses abjectly about the potatoes and tenders
his resignation, which is refused. His lordship gives the
intruder 20 pounds and sends him on his way. And so we move on
to the next crisis.  I almost stopped watching when they wanted me to care who
would win the village orchid contest. But I didn’t stop, even
when Maggie Smith went into her sweet-and-sour dowager routine
for the umpteenth time. The damned thing is: I love that
routine. Pathetic, I agree.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or  @michaelkinsley  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 