-- Euro Weakens as ECB Reduces Economic Forecasts
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-06T22:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/yen.html
The euro declined the most in a month
against the dollar after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said economic weakness will persist next year, suggesting
the central bank has scope to lower  interest rates .  The 17-nation currency dropped from almost a seven-month
high against the yen after the ECB cut its growth forecasts and
said it saw “downside risks” for the region. The yen
strengthened versus most of its major counterparts as investors
sought safer assets.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose to a two-month
high against the greenback after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  said
growth was likely to quicken.  “They gave a bad prognosis into next year, and it looks
like the air is coming out of the balloon,” Matthew Lifson,
senior trader at Cambridge Mercantile Group in Princeton,  New
Jersey . “I didn’t necessarily think we were going to drop as
hard as we did.”  The euro depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.2970 per dollar at
5:02 p.m. in  New York , after falling 0.2 percent yesterday. The
common currency dropped 0.9 percent to 106.84 yen, after rising
to 107.96 yesterday, the strongest level since April 20. The yen
gained 0.1 percent to 82.40 per dollar.  Rand Rises  The rand advanced to the strongest level in more than three
weeks, erasing an earlier decline, after  South Africa ’s current-
account deficit stayed unchanged in the third quarter.  The currency climbed 1 percent to 8.6800 a dollar, the
strongest since Nov. 8.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.6 percent to 80.246. Yesterday it slid to the
lowest since Oct. 23.  The damage wrought by  Hurricane Sandy  probably extended to
the job market in November as the storm forced businesses to
close, upending the recent pickup in U.S. hiring, economists
projected a report this week will show.  Payrolls rose by 85,000 workers last month, the smallest
gain since June, according to the median forecast of 91
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department
figures Dec. 7. Manufacturing and services grew at a slower
pace, other reports may show.  ECB View  Draghi said the ECB forecasts that economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year, more than the 0.4 percent contraction it
predicted in September. The ECB cut its 2013 forecast to a
contraction of 0.3 percent from 0.5 percent growth, and projects
expansion of 1 percent in 2014, he said.  “Weak activity is expected to extend into next year,”
Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after policy
makers left the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent.  The ECB lowered its inflation forecast for next year to 1.6
percent from 1.9 percent.  “The market hears what it perceives to be as hints as to
the way policy may be moving in the future, so it’s
understandable that the market is going to respond in the way it
has been in weakening the euro,”  Robert Lynch , head of currency
strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Sara Eisen. “Now they’re in technical
recession with a forecasted level of minus 3 percent, with lower
inflation. So that’s a dynamic that would seem to call for more
policy easing.”  Economic Weakness  Gross domestic product  in the euro area fell 0.1 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, when it
dropped 0.2 percent, the European Union’s statistics office said
today, confirming an initial estimate published on Nov. 15.  “The hint that there are members on the council who are
looking for an additional rate cut, that’s what’s leaning on the
euro at this point,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Draghi had looked for 2013 to be the
turnaround point. His comments today suggested the council now
has pushed back that point” for the economy’s recovery.”  The euro has weakened 2.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen was the worst performer,
falling 9.6 percent, and the dollar dropped 2.4 percent.  The so-called kiwi advanced for a fourth day against the
greenback after the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  left its
official cash rate unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent, in
line with the estimates of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The overall outlook is for stronger domestic demand and
the elimination of current excess capacity by the end of next
year,” central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in Wellington.
“This is expected to cause inflation to rise gradually toward
the 2 percent target midpoint.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to 83.27 U.S. cents
after advancing to the strongest since Sept. 28.  “The statement from the RBNZ is less dovish than the
market had anticipated, and that’s why we see a stronger  New
Zealand dollar ,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange
strategist in New York at Barclays Plc. “The market saw the
slight possibility of a rate cut next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  