-- Hypo Alpe Wins Temporary Approval for $2 Billion State Aid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-05T12:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/hypo-alpe-wins-temporary-eu-approval-for-2-billion-austrian-aid.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender loaded with bad debt, won
temporary European Union approval for another round of state
aid, combined with a warning to speed up its breakup.  The European Commission allowed the Austrian government to
give Hypo Alpe 500 million euros ($655 million) in fresh funds
plus a state guarantee for 1 billion euros of bonds the bank is
selling, it said in an e-mailed statement today. Regulators
approved the aid for reasons of financial stability and told
 Austria  to submit an updated restructuring plan for Hypo Alpe
within the next two months.  “Austria now urgently needs to present a comprehensive
plan for divesting the operative parts of the bank and winding
down the non-viable rest,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Hypo Alpe needs the bond and the cash injection to fill a
1.5 billion-euro capital gap determined by Austrian regulators.
The bank, the third-biggest lender in the former  Yugoslavia , has
10 billion euros in bad debt, or about a third of its loan book.
The Klagenfurt, Austria-based bank has started the sale of its
sound units in Austria,  Italy  and southeastern  Europe .  Austria has committed to safeguards for the bank’s risk
policies and new lending business to comply with EU state-aid
rules, the EU said. Regulators often require limits on banks’
expansion to prevent them profiting from government support.  Bond Pricing  The bank is in talks with the commission and the government
about the restructuring plans and will continue to seek to
create the basis for a final EU decision on state aid, Nikola Donig, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Hypo Alpe met investors last week in Cologne, Frankfurt,
Munich, Vienna and  London  to market the planned bond, which will
have a 10-year maturity and qualify as regulatory Tier 2
capital. While Tier 2 bonds usually pay more interest to make up
for their higher risk, Hypo Alpe said this risk didn’t exist for
holders of this security because of an irrevocable and
unconditional guarantee from the Austrian government.  Hypo Alpe said last month it expects to price the bond
similar to securities of Austria’s state railway and road
operators, which pay a small premium compared with Austrian
 government bonds . Austrian 10-year yields hit an all-time low of
1.728 percent this week and were at 1.749 percent by 11:32 p.m.
in London.  The bank started bookbuilding for the bond sale today after
the EU approval, it said in a statement. It has hired Citigroup
Inc., Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley to
manage the sale.  Austrian taxpayers have subsidized Hypo Alpe with 1.26
billion euros in capital and a 200 million-euro asset guarantee
that is expected to come due next year. Another 700 million
euros will be added in 2013. The Carinthia province that used to
own Hypo Alpe and the federal government also provide guarantees
for a total of 16.7 billion euros in bonds Hypo Alpe has sold
and that will mature gradually until 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  