-- ThyssenKrupp, Pimco, Dal-Tile: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-05T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/thyssenkrupp-pimco-dal-tile-intellectual-property.html
Inventio, a unit of  Schindler Holding
AG (SCHP) , dropped a lawsuit against  ThyssenKrupp Elevator Corp. (TKA)  for
allegedly infringing a patent for elevators at 1 World Trade
Center in New York after the patent was found invalid.  The parties agreed to dismiss the action, according to a
stipulation filed Dec. 3 in federal court in Manhattan. The
agreement follows a ruling last week by an appeals court in
Washington that invalidated the same patent in another case.  Inventio, based in Switzerland, said in a Nov. 6 complaint
that the patent for elevator installation was issued by the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office  in 1997 and reconfirmed in October.  A federal appeals court ruled Nov. 27 that the patent was
invalid. The decision came in a suit by Inventio claiming
infringement by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis Elevator in
elevators at 7 World Trade Center.  The decision was made by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, which specializes in patent
cases.  Media representatives at Hergiswil, Switzerland-based
Schindler didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment
on the stipulation in the ThyssenKrupp case.  “We were always confident that we could successfully
defend any claims arising under the subject patent, and
therefore we expected this outcome,” Martina Behrend, a
spokeswoman for ThyssenKrupp AG, based in Essen, Germany, said
in an e-mail.  1 World Trade Center is a skyscraper under construction in
Lower Manhattan at the site of the twin towers destroyed in the
September 2001 terrorist attacks. A second location named in the
ThyssenKrupp suit is 11 Times Square.  7 World Trade Center was completed in 2006 at the site of a
building with the same address that was damaged when the twin
towers fell.  The patent at issue is for data transmission technology
that directs someone with a recognition device like an
electronic badge to the right elevator.  The case is Inventio v. ThyssenKrupp, 12-08072, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeals court case is Schindler Elevator Corp. v. Otis Elevator
Co., 2011-1615 and 2012-1108, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington).  Pimco’s Gross Wins U.S. Patent for Global Bond Index Methodology  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s largest mutual fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., received a U.S. patent
covering the methodology behind a global bond index that weighs
countries by the size of their economy rather than their
indebtedness.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, patent 8,306,892 was issued Nov 6. The other named
inventor is Ramin Toloui, global co-head of  emerging markets 
portfolio management at Pimco.  The construction of the  Global Advantage Bond Index  is
covered by the patent, according to  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco
spokesman. By focusing on gross domestic product, the index
avoids concentrating on countries saddled with debt and offers a
greater weighting for developing markets.  Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach, California, and has
$1.92 trillion in assets under management, has said it will
pursue strategies with a global focus to navigate a changed
economic environment after the 2007 to 2009 financial crisis.
The firm, a unit of German insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , has popularized
the term “new normal” to describe an era of lower returns,
heightened  government regulation , diminishing U.S. clout in the
world economy and a bigger role for developing nations.  The Global Advantage Bond Index is used as a benchmark by
the $5.24 billion  Pimco Global Advantage Strategy Bond Fund (PSAIX) ,
which returned 7.2 percent this year, trailing 58 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The index was developed in 2009, according to Pimco’s
website.  Application for the patent was filed in November 2008, with
the assistance of  Knobbe Martens Olson & Bear LLP of  Irvine,
California.  Monsanto to Resume Collection of Soybean Royalties in Brazil  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed company, will resume
collecting royalties for its Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil
while it appeals a state court ruling there on  intellectual
property  rights.  The Court of Justice in Mato Grosso ruled that collections
in the state can resume, St. Louis-based Monsanto said in a
statement on its website yesterday. Monsanto, which last month
suspended collections nationwide after a court ordered them
stopped in the state, said it will begin collecting across the
country and hold Mato Grosso payments in escrow.  “This action reinforces our confidence in our ongoing
legal position and highlights that the company’s first-
generation Roundup Ready soybean products are protected by
various intellectual property rights under Brazilian law,” Todd
Rands, Monsanto legal director for Latin America, said in the
statement.  Growers in Brazil say the patent on the original Roundup
Ready soybeans expired in 2010, ending their obligation to pay
Monsanto a technology fee on the seeds. Monsanto says that
Brazilian law extends the patent to 2014, when it expires in the
U.S. Monsanto is counting on growth in Latin America,
particularly Brazil, to meet its earnings forecast.  The outcome of the case won’t affect sales of Intacta
soybeans, a newly patented product engineered to produce
insecticide and tolerate Roundup herbicide, Monsanto said.
Farmers are currently testing Intacta beans before the start of
full commercial sales in a year.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Fantesca Winery Sues Mohawk’s Dal-Tile for Infringement  Fantesca Estate & Winery LLC , a winery in St. Helena,
California, owned by  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ’s former vice president of
strategy and business development, sued a Texas-based tile
manufacturer for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in Minnesota Dec. 3,
accused  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) ’s Dallas-based Dal-Tile unit of
infringing the winery’s “Fantesca” trademarks.  According to court papers, Duane Hoff’s winery started
using “Fantesca” in connection with its vineyard, winery and
wines in 2004 and has registered the mark with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office. The winery uses the mark in connection
with specific wine varietals, such as Fantesca Chardonnay. Hoff
left Best Buy in 2005 in order to concentrate on the winery,
 according to  the Fantesca website.  Dal-Tile began selling and promoting a line of wine-themed
tile products in 2011, the winery said in its pleadings. The
tiler manufacturer uses “Fantesca” to advertise these
products, and, just as the winery does, it uses the word in
connection with specific wine varieties.  The winery says Dal-Tile is using “Fantesca” without
permission, and continues to do so despite having been sent a
cease-and-desist notice. Customers are likely to assume falsely
that an affiliation exists between the winery and the tile
company, Fantesca said in court papers.  In addition to seeking a court order barring further
unauthorized use of its trademarks by Dal-Tile, Fantesca asked
the court for money damages and asked that they be tripled to
punish the tile company for its conduct. Additionally, it asked
for awards of attorney fees, litigation costs and profits Dal-
Tile realized from its alleged acts of infringement.  Dal-Tile didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the complaint.  The case is Fantesca Estate & Winery LLC v. Dal-Tile Corp.,
12-cv-03026, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Olenicoff Sued by Sculptor Over Copies of Large-Scale Works  Billionaire real estate developer  Igor Olenicoff  was sued
for copyright infringement by a California sculptor.  Donald Wakefield of Rancho Cucamonga, California, accused
Olenicoff and his Olen Properties Corp. of installing a copy of
his large-scale sculpture “Untitled” at an Olen Properties
site in Newport Beach, California.  He said in his complaint that the sculpture was such an
accurate copy of his work that he initially thought he was
looking at the original and that it had somehow been relocated
from Chicago to Newport Beach.  Wakefield said he later saw three more copies of his work
or sculptures that were derived from his work at other Olen
Properties sites in California, including Irvine, Brea and
Newport Beach. Additionally, he said, photos of one of the
infringing works appears on the Olen Properties website.  In June, Orange County Weekly  reported  that the sculptures
Wakefield said were copies had been made in China.  He claims to have suffered “great and irreparable injury”
and asked the court to bar additional use of the allegedly
infringing work. If the defendants don’t take a license to
Wakefield’s copyright, he called for the destruction of the
allegedly infringing works.  He also asked for money damages, and for profits the
defendants realized from their alleged infringement.  Olenicoff didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Wakefield v. Olenicoff, 12-cv-2077, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  Disney Denies Stan Lee’s Copyright Claims Made in Denver Court  Walt Disney Co. responded to a copyright-infringement
lawsuit by Stan Lee Media Inc. over the rights to Marvel Comics
characters.  Lee sued Disney in federal court in Denver Oct. 9, claiming
the company didn’t own the comic-book characters when it
acquired Marvel Entertainment in 2009.  In its Nov. 30 response, Disney said Lee’s suit was “a
wholly improperly attempt to revive a claim already rejected
three times.” The company said that Lee unsuccessfully sued
Marvel Entertainment and others asserting the rights to the
characters six times in two federal courts, with all cases
dismissed.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, said there is “no
conceivable basis” on which Lee can state a viable copyright
claim against Disney. Any ownership claims Lee had expired no
later than 2004, Disney argued in urging the court to dismiss
the complaint as time-barred.  The case is Stan Lee Media Inc. v.  Walt Disney Co., 12-
cv-2662, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Skadden Hires SanDisk’s Chief Legal Officer James Brelsford  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is hiring James F.
Brelsford for its intellectual-property practice group, the New
York-based firm said in a  statement .  Brelsford comes to Skadden from  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  of Milpitas,
California, where he served as chief legal officer and senior
vice president. There he was responsible for the company’s IP
licensing program and all the other legal affairs, including
litigation and intellectual property-related issues.  Before joining SanDisk in 2007, Brelsford was executive
vice president of corporate and business development for  San
Francisco ’s Hands-on Mobile Inc. Before that, he was in private
practice at Washington-based  Jones Day , Perkins Coie LLP of
Seattle, San Francisco’s Steinhart & Falconer LLP and Morrison &
Foerster LLP, also of San Francisco.  Brelsford has an undergraduate degree from the University
of Alaska at Anchorage and a law degree from the  University of
California  at Davis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  