-- Yuan Bond Yield Beating Australia Lures Schroders: China Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/yuan-bond-yield-beating-australia-lures-schroders-china-credit.html
The yield on China’s 10-year bonds is
higher than  Australia ’s for the first time in at least a decade,
a reversal that investors say will boost the  yuan  against the
South Pacific nation’s currency.  China’s benchmark notes yield 3.55 percent, 37 basis points
more than similar-maturity debt in Australia, compared with 71
basis points less in March. The average  discount  since Bloomberg
started compiling data on yuan notes in early 2003 is 155.
 Schroders Plc (SDR)  said it cut exposure to Australian dollars in
favor of China’s currency, while Commonwealth Bank of Australia
said the yuan is a good hedge against volatile global markets.  The yuan has climbed 18.7 percent against the dollar in the
past five years, just shy of the 21 percent gain in the
Australian dollar, supporting Premier Wen Jiabao’s bid to shift
the economy’s focus to domestic consumption from exports. The
Aussie rose 0.4 percent this quarter, lagging the yuan’s 1
percent advance, as the Reserve Bank of Australia cut  interest
rates  this week, for the sixth reduction in 14 months.  “Should the yield support become less favorable the
Australian dollar could see downward pressure,” Bob Jolly,
London-based head of global macro at Schroders, which oversees
$327 billion, said in a Dec. 3 interview. “Chinese authorities
are expected to gradually move the yuan higher as the economy
rotates toward domestic consumption over investment and exports.
This may also damp the demand for hard commodities, one of
Australia’s major exports.”  Rates Diverge  The People’s Bank of China has refrained from cutting its
benchmark 3 percent  deposit rate  since July as exports, factory
production and retail sales accelerated in October.  The RBA has conducted the most-aggressive monetary easing
in the developed world since November 2011 as the currency’s 63
percent advance in the past four years hurt exports,
manufacturers and tourism. Swap contracts show a 70 percent
chance policy makers will cut the overnight cash-rate target to
2.75 percent or less by March from 3 percent now.  China ’s bond risk has dropped relative to Australia’s to
the lowest in almost two years. The South Pacific nation has the
top Aaa rating from Moody’s Investors Service, while China is
ranked Aa3, the fourth-highest investment grade.  Bond Risk  Credit-default swaps protecting China’s sovereign debt
against non-payment for five years fell 88 basis points this
year to 59 yesterday, CMA prices show. The contracts were 15
basis points higher than those for Australia on Nov. 6, the
lowest level since December 2010.  Australia’s economy was bolstered as Chinese-led demand for
iron ore, coal and natural gas surged, in part because of
Beijing’s 4 trillion yuan ($643 billion) stimulus package during
the global financial crisis in 2008. China, which is now trying
to boost consumption while avoiding investment bubbles, cut this
year’s expansion target to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent goal
in place since 2005.  Exports of iron ore to China fell to a 19-month low in
September, helping drive Australia’s  unemployment rate  to a 2
1/2-year high of 5.4 percent in September and October. Prices of
 iron ore  dropped 16 percent this year.  “The yield advantage of the Australian dollar has subsided
enough for investors to think what are the opportunities
elsewhere,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender by market value. “We’re seeing overwhelming
demand for the Chinese yuan.”  Lower Volatility  The yuan’s low volatility also makes it a more attractive
currency to hedge against the risk the U.S. fiscal deficit may
trigger a recession, Ji said. The divided U.S. Congress has to
strike a deal before the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts are due to start in the first three
months of 2013.  One-month implied volatility for the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was at
1.53 percent yesterday, compared with Australia’s 6.1 percent.  “The yuan is pretty good in terms of hedging against this
so-called fiscal cliff because the currency is more or less
pegged to the U.S. dollar but still has a sort of appreciation
pace,” Ji said. “The Aussie is a free-floating currency.”  Dim Sum Bonds  While Australia provides a wider range of top-rated assets,
Hong Kong’s Dim Sum bond market is increasingly offering
attractive yields as long as buyers are selective, said Adam K. Tejpaul, managing director for the investment business of JP
Morgan Chase & Co.’s private bank unit in Asia. The average
yield on yuan denominated debt in Hong Kong has climbed to 4.76
percent from 2.03 percent at the start of 2011, according to a
Bank of China Ltd.  index .  “As clients move away from dollars in Asia the Aussie and
the offshore yuan are two of the most-favored,” Tejpaul said.
“In our cash holdings, these two currencies are now about
equal.”  China’s much-larger  economy  growing at a moderately slower
pace is still a very powerful growth driver for Australia, which
should help make its currency resilient, Rob Subarraman, the
Hong Kong-based chief economist and head of fixed-income
research for Asia ex-Japan at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an
interview in  Singapore  on Dec. 4.  Fortunes Tied  “So long as China does not have this hard landing,
Australia is going to hold up,” he said. “Australia has good
fundamentals. The debt has attracted a lot of sovereign wealth,
central bank flows, which are a stable source of financing.”  Australia’s economic growth cooled to 3.1 percent last
quarter from a year earlier after a revised 3.8 percent
expansion in the April-June period, official data showed
yesterday. China grew 7.4 percent in the three months to
September, slowing for the seventh consecutive quarter.  The South Pacific nation’s domestic product growth will
slacken to 2.8 percent in 2013 from 3.5 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 31 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. China’s will accelerate to 8.1 percent from 7.7 percent,
a separate survey shows.  “As China shifts from exports and investment to
consumption, Australia will become less of a beneficiary from
the rise of China in the next 10 years than in the last 10
years,” Stephen Jen, the managing partner at hedge fund SLJ
Macro Partners LLP in  London , said in an interview on Dec. 3.
“The yuan is close to its fair value, but not likely to be
considered overvalued by Beijing, while the Australian dollar is
considered overvalued by the RBA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  