-- Zogenix Drug May Be Abused at Higher Rate, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-05T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-05/zogenix-drug-may-be-abused-at-higher-rate-fda-staff-says.html
Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) ’s pure hydrocodone
painkiller Zohydro may be abused at a greater rate if approved
than combination products on the market, U.S. regulators said.  Food and Drug Administration staff asked outside advisers
in a  report  today to weigh the effectiveness of the extended-
release pill against its risk of abuse. The advisers will meet
Dec. 7 to decide whether to recommend the medicine’s approval.  Zogenix, whose $38 million in revenue last year came from
migraine injection Sumavel, may get more than $200 million in
sales from Zohydro, Annabel Samimy, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
analyst in New York, said in a note to clients last month.
Zogenix, based in  San Diego , touts Zohydro as the only pure
alternative to hydrocodone-combination painkillers, such as the
acetaminophen-mixed Vicodin, which carry a risk of liver injury.  “It is expected that Zohydro ER (if approved and marketed)
will be associated with higher levels of abuse than the
hydrocodone combination products,” the FDA staff said in the
report.  Zogenix fell 5.1 percent to $2.40 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 8.1 percent this year.  Oxycodone Comparison  The staff estimated the difference in emergency room visits
between Zohydro and the current drugs would be similar to that
of pure oxycodone and combination-oxycodone products. Pure
oxycodone resulted in 85 emergency room visits per million
tablets dispensed, more than three times as many as the 24
visits per million combo tablets. There were 14 visits per
million hydrocodone-combo tablets dispensed.  The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to clear the
painkiller by March 1 and doesn’t have to follow the panel’s
recommendations.  Because of the extended release of the active ingredient,
Zohydro would be used twice daily instead of every four to six
hours like the combination drugs. Consumers might have easier
access to the combined medicines because those have fewer
regulations than pure hydrocodone.  Prescription pain relievers are the second-most abused drug
in the U.S. after marijuana, with hydrocodone-related emergency
room visits more than doubling from 2004 to 2010, according to
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
About 47 million patients received dispensed prescriptions for
combination hydrocodone-containing prescriptions last year,
according to the FDA report.  Not Tamper-Resistant  Zogenix didn’t create a tamper-resistant formulation for
Zohydro to prevent users from crushing the narcotics and
amplifying the effects.  Zogenix submitted a risk mitigation strategy that mirrors a
template the FDA released in July for all extended-release
opioid products, Roger Hawley, chief executive officer of
Zogenix, said in a Nov. 8 earnings call with analysts. The
strategy requires makers of such drugs to educate prescribers
and patients on safe use of painkillers and make training
available for physicians on proper prescribing practices.  Zohydro uses  Alkermes Plc (ALKS) ’s drug delivery technology to
provide extended release of the painkiller. Zogenix and
Alkermes, based in Athlone, Ireland, agreed on Nov. 2 that
Alkermes would be the exclusive manufacturer and supplier to
Zogenix of Zohydro.  Zogenix said it expects the Drug Enforcement Administration
to classify Zohydro, if approved, as a Schedule II product, a
category that comes with stricter controls on sales that
requires more doctor interaction with patients than Schedule
III, which combination drugs fall under. The DEA has asked the
FDA to review rescheduling the combo treatments to require
tighter oversight.  Zogenix is looking at bringing on a partner or expanding
its internal sales force to about 150 representatives if Zohydro
wins approval, Hawley said on the  earnings call . The company
plans to begin sales of the painkiller in June if approved, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  