-- 
`Made in China’ Tag Makes Hypocrites of Us All: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-10-11T16:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/-made-in-china-tag-makes-us-all-hypocrites-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Hypocrisy is the defining element in
all the wrangling over  China ’s currency.  The debate seems deceptively simple: As China booms and
America implodes, how much blame does Beijing’s undervalued
currency get for chronic U.S. unemployment? China says none --
it’s a developing nation and needs to create the hundreds of
millions of jobs to keep the peace and satisfy its citizens. A
vocal chorus in  Washington  says China’s trade advantage hogs all
the growth.  The trouble with these disparate views is that they are
both partly correct. The yuan does hinder growth, as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  points out. It’s “blocking what
might be a more normal recovery process in the global economy,”
he said last week. Meanwhile, the risks of social upheaval in
China are rising. Subsidizing exports is an obvious way to avoid
it.  The real question is: What can Americans do? Three things:
Blame the Jon Huntsmans in their midst, focus on trade access
and rediscover their entrepreneurial soul.  The doublespeak from Corporate America is breathtaking, and
few personify it better than Huntsman, the Republican
presidential candidate. As Huntsman pledges to create millions
of American jobs and touts his business acumen as proof he’ll
deliver, the namesake  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , a chemical maker,
downplays the central role that cheap Chinese labor played in
building a fortune partly “Made in China.” After the U.S.,
China is Huntsman’s biggest market.  Naming and Shaming  Sure, Congress can slap tariffs on Chinese goods. More
success may come from naming and shaming the politicians,
business leaders and companies making piles of money by moving
jobs to China and, out of the other side of their mouths,
demanding lower taxes and denouncing President  Barack Obama  as
an economic simpleton. The U.S. long championed the
globalization model that it now blames for its woes.  Hypocrisy is also at play in how Bernanke and his Chinese
counterparts are embroiled in a race to the bottom.  “It’s pretty evident that a weaker dollar is part of U.S.
policy, so they are hardly in a position to throw the first
stone,” says Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment strategy for
 South Asia  at LGT Group in  Singapore . “Even though China
overtly manages its currency, a stronger yuan isn’t going to
bring back the jobs American companies willingly exported.”  Perhaps the real indignity for Washington is that, as it
ponders a trade war with its biggest creditor, China is winning
the currency war. Lawmakers facing re-election next year will
find China a convenient scapegoat for bad economic data. For all
its growth, China’s model isn’t benefiting the world as some had
anticipated.  Market Access  Market access, not exchange rates, is the critical issue.
If the yuan jumped 30 percent tomorrow, Germans would sell more
cars, French more wine and cheese, Italians more shoes and
handbags, Australians and Canadians more raw materials. The U.S.
would sell China more soy, corn, cotton and apples. What kind of
wealth does this trade create as companies move jobs to China?  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  would love to sell more iPads and iPhones in
China. But then, much of the content in these products is made
by low-wage workers there who can’t afford the finished goods.
And Americans would lose it if the cheap wares they gorge on
suddenly shot higher in price. Corporate America will just shift
jobs to India and  Vietnam  if costs in China go up.  Here, it’s worth noting a recent  report  from the San
Francisco Federal Reserve Bank. Economists Galina Hale and Bart Hobijn argue that “Made in China” isn’t taking over U.S.
consumption as much as believed. Of every dollar U.S. consumers
spend on a Chinese-made product, about 55 cents pays for
services in the U.S. Think about it, when you spend $90 for a
pair of Nike sneakers, only a fraction of it flows to China and
even less to workers there.  Valid Concerns  The real issue is U.S. companies creating jobs at home and
gaining access to Chinese markets. It’s challenging for U.S.
corporations to compete in China, bid for contracts and protect
intellectual property. China lavishes advantages and subsidies
on national champions and limits access of foreign financial
firms. Corruption complicates business.  Valid concerns all around and none of them hinge on the
dollar-yuan rate. If the U.S. could compete on even terms, there
would be ample money to be made in China and jobs would be
created back home. Sadly, Congress is more obsessed with
exchange rates than trade talks that might actually boost job
growth.  China’s ascent should spur and motivate the West. Earlier
this year, Obama called China’s rise another “Sputnik moment,”
recalling how the  Soviet Union ’s 1957 space launch unnerved
America. The U.S. needs to relocate the entrepreneurial passion
that made it the biggest economy and created some of the best
companies.  The extraordinary reaction to the death of Apple’s  Steve Jobs  reminds us how America loves its innovators. China’s
growing influence should be a call to arms to do what the U.S.
has typically done best. Rather than being inspired to think big
or forced to reconsider their unreflective policy stands, many
U.S. lawmakers are pointing fingers eastward.  It’s hypocritical to blame China for what ails America’s
economy. If you think currency rates alone are going to restore
U.S. prosperity, think again.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 