-- 
50 Brazil Sugar Mills May Halt Crush This Month, Newedge Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-11T16:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/50-brazil-sugar-mills-may-halt-crush-this-month-newedge-says.html
As many as 50 sugar mills in top
global producer  Brazil  will stop processing cane sooner than
usual, shutting down before the second half of this month,
according to Newedge Group.  Rains in the country this week may spur producers to opt
against restarting so-called crushing because of elevated costs,
Juliano Ferreira, a researcher at ICAP do Brasil CTVM, said
yesterday. Rain leaves millers unable to process sugar cane.  “There has been rain and there are at least 50 mills, or
17 percent, shutting down before the second half of October,”
 Michael McDougall , senior vice president of commodities at
Newedge in New York, wrote in a report e-mailed today. “We
think there will be much more than the 50.”  Sugar mills in Sao Paulo state, which accounts for more
than half of the nation’s cane output, started shutting for the
season in late September, the earliest in 12 years.  Mills began closing down about 30 to 40 days sooner than
expected as domestic output falls for the first time in six
years, Celso Junqueira Franco, president of the Union of Biofuel
Producers, known as Udop, said in interview yesterday. Ethanol
and sugar are both produced from cane in Brazil.  Local cane crushing probably will end by the middle of
November, according to German researcher F.O. Licht. Brazil’s
crop is usually harvested from mid-March to December.  Industry group Unica may release cane-crushing data for the
second half of September at 1 p.m.  New York  time today. The
figures are likely to be bullish, reflecting recent rains and
lower yield and sugar content, Nick Penney, a senior trader at
Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , wrote in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  