-- 
99 Cents Agrees to $1.6 Billion Ares, Canada Pension Buyout

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-10-11T20:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/99-cents-agrees-to-1-6-billion-takeover-by-ares-canada-pension.html
99 Cents Only Stores (NDN) , the operator
of 289 U.S. discount shops, agreed to be acquired by Ares
Management LLC and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for
about $1.6 billion in cash, concluding a six-month effort to
find a buyer.  Members of the founding Gold/Schiffer family support the
$22-a-share offer and will continue to hold a minority stake in
the company, City of Commerce, California-based 99 Cents Only
said today in a statement.  99 Cents Only had considered a buyout and other options
since April, a month after Leonard Green & Partners LP and the
founding family offered to take it private for about $1.34
billion. Dollar stores have become takeover targets as they lure
consumers who prefer quicker trips and smaller shops than Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. locations when buying items such as toothpaste
and packaged foods.  The “acquisition price fairly values 99 Cents Only,” said
Patrick McKeever, an analyst at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . He downgraded the shares to “neutral” from
“buy.”  A higher offer isn’t likely from  Leonard Green  or other
bidders since the Gold/Schiffer family owns about a third of the
outstanding shares, McKeever wrote in a note to clients today.  No Debt  Michael Gennaro, chief operating officer of Los Angeles-
based Leonard Green, didn’t immediately reply to telephone
messages.  99 Cents Only, led by Chief Executive Officer Eric Schiffer, said it had $221.8 million in cash and marketable
securities and no debt at the end of its fiscal first quarter.
Sales in the period advanced 6.3 percent to $368.3 million.  99 Cents Only rose 4.4 percent to $21.39 at the close in
 New York . The shares have climbed 28 percent since March 10, the
day before the company disclosed the offer from Leonard Green.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  last month named Edward P. Garden, chief investment officer of Nelson Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP, to its board after Trian withdrew a $7.7 billion
takeover offer for the second-largest U.S. dollar store chain.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  served as financial adviser to the special
committee of 99 Cents Only’s board that evaluated strategic
options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  