-- 
Madoff Trustee $267 Million Suit Taken Over by Judge at ABN Amro’s Request

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-11T17:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/abn-amro-wins-review-of-267-million-madoff-trustee-suit-1-.html
ABN Amro  Bank NV, the bank run by a
Dutch government agency, persuaded a U.S. district judge to take
over a $267 million lawsuit brought by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , sued ABN Amro’s Irish
affiliates in bankruptcy court, demanding the return of funds
they allegedly got from swap transactions with Rye Select Broad
Market XL Portfolio Ltd. Picard, who wants $400 million from
Rye, said it made leveraged investments with Madoff. U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff said the case resembled others he’s
now considering, according to a court filing today.  More than 60 related lawsuits await Rakoff’s attention,
court documents show. Those and others may be affected by his
rulings on whether Picard can recoup funds protected by so-
called safe-harbor law that governs securities transactions, or
take back money paid by the Madoff brokerage to its customers.  A recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith
case “precludes a  bankruptcy court  from exercising jurisdiction
over the causes of action here,” Amsterdam-based ABN Amro said
in a Sept. 30 filing as it asked Rakoff to take its case.  ABN Amro said it plans to rely on the safe harbor in
defending itself against Picard’s suits. The bank also said it
will argue that money it took out of the Madoff firm was payment
for a debt owed by the Madoff brokerage, and that Picard erred
in expecting the bank to have detected the fraud.  Cayman Islands   Picard also may have gone too far by applying U.S. law to
ABN Amro and Cayman Islands-based Rye, the Dutch bank said.  Rakoff cut Picard’s $1 billion suit against the owners of
the  New York  Mets baseball team by two thirds last month, saying
the trustee could try to reclaim only two years of withdrawals
from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Since then, Rye and Safra National
Bank of New York have cited the Mets ruling in their requests to
Rakoff to rule on their cases.  Picard has asked Rakoff to let him the appeal the Mets
ruling to the federal circuit court in New York, saying it would
cost him about $6.2 billion in so-called clawbacks of two kinds.  Picard said in July that he had raised more than
$8.6 billion for Madoff investors who lost money, or almost half
of the $17.3 billion in principal lost by Madoff customers who
filed claims. That includes more than $5 billion tied up in
court challenges.  The case is Picard v. ABN Amro Bank (Ireland), 11-cv-06877,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  