-- 
Underwear Bomber Abdulmutallab Pleads Guilty, Ending Trial

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 
2011-10-12T21:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/accused-underwear-bomber-takes-case-to-jury-as-detroit-terror-trial-begins.html
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab pleaded
guilty to all eight charges in the attempted bombing of a
Northwest Airlines plane on Christmas Day 2009, in a change of
plea announced today as his trial was to start its second day.  U.S. District Judge Nancy Edmunds in  Detroit  immediately
swore in the Nigerian-born Abdulmutallab, telling the so-called
underwear bomber he had the right to remain silent. He waived
the right and admitted the charges against him.  The surprise announcement by Abdulmutallab and attorney
Anthony Chambers, so-called standby counsel appointed to assist
him, came as the day’s first witness was about to be called.
Abdulmutallab is representing himself. Chambers and U.S.
Attorney Barbara L. McQuade said Abdulmutallab will spend the
rest of his life in prison.  In a statement to the court, Abdulmutallab said he tried to
bomb the plane as an act of retaliation against the U.S. for the
“killing of my brothers and sisters in Muslim lands.”  “I intentionally carried an explosive device” onto the
plane, he said. The device was concealed in his underwear. He
was subdued by passengers after failing to set it off.  Asked if he was aware that his actions were against the
law, he replied, “Yes, U.S. law.” He called American law
unjust and oppressive according to the Koran.  ‘Appropriate Tool’  Edmunds accepted his guilty pleas to all eight felony
counts and set sentencing for Jan. 12. The charges include
attempted murder and attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction. Abdulmutallab has been in custody since his arrest.  “This case demonstrates that civilian courts are an
appropriate tool for bringing terrorists to justice,” McQuade
said in a statement released after the plea.  Abdulmutallab had been considering pleading guilty “for
quite some time,” Chambers said in an interview today. He
decided to enter the plea after the trial began because “he has
a better understanding of U.S. law,” Chambers said. “He didn’t
want to go through with a trial anymore.”  Abdulmutallab was accused of trying to detonate explosives
in his underwear as Northwest Airlines Flight 253, with 279
passengers and 11 crew members, approached Detroit on Dec. 25,
2009. He set fire to his clothing and a wall before passengers
subdued him, prosecutors said.  The flight from the Netherlands was carrying children,
military personnel and other passengers, many coming to the U.S.
for the holidays, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Tukel told
the jury in his opening statement yesterday.  Sole Reason  “All the passengers had plans to be there, except for
one,” Tukel said, referring to the defendant. “His mission,
his goal, his sole reason for being on Flight 253 was to blow it
up, to kill all the other passengers.”  Abdulmutallab “thought he would end up in heaven as a
martyr,” Tukel said.  Prosecutors said Abdulmutallab, a native of  Nigeria ,
traveled to Yemen to become involved in a violent jihad on
behalf of al-Qaeda and practiced detonating explosives before
the failed attack.  Tukel said today he was “very surprised” by the quick
guilty plea. A jury decision would have resulted in the same
outcome, conviction on all counts, Tukel said at the press
conference in the U.S. attorney’s office in Detroit.  Streamline Criteria  The attempted bombing set off heightened security measures
at U.S. airports. In January 2010 President  Barack Obama  ordered
U.S. agencies to set clearer lines of responsibility for
pursuing terrorism threats and to streamline criteria for adding
names to government watch lists.  Abdulmutallab was on the government’s Terrorist Identities
Datamart Environment list, which names about 550,000 individuals
with possible terrorist links. He hadn’t been moved from this
database to narrower terrorism watch lists including a
“selectee” list of about 14,000 names that triggers
additional screening at airports or to the “No Fly” list of
about 4,000 names, U.S. officials said last year.  Government officials say the attack on the Northwest flight
was masterminded by Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born Islamic cleric
who was killed last month in an American missile attack in
Yemen.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  