-- 
Air Canada Attendants May Strike Without Quick Intervention by Government

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-11T20:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/air-canada-flight-attendants-face-labor-minister-signaling-ban-on-strike.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  flight attendants may be
able to begin a strike before the government can intervene
because Parliament is on a scheduled break until next week.  While Labor Minister Lisa Raitt signaled yesterday that her
office would attempt to avert any work stoppage, Parliament
isn’t scheduled to return until Oct. 17. Its members would have
to approve any legislation on the strike, which the union says
may legally begin on Oct. 13.  “The timetable for debate is at the will of Parliament,”
Jana Regimbal, special assistant to Raitt, said in an interview
today.  Raitt said last month that she planned to introduce back-
to-work legislation as attendants at the Montreal-based airline
came within hours of a strike. The government advanced such a
measure in June just as striking Air Canada service workers
agreed to return to work.  Leaders of the Air Canada Component of the  Canadian Union
of Public Employees  announced plans to strike yesterday after 65
percent of members turned down a second contract agreement with
the airline. That accord came Sept. 20 following last-minute
negotiations to avert a walkout by 6,800 attendants.  The workers will be able to strike legally from 12:01 a.m.
on Oct. 13, according to a statement on the union’s website.
Jeff Taylor, president of the Air Canada unit at CUPE, urged the
government “in the strongest possible terms” not to intervene
in the labor dispute.  Rebooking Rules  Travelers are being allowed to change flight dates over the
next six days, Air Canada said on its website. The airline said
it will implement a partial schedule, including flights by
regional partner carriers such as Jazz Air and Sky Regional
Airlines, if attendants walk out.  “We remain hopeful that a disruption will be avoided but
we continue to make the necessary preparations to minimize any
inconvenience to our customers,” Isabelle Arthur, an airline
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Air Canada said normal operations will continue in the
interim.  “We don’t see any spike in announced cancellations yet,”
Mark Duell, vice president of operations for data tracker
 FlightAware.com , said yesterday. Air Canada usually operates
roughly 95 percent of its typical weekday schedule of about 650
trips, Duell said.  About 185 of the weekday flights cross the U.S.-Canadian
border, Duell said. Toronto’s Pearson International is the
carrier’s busiest airport, with 201 daily departures, according
to FlightAware.  Air Canada Shares  Air Canada fell 2.1 percent to C$1.38 in Toronto. The
shares have tumbled 60 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent slide in the benchmark S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index.  The airline posted losses in 2008 and 2009, then reported
profit of C$107 million in 2010. Air Canada may have a net loss
of C$23.6 million this year, the median of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The flight attendants’ latest contract rejection was
narrower than in August, when 88 percent of those voting
defeated the initial tentative agreement. CUPE said in the
statement that members are frustrated with Air Canada “after
years and years of concessions.”  CUPE declined to divulge the contract terms. Arthur said in
an e-mail that the proposed contract would have provided
“industry-leading compensation and benefits.”  “We are very disappointed with the result,” Raitt’s
office said in the statement after the latest union balloting.
“There have been two full rounds of collective bargaining
resulting in tentative agreements recommended by the bargaining
committee. In each case the membership has rejected the
recommendation of their team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  