-- 
Air Canada Flight Attendants’ Strike Plans Blocked by Labor Board Review

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-12T22:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/air-canada-strike-will-be-blocked-by-government-raitt-says-1-.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  flight attendants were
barred from striking tonight after the government sent their
contract dispute with the nation’s biggest carrier to a federal
labor tribunal.  Canadian law suspends the right to strike while health and
safety aspects of a proposed job action are under review by
regulators, the Industrial Relations Board said today in a
statement. Air Canada had no immediate comment, said a
spokeswoman, Isabelle Arthur.  The federal panel received two referrals from Labor
Minister Lisa Raitt seeking an examination of a walkout on
public health and safety grounds and on whether the attendants
union had created unfavorable settlement conditions by rejecting
two contract offers.  “The minister’s intervention with the Labor Board, as it
stands, postpones the calling of a strike until the question of
essential services has been ruled on,” the Air Canada Component
of the Canadian Union of Public Employees said in a statement.  Raitt sent the matter to the labor tribunal after promising
earlier this week to ask the House of Commons for back-to-work
legislation to bar a walkout. Lawmakers aren’t scheduled to
return until Oct. 17, and attendants had planned to strike at
12:01 a.m. tomorrow.  ‘On Hold’  Referring the case to the Industrial Relations Board “puts
it on hold until Parliament is back, and then in a normal course
of events they can have back-to-work legislation,” said Karl Moore, a professor of business at  McGill University  in Montreal
who specializes in the  airline industry .  Union leaders could have faced fines and legal
ramifications if they had ignored the board’s mandate, according
to employment lawyer Davies Bagambiire, of  Davies Bagambiire &
Associates  in Toronto.  “The order could be converted into a court order for
enforcement and there could be financial penalties,” Bagambiire
said in a telephone interview. “The first stage would be down
the road to have the leadership heavily penalized financially
for disobeying an otherwise lawful order.”  All Air Canada flights are continuing to operate as
scheduled, the carrier said in a statement on its website.  Air Canada rose less than 1 percent to C$1.39 in Toronto.
The shares have tumbled 60 percent this year, compared with a 11
percent slide in the benchmark S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index.  Attendants turned down two previous tentative contracts
agreed to in bargaining between union leaders and Air Canada.  Raitt had also threatened back-to-work legislation when
attendants came within hours of a strike in September, and the
government advanced such a measure in June just as Air Canada
service workers agreed to return to the job after a walkout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  