-- 
Air Canada Attendants Face Minister Signaling Ban on Strike

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-11T15:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/air-canada-attendants-face-minister-signaling-ban-on-strike.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  flight attendants are
heading for a showdown with the government as Labor Minister
Lisa Raitt signaled she would move to block a strike threatened
for Oct. 13 at the nation’s largest carrier.  “The government will be considering its options,” Labor
Minister Lisa Raitt’s office said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, without elaborating. “However, we will be clear that
a work stoppage is unacceptable in this time of fragile
economy.”  Raitt said last month that she planned to introduce back-
to-work legislation as attendants at the Montreal-based airline
came within hours of a strike. The government advanced such a
measure in June just as striking Air Canada service workers
agreed to return to work.  Leaders of the Air  Canada  Component of the  Canadian Union
of Public Employees  announced plans to strike yesterday after 65
percent of members turned down a second contract agreement with
the airline. That accord came Sept. 20 following last-minute
negotiations to avert a walkout by 6,800 attendants.  Attendants will be able to strike legally from 12:01 a.m.
on Oct. 13, according to a statement on the union’s website.
Jeff Taylor, president of the Air Canada unit at CUPE, urged the
government “in the strongest possible terms” not to intervene
in the labor dispute.  Rebooking Rules  Travelers are being allowed to change flight dates over the
next six days, Air Canada said on its website. The  airline said
it will implement a partial schedule, including flights by
regional partner carriers such as Jazz Air and Sky Regional
Airlines, if attendants walk out.  Normal operations will continue in the interim, Air Canada
said.  “We don’t see any spike in announced cancellations yet,”
Mark Duell, vice president of operations for data tracker
 FlightAware.com , said yesterday. Air Canada usually operates
roughly 95 percent of its typical weekday schedule of about 650
trips, Duell said.  About 185 of the weekday flights cross the U.S.-Canadian
border, Duell said. Toronto’s Pearson International is the
carrier’s busiest airport, with 201 daily departures, according
to FlightAware. New York LaGuardia has the most flights in the
U.S., with 18.  Air Canada fell 1.4 percent to C$1.39 at 10:58 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares tumbled 59 percent this year before today,
compared with a 14 percent slide in the benchmark S&P/Toronto
Stock Exchange Composite Index. Yesterday was a holiday in
Canada.  Losses, Profit  The airline posted losses in 2008 and 2009, then reported
profit of C$107 million in 2010. Air Canada probably will have a
net loss of C$23.6 million this year, the median of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Flight attendants’ latest rejection was a narrower result
than the 88 percent of those voting against the initial
tentative contract in August. CUPE said in the statement that
members are frustrated with Air Canada “after years and years
of concessions.”  CUPE declined to divulge the contract terms. An airline
spokeswoman, Isabelle Arthur, said in an e-mail that the
proposed contract would have provided “industry-leading
compensation and benefits.”  “We are very disappointed with the result,” Raitt’s
office said in the statement after the latest union balloting.
“There have been two full rounds of collective bargaining
resulting in tentative agreements recommended by the bargaining
committee. In each case the membership has rejected the
recommendation of their team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  