-- 
Helping Egypt’s `Caretaker’ Generals Care for Democracy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-11T00:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/making-sure-that-egypt-caretaker-generals-will-care-for-democracy-view.html
It’s probably not fair to hold a
revolution to a strict schedule, but recent actions by  Egypt ’s
military leaders to slow down the transition to democracy are
worrisome nonetheless.  Last week, the Supreme Council of the Egyptian Armed Forces
said it planned to relinquish control to an elected president
not next April, as expected, but probably in early 2013. In
addition, several reversals of important freedoms have
reinforced doubts about the caretaker regime.  On Sunday, those misgivings fueled the worst outbreak of
violence in Egypt since February as  Christians  demonstrated in
Cairo against an attack on a church, kicking off protests
against the military council by Christians and Muslims alike.
Two dozen people were killed in clashes with security forces.  While current signs are discomfiting, it’s too early to
dismiss the military leaders as irredeemable. The generals have
demonstrated they are susceptible to suasion from Egypt’s
political parties. The U.S., with its enormous financial
leverage, can also push for a more transparent transition
process and an end to the repressive measures the Supreme
Council has adopted.  Since the fall of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February, some
50 political parties have formed across the ideological
spectrum. These largely untested groups are scheduled to face
off in November, in the first of three rounds of parliamentary
elections ending next March.  The ruling generals,  unfortunately , have made the
competition less than straightforward. Notably, they have
decreed that a third of the members of parliament will be
elected as independents, rather than through party lists,
wherein parties gain seats proportionate to the total number of
votes they win. Holding those seats for individuals is
considered by many Egyptians as a means of ensuring a prominent
role for remnants of Mubarak’s now-disbanded  National Democratic
Party .  It could have been worse. Originally, the council wanted
half of parliament elected as independents. But with a threat to
boycott elections, a group of political parties persuaded the
generals to dilute the measure. The politicians also got the
generals to relent on a plan to wait until two months after the
elections to seat parliament.  The political parties have not, however, succeeded in
speeding up the Supreme Council’s timeline for leaving office.
According to the new plan, the parliament has six months to
elect a 100-member Constitutional Assembly, which then has six
months to draft a new constitution. Only after the document is
approved or rejected in a national referendum will presidential
elections be held.  The political parties will probably continue to press for
April presidential polls instead. Their urgency, as competitors,
is understandable. In the grand scheme of things, though, it’s
more important how Egypt is ruled in this transition period than
who, exactly, sits in the president’s office through 2012.
Accordingly, whether the U.S. supports moving up the
presidential elections should depend in large part on the
Supreme Council’s response to complaints about its turn toward
authoritarianism.  The regime has imposed two dreaded Mubarak-era measures: It
has brought back an emergency law, which gives authorities
arbitrary powers over citizens, and it has embraced the practice
of trying civilians in military courts. It also refuses to allow
international observers or monitors to witness the elections.
And it has  declared  dozens of political and human-rights
organizations illegal, threatening to charge some with treason
for working on behalf of “foreign agendas” because they receive
financing from abroad. This is a preposterous accusation given
that Egypt’s military receives more than $1.3 billion annually
in U.S. aid.  The political parties have asked the Supreme Council to
reverse these oppressive moves; U.S. officials should second the
motion.  It would also be a good time for Egypt’s Western allies to
stress to the council that it is in the military’s self-interest
to put Egypt on a reliable course. Foreign investment has
shriveled by more than 90 percent. The Supreme Council has
burned through a third of the country’s foreign-currency
reserves. Though some $17.5 billion has been pledged in aid,
little of it has been dispersed. With roughly a third of the
economy under its control, the military has an enormous stake in
restoring the confidence of investors and donors.  A public reminder from the Obama administration about which
direction democracy needs to move in Egypt would be beneficial
as well. Egyptians -- and their generals -- need to know that
even when  Tahrir Square  is empty, the world has an eye on their
country.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 