-- 
Alabama Opposes U.S. Bid to Bar Immigration Law Enforcement During Appeal

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T22:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/alabama-opposes-u-s-bid-to-bar-immigration-law-enforcement-during-appeal.html
A new  Alabama  law allowing police to
question the immigration status of people stopped for reasons
such as suspicious behavior shouldn’t be blocked pending appeal,
state Attorney General Luther Strange told a U.S. appeals court.  The U.S. and civil rights groups are unlikely to win
appeals of Birmingham Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn’s rulings
last month upholding most of the act cracking down on illegal
immigrants, Strange said in court papers. The government and the
groups are seeking to keep the law from taking effect until the
appeal is settled.  “This court should deny plaintiffs’ motions and decide
these issues only after full briefing,” Strange said.
“Plaintiffs have not shown that there will be such irreparable
harm while this appeal is pending to justify giving short shrift
to issues of this importance and complexity.”  Blackburn on Sept. 28 rejected challenges to the police
provision as well as other sections of the Beason-Hammon Alabama
Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act. She turned down requests to
delay implementation of the statute during the appeal process.  First-term Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, signed
the legislation on June 9. The federal government’s failure to
enforce its own immigration laws made the measure necessary, he
has said.  Sole Authority  The federal government maintains it alone has authority to
set immigration policy. The rights groups contend the new laws
are unconstitutional.  The legislation requires schools to collect data on the
enrollment of children of unlawful residents, criminalizes the
failure of those unlawfully in the U.S. to complete or carry
alien registration documents, and makes it a felony for those
illegally present to do business with the state or any of its
political subdivisions.  The judge ruled in the federal government’s case, a
parallel suit brought by the  American Civil Liberties Union  and
Southern Poverty Law Center, and another lawsuit by church
leaders.  The civil rights groups also asked the appellate panel for
an order preventing the state from enforcing those parts of the
law being fought on appeal.  Blackburn barred the enforcement of parts of the act which
made it illegal for unregistered aliens to apply for jobs or
work in the state, as well as a provision making it a crime to
transport or harbor them, which the church leaders had opposed.  Alabama is appealing rulings it lost.  Unlawfully Detained  Blackburn, in an Aug. 24 hearing, repeatedly questioned
lawyers about whether the police-stop provision could result in
people being unlawfully detained.  “There are a lot of problems with this statute,”
Blackburn said at the time. “My job is to decide if this is
constitutional.”  She was appointed to the federal bench by President  George H.W. Bush  in 1991.  The judge said in a decision on Sept. 28 states are
authorized to help enforce federal immigration law and that the
Alabama statute “reflects an intent to cooperate.”  Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller, in an unrelated ACLU
lawsuit challenging his state’s new immigration law, said he’s
asking an Indianapolis federal judge to add the U.S. as a party
needed to resolve the dispute.  Federal Guidance  “This case is about what authority the states have in the
absence of federal guidance in immigration policy and
enforcement,” Zoeller said today in a press statement. “The
 Department of Justice  should represent the federal government
and not leave it to others.”  Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
the department is reviewing  Indiana ’s motion.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  The Indiana case is Buquer v. City of Indianapolis,
11cv708, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 