-- 
Alcoa Profit Trails Estimates as Europe Trims Aluminum Orders

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-10-12T21:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/alcoa-s-profit-misses-estimates-as-aluminum-maker-s-production-costs-climb.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first company in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report earnings this quarter,
posted profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, saying European
customers “dramatically” cut orders on economic uncertainty.  The largest U.S. aluminum producer’s third-quarter
earnings, excluding restructuring costs and tax benefits, were
about 14 cents a share. The average of 15 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was for 22 cents. Chief Executive Officer
 Klaus Kleinfeld  said yesterday European aluminum demand will
decline 13 percent in the second half from the first.  Alcoa is grappling with rising production costs while the
price of aluminum on the London Metal Exchange has fallen in the
past two months. The company cut thousands of jobs and closed
smelters after commodities plunged during the financial crisis
in 2008. The New York-based company yesterday declined to
forecast its fourth-quarter alumina and primary aluminum output.  “They are going through and trying to decide: Do they need
to cut production somewhere and if so, when?” Lloyd O’Carroll,
a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co., said in
an interview. “If the LME pulls back enough, they will. I don’t
know what their magic trigger number is, but I think there is
one.” O’Carroll has a “buy” recommendation on Alcoa.  Net income rose to $172 million, or 15 cents a share, from
$61 million, or 6 cents, a year earlier, Alcoa said. Sales
increased 21 percent to $6.4 billion, beating the $6.23 average
of nine analyst estimates.  Shares Drop  Alcoa dropped 2.4 percent to $10.05 in  New York . The
company fell 35 percent this year before today, the third-worst
performer on the Dow after Bank of America Corp. and Hewlett-
Packard Co.  “Fearful of a slowing economy, our European customers
reduced their orders dramatically, even into September,” Chief
Financial Officer Charles McLane said on an earnings conference
call. That drove “a significant reduction” in profitability at
the flat- and rolled-aluminum division, he said.  The three biggest euro-region economies will shrink 0.4
percent this quarter, the OECD said Sept. 8. European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials are negotiating a 110
billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout. Alcoa received at least 24
percent of its 2010 revenue from European countries, according
to company filings.  Rising Costs  The cost of goods sold -- excluding selling, general
administrative and some other expenses -- increased 20 percent
to $6.42 billion in the quarter, Alcoa said.  Primary aluminum production rose 8.2 percent to 964,000
metric tons while output of alumina, the raw material used to
make the metal, gained 2.3 percent to 4.14 million tons. McLane
said Alcoa is still evaluating fourth-quarter aluminum and
alumina output ‘based on market conditions.’’  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 0.8 percent to $2,248 a ton as of 6:59 p.m. local
time. It has declined 9 percent this year.  Improved productivity boosted earnings by $60 million from
the second quarter, even as lower metal prices and currency
moves reduced income by a combined $116 million. Cost increases
in materials, energy and repairs cut earnings by $103 million.
Income after one-time items fell to $165 million in the third
quarter from $364 million in the second.  Growth Forecast  Alcoa yesterday maintained its 2012 global demand growth
forecast of 12 percent and said the pace of expansion will slow
in the second half. The company also reiterated its forecast
that demand will double by 2020.  “The slowing markets have not changed the underlying
fundamentals,” Kleinfeld said on the call. “The fundamentals
are the mega-trends, the mega-trends of growing population as
well as urbanization.”  China , the world’s largest user of aluminum, will see
demand rise 17 percent this year, Alcoa forecast yesterday,
compared with a previous projection of 15 percent.  Alcoa is a fully integrated aluminum producer. It mines
bauxite, an ore that contains aluminum, and refines it into
alumina, the raw material used by aluminum smelters. As well as
selling aluminum to industrial users, Alcoa makes products such
as can sheet and components for cars and aircraft.  Alumina Dividends  Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , Alcoa’s Melbourne-based partner in the
world’s biggest producer of alumina, said yesterday it received
$65 million in dividends from Alcoa World Alumina & Chemical. It
fell 2.5 percent in Sydney.  Alcoa’s smelters will likely post a loss in the fourth
quarter should spot aluminum prices average 99 cents a pound
($2,183 a ton) in the period, Brian Yu, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in  San Francisco , wrote in an Oct. 9 note.  Earnings were 66 cents in the second quarter of 2008,
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
financial crisis sent commodity prices tumbling. They haven’t
exceeded 32 cents since. The company posted three consecutive
quarters of losses through June 2009. It has cut 20,080 jobs
since June 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  In 2010, Alcoa permanently shut 295,000 tons of capacity at
smelters in  Maryland ,  North Carolina  and  Indiana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  