-- 
Halliburton Can’t Add Fraud to Claims Against BP, Judge Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-11T20:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/halliburton-can-t-add-fraud-to-claims-against-bp-judge-says.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  can’t pursue an
allegation of fraud in its claims against  BP Plc (BP/)  over the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a judge in New Orleans said.  A Halliburton unit that provided cementing services for the
project claimed BP hid information about an additional
hydrocarbon zone in the well, a possibly dangerous condition,
before and after the blowout. Halliburton said it didn’t learn
of critical data about the zone until a July 7, 2011, deposition
of a BP scientist.  BP denied any failure to disclose information and said
Halliburton missed a deadline to file claims over the spill.
Halliburton waited too long to bring the allegation and can’t
amend its complaint, U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan said.  “Halliburton possessed sufficient information either
through its own investigation or with information produced by BP
to assert its fraud claim by May 20, 2011,” Shushan said in a
three page order. “There was undue delay on Halliburton’s part
in asserting the fraud claim. There would be undue prejudice to
BP if the amendment is allowed.”  Blowout, Explosion  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors. The
lawsuits over economic losses and personal injuries have been
combined before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  Daren Beaudo, BP’s spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling today. Beverly Stafford, Halliburton’s spokeswoman, had
no immediate comment.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded; Houston-based Halliburton; and
 Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout-prevention
equipment. BP’s minority partners in the well,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, were
also sued.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 