-- 
Aluminum Demand May Gain 10% Over Next 5 Years, Novelis Says

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-10-11T10:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/aluminum-demand-to-grow-as-much-as-10-in-5-years-novelis-says.html
Aluminum demand may climb by 8
percent to 10 percent annually over the next three to five years
on buying from  Asia , led by  China , and as more of the metal is
used in cars and cans, according to Novelis Inc.  “We are seeing some demand increases in automobiles and we
continue to see year over year increases in terms of consumer
electronics, cans and transportation and construction alike,”
Philip Martens, chief executive officer of the company that
turns aluminum into products for Coca-Cola Co. and Ford Motor
Co., said in an interview today in Seoul. Prices may be
“moderate” in a range between $2,300 and $2,500 a metric ton
over the next six months, Martens said.  Increased demand may help lift aluminum prices which have
fallen about 10 percent this year, the smallest drop among the
six industrial metals traded on the London Metal Exchange, amid
concerns that the global economic slowdown may cut demand for
raw materials.  “If you go out for five years, we see a fantastic outlook
for aluminum,” Martens said. Novelis will expand its rolling
capacity by 33 percent by 2014 or 2015 and remains committed to
the plan, he said.  Aluminum will have the biggest annual demand increase among
industrial metals through 2015 as its surplus turns to a
shortage, according to researcher CRU. Consumption will outpace
supply in 2015 as demand grows an average 7.6 percent a year,
Paul Robinson, CRU non-ferrous metals group manager, said Oct.
3.  China Operations  Novelis expects Asia to become its biggest market by about
2017, overtaking  North America  and  Europe , Martens said. It will
ultimately seek rolling operations in China, he said.  “The fortunate thing is that markets here are growing
dramatically,” Martens said. “We see some significant growth
opportunities in China.”  Alcoa Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said in July
global aluminum demand will increase 12 percent in 2011 and
double by the end of the decade as Asian countries build more
office blocks and buy more aircraft, cars and trains.  “Shifting demand” is also driving growth in mature
markets such as the U.S., where the auto sector is moving
towards light-weight materials, Martens said. “Aluminum is just
one of those materials at right place and right time.”  Fuel Economy  President  Barack Obama  in July announced that he would
raise the fleetwide fuel-economy average for passenger vehicles
to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 as part of his plan to reduce
dependence on foreign oil. Global sales of cars and light
commercial vehicles will rise 4 percent this year, and a further
10 percent in 2012,  Westlake Village , California-based JD Power
estimates.  Novelis plans to double its global capacity for auto
products to about 400,000 tons by 2015, it has said. The
transportation industry accounts for about 26 percent of
aluminum consumption, according to the LME website.  The U.S. unit of  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  India ’s largest
aluminum maker, supplies more than half of all flat-rolled
aluminum products used by the automotive sector to make parts
such as doors and roofs, according to the company.  Aluminum for delivery in three months dropped 1.2 percent
to $2,232 a ton on the LME at 6:49 p.m.  Seoul  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  