-- 
Hamas, Israel Agree on Prisoner Swap for Shalit

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-11T20:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/hamas-israel-agree-on-prisoner-swap-for-shalit.html
Israel  and the Palestinian Hamas
movement said they have agreed through Egyptian mediation on the
release of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, held captive in the
Gaza Strip for more than five years, in exchange for hundreds of
prisoners in Israeli jails.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  outlined the
preliminary agreement at an emergency cabinet meeting called in
Jerusalem late today, where he asked for final government
approval. Negotiators signed the draft deal in Cairo, he said.  “I believe we have reached the best agreement possible at
this point in time, a time of storms throughout the Middle
East,” Netanyahu said in comments to the cabinet broadcast on
Channel 2 television.  Shalit was seized by Hamas militants in an attack on an
Israeli army post on the border with the  Gaza Strip  in June
2006. Egypt and  Germany  have been trying for years to broker a
exchange in which Shalit would be freed in return for the
release of Palestinian security prisoners from Israeli jails.  The deal to free Shalit, 25, comes as the international
community has renewed attempts to restart peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinians. Shalit’s release may ease those
efforts. Hamas, which controls Gaza, is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Hamas Comments  “We fully confirm that an agreement on Shalit’s deal was
reached with Israel and the implementation will be in the coming
few days after finishing all other arrangements,” said Abu
Obeida, a spokesman for the Hamas armed wing known as the
Izzedein al-Qassam Brigades, speaking in a telephone interview
from Gaza.  Tens of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza City came out
into the streets to exchange candies after the deal was
announced on Hamas-controlled Al-Aqsa Television. Militants
carrying green Hamas flags fired sub-machine guns in the air to
celebrate after the station reported about 1,000 Palestinian
prisoners will be released.  In  Jerusalem , Noam and Aviva Shalit, the soldier’s parents,
were shown on television embracing relatives and friends inside
a tent outside Netanyahu’s residence where they have maintained
a vigil during his captivity.  The only contact between Shalit, who holds Israeli and
French citizenship, and the outside world during his captivity
has been three letters, an audio tape and a DVD that Israel
received in October 2009 in return for releasing 20 female
Palestinian prisoners.  Past Exchanges  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state and its leaders say they will renounce violence when
Israel withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas they left as result of the
creation of the state of Israel in 1948.  Israel has agreed to prisoner exchanges in the past. In
July 2008, Israel released five Lebanese prisoners in return for
the bodies of two soldiers captured by the Lebanese Shiite
Muslim Hezbollah movement two years earlier in a cross-border
raid by the group that sparked a 33-day war between the two
sides.  In a 2004 prisoner swap with Hezbollah, Israel exchanged
about 400 Palestinian detainees and the bodies of 59 Lebanese
for one Israeli businessman and the bodies of three soldiers.  The  Middle East  Quartet, comprised of the  United States ,
 United Nations , European Union and  Russia , is now trying to
restart peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. Quartet
envoys on Oct. 9 proposed a meeting Oct. 23 in  Jordan  to discuss
terms for renewed talks.  Negotiations broke down last year after Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu declined to extend on 10-month
freeze on West Bank settlement construction that Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said is a precondition for
talks to resume.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 