-- 
Amazon.com, Righthaven, Astrolabe: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-11T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/amazon-com-vinum-righthaven-astrolabe-intellectual-property.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  was sued for patent
infringement over its Kindle Fire tablet computer.  The suit was filed in federal court in Tyler,  Texas , on
Oct. 7 by a company that has sued Research In Motion Inc. and
 HTC Corp. (2498)  for allegedly infringing some of the same patents.  In dispute in the case against Amazon are five patents
related to the functioning of hand-held computing devices.
Smartphone Technologies LLC of Frisco, Texas, claims the new
Amazon.com product infringed the patents and causes the company
harm.  According to  the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s
database of patent assignments, some of the patents at issue in
the case originally issued to Palm Inc. of  Santa Clara ,
California, which was  acquired  by the  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in
July 2010. VentureBeat  reported  Sept. 29 that Amazon is
contemplating buying Palm from HP.  Smartphone Technologies, which doesn’t appear to
manufacture any products covered by its patents, claims it is
damaged by Amazon.com’s alleged infringement, asked the court
for awards of money damages, together with litigation costs.  The company didn’t request an order barring the sale or
manufacture of what it claims are infringing products.  The case is Smartphone Technologies LLC v. Amazon.com Inc.,
6:11-cv-00530-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  Vinum Sues Oenophilia, Claims Patent, Trade Dress Infringed  Vinum Corp., an  Illinois  company that specialized in wine-
bottle stoppers, sued a North Carolina competitor for patent
infringement.  Oenophilia Inc.  of Hillsborough,  North Carolina , is accused
of infringing patent D437,782, which is for the ornamental
design for a wine stopper. According to court papers, the device
covered by the patent functions as an aerator, filter, pourer,
re-corker and stopper all in one unit.  The patent covering the product was issued in February
2001. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company says it began
selling “many hundreds of thousands” of the product, which is
known as “ Haley’s Corker ,” beginning in 2001.  Oenophilia’s “Tappo Pour” product is accused of
infringing the trade dress of the Vinum product, in addition to
the patent. Its “mimicry damages the great and valuable
goodwill inherent in the Haley’s Corker trade dress,” Vinum
said in the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 Chicago .  It asked the court to bar further infringement of its
patent and trade dress and for an order for the destruction of
all allegedly infringing products and promotional materials. The
company also asked for awards of Oenophilia’s profits related to
its alleged infringement, together with money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  Oenophilia didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Vinum Corp. is represented by  Mark K. Suri  and  James D.
Ryndak  of  Ryndak & Suri LLP  of Chicago.  The case is Vinum Corp. v. Oenophilia Inc., 1:11-cv-07134,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Immunocellular Therapeutics Says Cancer Vaccine Patent on Way  Immunocellular Therapeutics Ltd. (IMUC) , a Los Angeles-based
biotech company, said in a statement that it has been told by
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office it’s receiving approval for
a patent on a cancer vaccine it developed.  The vaccine, known as ICT-107, is used to treat
Glioblastoma multiforme, a form of brain tumor that is difficult
to treat and often has poor outcomes. The company said it is
presently conducting Phase II clinical trials of about 160
patients newly diagnosed with this form of cancer.  The patent covers a vaccine based on immune cells that
target tumor antigens.  Immunoellular Therapeutics is listed in the patent office
database as the owner of  five other patents  related to cancer
treatment. Two cover the detection and treatment of a kind of
 lung cancer , and three cover technologies dealing with ovarian
cancer and myeloma.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tecmo’s Trademark Filing Indicates Samurai Cats Game On Its Way  Tecmo Koei Holdings Co., makers of the Samurai Warriors
computer games, will be coming out with a new game, a recent
trademark filing indicates.  The Kanawaga, Japan-based company filed an application with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Sept. 28 to register
“Samurai Cats” as a trademark.  According to the application, the mark would be used with
“entertainment services, namely, providing on-line computer
games; entertainment services, namely, providing on-line
computer games on social networking services; entertainment
services, namely providing on-line computer games on mobile
phones; providing information on-line relating to computer
games.”  Tecmo’s application was filed by  Jason M. Vogel  of
Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Tells Court It’s Rejected by All Bonding Companies  Righthaven LLC, the  Las Vegas  entity that has filed more
than 150 copyright-infringement cases, told a court it can’t
raise the money to post a $34,000 bond.  In what it characterized as an “urgent motion,”
Righthaven told the court Oct. 9 that none of the bonding
companies will permit it to secure the bond the court said the
company must post as part of an appeal.  The bonding companies Righthaven has contacted ask for
“full cash payment, certain forms of collateral held by the
company or irrevocable letters of credit.” Righthaven claims it
is unable to meet these requirements and that all of its
operator capital “is being utilized to service its monthly
operating expenses.”  The defendant Righthaven sued is “clearly seeking to seize
and liquidate Righthaven’s intangible  intellectual property 
assets,” the company claimed. Righthaven said that all of its
assigned copyrights “are in jeopardy of seizure and liquidation
through judgment enforcement efforts by Hoehn.”  Righthaven sued Wayne Hoehn in federal court in Las Vegas
Jan. 11, complaining he had posted content on his blog
originally appearing in Stephens Media Group’s Las Vegas Review-
Journal. The court was skeptical about Righthaven’s right to
pursue copyright-infringement cases, saying the company doesn’t
appear to own the copyright to the material it says is
infringed, and awarding Hoehn attorney fees.  In its Oct. 9 filing, Righthaven said that if the appeals
court doesn’t issue a stay order, Hoehn’s efforts to collect his
attorney fee award could “dismantle the company and end its
ability to operate as a going concern.” Hoehn’s lawyers have
“given no indication of a willingness to accept any structured
settlement payments toward satisfaction of the judgment,”
Righthaven said.  The appeal is Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn, 11:16995,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ). The
lower court case is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-
RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Astrolabe Sues Computer Scientists Over Time-Zone Clock Data  Astrolabe Inc. , a maker of astrology software, sued two
computer scientists for copyright infringement.  The suit, filed Sept. 30 in federal court in  Boston ,
targets Arthur David Olson of the National Institutes of
Health’s  National Cancer Institute  and Paul R. Eggert of the
Computer Science Department of the University of  California ,  Los
Angeles .  The two computer scientists are accused of infringing the
copyright for an atlas containing historical time zone
information. Astrolabe objects to the scientists’ websites
publication of time zone data.  Astrolabe said it has sent takedown notices to UCLA and
NIH, demanding removal of what it says is unauthorized
publication of its data.  So far neither institution has complied, Astrolabe said,
and Eggert has “wrongly and unlawfully asserted that this
information and/or data is ‘in the public domain’ in violation
of the protections afforded by the federal copyright laws.”  Brewster, Massachusetts-based Astrolabe asked the court to
order the two scientists to halt their alleged infringement, and
for awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.
Astrolabe bases its claims on its ownership of the “ACS
International Atlas,” the “ACS American Atlas,” and related
software programs and databases.  The case has attracted the interest of the scientific and
technology community because the data is used in Unix and Linux
platforms to set clocks and for time-zone updates. In  a posting
to a technology interest-group mailing list , Olson said the
server that provides these updates has been shut down in
response to the suit.  Stephen Colebourne, a developer who works with Java
programs in the U.K., said  in a blog posting  that the result of
the takedown is that “there is no longer a single central
location for time-zone information for computing.”  He called for the major tech companies to step into the
dispute on behalf of the two computer scientists.  Astrolabe is represented by Julie C. Molloy of East
Sandwich,  Massachusetts .  The case is Astrolabe Inc., v. Olson 1:11-cv-11725-GAO,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 