-- 
American Airlines to Deepen Seat Cuts

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/amr-s-american-to-deepen-seat-cuts-on-weak-economy-pilot-losses.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  joined
its bigger U.S. peers with deeper seating cuts and said it would
ground 11 jets in 2012 as it faces a weak economy, more pilot
retirements and higher fuel costs.  The shares rose the most in a week today after  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based American’s announcement yesterday that fourth-
quarter capacity would decline by 3 percent. All 10 carriers in
the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index advanced.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
the world’s biggest carriers, moved earlier to pare seating into
2012 on concerns the economy will sap  travel demand . American,
the third-largest U.S. airline, also is grappling with a tenfold
jump in pilot retirements in the past two months.  “Less capacity is almost always good news,” James M. Higgins, a Ticonderoga Securities LLC analyst in Solebury,
 Pennsylvania , said in a note to clients. He has a “neutral”
rating on AMR.  Pulling back on capacity means that 2011 costs for flying
each seat a mile will increase “modestly” beyond the forecast
of as much as 10.1 percent provided on Sept. 21, American said
in the statement, without elaborating.  “The adverse effect on previous unit-cost guidance will be
significant,” Robert W. Mann, president of consultant R.W. Mann
& Co., said in an e-mail. The effect on revenue can’t be
estimated without details of the schedule changes, he said.  Pilot Fallout  American’s reductions represent “sizable capacity cuts to
AMR’s fall and winter schedules,” said Mann, of  Port
Washington ,  New York . With business travel and unit revenue both
reported to be strong, the airline’s pullback suggests that a
shortage of pilots is a primary driver, Mann said.  American said less than a month ago it would trim fourth-
quarter capacity by 0.5 percent while reviewing 2012 plans. That
cut flying by varying amounts on lower-demand travel days and
included a 13 percent drop in Saturday seating, Treasurer
Beverly Goulet said on Sept. 13.  “We expect these capacity reductions to be positive for
the airline sector, as the industry continues to proactively cut
capacity in light of higher year-over-year fuel prices,”  Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst, said in a report today.
“This should enable airlines to maintain the current pricing
structure.”  Shares Rise  Becker, who is based in New York, rates the shares as
“sell.” AMR rose 7.1 percent to $2.71 in New York trading,
paring their decline for the year to 65 percent. The Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index gained 2.8 percent.  American had 111 pilot retirements in September and 129
this month as workers sought to protect the value of their
pension plans, a portion of which is linked to stock market
movement.  The airline “doesn’t anticipate” leaving any markets as a
result of the reductions, said Sean Collins, a spokesman. It
will rely primarily on cutting flights based on days of the
week, trimming frequencies or moving to smaller planes, he said.  “We are taking these additional steps in light of the
uncertain economic environment, ongoing high fuel costs and to
ensure we run a reliable schedule for our customers given
additional pilot retirements we anticipate throughout the fourth
quarter,” Chief Commercial Officer Virasb Vahidi said in the
statement. He said advance bookings are “generally in line”
with 2010.  Fuel Charge  American also said it will take a $29 million noncash
charge in the third quarter for contracts linked to fuel
purchases and $22 million related to foreign exchange.  The airline will retire 11 of its 124  Boeing Co. 757s . The
twin-engine, single-aisle planes are often flown on
transcontinental routes and to non-U.S. destinations such as
 Mexico . Boeing built the last 757 in 2004.  American in 2013 will begin receiving the first of 460 new
aircraft it ordered in July from Airbus SAS and Boeing. The
planes will be more fuel efficient than the 757s, with an
average age of 16 years.  With the new seating cuts, full-year seating on American’s
mainline jets still will rise 0.4 percent. That’s less than the
original 3.5 percent growth set for 2011, according to the
company. When regional carrier American Eagle is included, full-
year capacity will be up 1.2 percent, lower than the initial
plan of more than 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  