-- 
Angels and Startups Gather at Bloomberg Empowered Entrepreneur

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-11T15:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/angels-and-startups-gather-at-bloomberg-empowered-entrepreneur.html

Press Release  Pete Cashmore, Mike Maples and Naveen Selvadurai Join Bloomberg
Summit Focused on Entrepreneurship and Innovation  New York -- While high Wall Street valuations for hot start-ups
make headlines, Bloomberg LINK will bring together entrepreneurs,
investors and potential business partners at the Bloomberg
Empowered Entrepreneur conference to discuss establishing,
financing and growing a company, as well as what it takes to
succeed as a tech-savvy start-up.  The conference, to be held on Tuesday, October 18th at Cedar Lake
in  New York City , will explore how founders can fast track
ventures, attract and keep top talent, and deliver content in
unique ways to gain awareness.  “Participants will meet potential investors, exchange ideas on
what it takes to succeed in today’s environment, and find new
partners to include in their business eco-system,” said  Robert
Bierman , head of Bloomberg LINK. “Bloomberg Television will also
treat the audience to a live taping of the finale of the
TechStars reality show.”  Key speakers include:  - Pete Cashmore, Founder and CEO, Mashable  - Jeff Clavier, Founder and Managing Partner, SoftTech VC  - Esther Dyson, Chairman, EDventure Holdings Inc.  - Joe Fernandez, CEO and Co-Founder, Klout  - Lynn Forester de Rothschild, Founder and Chief Executive, E.L.
Rothschild LLC  - Eric Hippeau, Advisor, Lerer Ventures; Former CEO, The
 Huffington Post   - Jennifer Hyman, CEO and Co-Founder, Rent the Runway  - Mike Maples, Jr., Managing Partner, FLOODGATE  - Naveen Selvadurai, Co-Founder, foursquare  The conference is being sponsored by The Chinese University of
 Hong Kong  (CUHK) and SAP.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/empower .  Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBempower.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government, BNA
and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185
locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, + 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
