-- 
ANZ Bank Caps Pay Gains for Top 900 Executives as Growth Cools

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-10-11T00:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/anz-bank-caps-pay-gains-for-top-900-executives-as-growth-cools.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the worst performer among  Australia ’s four largest
banking stocks this year, will limit wage gains for about 900 of
its top executives to 1 percent as demand for lending cools.  The cap means most of the bank’s so-called group one and
group two executives will see their salaries remain fixed for
the next year, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith  said in a
letter to staff dated Sept. 19 and released by the bank today.  “I realize that for some this is a difficult message, but
as leaders of our business, it is the right thing for us to do
in the current climate,” Smith said. His comments were
initially reported by the Australian Financial Review.  Melbourne-based ANZ Bank is among the nation’s banks facing
slower earnings growth as the developed world’s highest
borrowing costs and declining property prices erodes demand for
mortgages to the lowest level in three decades.  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender, is seeking to
lower its cost-to-income ratio, while  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the
second-largest, said in August that it is increasing its so-
called “productivity initiatives” to trim costs.  ANZ Bank rose 0.5 percent to A$21.10 as of 11:56 a.m. in
Sydney after slipping 9.6 percent this year. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent, paring this year’s decline
to 11 percent. Commonwealth Bank climbed 1 percent.  Salaries Restricted  ANZ Bank’s 1 percent increase for its top 900 executives
will be reserved primarily for those sitting lower in the salary
range and “performing well,” Smith said in the letter.  “The environment for banks globally is becoming more
difficult and we believe showing leadership from the top by
demonstrating restraint on costs is the right thing to do for
the business and for our shareholders,”  Paul Edwards , ANZ
Bank’s spokesman, said in an message e-mailed to Bloomberg News
today.  ANZ Bank shares fell the most in more than a year on Aug.
19 after it said trading income slumped in the three months to
June 30. The lender is due to publish earnings for its fiscal
full-year through Sept. 30 on Nov. 3.  Commonwealth Bank has been pursuing a cost-cutting plan,
which doesn’t involve job cuts, that has been dubbed “Project
35,” Sydney-based spokesman Steve Batten said, confirming a
report in the Australian newspaper today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  