-- 
Aquino Approves 72 Billion-Peso Philippine Stimulus Package

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-11T10:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/aquino-approved-72-11-billion-peso-stimulus-package-pascua-says.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
approved a 72.11 billion-peso ($1.7 billion) plan to boost the
economy, becoming the first Asian leader outside  Japan  to
introduce a stimulus package this year as global growth falters.  The president has approved the package of spending measures,
Budget Undersecretary Laura Pascua said in a mobile-phone text
message today, without elaborating.  Europe ’s debt crisis and an  unemployment rate  above 9
percent in the U.S. have damped growth in emerging markets,
prompting some central banks to start easing monetary policy and
governments to increase spending to shield their economies.
Indonesia unexpectedly slashed borrowing costs today, joining
 Brazil , Turkey and Pakistan in cutting interest rates this year.  “If this package allows them to get spending out the door,
then it’s going to be useful, especially since external demand
may soften further,” said Matt Hildebrandt, a Singapore-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “But it is important to
realize that if global demand falters further, even a timely and
well-designed fiscal package is probably not going to allow the
 Philippines  to avert a slowdown.”  Indonesia is preparing a stimulus package that it may
implement in the first half of 2012 should the global economy
worsen and hurt growth in Southeast Asia’s largest economy, the
government said last month. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
announced in the country’s annual budget last week that he will
distribute cash to low-income families, raise wages for civil
servants and boost spending on transportation as overseas demand
wanes and elections loom.  Exports Decline  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 1.7 percent to
4,109.27 today, the highest level since Sept. 21. Aquino’s
spokesman Ricky Carandang said yesterday the president will
formally announce the stimulus package on Oct. 12.  “Fiscal stimulus is indeed necessary to further bolster
domestic demand and increase the absorptive capacity of the
economy,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said today.  Philippine exports slid the most since 2009 in August,
falling 15.1 percent from a year earlier, a report showed today.
Growth in the $200 billion economy slowed for a fourth straight
quarter to 3.4 percent in the three months through June.  The government had a  budget surplus  in August, helping
narrow the eight-month shortfall to 34.5 billion pesos from
228.1 billion pesos in the same period in 2010. Aquino plans to
narrow the  budget deficit  to 2.6 percent of gross domestic
product, or about 286 billion pesos, in 2012, from a target of 3
percent, or about 300 billion pesos, this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  