-- 
Asian Currencies Drop as Europe Concern Boosts Demand for Dollar

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-11T09:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/asian-currencies-drop-as-europe-concern-boosts-demand-for-dollar.html
Asian currencies fell, reversing
earlier gains, as renewed concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen spurred investors to favor the dollar’s relative safety
over emerging-market assets.  The rupiah fell as Bank Indonesia unexpectedly cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for the first time in more than two
years to spur growth. European stocks dropped for the first time
in five days as central bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
the region’s debt crisis now threatens the financial system as
officials race to put together a new plan to contain the
turmoil.  The rupiah dropped 0.4 percent to 8,941 per dollar as of
3:28 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
India’s rupee slumped 0.6 percent to 49.245, Malaysia’s ringgit
fell 0.4 percent to 3.1385 and Thailand’s baht declined 0.3
percent to 30.96.  China ’s yuan fell 0.4 percent to 6.3750,
trimming yesterday’s 0.6 percent appreciation, which was the
biggest since its revaluation in July 2005.  “Trichet’s comments reminded investors that Europe’s
problems are not fundamentally solved,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo.
“When concern is heightened, investors of course boost demand
for dollars and sell emerging-market assets.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index declined for the
first time in six days, losing 0.7 percent to 115.33.  Indonesia Cuts Rate  The rupiah weakened after foreign ownership of local debt
declined 4 trillion rupiah ($447 million) this month through
Oct. 5, following record withdrawals of 29.3 trillion rupiah in
September, according to data from the  finance ministry ’s
website.  Bank Indonesia  will purchase  government bonds  and
remain in the  currency market  to stabilize the rupiah, Hendar,
its director of monetary policy who uses only one name, said on
Oct. 3.  The central bank lowered the  reference rate  by a quarter
percentage point to 6.5 percent, it said in a statement in
Jakarta today. None of the 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expected the decision.  “The central bank is worried about slowing growth in the
global economy,” said Juniman, chief economist at PT Bank
Internasional Indonesia in Jakarta who goes by only one name.
“The rupiah will depreciate in the short term because yields
are going down. Investors expected the rate to be flat.”  Thailand ’s Floods  The  Thai baht  fell amid concern the nation’s worst floods
in more than half a century will hurt the economy.  The finance ministry cut its 2011 growth forecast for the
economy yesterday after the floods forced Honda Motor Co.,
Japan’s third-largest automaker, and the world’s two biggest
makers of high-end cameras, Canon Inc. and Nikon Corp., to
suspend production at factories. Gross domestic product will
increase 3.7 percent this year, according to the ministry. That
compares with last month’s prediction for a gain of 3.8 percent
to 4.3 percent policy makers had forecast last month.  “With the closure of factories and the halting of
production, there’s concern floods will not only hurt exports
but also employment,” Dai-ichi Life Research’s Nishihama said.
“You don’t want to buy the baht now.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso slid 0.1 percent to 43.435
per dollar.  South Korea ’s won climbed 0.6 percent to 1,164.50
and Taiwan’s dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to NT$30.348.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  