-- 
Treasuries Retreat, U.S. Stocks Little Changed as Euro Rises a Second Day

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-10-11T21:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/asian-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-won-climbs-on-europe-pledge-china-banks.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields to a one-month high, after the U.S. sold $32 billion in
three-year notes and concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis eased.
Most U.S. stocks advanced as commodity and industrial companies
gained while telephone and utility shares fell.  The 10-year note’s yield climbed seven basis points to 2.15
percent at 4 p.m. New York time as trading resumed following the
Columbus Day holiday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.1 percent after falling as much as 0.6 percent. The S&P GSCI
Index of commodities rallied 0.9 percent after retreating as
much as 1.3 percent. The euro strengthened 0.1 percent to
$1.3648, recovering from a 0.6 percent slide.  U.S. equities rallied yesterday, sending the S&P 500 up 3.4
percent for its biggest gain since August, as  France  and  Germany 
pledged to produce a plan to recapitalize banks struggling with
losses from  government bonds . Slovakia, the only country that
hasn’t ratified the enhanced European bailout fund, failed to
approve the package, setting up the need for a second vote.
International inspectors said Greece will likely receive its
next rescue loan in early November.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  reported third-
quarter results that trailed analysts’ estimates.  “With bonds closed yesterday, the market is catching up to
where stocks were trading,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at BTIG LLC in New York. “The idea that European
leaders are finally wrapping their head around the issue
provides less negative sentiment in the market.”  Treasury Auctions  U.S. three-year note yields climbed for a fifth day, rising
three points to 0.52 percent. The notes sold today drew a yield
of 0.544 percent, compared with the average forecast of 0.540
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 22 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of debt
offered, was 3.30, versus an average of 3.17 for the past 10
sales. The Fed will sell up to $9 billion tomorrow of Treasuries
due in 2013 in a program to support the economy.  The  S&P 500  yesterday capped its steepest rally over five
sessions since March 2009, extending its rebound from a 13-month
low on Oct. 3 to 8.7 percent.  “Investors are a little more confident,” Jonathan Vyorst,
who helps oversee $2.2 billion at Albany, New York-based
Paradigm Capital Management Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“The selling had gotten too extreme. The rallies that we’ve
seen were just people calming down a little bit. What happens
now depends on corporate earnings and depends on headlines.”  Alcoa Earnings  Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, became the first
company of the Dow to report results for the third quarter. Its
shares climbed 2.1 percent in regular trading, then tumbled 4.8
percent at 5:08  New York  time after the earnings were released.
Excluding restructuring costs, Alcoa’s earnings were about 14
cents a share. The average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for 22 cents.  S&P 500 earnings, excluding financial companies, are
forecast to have increased 14 percent for the third quarter, the
smallest gain since the end of 2009, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., whose shares have fallen more
than 40 percent this year, may report its lowest quarterly
profit since the 2008 financial crisis while  Wells Fargo & Co .
is headed for record earnings.  Bank Results  Third-quarter U.S. bank earnings, which kick off with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Oct. 13, will show that investment-
banking businesses such as bond trading and merger advice
declined, while retail operations like mortgage lending
prospered, according to analysts including Richard Staite at
Atlantic Equities LLP in  London .  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth added 1 percent today. Gauges of utility and
telephone providers in the S&P 500 lost at least 1 percent. The
Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the economy,
gained 0.7 percent. Apple Inc. increased 3 percent to $400.29.
Bank of America Corp. climbed 1.4 percent to $6.37. Caterpillar
Inc. jumped 1.9 percent to $80.66.  About three stocks retreated for every two that advanced in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which slipped 0.3 percent amid
uncertainty over Slovakia’s vote on the revised bailout fund.
Europe’s regional index rallied 8.5 percent in four days through
yesterday, the most since November 2008.  National Bank of  Greece  SA and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA
sank more than 16 percent to the lowest levels on record. ASML
Holding NV and STMicroelectronics NV led semiconductor shares
lower after analyst downgrades. Remy Cointreau SA, the maker of
Remy Martin, advanced after Berenberg Bank recommended buying
the shares.  Slovakia Vote  After U.S. and European markets closed, Slovak lawmakers
failed to approve an overhaul of Europe’s bailout fund, toppling
the government. Smer, the largest opposition party, which didn’t
back the legislation today, will support the changes in a second
vote, ensuring it will pass, party leader  Robert Fico  told
reporters in the capital Bratislava.  Spanish banks including Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA had their ratings cut by S&P, which cited
“dimming” growth prospects and “heightened” market
turbulence. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
he’ll present proposals tomorrow on the recapitalization of
banks as Europe’s leaders struggle to tackle the region’s debt
crisis.  Greek Bonds  Greek 10-year bonds pared losses, with the 10-year yield up
15 basis points at 24.06 percent after climbing as much as 76
basis points. A European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and
European Central Bank team of inspectors, known as the troika,
said Greece has made important progress in fiscal consolidation,
according to an e-mailed statement from the European
Commission’s offices in  Athens  on completion of a review of the
country’s economy. Once the Eurogroup and the IMF’s Executive
Board have approved the conclusions of the fifth review, the
next tranche of 8 billion euros will become available, most
likely, in early November, the statement said.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said Greek bondholders
may need to take a writedown of more than 60 percent on the
nation’s debt. His spokesman, Guy Schuller, later said he meant
that the so-called haircuts could exceed the 21 percent already
agreed in July.  The Italian two-year note yield rose one basis points even
as borrowing costs fell and demand climbed at a sale of 9.5
billion euros ($12.9 billion) of 74- and 367-day bills. Greece
auctioned 1.3 billion euros of 186-day securities, while the
 Netherlands  issued 2.7 billion euros of 2017 notes.  Euro, Pound  The euro gained for a second day versus the dollar after
yesterday surging 2 percent, the most in 15 months. The 17-
nation currency strengthened 0.2 percent against the yen after
rallying 1.9 percent yesterday.  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5611 after a report showed
U.K. manufacturing slid more than economists forecast in August,
adding to signs that the recovery continued to struggle in the
third quarter. Factory output fell 0.3 percent from July, when
it declined a revised 0.2 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for manufacturing to
fall 0.2 percent.  Corn and soybean futures posted their biggest gains in more
than a year on signs that a plunge in prices last month is
increasing demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
largest grower and exporter.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.2 percent,
driving the benchmark index to its steepest five-day gain since
2009. The Hang Seng China Enterprise Index of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  jumped 4.4 percent after the Chinese state
investment fund bought shares in four banks. The Taiex Index
surged 2.6 percent after a holiday in  Taiwan  yesterday, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 1.6 percent to a three-week
high. Russia’s Micex Index slid 1.2 percent after jumping 9.1
percent in the past three sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  