-- 
Latvia’s Dombrovskis to Return as Premier After Coalition Accord

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-10-11T11:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/latvia-s-dombrovskis-to-return-as-premier-after-coalition-accord.html
Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis is
set to return as the head of  Latvia ’s government after three
parties that back austerity measures and adopting the euro
reached a coalition agreement yesterday.  The three-party alliance that will have 56 seats in the
100-member legislature will ask President Andris Berzins to name
Dombrovskis for another term. The coalition will contain former
Latvian President Valdis Zatlers’s Reform Party and the  National
Alliance , a nationalist Latvian party, shutting out Harmony
Center, which won the most seats in the Sept. 17 election and
appeals to the country’s Russian minority.  Dombrovskis, 40, took the position in March 2009, when the
country was at odds with the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  over budget cuts. The country, which
sought a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.3 billion) loan in 2008 after
rescuing its second-biggest bank, now has an expanding economy,
access to international capital markets and plans to close its
lending program with the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  this year.  “This was the logical outcome of the coalition talks,”
said Daunis Auers, a political scientist at the University of
Latvia, by phone. “There never was a majority to bring in the
Russian speakers into government.”  Zatlers’s party’s plans to form a coalition government with
Harmony and Unity failed when Unity refused to join that
coalition. Berzins will nominate a prime minister after the term
of this parliament expires on Oct. 17, he said in a statement
yesterday.  Constitution Plan  “The best coalition would be a broad coalition to
consolidate next year’s budget,” said Zatlers said on  Latvian
Independent Television  today, referring to a government with
Harmony. The current coalition wont have the 67 seats needed to
alter the country’s Constitution, which had been part of
Zatlers’s platform.  Latvia held a snap ballot on Sept. 17 about a year after
the last parliamentary elections, after then-President Zatlers
called a referendum following the parliament’s failure to lift
the immunity of a lawmaker facing a criminal probe. The next
elections will be held in three years time, instead of the usual
four years, due to the snap elections.  The Baltic country has cut spending and raised taxes equal
to about 16 percent of gross domestic product. It plans further
cuts in next year’s budget to lower the deficit to 2.5 percent
so it can adopt the euro in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  