-- 
Australian Dollar Drops on Europe Concern; Kiwi Falls After Deficit Widens

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-11T15:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/aussie-drops-on-europe-concern-kiwi-falls-after-deficit-widens.html
The Australian dollar declined
against the U.S. currency after Slovakia’s ruling coalition
failed to end a dispute over participation in a euro-area
bailout fund, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The  New Zealand  dollar fell against most of its 16 major
peers after government financial statements showed the nation’s
 budget deficit  was wider in the fiscal year ended June 30 than
earlier forecast. Losses were limited for the South Pacific
nations’ currencies as Asian stocks gained.  “Risk-correlated currencies could trade sideways over the
next month as we wait for more positive developments out of
 Europe ,” said Roland Randall, a strategist in  Singapore  at TD
Securities Inc., who expects the Australian dollar could fall as
low as 92 U.S. cents. “A bigger budget deficit does weaken the
outlook for New Zealand at a margin and therefore make it more
vulnerable to rising risk aversion.”  Australia ’s dollar declined 0.4 percent to 99.44 cents at
11:15 p.m. in  New York . It dropped 0.4 percent to 76.27 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar slid 0.6 percent to 77.91 U.S. cents. The so-
called kiwi lost 0.6 percent to 59.74 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced 1.8 percent,
while the MSCI World Index gained 0.1 percent.  The leaders of the four governing parties of Slovakia, the
euro region’s second-poorest member, are meeting today to
discuss how to proceed with a vote on the euro-area bailout
fund. Slovakia is the only euro-area country that hasn’t
ratified the rescue measure.  New Zealand’s deficit widened to a record NZ$18.4 billion
($14 billion) in the year through June, from a NZ$16.7 billion
estimate in the May budget, according to government financial
statements released today in Wellington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  