-- 
Australia’s Carbon Plan Passes as Gillard Faces Asylum Fight

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-10-12T00:43:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/australia-carbon-plan-passes-gillard-faces-asylum-fight.html
Australia ’s lower house passed Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s carbon plan today as she struggles to
rebound from record-low public support and win backing for a
more closely contested vote on immigration policy.  The emissions program announced July 10 was approved with
votes from the Greens Party and three independent lawmakers
wooed by Gillard. A legislative victory on the carbon tax, which
is contingent on a vote in the upper house Senate next month,
will help her sell the plan to the public, said Haydon Manning,
an associate professor of politics at Flinders University in
Adelaide.  “The government will be in a clearer position to try to
convince a very skeptical public that this is a worthwhile
policy,” Manning said. “But it’s not going to be a policy that
will win back a sufficient number of voters.”  Any boost in momentum for Gillard from success on the
climate bill may prove short-lived if she loses a vote this week
on her amended law for handling asylum seekers. A defeat for the
prime minister, who is trying to sway Australians deterred by
rising costs associated with the  carbon emissions  plan, could
further erode her popularity, which last month dipped to the
lowest of any leader in the past 18 years.  Gillard, whose public approval peaked at 48 percent weeks
after she replaced  Kevin Rudd  in June of last year, got 28
percent in a Newspoll survey published yesterday in the
Australian newspaper. She was backed by just 23 percent at the
beginning of September, the lowest figure for a prime minister
since 22 percent for Paul Keating in 1993.  The latest Newspoll, taken Oct. 7-9, was based on 1,146
interviews and had a margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points. The next national vote is due in 2013.  ‘Competent Government’  “There’s a belief out there that this is not a competent
government,” said Ian McAllister, a professor at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra who specializes in elections.
“Unless they invent a cure for the common cold and distribute
it freely forever, I can’t see anything that will save them at
the next election, the polling is so bad.”  Australia, the developed world’s biggest per-capita
polluter, plans to make about 500 companies pay A$23 ($22.90) a
ton for their carbon emissions starting in July 2012, before
switching to a cap-and-trade system three years later. Gillard,
the country’s first female prime minister, has said she wants to
cut about 160 million tons of carbon pollution in 2020.  “It’s been a difficult debate, but the debate is now
concluded,” Gillard said in a radio interview with the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. before the vote today. “Let’s not
get distracted by the political chatter. Let’s actually focus on
what this means for the Australian economy and the Australian
nation and our environment.”  Tax Cuts  Gillard will likely counter opposition to the plan by
stressing the tax cuts households will receive to cope with
rising costs and the more than A$13 billion in funding that will
be invested in clean energy technologies, Manning said. She
faces the added hurdle of having promised not to implement a
carbon tax during her election campaign last year.  The government’s climate change program is likely to draw
criticism as energy prices continue to rise,  Nick Economou , a
lecturer at  Monash University  in  Melbourne , said by phone.  “We know the cost of energy is going up,” he said. “The
problem for the Gillard government is that if you get a spike in
energy prices due to something other than the carbon tax,
they’ve set themselves up to be blamed for it.”  Mining Jobs  Company executives have argued that the tax will threaten
mining jobs and drive up airfares and food prices.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , a coal miner in Australia, said the carbon price
would hurt coal investment in the country. Aluminum producers
estimate Gillard’s program will add A$120 million in costs in
its first year and A$400 million in 2020.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  and  OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , the Australian
steelmakers, will get A$300 million in assistance under the
bill. The Greens Party will support the plan for steelmakers in
both houses of parliament as long as the government considers an
amendment to support projects to create “green” jobs, its
deputy leader  Christine Milne  said yesterday in a statement.  The Liberal-National coalition put forward an amendment
that would have made the carbon emissions legislation dependent
on the result of the next election, opposition climate spokesman
Greg Hunt said Oct. 11 in a statement.  The migration law changes would make it legal for the
government to send asylum seekers to another nation for
processing. Immigration Minister Chris Bowen presented the
legislation to parliament after the  High Court  in August
rejected his policy of assessing claims offshore.  The new bill may fail to pass the lower House, Monash’s
Economou said.  “If they can’t get it through the lower house, the
government has got so many critics that they will go into hyper-
drive and declare that the government has lost confidence and we
ought to go to a new election,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  