-- 
Australian Consumer Confidence Is Little Changed in October

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-11T23:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/australian-consumer-confidence-is-little-changed-in-october.html
Australian  consumer confidence  was
little changed in October as the central bank’s signal it has
scope to lower interest rates if necessary offset turmoil in
international financial markets.  The sentiment index rose 0.4 percent to 97.2, according to
a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200
consumers taken Oct. 3-8 and released today in Sydney.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week
left the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, citing “very
unsettled” financial markets and signs of weaker domestic
growth. Stevens indicated less concern about wage pressure from
a mining investment boom and said there’s more scope to cut
rates.  “Financial markets were again unsettled with sharp falls
in both the share market and the Australian dollar,”  Bill Evans ,
Westpac’s chief economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “On
the positive side we saw a marked change in the rhetoric of the
 Reserve Bank . After discussing the option of raising interest
rates as recently as August the Bank reported that it had
adopted an easing bias.”  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has dropped 10 percent from its record-high $1.1081
reached July 27 amid speculation Greece will default and spur a
repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The decline in the currency impacted sentiment toward
buying a major household item, which fell 5.6 percent, today’s
report showed. All other components of the Index gained.  The RBA, at its policy meeting on Oct. 4, cited a
“softer” labor market and consumers who are “more concerned
about the possibility of unemployment rising,” as it kept rates
unchanged at 4.75 percent for an 11th straight month.  Monthly employment growth in  Australia  averaged 2,800 from
January through August, less than a 10th of the average of
30,500 in the first eight months of 2010. The nation’s
unemployment rate in August rose for a second straight month,
reaching 5.3 percent, the highest level since October 2010.  It probably held at that level in September, a government
report will show Oct. 13, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of 24 economists.  Evans, who in July predicted the RBA would reduce rates at
its December meeting, said while that remains his view, a cut
next month “is quite real.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  