-- 
Bali Beach Trash Shows ‘Island of Gods’ Hurt by Tourist Boom

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-10-12T10:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bali-beach-sewage-shows-island-of-gods-hurt-by-australia-boom.html
Swedish deejay Fadi Alturk joined
the 52,000 tourists who fled the island of Bali in 2002,
reeling from nightclub bombings that left 202 dead in
 Indonesia ’s worst terrorist attack. A year later, he was back.  “When the bombing happened, we thought that was it,
people would never come back,” said Alturk, 31, who was due to
appear at one of the two clubs destroyed that night, before a
last-minute change of venue. On the ninth anniversary of the
bombings, “business on Bali is better than ever,” he said.
“Everybody’s just investing and investing.”  Alturk, who today manages a condominium project, is among
those profiting from a building and investment boom on
Indonesia’s “Island of the Gods,” whose rice terraces,
temples and surfing beaches have preserved its status as
Indonesia’s top tourist destination for more than four decades.  Now, Bali is suffering from its popularity. A record 2.5
million visitors, led by Australians whose currency is near a
13-year high against the rupiah, are clogging roads, littering
beaches and straining water supplies, residents and hotel
managers say. As the government plans a $1.3 billion rail line
and second airport to spread tourism to less-developed areas,
the head of the district around the artistic center of Ubud
said the pace of construction risks destroying the culture that
is key to Bali’s success.  “What we want for Bali in the future is quality
tourism,” said Tjokorda Oka Artha Ardhana Sukawati, regent of
 Gianyar , in a home adorned with sculptures of gods and life-
sized replicas of now-extinct Balinese tigers. “If we have a
cup of tea, and we keep on putting more water on it, eventually
you cannot taste the tea. We’re worried that soon we may not be
able to taste we are in Bali anymore.”  Drug Arrest  The arrest of a 14-year-old Australian boy in Bali last
week for allegedly possessing 3.6 grams (0.1 oz) of cannabis
highlighted these risks. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called
the boy on Oct. 9 to reassure him that the government was doing
everything it could to free him, her office said in an e-mail.
Schapelle Corby, an Australian who was sentenced to 20 years in
jail after being caught with 4.1 kilograms of marijuana in Bali
in 2004, is still in prison.  At 153 kilometers (95 miles) by 112 kilometers, Bali is a
little larger than  Rhode Island  and attracts more than a third
of all visitors to Indonesia with a mix of nightlife and
surfing in the southern beach resorts near the airport, and
rice terraces, temples and local culture around Ubud in the
volcanic, mountainous center. Arrivals have doubled since 2006,
the year after a second terrorist attack killed 20 people.  Surf and Golf  A predominately Hindu enclave in Muslim-majority Indonesia,
Bali has drawn travelers since German painter Walter Spies
moved there in 1927, becoming a bellwether for economic wealth
from U.S. surfers in the 1960s to Japanese golfers in the 80s.  Australian tourists in the first eight months of 2011 are
set to exceed last year’s total of about 648,000, which was
about five times more than in 2006. Chinese visitors increased
484 percent in that time to 197,000, while arrivals from  Japan 
fell 4 percent, statistics from the  Bali Tourism Board  show.  “The mining boom is helping tourism to places like
Bali,” Qantas Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce
said in a Sept. 13 interview. “Our largest customers are in
the mining sector and we are still seeing a big increase in
demand. Perth to Bali has been great for us.”  The three-and-a-half-hour flight is the fastest-growing of
Australia’s top 10 international routes. Passenger numbers from
Perth to Denpasar, the Balinese capital, increased 17 percent
in the year ended July, to 778,049, government figures show.  Beach Hotels  The gain helped the $7.4 billion economy -- comparable
with the Bahamas -- grow at an average 6.5 percent since 2006.
With nine out of 10 star-rated hotels clustered around the
southern beaches, according to Knight Frank LLP, most tourists
head to accommodation within 10 kilometers of the airport.  “The biggest problem we have here in Bali is the roads --
we’ve seen very little progress,” Sukawati said. “The number
of tourists coming to Bali in 2002 was about 1,500 a day. Now
it’s close to 7,000.”  On Seminyak beach in the south, Australian tourist Peter
Anyalai sits under an umbrella, watching groups learn to surf,
surrounded by discarded food wrappers, cups and condoms, as
foul-smelling water drains into the sea from the streets.  “The sewage, the garbage, the smells are a major
concern,” said Anyalai, 56, who’s surfed there since 1977.  Responding to the outcry, Bali Governor I Made Mangku Pastika in December banned development of new hotels in the
three most-developed southern districts. Still, capacity in
hotels will grow by 3,242 rooms, or 16 percent, to 23,500 rooms
before the end of 2012, according to a Knight Frank report.  APEC Summit  Among projects under way, the airport, on the southern
peninsula, will double capacity to 24 million passengers per
year by 2013, and Marriott International Inc., the largest
publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, plans to open a Ritz-Carlton
in 2013 in nearby Nusa Dua. A new convention center in Jimbaran,
next to the airport, is scheduled for the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation meeting in 2013.  Secunderabad, India-based  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) ,
the builder of airports and utilities controlled by Indian
billionaire GV Krishna Reddy, signed an agreement this year to
build an airport in the north, and the government plans to
start building the rail line to circle the island next year.  “Everyone understands the island has reached capacity,”
said Jean-Charles Le Coz, general manager of the Nikko Bali
Resort and chairman of the Bali Hotels Association.
“Everything is overworked in the south.”  Bamboo Houses  The spread of commercialization beyond the southern
beaches threatens the agrarian lifestyle of Bali’s mountainous
interior that has attracted travelers since the 1920s, said
Elora Hardy, creative director of Ibuku, a company in the hills
south of Ubud that designs bamboo buildings.  “If you cover this island in bamboo houses built on
stilts, the world would be better off,” she said, as workers
nearby built villas for a project called the Green Village.
“But that’s not how big money investors in Bali are going.”  Hardy, a former designer for  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s DKNY brand who grew up in Bali and went to
university in the U.S., said the lack of roads outside the
tourist area may help slow the pace of development. “Traffic
will save this island for the next few years,” she said.  For most of Bali’s history, foreigners were kept at bay.
As islands to the west adopted Islam, Bali retained a branch of
Hinduism and its concept of the God-King. Eight families ruled
distinct areas that remain districts today.  Chaplin’s Visit  Charlie Chaplin , anthropologist Margaret Mead and Spies
were among the early visitors, while surfers from Hawaii and
Australia followed in the 1960s, looking to ride Balis’ 3 meter
(10 feet) waves. Within eight years of the airport’s first
international flight in 1966, Japanese developers had built
 Bali Handara Kosaido Country Club ’s 18-hole golf course 1,100
meters up in the mountains.  Now, busloads of tourists from  China ,  Russia  and  South
Korea  traverse the hilly streets of Ubud and haggle in the
central market for sarongs and wooden backscratchers. Merchants
are trying to learn Chinese, said Wayan Aeka, 29, who has sold
goods there since she was a child.  “Bali is beautiful and it’s cheap,” said Ronnie Qi, a
37-year-old Shanghai shipping company worker on his first trip
to the island, as he walked through the market.  With 237 million people, Indonesia’s success has added to
Bali’s boom. The $707 billion economy expanded twice as fast as
global output since 2008. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
targets average growth of as much as 6.6 percent through 2014.
Domestic travelers to the island increased 32 percent last year
to 4.6 million.  Potato Head  Ronald Akili, 29, opened the Potato Head Beach Club
restaurant complex in Bali in December, building on a branch in
the Indonesian capital started in 2008. The Jakarta native
expects to complete an all-suite hotel nearby in two years.  “We thought Bali would be the perfect stepping stone to
show the national and international audience our concept,”
Akili said in an e-mail. “The traffic of the domestic market
coming to Bali has increased tremendously.”  Beachfront property in the most popular locations costs
more than 7.5 million rupiah ($839) a square meter, according
to Bali-based property agency Elite Havens. That’s nearly
double the price of residential land in Sydney,  Australia ’s
biggest city, according to the Housing Industry Association in
Canberra.  ‘Half Their Brain’  “Bali has this attraction, this image,” for holiday-home
buyers, said Ingo Mueller, a partner with Bangkok-based law
firm Limcharoen, Hughes & Glanville, who moved to the island in
2009. “It’s more an emotional thing than a purely rational
investment. They leave half their brain at the airport.”  For those who come to live on the island, many now are in
the resources industry, said Shane Menere, head of investment
at  Far East Resources Fund Ltd. , after dropping his daughter at
the Bali International School in Sanur in the south.  “You get a lot of mine workers, electricians and contract
administrators, drill rig operators, because Indonesia’s so
rich in resources,” said Menere, 41, who moved his family from
 Brisbane , Australia, last year after tiring of twice-monthly
trips to Jakarta. “I certainly have no intention of going back
to Australia. I love Bali.”  Back in the bars and clubs around the beach resorts,
Australians keep arriving, even after 88 of the country’s
citizens died in the 2002 bombings, taking advantage of an
Australian dollar that touched 9,425.09 Indonesian rupiah in
May, the strongest level since July 1998. The Aussie traded at
9,023.61 rupiah at 9:20 p.m. in Sydney.  Sewage Smell  On a recent Friday night at Ku De Ta bar on Seminyak beach,
hundreds of tourists, wealthy Indonesians and expatriates
gathered to watch the sunset and sip 110,000 rupiah ($12)
cocktails, three times the average daily earnings of the
Balinese, as the smell of sewage wafted in from the sea.  “It’s just taking the money, short-term thinking,” said
Michael Pohorly, a representative with 61 Legian, which owns a
complex of bars and clubs across the street from the site of
the 2002 blasts. “The rice fields have been in existence for
thousands of years, and when they’re gone, they’re gone. All of
a sudden, Bali might be paved over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  