-- 
Banesto Profit Drops 83% on Defaults, Higher Funding Costs

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-10-11T16:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/banesto-9m-profit-falls-34-percent-to-eu298-million.html
Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a
Spanish retail banking unit of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , said profit
plunged 83 percent in the third quarter as loan impairments and
funding costs climbed.  Quarterly profit fell to 11.59 million euros ($15.8
million) from 68.9 million euros a year ago, the bank said in a
filing today. Earnings trailed the 56.4 million-euro average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  Banesto, the first Spanish lender to report earnings for
the period, said “the most direct impact” on its accounts had
been costlier wholesale financing. Spanish banks have faced
surging costs as  Europe ’s debt crisis drives up the price they
pay for financing while a darkening outlook for the country’s
economy threatens to further delay any recovery in loan quality.  “The weaker activity of the banks is a negative for the
economy,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International
in  Madrid , who rates Banesto “buy.” He noted that Banesto’s
smaller balance sheet was hurting revenue.  The bank’s loan book shrank 7 percent from a year earlier
and deposits diminished 13 percent.  Net interest income dropped 14 percent to 361.7 million
euros from 421.9 million euros a year ago, the Madrid-based bank
said. Provisions to cover impairments climbed to 185.9 million
euros from 106.2 million euros a year earlier, as the ratio of
bad loans to total loans rose to 4.65 percent from 4.39 percent
in June and 3.8 percent a year ago.  Weak Demand  The slump in lending was due to weak demand and the
“current environment of greater credit and liquidity risk,”
the bank said. Banesto’s retail funding base shrank as it
refrained from renewing all the deposits it gathered in a
campaign begun in the second quarter of last year.  Banesto’s core capital ratio reached 9 percent in
September, allowing the bank to meet its target for the year.
The lender said its ability to generate liquidity means it can
cover debt maturities through 2012.  There’s little reason to suspect that the outlook for
Banesto’s earnings will change much going into the fourth
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Garcia Cantera
told reporters at a news conference in Madrid today. “The
restoration of credit in  Spain  must come from the normalization
of the wholesale debt markets,” he said.  Banesto shares rose 1.2 percent in Madrid to close at 4.61
euros, paring earlier losses of as much as 1.7 percent and
trimming this year’s declines to 26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  