-- 
Bangkok Residents Prepare for Flood Crisis

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-12T02:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bangkok-residents-prepare-for-flood-crisis-.html
Thailand ’s worst floods in more than
50 years threaten to overwhelm barriers protecting Bangkok later
this week, said Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who
urged residents in the capital to be prepared.  “We have to admit that we are in crisis,” Kittiratt told
reporters in Bangkok yesterday. “Everybody must be prepared and
can’t be complacent. You should prepare what you will do and
where you will be.”  Floodwaters have swept across 60 of Thailand’s 77 provinces
over the past two months, killing at least 281 people and
swamping factories operated by Nidec Corp,. Honda Motor Co. and
Canon Inc. The  finance ministry  this week cut its forecast for
economic growth to 3.7 percent from 4 percent and said the
disaster may cost 120 billion baht ($3.9 billion).  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has urged officials to
complete work on three additional flood barriers and five more
canals over the next week to drain water from the capital before
 high tides  peak on Oct. 17.  “We won’t give up,” Yingluck said yesterday. “We will do
everything we can because it’s better than doing nothing.”  Oct. 16 through Oct. 18 is the highest risk period for
Bangkok, with low-lying areas near Suvarnabhumi airport and
communities next to the river and canals the most vulnerable,
the city’s Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra said this week.
Officials are shoring up flood walls, preparing evacuation plans
and readying medical supplies, he said.  ‘Protect the City’  “The government will do its best to protect the city, but
we can only build the barrier,” said Kittiratt, who last week
described the deluge as the worst in at least 50 years. “If the
water level exceeds the barrier, there is a chance the inner
part of Bangkok will be flooded.”  Bangkok’s flood-defense efforts are focused on the Chao
Phraya river, whose banks are lined with luxury hotels including
the Peninsula, the  Shangri-La  and the Oriental, as well as the
Bank of Thailand.  “We have increased the number of sandbags put in place to
prevent water infiltration,” said Rashana Pimolsindh, a
spokeswoman for Shangri-La Hotel Pcl. “There are several water
pumps on standby at various points in the hotel.”  Shangri-La 
received 20 cancellations in the past few days, and the hotel
has an occupancy rate of 50 percent, she said yesterday.  Travel warnings have been issued by 21 countries including
the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Spain , the Nation newspaper reported,
citing an unidentified foreign affairs ministry official.  Panic Buying  Bangkok authorities urged consumers to avoid panic buying
after some supermarkets ran out of dry goods including rice and
noodles.  “The situation is nowhere near crisis proportion just yet
where food and water are concerned,” said Sukhumbhand, the
Bangkok governor. “Major arteries to transport all these things
to Bangkok are still open, so I hope it’s just temporary.”  Flood damage outside Bangkok disrupted deliveries to some
supermarkets in the capital, said Saofang Ekaluckrujee, senior
corporate affairs manager at Ek-Chai Distribution System Co.,
which operates Tesco Lotus hypermarkets in Thailand.  Efforts to divert water away from the capital and speed
drainage may help Bangkok escape widespread flooding, Wim
Rungwattanajinda, a spokesman for the national flood center,
said by phone yesterday.  “I think there is a 90 percent chance that Bangkok will
not be inundated,” Wim said. “We have monitored water levels
around the clock to assess if the barriers can prevent floods.
If they can’t, we will provide warnings.”  Factories Swamped  The disaster may cut economic growth by 1 percentage point
to 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter, increasing the likelihood
that the central bank may cut  interest rates  by as much as 50
basis points by year-end to aid reconstruction efforts, HSBC
Holdings Plc said in a reported dated Oct. 10.  In Ayutthaya, 67 kilometers (42 miles) north of Bangkok,
floodwaters shut down the Rojana Industrial Park, a base for
companies making automotive and electronics parts. The 198
plants have a combined investment value of 56 billion baht, and
a total workforce of 90,000, said Suparp Kleekhajai, the vice
industry minister.  Hundreds of Honda cars were damaged when dikes failed at
the Rojana park, where the company produces as many 240,000
vehicles a year, Pitak Pruittisarikorn, executive vice president
of Honda’s Thai unit, said this week.  Panasonic, Toyota  Panasonic Corp., Pioneer Corp., Omron Corp., Nikon and
Nidec are among Japanese companies that have said they’re
suspending operations at plants in Thailand because of the
inundation.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest carmaker, closed three
factories in the country, Amiko Tomita, a spokeswoman for the
company, said yesterday. The company operates a plant in Samut
Prakarn province, southeast of Bangkok, and two in Chachoengsao
province east of the capital, according to its website.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  suspended production in Thailand for 48
hours yesterday to assess inventory and logistics because
suppliers in Ayutthaya were forced to halt operations, the
company said. Ford’s own factory in Rayong province hasn’t been
affected by flooding, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company said.  Ayutthaya “is beyond a crisis,” with floodwaters up to 3
meters deep in some areas, said the flood center’s Wim.  Seasonal storms have affected more than six million people
in  Southeast Asia  and claimed a further 224 lives in  Cambodia ,
 Vietnam  and the  Philippines , the  United Nations  said last week.
Monsoons across Asia last month generated about $7 billion of
losses, including $1.1 billion in Thailand, Aon Benfield, a
reinsurer, said in a report on Oct. 5.  “We are afraid Bangkok may be flooded” when  high tides 
peak on Oct. 17, Defense Minister Yuthasak Sasiprapa said
yesterday. “No one can guarantee whether it will be flooded or
not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  