-- 
Banks Woo Top Customers With Cheap Cash From Credit-Card Checks

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-10-11T14:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/banks-woo-top-customers-with-cheap-cash-from-credit-card-transfer-checks.html
The four biggest U.S. banks are
encouraging their most creditworthy customers to take on more
debt, mailing credit-card balance-transfer offers with rates as
low as zero percent even as they add fees for other services.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, is
offering some customers a teaser rate of zero percent plus
transaction fees through June 2012. Customers who receive the
promotions with balance-transfer checks may deposit the checks
to use like a short-term loan, rather than paying off a balance
at another financial institution. There is a one-time fee of $10
or 4 percent, whichever is greater, per transfer, according to
the terms reviewed by Bloomberg News.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are sending similar
promotions.  The offers come as the banks add fees for checking accounts
to make up for lost revenue from federal rules on debit-card
swipe charges. The rates may be a good deal for customers who
can precisely follow the terms, as the average rate for an
unsecured personal loan is 13.96 percent, said  Greg McBride ,
senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com, which provides
consumer rate data.  “It’s a pretty inexpensive way to use other people’s
money,” McBride said.  Transaction Fee  Some customers of JPMorgan, the second largest lender, who
receive such offers may write a balance-transfer check to
themselves for as much as $5,000 to take out a zero percent loan
for as many as 15 billing cycles. Citigroup, the third largest,
is offering some customers 0.99 percent on balance transfers
through February 2013. Existing customers may deposit balance-
transfer checks into their bank accounts to use as cash,
according to the terms reviewed by Bloomberg News.  There’s a one-time fee of $5 or 3 percent, whichever is
greater, per transaction, according to Citigroup’s terms. Wells
Fargo is extending similar offers at rates from zero percent to
6.9 percent, according to spokeswoman Lisa Westermann, who
declined to provide further details citing proprietary concerns.  Customers should avoid such transfers unless they’re sure
they can meet all minimum monthly payments and pay off the
balance in full before the promotional rate expires, said  Travis Plunkett , legislative director of the  Consumer Federation of
America , which advocates for consumers.  Rate Jump  The Bank of America offer jumps to 22.99 percent at the end
of the teaser-rate period in June, and the Citigroup promotion
switches to 14.99 percent on unpaid balances in February 2013.  “It looks like they’re giving away the farm,” with the
offers, said Ben Woolsey, director of marketing and consumer
research for CreditCards.com. “On the small percentage of
people who don’t pay it off on time, they make a killing.”  Investors who had a  credit line  large enough to write a
$20,000 balance-transfer check for zero percent to cash and
invested the proceeds in the average long-term U.S. government-
bond mutual fund over the last three months could have earned
more than $4,000, after accounting for up-front transfer fees of
4 percent, according to average bond-fund returns from
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The Vanguard Long-Term Treasury Fund returned
22.33 percent for the three months through Oct. 7, for a
possible gain of almost $3,500 after fees, for example.  The balance-transfer rates are competitive with a home-
equity line of credit and require less paperwork, said McBride
of Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc. The average rate on a
$30,000 home-equity line of credit was 5.42 percent as of Oct.
5, according to Bankrate.  “The ease of use is really the key selling point,”
McBride said. Banks are likely only making the offers to
customers with top credit scores, he said.  Credit Histories  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  has been sending balance-
transfer checks with teaser rates to some of its “more
creditworthy” existing customers and those clients may deposit
the money in their bank accounts or use it for other purposes,
said spokeswoman Pam Girardo.  Bank of America’s balance-transfer offers are generally
sent to customers with better credit histories, said Betty Riess, a spokeswoman. She declined to specify the average size
of their lines of credit.  Banks have been sending more balance-transfer mailings to
prospects in addition to existing customers, said Woolsey of
CreditCards.com. In the six months through August, about 71
percent of credit-card offers to potential new customers came
with teaser rates on transfers, compared with 66 percent of
mailings in the same period last year, according to Mintel
Comperemedia, which tracks marketing trends.  Margin Loans  Customers with significant financial assets may be able to
find better rates using margin loans against their portfolios,
said Cathy Jameson, a managing director of Silvercrest Asset
Management Group, a New York-based investment adviser and family
office whose clients generally have $5 million or more in
investable assets.  Jameson’s clients are able to access margin loans on their
investment portfolios for as little as 1 percent and have used
the loans to pay for home improvements, she said.  “There’s definitely cheaper money around, assuming that
people have access to it,” Jameson said.  One client pays about 50 basis points for margin loans to
purchase “recreational equipment” that he then leases, said
Jeffrey Thomasson, chief executive officer of Oxford Financial
Group Ltd., an investment adviser and family office based in
Carmel,  Indiana , which oversees more than $16 billion. He
declined to say what the client buys for confidentiality
reasons. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Reliance on Cards  Margin trading is regulated by the Federal Reserve, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and securities
exchanges, and many brokerage firms have margin requirements
that are stricter than what regulators require. The loans are
generally made by securities firms to investors and use
financial assets such as stocks and bonds as collateral.  Consumers have been increasing their reliance on credit
cards to pay for staples such as groceries, said Silvio Tavares,
senior vice president of global information and analytics at
First Data Corp., a payments processor that tracks trends among
payment types. Consumers spent 6.8 percent more on their credit
cards at food and beverage stores in August compared with a year
earlier, he said.  “There are small but important indicators that there might
be an increase in unsustainable credit-card debt,” said
Plunkett of the Consumer Federation.  New Fees  Banks are struggling to replace lost fee revenue. About 45
percent of U.S. customers’ checking accounts are free, compared
with about 65 percent last year, with an average monthly fee on
non-interest-bearing accounts of $4.37 a month, according to a
study released in September by Bankrate.  Bank of America next year plans to start charging some
debit-card users a monthly fee of $5 for making purchases with
their cards. Wells Fargo plans to test a $3 monthly debit-card
usage fee among certain customers starting Oct. 14. JPMorgan
began testing a $3 monthly fee for certain customers with debit
cards in two states in February.  Citigroup plans to raise monthly fees on its Basic Checking
accounts to $10 from $8, which customers may avoid by
maintaining a $1,500 minimum balance combined in their checking
and savings accounts or by making certain transactions.  Since Oct. 1, banks may receive no more than 21 cents per
transaction plus 5 basis points of the purchase price for debit-
card transactions, according to a rule issued by the  Federal
Reserve  in June.  Lost Revenue  That rule will cost the industry about $6.6 billion
annually in lost revenue and comes on top of about $5.6 billion
in yearly losses from rules that took effect last year
prohibiting the companies from automatically enrolling customers
in overdraft-protection programs, said Beth Robertson, director
of payments research for Javelin Strategy & Research, a market-
research firm.  “It’s driving banks to try to move more customers into
using credit more regularly,” Robertson said of the debit-fee
cap. “It’s more profitable for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 