-- 
Before Republican Debate, a Dozen Questions on the Economy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-11T00:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/before-republicans-dartmouth-debate-a-dozen-questions-on-economy-view.html
Tonight’s Bloomberg News-Washington
Post Republican presidential  debate  at  Dartmouth College  will
focus on the economy. Previous debates have provided insight
into the candidates’ abilities to think on their feet, and have
exposed fissures within the party, but tonight’s gathering
provides the first real chance to quiz the candidates at length
about their economic views.  Although editorials should aspire to answer questions, the
Dartmouth debate gives us the happy opportunity to ask a few.
Given the breadth and depth of the economic challenges in the
U.S. and around the world, it’s not a moment too soon.  1. Many business owners say there is insufficient demand
for their products or services. Does the economy suffer from a
lack of demand? How would you address that?  2. We import about $25 billion a month of Chinese goods.
 China , in turn, owns more than $1 trillion of U.S. Treasury
securities. Is that relationship sustainable, and what, if
anything, would you do to change it?  3. Do you trust an independent  Federal Reserve  to control
monetary policy? What should the Fed be doing, and why?  4. The sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  continues to exert a
drag on European growth, with uncertainty about the strength of
 Greece  and other economies raising risks for banks and investors
around the world, including those in the U.S. What should be
done to contain, and ultimately resolve, the crisis in Europe?  5. The top 1 percent of U.S. households now possesses more
than one-third of the nation’s private wealth, and that share
has been steadily growing. Is inequality a problem?  6. Protesters on  Wall Street  and elsewhere are expressing
frustration with joblessness, corporate bailouts, inequality and
other concerns. Are these grievances legitimate, or are they
merely crude expression of “class warfare,” as some of you have
maintained?  7. Would you support a revenue-neutral  tax  reform that:
makes the system more efficient by eliminating loopholes and
deductions; lowers marginal rates; reduces taxes for most
Americans while raising them on some high-income earners?  8. Economic growth in the U.K. has stalled since the
government introduced  austerity measures  -- primarily spending
cuts -- to reduce its  budget deficit . Does the U.K. experience
offer any lessons for U.S. policy making?  9. The biggest economic booms of recent decades, under
Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton , were both preceded by
tax increases. How does the current Republican orthodoxy -- that
tax increases are always “job killers” -- account for that fact?  10. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates that, without
tax increases, the U.S. would have to cut 17 percent of gross
domestic product -- equal to two-thirds of the federal budget --
to reduce debt to a more sustainable level by 2030. Do you
believe spending cuts alone can accomplish this? If so, which
two-thirds of the budget would you eliminate?  11. Many economists believe that excessive mortgage debt is
undermining economic recovery. Should Congress require  Fannie
Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and banks to reduce the principal that
mortgage-holders owe and write down their loans? Or should
mortgage borrowers continue to shoulder the consequences of
their own behavior?  12. Is there any fiscal or monetary policy that you believe
would help create jobs, or should the government simply stop
trying?  We are as aware as anyone that we no longer live in a
Lincoln-Douglas age. But we are also aware that these are
perilous times, that the economy is the primary source of this
peril and that the capacity to engage in a nuanced and complex
discussion of economic issues is a requirement for the next
president.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 