-- 
Billionaires Sail Luxury Icebreakers Through Post-Lehman Waters

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-10-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/billionaires-sail-luxury-icebreakers-in-post-lehman-seas-a-craig-copetas.html
Cool piped jazz floats over the
luxury icebreaker Ulysses as Brian Carver wheels the five-story
megayacht away from the sound of Cristal Champagne corks firing
along the  Monaco  coast.  “This is not a marina ship,” says Carver, skipper of the
196-foot, 49 million euro ($66.9 million) expedition vessel that
can tackle polar waters as easily as lay anchor for months along
the uppermost reaches of the  Amazon River . “Ulysses is a luxury
yacht designed to avoid what’s happening on land.”  The decommissioned U.S. Navy submarine lashed to the
foredeck provides an underwater getaway for six people.  Other isolationist perks aboard the ship named after the
Ancient Greek mariner who got lost in a sea of troubles include
a retractable helicopter pad and a 180,000 gallon diesel tank
that costs around $700,000 to fill. That’s ample fuel for more
than 6,000 nautical miles, and enough power to ensure the
yacht’s four quantum-zero stabilizers allow guests to continue
playing pool in a storm and not tilt the Batman pinball machine.  Those interested in this example of the future of luxury
superyachting should contact billionaire owner  Graeme Hart ,
managing director of the private-equity firm Rank Group Ltd. in
Auckland,  New Zealand .  Elite Armada  It has been three years since the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers  triggered the worst fiscal crisis following the Great
Depression and a gust of fear among the armada of giga-yachtsmen
who each September sail into the  Monaco Yacht Show  to preen and
prance their monstrous vessels for sale. Time and  Europe ’s
multibillion-dollar credit calamity have not been kind to them.  Everything anchored in Monaco was on fire sale. The pitch
aboard My Trust, a floating dockside city state selling at a
distressed 23.95 million euros, includes a black-and-white loop
video of Dean Martin singing happy songs from the 1940s. The
tune that wafts from a passing 120-foot luxury ketch in need of
a paint job is Shirley Temple chirping “On the Good Ship
Lollipop,” an anthem from the Great Depression.  There are 450 private vessels that bow-to-stern stretch
beyond 200 feet, according to the  Camper & Nicholsons  2011
Superyachting Index. That doesn’t mean their owners have found
Peppermint Bay. As Patrick Coote tells it, the only sailors with
the bankroll to keep the luxury-yacht market afloat are Russian,
Chinese, Brazilian and old-money Europeans, and most of them
want to navigate away from marina life.  “An ice-class megayacht is the solution,” says Coote,
marketing director of  Fraser Yachts . “New buyers want the
ability to smack into any sort of iceberg and not do a Titanic.”  Discreet Players  For the middlemen charged with making the sale in
treacherous post-Lehman waters, discretion is often more
important than vanity.  “Many owners don’t want to be seen near their expensive
toys,” says Pascal Wiscour-Conter, chief executive officer of
ItMovesIt SA, a Monaco-based  software company  that specializes
in managing the between 20,000-to-160,000 housekeeping documents
annually required to keep private Gulfstreams in the air and
superships at sea.  “Explorer yachts like Ulysses cater to the new expectations
of high net-worth individuals in a troubled global economy,”
says Wiscour-Counter, who has managed three explorer megayachts
during his 20-year nautical career. “An ice-class vessel is more
luxurious and more anonymous than any bling yacht. They’re also
bigger inside, which means they can carry more stuff and avoid
the need for a ghost ship.”  Ghost Ship  Although Wiscour-Conter says the financial chaos of 2008
compelled the rich to downsize their vessels and not attract the
attention of tax authorities or judicial investigators looking
to seize potentially questionable assets, it didn’t mean they’d
stop pulling into port on a whim to buy a Picasso or a Porsche.  “We had a client on a 115-foot luxury yacht,” Wiscour-
Conter says. “Three days into the voyage, the client had already
berthed at three ports and bought 2 million euros worth of
merchandise. But the boat was too small to carry the load, so we
had to arrange for a ghost ship and crew to follow with the
client’s shopping.”  Luxury icebreakers avoid the need for illusion.  “These yachts have no appeal for the guy who turns up
stern-to-dock so people can watch him eating caviar,” says
Burgess Yachts CEO Jonathan Beckett, who marquees his fleet of
150 vessels as “the superyacht superpower.”  Beckett accepts a cappuccino from a steward aboard
Cakewalk, Burgess’s 280-foot superstar and on sale for 152
million euros. Cakewalk is a mighty ship. Yet the only ice she
can crush comes from the lounge bar.  Explorer Yachts  “Someone will eventually buy Cakewalk,” Beckett says. “But
the future is the self-sufficient explorer yacht, with fuel
tanks and provision stores for owners who are allergic to
marinas.”  Beckett leans back on the sofa and lays out the monetary
dynamics of 21st-century superyachting: “There are no more than
25 people in the world who can afford a yacht in the 200
million-to-300 million euro range,” he says. “It’s more
interesting in the 100 million-to-200 million euro range because
we have hundreds of potential buyers.”  Fraser Yachts CEO Hein Velema adds the caveat emptor. “I’m
a little nervous about the global economic situation,” he says.
“Americans are not ready to commit to buying a yacht.”  Yet Beckett says the dearth of U.S. cash on deck for
Burgess superyachts in excess of 150 feet is more than made up
for by the Chinese market. “There are right now 2,500
superyachts in the world,” Beckett says. “And there are right
now 10,000 people in  China  with the money to buy one.”  Luxury Refit  Beckett reckons some 100 explorer yachts have set sail
since Lehman sunk. “More of them are on the way,” he says.
“They’re a deal, particularly for Americans. We can purchase a
used commercial ice-class or similar vessel for, say, 750,000
euros and then give it a 30 million euro refit into a luxury
vessel with more decks, head space and range than anything on
display in Monaco. That’s the trending global market.”  Luxury-icebreaker extras on offer in Monaco include the
 Jetlev Flyer , a self-contained 129,000 euro carbon-fiber
backpack that uses a 225-horsepower water nozzle to launch
passengers on a 180-minute, 35 kilometer-an-hour journey at an
altitude of 33 feet. Escape pods provide serenity. The
discerning prefer the $60,000  SeaJet Capsule , which resembles a
gigantic escargot with a propulsion system. It lets passengers
“look cool, fast and rich at the same time,” says SeaJet
designer Pierpaolo Lazzarini.  Modern trinkets do little to enhance the 164-foot Shandor.
Originally built in 1986 for  Fiat SpA (F)  Chairman Gianni Agnelli,
the 8 million euro refit vessel, with a 100,000-liter fuel tank
and a range of 5,600 nautical miles, is Jurassic in comparison
to the 370-foot icebreaker Le Grand Bleu. Built for U.S.
cellular-network tycoon John McCaw Jr. in 2000 for $90 million,
Beckett 4 years later brokered the ship to Russian billionaire
Roman Abramovich for an undisclosed amount.  Abramovich Gift  In 2006, Abramovich presented Le Grand Bleu to his friend
Eugene Shvidler as a gift, leaving the oil tycoon’s Barcelona-
based Ocean Group fleet without a luxury expedition vessel.  “Abramovich has the biggest luxury yacht in the world, the
557-foot Eclipse,” Wiscour-Conter says of the ship that’s 176
feet shorter than the Lusitania and cost an estimated 800
million euros to build. Unlike the fabled paquebot that fell
victim to a German U-boat off Ireland in 1915, Eclipse features
an array of torpedo and missile defense systems.  “Le Grand Bleu changing hands is a significant development
in the competitive world of superyacht owners,” Wiscour-Conter
explains. “Now the only cost-effective way to out-Abramovich
Abramovich is to own a luxury icebreaker.”  Jet Eurocopter  The Norwegian superyacht company Palmer Johnson Yachts LLC
has risen to the occasion. It’s called the  PJ World , a 269-foot
luxury ice crusher that’s six stories tall and priced at 135
million euros, not including the 35 million euro all-weather
jet-powered Eurocopter. The steel-hull vessel, which can travel
more than 10,000 nautical miles on a tank of gas, has a 200-
square-meter master suite, a country-club-sized swimming pool,
eight guest cabins and a 29-member crew.  “PJ World launches next year and we don’t yet have a
buyer,” says Palmer Johnson salesman Mauricio Weiszberger. “We
took a big risk and built her on spec to capture the market
that’s on the horizon.”  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 