-- 
Boeing Army Radio Program Said to Face Termination for Cost

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-11T21:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/boeing-army-radio-program-said-to-face-termination-by-pentagon.html
The U.S. Defense Department’s acting
chief weapons buyer is likely to terminate  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s top Army
radio program and open it to competition, according to
government personnel familiar with the decision.  Acting Undersecretary for  Acquisition  Frank Kendall is
looking at cancellation of what was once a $19.5 billion program
to produce over 86,000 “ground mobile radios,” according to
four people who declined to be identified because the decision
isn’t final.  The Pentagon’s notification to Congress is due by Oct. 14,
and may come in the form of a letter from Kendall specifying
whether continuing the program is vital to national security.
Certification is required by law because the Army in May said
the program’s unit cost had increased by 50 percent.  The Boeing radio is the most expensive model in the Joint
Tactical Radio System, a family of digital radios conceived by
the Army in 1997 and still in development. The program had
repeated delays, cost overruns and performance shortfalls,
according to government auditors.  Boeing Network and Tactical System spokesman Matthew
Billingsley said the company won’t comment until it receives
Pentagon notification. Kendall’s spokeswoman, Air Force
Lieutenant Colonel Melinda Morgan, said his office had no
immediate comment.  The radio program will be restructured and opened to
competition with the intent to lower costs, said two of the
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Decreased Program  The Army in May decreased the number of Ground Mobile
Radios it planned to buy to 10,293 from 86,209, citing
cancellation of the service’s top land power program, the Future
Combat System, who was by then Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  That reduction caused the radio’s unit price to rise by
more than 50 percent, triggering the cost reporting law. The
Army hasn’t released its most current assessment of the radio,
which was scrutinized this year in a six-week Network
Integration Evaluation field exercise at  Fort Bliss ,  Texas , and
White Sands Missile Range,  New Mexico , with other JTRS radios.  In a systems integration test last year, the radio
“continued to demonstrate deficiencies” it had in 2009,
including difficulty establishing a network and low message
completion rates, the Pentagon’s director of operational testing
reported.  Army Brigadier General Michael Williamson, who heads the
office that oversees the Boeing radio program and other joint
radio systems, said he didn’t know of Kendall’s plans.  “It would be disingenuous for me to tell you that I’m not
anxious to hear,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg News.  “We want the capability that radio delivers,” Williamson
said. “But what we have a problem with is the cost per radio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  