-- 
Bombardier May Decide by Year-End on Jet Venture With Comac, Hachey Says

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-10-11T22:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bombardier-against-a-wall-on-timetable-for-new-cseries-hachey-says.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  hopes to decide by
the end of 2011 whether to move ahead on a potential partnership
with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China on narrow-body jets, the
head of the Canadian company’s aerospace unit said.  The two companies are working through a memorandum of
understanding to see how they might share features between
Bombardier’s planned CSeries and the Chinese maker’s C919,  Guy Hachey  said Oct. 11 in  Las Vegas . The planes are being built
with similar materials, so there may be opportunities in
purchasing components and working with suppliers, he said.  Planemakers such as Montreal-based Bombardier and Comac, as
the Chinese company is known, are developing models that compete
with Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest commercial-
aircraft manufacturers. The C919 will be larger than the
CSeries, so those models would be complementary rather than
competitive, Hachey said in an interview.  Bombardier, the world’s third-biggest maker of commercial
aircraft, has five teams working on the potential tie-up, he
said. Sales, marketing and distribution, as well as long-term
product development, are also areas of interest for cooperation
with Shanghai-based Comac, Hachey said.  The company isn’t considering offering an equity stake to
Chinese investors, said Hachey, who spoke at a meeting with
analysts and journalists.  ‘Against a Wall’  The Bombardier executive said the company is pressing to
meet its timetable for the CSeries to enter service in 2013. The
top areas of concern are the fly-by-wire cockpit controls, the
avionics, the electrical system, the composite wing and the
fuselage that’s being built in  China , Hachey told the analysts
and journalists.  “We’ve used up a lot of our contingency in terms of time,
so we are up against a wall in terms of meeting our schedule,”
he said. “I don’t see a major miss, if we do have a miss.”  Bombardier is learning from the years of delays to Boeing’s
new 787 Dreamliner and Airbus’s A380 superjumbo jet and A350,
Hachey said in an interview. Those larger companies have
struggled with new materials, technology and manufacturing
systems being used with their latest models.  “I don’t feel in any way that we’re in the same basket as
those programs, but are we under pressure? Absolutely,” Hachey
said in the interview. “What we’re trying to do is create an
enormous amount of transparency so that we’re all aware, so that
our people are trained in risk management and also not afraid to
tell us if there’s an issue, so we can deal with it.”  Keeping to Schedule  The CSeries will be “wildly successful,” he said at the
meeting, held during a National Business Aviation Association
conference. He reiterated that the CSeries is on track for its
maiden flight by the end of 2012 and first delivery, to a yet-
undisclosed customer, by the end of 2013.  Bombardier’s aerospace unit accounted for 49 percent of
revenue in the year that ended in January.  Bombardier forecast that the industry will need 7,000
planes in the CSeries-sized segment of the market -- 100 to 149
seats -- during the next 20 years. The CSeries will compete
against the Airbus A319neo and the Boeing 737-700 MAX, the
smallest models offered by those rivals.  “We’ve been able to get the lion’s share of every order in
that segment,” he said. “People were saying it’s a paper
plane, you’ll never get it done. As we get closer, we’re
dispelling that.”  Airbus and Boeing are responding to increased competition
from Bombardier, Comac and others by offering new, more fuel-
efficient engines with their planned neo and MAX derivatives,
being developed now.  Timing Advantage  While some potential customers are waiting to place orders
until they know more details about the 737 MAX, which Chicago-
based Boeing is still completing, Bombardier still has an
advantage in terms of timing, Hachey said.  The CSeries’ planned entry into service will be two years
ahead of Toulouse, France-based Airbus’s A320neo, due at the end
of 2015, and about four years ahead of the 737 MAX, which Boeing
plans to begin delivering in 2017.  The Bombardier plane’s CS100 model has a list price of
$58.3 million, while the larger CS300 sells for $66.6 million.
Airlines typically negotiate discounts.  Hachey said he’s spending most of his time now on the
CSeries, after  Gary Scott , president of Bombardier’s commercial-
aircraft business, retired Oct. 1 to help an ill family member.
Hachey said he hopes to name a replacement by Christmas.  He said he’s not too worried about the areas of concern
that Bombardier has identified for the CSeries “because we know
about them, so we’re making contingency plans.”  “It’s the ones we don’t know that will bite us that I’m
most worried about,” he said. “As we get closer to first
flight those will start popping up, but hopefully they won’t be
too major.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  