-- 
Bonds Show 60% Odds of Recession

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-11T14:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bonds-showing-60-chance-of-recession-with-bernanke-behind-curve-for-bofa.html
The bond market indicator that has
predicted every U.S. recession since 1970 shows that the economy
has about a 60 percent chance of contracting within 12 months.  The so-called Treasury yield curve, adjusted for
distortions caused by the Federal Reserve’s record low zero to
0.25 percent target interest rate for overnight loans between
banks, shows that two-year notes yield 20 basis points, or 0.20
percentage point, less than five-year notes, according to Bank
of America Corp. research. The unadjusted gap of 79 basis points
at the end of last week indicates the chance of recession at
about 15 percent.  Short-term rates have been higher than longer-term yields,
or inverted, before each of the seven recessions since 1970. A
contraction would make it harder for U.S. President  Barack Obama 
to reduce unemployment, which has held at or above 9 percent
every month except two since May 2009, including a reading of
9.1 percent in September. It may also help bolster Treasuries
and keep yields near all-time lows.  “The adjusted curve is giving a powerful signal for an
upcoming U.S. recession,” said Ruslan Bikbov, a fixed-income
strategist in New York at Bank of America, one of the 22 primary
dealers of U.S. government securities that trade with the Fed.
“If that happens, the Fed’s target rate could remain near zero
beyond 2014,” more than a year longer than the central bank has
indicated, he said in an interview on Oct. 3.  ‘Close to Faltering’  Bank of America’s research is sending the same message as
the Economic Cycle Research Institute and  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, which say the U.S. may be headed
into a decline. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week in
testimony to Congress that the central bank can take further
steps to sustain a recovery that’s “close to faltering” after
almost three-years of near-zero interest rates and $2.35
trillion of bond purchases.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its forecasts for the U.S. last month, saying the $15
trillion economy likely grew 1.1 percent in the third quarter
and will expand just 0.4 percent in the fourth.  Data last week showed some signs of strength, damping the
appeal of government debt. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index climbed to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said Oct. 3. A level of 50 is the
dividing line between growth and contraction. The median
forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop to 50.5.  Yields Rise  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 16 basis
points last week to 2.08 percent, the biggest gain since it
increased 32 basis points in the period ended July 1. The yield
is up from 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23, the lowest since at least
1953. The two-year note yield ended last week at 0.29 percent,
and the five-year security’s at 1.08 percent.  Ten-year notes yields rose to 2.17 percent as of 10:28 a.m.
in  New York , while two-year rates were 0.30 percent and five-
year notes yielded 1.15 percent.  Yields on five-year Treasuries exceed two-year notes by 83
basis points. While that is above the low this year of 58 on
Sept. 22, the gap has shrunk from a high of 156 on Feb. 10.  The difference would be even narrower if not for the fact
that interest rates can’t fall below zero, the current low
absolute level of yields and the relatively high volatility in
bond markets, according to Bank of America. The bank’s
forecasting model removes these conditions, allowing it to
better compare the current yield curve with that of past periods
of slow economic growth.  BofA Outlook  Bank of America sees 10-year note yields at 2.3 percent by
year-end, and two-year yields at 0.2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The yield curve wouldn’t really invert now due to
technical reasons, mainly as most banks’ models don’t allow
projections of  interest rates  in the future to be zero or
below,” said London-based Moorad Choudhry, head of business
treasury, global banking and markets at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in an interview on Oct. 4. “These are special
circumstances, with the Fed’s target rate at zero.”  The Fed cut its benchmark rate to near zero in December
2008 after a housing boom turned into a subprime-mortgage bust,
driving Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy three
months earlier and freezing global credit markets. The economy
slipped into a recession at that time that lasted 18 months
before a recovery began.  Another Recession?  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., another primary dealer, puts the
odds of another recession at 40 percent, the firm’s economists
wrote in an Oct. 3 report. Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of
fixed-income strategy at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in an
Oct. 4 note that their bond valuation model, using the firm’s
most recent economic forecasts, now indicates 10-year Treasury
yields will end the year at 2.7 percent from a previous 3.1
percent level. Given the model’s projections combined with other
factors, Garzarelli predicts 10-year yields will end 2011 at
2.25 percent, compared with a previous estimate of 2.75 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists said in an Oct. 7 report
that they see “a soft growth picture, but one that is not
falling into recession at the moment.” The firm, also a primary
dealer, forecasts the 10-year note yield will end the year at
2.25 percent.  “We are in a world of lower growth expectations, but that
said, the long end of the curve is actually too flat now
relative to where it should be,” said Srini Ramaswamy, a New
York-based analyst on JPMorgan’s fixed-income research team.
“Given our models, which factor in our expectations for things
including economic growth, we find the recent flattening of the
yield curve as overdone,” he said in an Oct. 4 telephone
interview.  Narrower Spread  The difference in yields between 10- and 30-year
Treasuries, the area Ramaswamy is referring to, was 92 basis
points, down from this year’s peak of 147 on Aug. 12. The 30-
year yield plunged below 3 percent last month for the first time
since 2009, before touching 3.06 percent today.  Three-month Treasury bill rates have topped 10-year yields
eight times since 1960, with recessions following in six of
those cases. There hasn’t been a contraction that wasn’t
preceded by a so-called inverted curve in that period.  The three-month bill to 10-year note spread is at 213 basis
points.  Federal Reserve  Bank of Cleveland researchers Joseph Haubrich and Margaret Jacobson wrote in  a report  posted on the
bank’s website on Sept. 30 that they estimate the chances of the
economy’s being in a recession next September is 7 percent, up
from 4.8 percent in August and 1.7 percent in July.  ‘Vicious Cycle’  A “contagion” of economic indicators have come together
to signal the economy is tipping into a contraction, according
to  Lakshman Achuthan , co-founder of ECRI, a research firm that
predicts changes in the economic cycle.  “You have wildfire among the leading indicators across the
board,” Achuthan said in a radio interview on Sept. 30 on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“It’s a vicious cycle that is going to get quite a bit worse.”  While the Labor Department said Oct. 7 that employers in
the U.S. added 103,000 workers to payrolls in September,
sustained jobs growth of about 150,000 a month is needed to
reduce unemployment by about half a percentage point over a
year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York.  The world economy risks lapsing into a recession with the
pace of growth falling below the “new normal” level Pacific
Investment Management Co. has predicted since 2009, Gross wrote
in a monthly commentary posted on the  Newport Beach ,  California ,
firm’s website Oct 3. Pimco’s “new normal” scenario says that
following the market’s collapse in 2008 the  U.S. economy  would
grow at a below-average pace for several years.  Gross Relents  “Markets these days give mild signs of a collapse,” Gross
said in an Oct. 4 Bloomberg Television interview with Lisa Murphy. The odds of recession in developed economies is about 50
percent, with the U.S. on the “brink,” he said. “This is one
of those times where you are worried about the return of your
money.”  After eliminating Treasuries from his $245 billion Total
Return Fund in February because they were too expensive, Gross
increased holdings of U.S. government securities to 16 percent
of assets as the debt had the highest quarterly returns in
almost three years.  Treasuries returned 6.4 percent in the third quarter, the
most since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Stocks tumbled, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 14 percent, the biggest
quarterly drop since the last three months of 2008.  Increasingly Bearish  Equity traders are boosting bearish trades around the world
by the most in at least three years. Borrowed shares, an
indication of short selling, have risen to 11.3 percent of stock
available for lending from 9.5 percent in January, according to
data compiled for Bloomberg by the London-based research firm
 Data Explorers .  “Half the people you speak to tell you they already think
we are in a recession,” said  Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive
officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which
manages $17 billion, during a panel discussion the firm held for
clients on Sept. 29 in New York. “There remains no real
fundamental reason in the U.S. for interest rates to go
higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  