-- 
Yields Falling to 11-Month Low as Yuan, Europe Hurt Exports: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T06:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bond-yields-hit-11-month-low-on-yuan-gain-europe-china-credit.html
China ’s government bond yields are
trading at an 11-month low, signaling concern Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis is worsening and a stronger yuan will further slow
the world’s second-largest economy.  The yields on 10-year bonds dropped 27 basis points in the
past month to 3.78 percent, the lowest since November 2010, as
those for similar-maturity debt in the U.S., Russia and  India 
climbed. Sovereign assets are being favored over corporate
securities, with investors demanding a record 236 basis points
more to hold Chinese company debt over government notes.  Wing Kwai Trading Co., which makes sandals targeted at the
U.S. market, and J-Star Manufacturing Co., a glassware maker,
say a combination of cooling global demand, rising wage costs
and the yuan’s 3.6 percent advance in 2011 are hurting orders. A
report due tomorrow will probably show gains in overseas sales
slowed, while data due on Oct. 18 may indicate the weakest
economic growth since the third quarter of 2009.  “Investors are looking for a safe haven and are putting
all their money into the  bond market ,” said  Frances Cheung , a
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.
“Investors have become very bearish, too bearish, about  China’s
economy  and are pricing in a hard landing.”  China’s government issued statements today protesting
against the  U.S. Senate  passing a bill aimed at forcing gains in
the yuan. The central bank said that the currency is at a
“reasonable” level. The yuan traded at 6.3821 per dollar as of
1:11 p.m., slipping from a 17-year high reached yesterday.  Bond Rally  Yields on 10-year yuan-denominated bonds dropped one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.762 percent yesterday. The
decline over the past month compared with a 25 basis-point jump
for similar-maturity Treasuries, an 83 basis-point increase for
Russian debt and a 41 basis-point gain in yields on Indian notes.
The  finance ministry  sold 30 billion yuan ($4.7 billion) of
seven-year bonds at an average yield of 3.65 percent today.  The Ministry of Railways sold seven-year bonds at a lower
coupon than its last auction of five-year debt, as a tax cut on
interest income lured investors back after a high-speed train
accident hurt confidence. The rail operator sold 10 billion yuan
of seven-year notes at 5.59 percent today, 34 basis points lower
than the rate on the five-year debt sold on Sept. 7.  The world’s biggest exporting nation faces the risk of its
two largest markets, the European Union and the U.S., falling
back into recession. The euro region’s economy expanded 1.6
percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since the first
three months of 2010.  Exports rose 20.5 percent in September from a year earlier,
down from 24.5 percent in August, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Imports may
have gained 24.2 percent from 30.2 percent. The  trade surplus 
dropped to $16.3 billion last month from $17.8 billion the
previous month, a separate survey indicated.  Best of BRICs  China’s gross domestic product climbed 9.3 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. That would
be the third straight quarter of slowing growth.  The yuan added 1.2 percent in the third quarter, while
 Brazil ’s real slumped 17 percent,  Russia ’s ruble dropped 13
percent and India’s rupee weakened 8.7 percent. The JPMorgan
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate, a trade-weighted index for the
yuan, gained 4.7 percent in September, the most since December
1997, increasing the cost of goods made in China.  Falling Demand  “Demand for our products has been falling because of the
economic outlook,” said David Huang, owner of Wing Kwai, a
Chaozhou, eastern China-based footwear exporter. “The yuan
keeps rising and workers are asking for higher and higher
wages,” he said.  Monetary tightening is also cooling the economy, after bank
reserve requirements were raised to a record and interest rates
were increased five times since mid-October.  “China’s central bank has been very aggressive in its
monetary tightening to rein in inflationary pressure and what
we’re seeing is a government-engineered slowdown of the
economy,” said Delphine Arrighi, a senior rates strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. She estimates the yield on
the 10-year bonds will drop to 3.6 percent by the end of the
year. At the end of 2012, the yield may be 3.7 percent, she said.  ‘Sharp Deceleration’  Economic growth could fall to about 7.7 percent in the
first quarter of next year as faltering expansion in the U.S.
and  Europe  weakens export demand, estimates  Wang Tao , a Hong
Kong-based economist for UBS AG. “A sharp deceleration in
external demand is on the way,” she said.  Ding Weimin, general manager of Taizhou, Zhejiang province-
based J-Star Manufacturing, said he also faces rising wages and
a stronger currency.  “Originally the problem was less serious as all other
Asian currencies were rising even more than the yuan,” Ding
said. “But that’s not the case anymore.”  The yuan’s climb this year against the dollar compares with
declines of more than 4 percent for  South Korea ’s won and
 Taiwan ’s dollar.  China’s exports fell for 13 straight months during the last
global financial crisis, contributing to the slowest annual
economic expansion in seven years in 2009. Another world
recession could see overseas sales decline by 10 percent to 12
percent, with net exports subtracting about 2 1/4 percentage
points from growth, according to Wang of UBS.  Share Purchases  Investors have focused on risks for the Chinese economy
including a slowdown in the real-estate market and the
possibility that bad loans will increase.  State-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. started buying
shares in the four biggest Chinese lenders, Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd.,
yesterday after the MSCI China Financials Index dropped 43
percent in 2011 through Oct. 4.  Jim Chanos , the founder of New York-based hedge fund
Kynikos Associates, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday that he remained bearish on Chinese bank
stocks.  Standard & Poor’s  estimates that as much as 30 percent
of China’s lending to local governments may go sour.  Credit-default swaps insuring China’s bank debt fell
yesterday. The cost of protecting Bank of China debt against
non-payment for five years declined 13.5 basis points to 297.5
basis points as of 4:17 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on China Development Bank Corp.’s debt
fell 8.2 to 330.1.  ‘Trade War’  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The outlook for external demand and the property sector
are the key downside risks to the near-term outlook,” said
 Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based strategist with Royal Bank of
 Canada . “The risks look manageable for now.”  The yuan will rise to 6.25 per dollar by the end of this
year and 5.85 by the end of 2012, Jackson said. Analysts at
London-based Capital Economics Ltd. expect the currency to
strengthen to 6.25 per dollar by year-end and 6 by the end of
2012.  “The yuan may maintain its current pace of appreciation
due to external pressure as currency is often used by some
countries as an excuse for a trade war,” said Wang Jun, a
researcher with the government-backed China Center for
International Economic Exchanges in Beijing.  Increased trade with other emerging economies has helped
Chinese exporters reduce their reliance on the U.S. and European
markets, said Wang. Growth in overseas sales could slump to 8
percent or 9 percent by early 2012 should their economies enter
a recession, he said.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Victoria Ruan in Beijing and
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Emma O’Brien  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  