-- 
Bonds Match Longest Stretch of Declines Since February: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-12T05:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/bonds-match-longest-losing-streak-since-feb-4-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s three-year government
bonds halted a five-day drop, which matched the longest losing
streak since February and came on speculation the economic
recovery’s resilience and a resolution to the European debt
crisis will deter interest-rate cuts by the central bank.  The three-year yield rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.71 percent yesterday, completing a climb
from the 3.41 percent close on Oct. 4. The rate on 10-year notes
increased 33 basis points to 4.33 percent over the same period,
the biggest such advance since December 2009. The extra yield
over similar-maturity Treasuries was 218 basis points today.  Investors pared bets the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will cut
the developed world’s highest key rate as concern waned a Greek
default would freeze credit markets. Australian consumer-
spending growth and record exports are boosting confidence the
nation can ride out global financial turmoil. Employers added
10,000 jobs in September, halting a two-month drop, economists
said before an Oct. 13 report. The jobless rate likely held at
5.3 percent, compared with 9.1 percent in the U.S.  “The sell-off in bonds is long overdue and, as long as
Europe can deal with its problems, risk-taking will come back
and greed will take over from fear,” said Roger Bridges, who
oversees the equivalent of $14.2 billion of debt as the Sydney-
based head of fixed income at Tyndall Investment Management
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s Nikko Asset Management Co. “In
Australia, the data has proved to be very resilient and you must
question some of the basic market pricing at the moment.”  Three-year bond yields have risen for five days straight on
three occasions since March 2010, when it rose for seven days.  Narrowing Gap  Australia’s longest maturity bond, due 2023, yielded 27
basis points less than the central bank’s key rate yesterday,
the narrowest gap since Sept. 7. The rate has been below the
4.75 percent benchmark since Aug. 9.  The three-year rate snapped its five-day gain today and
fell three basis points to 3.68 percent. The 10-year bond yield
declined two basis points to 4.32 percent. It dropped below 4
percent on Oct. 4, the least since January 2009.  Equities worldwide surged since Oct. 5 amid speculation
European leaders are discussing capital injections for banks,
easing concern about a repeat of the turmoil that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. A summit will
be held Oct. 23 as the region gropes toward a master plan for
dealing with  Greece ’s oversized debt, insulating Spanish and
Italian markets, and shielding banks from any fallout.  Germany and  France , Europe’s dominant nations, this week
pledged a crisis-management breakthrough in time for a Nov. 3
meeting of Group of 20 leaders.  Risk-On  “There’s a risk-on environment so bonds have weakened as
risk assets like the Australian dollar, commodities and equities
climbed,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and
fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “The
market had been pricing in a global recession and a credit
freeze. Anything that falls short of that scenario is going to
drive up bond yields.”  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded
currency, has risen 2.6 percent this month and traded at 99.17
U.S. cents as of 3:53 p.m. in Sydney. It reached $1.1081 on July
27, the most since it was freely traded in 1983.  Record Exports  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has left  interest rates 
unchanged for 11 months as policy makers wait to judge the
impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis on the domestic economy.  “It will take more time for evidence of any effects of the
recent European and U.S. financial turbulence on economic
activity in other regions to emerge,” Stevens said after an
Oct. 4 meeting. “An improved inflation outlook would increase
the scope for monetary policy to provide some support to demand,
should that prove necessary.”  The same day, a statistics bureau report showed Australia’s
exports surged in August to a record A$28.4 billion ($28.2
billion) on coal shipments. The RBA’s commodity price index,
measured in Australian dollars and based on 18 major raw
materials exported by the nation, rose to 115.4 in September,
the highest since November 2008.  Business Confidence  The  Reserve Bank  has been saying "the consumer is
voluntarily constrained rather than stressed, so that’s an
important factor,’’ said Tyndall’s Bridges. “The danger is a
rate cut could be worse than the symptom they’re trying to
cure.”  The household savings ratio in Australia was 10.5 percent
in the second quarter, down from the previous period’s 11.7
percent, which was the most since 2009.  Home-loan approvals rose in August for a fifth-straight
month and  consumer confidence  extended its rebound from a two-
year low, reports showed today.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.2 percent from July, when they rose a
revised 1.9 percent, the statistics bureau said. Westpac Banking
Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken
Oct. 3-8 showed the consumer sentiment index rose 0.4 percent.
The gauge dropped to 89.6 in August, the lowest since May 2009.  Traders are betting Governor Stevens will reduce the key
rate by 135 basis points over the next 12 months, down from 161
on Oct. 4, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps.  Futures contracts show the cash rate will be 4.43 percent
in November, matching the highest expectation since Aug. 2.
Three of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the
RBA will lower rates to 4.5 percent at the next policy meeting
on Nov. 1, with the rest expecting no change.  Inflation Estimates  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer prices
will rise an average of 2.46 percent for the next five years,
down from 2011’s peak of 3.14 percent on May 6.  Australia’s benchmark gauge of corporate bond risk rose.
The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 5.5 basis points to
207.5 basis points as of 3:45 p.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian dollar-
denominated corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell to 248 basis points on Oct. 11, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. That’s down from 249 on
Oct. 6, the highest since August 2009.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  