-- 
Brazil Retail Sales Drop Most Since March 2010, Reinforcing Rate Cut Bets

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-10-11T15:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/brazilian-retail-sales-fell-0-4-in-august-biggest-decline-since-2010.html
Brazil ’s retail sales in August fell
the most since March 2010, providing further evidence that
growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy is slowing. Yields on
 interest-rate  futures fell.  August sales fell 0.4 percent, more than the median
forecast of a 0.1 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey of 34
economists and compared with a revised increase of 1.2 percent
in July. Sales rose 6.2 percent from a year ago, the national
statistics agency said.  Traders are betting that the central bank will cut its
benchmark interest rate half a point to 11.5 percent at its Oct.
18-19 policy meeting, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures yields. The retail number reinforces that
view, said Enestor  Dos Santos , senior Brazil economist for BBVA
in  Madrid , who forecasts a half-point cut.  “You have this sense that domestic demand is finally
weakening, and we still don’t have the impact of the crisis in
this number,” Dos Santos said in a telephone interview. “It’s
consistent with the central bank’s view that the economy is
moderating, and it’s going to get worse.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last week said
that “moderate” cuts in borrowing costs will help shield the
economy from the European debt crisis, without compromising the
inflation target.  Yields Fall  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.47 percent at 10:51 a.m.
New York time. The real was virtually unchanged at 1.7627 per
 U.S. dollar .  Sales of clothing and textiles fell 2.8 percent in August,
while furniture and electrical goods sales fell 0.4 percent. The
broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars and
construction materials, fell 2.3 percent after a 0.1 percent
decline in July.  Sales of items that are sensitive to credit, such as
vehicles and electrical goods, underperformed goods such as fuel
and supermarket products, which are more sensitive to changes in
income, said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in Sao Paulo.  Vehicle Sales  The 4.6 percent drop in sales of vehicles and auto parts
shows that the central bank’s measures to curb credit growth,
introduced in December, are finally having an impact, Serrano
said in an e-mailed report.  The world’s second-biggest emerging market will expand 3.5
percent this year, according to a central bank survey of about
100 economists published yesterday, down from 7.5 percent in
2010. Brazil will grow more slowly than  China ,  India  and  Russia 
this year and in 2012, the International Monetary Fund
forecasts.  Industrial output contracted in August for the third time
in five months. Business confidence in the third quarter fell to
its lowest level in more than two years.  Consumer prices rose 7.31 percent in the year through
September, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a sixth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Tombini surprised analysts Aug. 31 by slashing the
benchmark Selic rate half a percentage point to 12 percent,
citing a “substantial deterioration” in the global outlook.
The move come after President  Dilma Rousseff  vowed to take
Brazil on a “new pathway” of lower borrowing costs, fueling
speculation that policy makers were being pressured.  Rousseff has since reinforced her calls for monetary
easing, saying last month that Brazil can’t miss the opportunity
provided by a global financial crisis to cut rates further.  Brazil jumped to first place, from fifth in 2010, in a
study of top global markets for retail expansion in a study
published in July by management consulting firm  A.T. Kearney .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  