-- 
Breast Cancer Gene Boosts Survival From Ovarian Tumors, Research Shows

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/breast-cancer-gene-boosts-survival-from-ovarian-tumors-in-study.html
Ovarian cancer patients with a
genetic mutation best known for its ties to  breast cancer  have a
higher survival rate than those without the mutation, a study in
the  Journal of the American Medical Association  found.  The unexpected results suggest investigators may have erred
by lumping two genetic mutations known as BRCA1 and BRCA2
together in recent years for research, said lead author Da Yang,
a post-doctoral fellow at the University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center in Houston. While both are linked to breast and
ovarian cancer, only women with BRCA2 mutations in the ovarian
tumors have higher survival rates, according to the study
released today by the journal.  The findings may have implications for determining the
prognosis of women battling ovarian cancer and future studies
examining potential new treatments, Yang said. Both mutations
interfere with efforts to repair DNA, which creates the unstable
environment that allows cancer to emerge. BRCA2 mutations also
make it harder for cancer cells to fix the damage done by
chemotherapy, making the treatment more effective for a longer
period, the study showed.  “People all thought these two genes were the same -- the
same function, influenced the same pathway,” Yang said in a
telephone interview. “We are showing there are clear and
distinct patterns for patients with these two mutations, so
there is different overall survival, progression-free survival
and chemotherapy response.”  Drug Development  Sanofi,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and rival
companies developing drugs known as Parp inhibitors should note
the results, Yang said. The medicines are designed to block
enzymes the cancer cells use to repair DNA. Patients with BRCA2
mutations that already have trouble fixing damaged cells may
reap greater benefit from treatment, while mixing patients with
different mutations in studies may yield conflicting results.  Nearly 22,000 women in the U.S. are diagnosed with ovarian
cancer each year, and 14,000 die from the disease, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Women who have a BRCA1 mutation
have a 39 percent to 54 percent chance of developing ovarian
cancer in their lifetimes, compared with an 11 percent to 23
percent risk for those with a BRCA2 mutation, previous studies
show.  The study is a major advance in understanding how new
treatments for ovarian cancer should be used, wrote  Victor Grann 
and Ramon Parsons, from  Columbia University Medical Center ’s
cancer center in an editorial accompanying the study. Better
understanding the differences in DNA repair linked to the two
mutations may lead to more targeted treatment, they wrote.  Cancer Project  The researchers used genetic information gathered from 316
women with ovarian cancer that was part of the National Institutes
of Health’s  Cancer Genome Atlas  project, and compared their DNA
makeup to the course of the disease. After five years,
61 percent of the women with BRCA2 mutations were alive,
compared with 25 percent of those without the mutation.  The women also responded better to chemotherapy, had the
disease progress more slowly and were more likely to survive,
the study found. BRCA1 mutations and other changes that
squelched the gene’s activity had no impact on prognosis.  “Right now, the chemotherapy cisplatin is the first line
treatment for all patients,” Yang said. “If we can know the
BRCA1 and BRCA2 status of the patient, we can at least predict
if they will survive longer,” he said. “In the near future,
some patients may choose” treatment based on the results, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  