-- 
British Pound Weakens Before Factory Data That May Show Recovery Faltering

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-11T07:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/british-pound-weakens-before-factory-data-that-may-show-recovery-faltering.html
The pound weakened for a second day
against the euro before a report today that will probably show
U.K. manufacturing declined in August, adding to signs the
nation’s economic recovery is faltering.  Sterling fell versus 10 of its 16 major peers monitored by
Bloomberg, snapping a two-day gain against the dollar. Factory
output decreased 0.2 percent in August from the previous month,
when it rose 0.1 percent, according to the median estimate of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Industrial output, which
includes mining, oil and gas, may have dropped 0.2 percent on
the month, another survey showed.  “Sterling is suffering from expectations that today’s data
will be weaker and also an increased focus on dovish  Bank of
England  rhetoric,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist
in Geneva at Swissquote Bank SA, a unit of financial and
trading-services company Swissquote Group. “Attention is once
again returning to U.K. fundamentals, and the outlook is not
encouraging.”  Britain’s currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 87.24 pence
per euro at 8:18 a.m. in  London , and slipped 0.1 percent to
$1.5646. The yield on the 10-year gilt was little changed at
2.59 percent, with the two-year yield at 0.65 percent.  The pound fell against most of its major counterparts last
week as the Bank of England’s reactivation of its quantitative-
easing program fueled concern that rising inflation will erode
the value of the currency. The central bank raised the ceiling
for bond purchases to 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) from 200
billion pounds, saying slowing global growth and the turmoil in
 Europe  threaten the U.K. recovery.  ‘Radical Measures Needed’  The BOE’s expansion of its monetary stimulus program may
not be enough to prevent the U.K. economy slipping back into
recession, the British Chambers of Commerce said today.  “The recent increase” in so-called quantitative easing “is
welcomed, but more radical measures are needed,” BCC Chief
Economist  David Kern  said in an e-mailed statement in London.  BOE policy maker  David Miles  said in a speech in London
late yesterday that though the outlook for the economy has
worsened, there are “good reasons” to think that the central
bank’s expansion of stimulus will aid the recovery.  The U.K economy slowed more than initially estimated in the
second quarter, growing 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said last week. That
was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published.  The pound has declined 1.6 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  