-- 
California Tax Revenue Decline Inches State Toward Automatic Budget Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/california-tax-revenue-decline-inches-state-toward-trigger-cuts.html
California  took in less revenue than
needed to stay within its budget last month, leaving the most-
populous U.S. state at risk of triggering automatic cuts to
universities and caregivers for the elderly and disabled.  The state had $705 million less on Sept. 30 than Governor
 Jerry Brown  and Democrats projected in their budget for the year
that began July 1, Controller John Chiang said yesterday. The
$86-billion spending plan included a series of reductions to be
activated if revenue falls below certain levels.  The  first tier , if the shortfall is $1 billion, would trim
 University of California  and California State University budgets
by $100 million each, increase community-college fees by $10 per
unit and cut in-home services for the elderly and disabled who
need help. In December, Brown’s finance department will estimate
whether the rest of the year’s revenue can meet the original
projection.  “The potential for revenue shortfalls is precisely why the
governor and Legislature included trigger cuts in this year’s
state spending plan,” Chiang said in a statement. “September’s
revenues alone do not guarantee that triggers will be pulled.
But as the largest revenue month before December, these numbers
do not paint a hopeful picture.”  If the gap widens to $2 billion, it would mean a seven-day
reduction in the school year to save $1.54 billion and an end to
$248 million in home-to-school busing subsidies.  California’s situation has parallels in  Washington , where a
congressional supercommittee must agree on at least $1.2
trillion in savings or the U.S. will face automatic cuts of that
amount.  Expiring Taxes  Brown and Democrats enacted the triggers after failing to
get Republican support for a referendum that would have extended
expiring taxes and fees to help erase what was a combined $26
billion shortfall. To balance the budget, lawmakers cut spending
by $12 billion. They also counted on an equal amount of higher
revenue, including $4 billion Brown and fellow Democrats said
the recovering economy would deliver.  The additional revenue “was based on strong cash
collections in late fiscal 2011 that were exceeding the
governor’s May 2011 forecast,”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday
when it affirmed the state’s A- rating with a stable outlook.
“This trend has weakened.”  The December decision on whether the triggers will be
reached won’t be based on the level of revenue at the time.
Rather, it will depend on an economic forecast for the fiscal
year that Brown’s office will begin conducting next month. Tier
one cuts would take effect Jan. 1; second-tier cuts, if needed,
would begin Feb. 1.  Not Yet ‘Trend’  “You can’t build a trend off of one month of cash
reporting,” said Brown’s budget spokesman, HD Palmer. “The
biggest influence on the triggers is going to be later this
fall, when we do a full-blown economic forecast that is in turn
going to affect our updated revenue forecast for the entire
fiscal year.”  “The bulk of the $4 billion, to the extent that it’s going
to be realized, will be coming in between December and June,”
Palmer said. “We are still in the early innings.”  California’s September revenue came in $301.6 million below
estimates, Chiang said in a report yesterday.  July  was $538.8
million less than forecast, he said Aug. 9. Revenue in August
was $135 million more than expected.  Brown’s finance department said almost half of September’s
decline was a timing issue, because $120 million was transferred
to the Public Transportation Account for sales taxes on  diesel
fuel  on Sept. 30 instead of in October, when the move had been
forecast.  Confidence Shaken  When lawmakers agreed on the budget in June, it appeared
the U.S. economic recovery was picking up pace. But the
continuing debt crisis in  Europe  and the impasse between
Congress and the White House over raising the debt ceiling shook
confidence in the  U.S. economy , said  Stephen Levy , director and
senior economist of the  Center for Continuing Study of the
California Economy .  “Back then, I thought they had a chance,” Levy said in a
telephone interview. “It’s still possible, but it won’t be
because of a strong rebound in the California economy. It would
be because of very strong profits and income-tax receipts in
Silicon Valley.”  California’s unemployment rate, which fell to 11.7 percent
in May, was back up to 12.1 percent in August. In the first
three months of the fiscal year, the only  revenue  to exceed
projections is personal-income taxes, at $502 million more than
estimated. More than half of California’s revenue comes from
income taxes.  University Cut  The 23-campus  California State University  system would lose
$100 million of its $7.2 billion budget under the first tier of
cuts. The 420,000-student system has been reducing expenditures
by freezing faculty wages, cutting the number of part-time
lecturers, scaling back student services and consolidating
technology, said a spokeswoman, Claudia Keith. That would come
in addition to $500 million cut in the budget passed in June.  “If it’s a one-time cut, our campuses have been planning
for that rainy day,” Keith said by telephone. “If it’s a cut
to our base, that’s a different conversation.”  In-Home Supportive Services  for about 450,000 elderly
Californians would be cut $100 million. For the average user,
the reductions equate to losing about 20 hours of aid a month,
from the current 85 hours, said Karen Keeslar, executive
director of the  California Association of Public Authorities for
IHSS .  ‘Devastating’ Cuts  “The level of cuts is so devastating that most of us see
people moving out of their homes into nursing homes,” she said
by telephone.  A Field Research Corp.  poll  released last month found that
voters by more than a 2-to-1 margin disapprove of the trigger
cut provision.  California Treasurer Bill Lockyer is scheduled to sell
$483.5 million of tax-exempt public-works bonds beginning Oct.
13. California debt yields about 1.14 percentage points more
than top-rated municipal debt, compared with a peak yield spread
this year of 1.47 percentage points in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  When California sold $2.4 billion of general-obligation
bonds last month, the debt was priced to yield 3.17 percent on
10-year maturities, as much as 109 basis points above top-rated
tax-exempt debt. That compares with a 160 basis-point premium on
similar bonds sold in March 2009. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “It’s premature to be talking about any level of hope or
lack thereof,” said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer.
“The most important thing for an investor to understand is that
we have those triggers.  ‘‘We have a mechanism if the revenue projections don’t pan
out,’’ he said. ‘‘We are not going to be the old California
where we are flailing around in a political maelstrom for months
on end. We now have a system in place to deal with revenue
shortfalls.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  