-- 
Camp Says Imminent Contractor Tax Repeal Bill Will Be Offset

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/camp-says-imminent-contractor-tax-repeal-bill-will-be-offset.html
A bill to repeal a law requiring 3
percent tax withholding on government contracts is “imminent,”
said Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee.  The repeal legislation, which would cost the U.S.
government about $11 billion in forgone revenue over the next
decade, will be offset so that it doesn’t add to the  budget
deficit , the Michigan Republican said in a brief interview in
the Capitol today.  “The plan is to offset it,” he said.  Camp wouldn’t describe how he will propose to make up for
the repeal legislation’s cost or say when a committee vote would
occur. He said he was discussing those details with members of
the Ways and Means panel.  Congress enacted the requirement in 2006 as a way to
prevent tax cheating by contractors. Under the law, the U.S.
government, state governments and large local governments would
retain 3 percent of contracts to cover future tax liabilities.  In 2009, Congress delayed the implementation date to 2012.
Earlier this year, the  Internal Revenue Service  moved it back to
2013. President  Barack Obama  included a delay in his recent jobs
legislation.  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
the Associated General Contractors of America, have been urging
Congress to repeal the requirement. They contend that it creates
unnecessary administrative burdens for companies complying with
tax laws.  Cash Flow Problems  “For many businesses the profit margin is often less than
3 percent, meaning that the withholding tax will create
significant cash flow problems for day-to-day operations as well
as draining capital that could be used for job creation and
business expansion,” the Chamber’s chief lobbyist,  Bruce Josten , wrote to the committee today. “During these difficult
economic times, Congress should be pursing policies that
encourage, not hamper,  job creation  in the private sector.”  The main House repeal bill has 262 co-sponsors, or more
than half of the House. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, has said the House would vote on the bill
this year.  The bill is H.R. 674.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  