-- 
Canada’s Dollar Weakens as Europe Debt Concern Crimps Risk-Asset Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-11T21:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/canada-s-dollar-weakens-as-europe-debt-concern-crimps-risk-asset-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar fell versus the
greenback as concern that European officials may fail to halt
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis before it spreads to banks
cut demand for currencies tied to growth.  The Canadian dollar rose yesterday by the most in two
months against its U.S. counterpart after Germany and  France 
vowed to deliver a plan to support the region’s banks. The
currency gave back some of those gains today as Slovakian
lawmakers failed to approve an overhaul of Europe’s bailout
fund, pushing potential approval to a second vote.  “The Canadian dollar is not really catching too much
steam,” said Brian Kim , a currency strategist in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, by e-mail.
“Risk-on is meek at best.”  The currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.03 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. in Toronto. It weakened the as much as 0.8 percent, the
largest drop since Oct. 4 and rose 1.3 percent yesterday, the
most since Aug. 9. It weakened to C$1.0658 on Oct 4, the lowest
in more than a year. One Canadian dollar buys 97.09 U.S. cents.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, remained
lower after Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. reported on its
website that housing starts were 205,900 at a seasonally
adjusted annual pace in September. Economists forecast a reading
of 190,000 according to the median of 19 responses to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Bonds Drop  Canada’s government bonds dropped, pushing the yield on the
two-year benchmark note up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 0.98 percent. The 1.5 percent securities maturing in
November 2013 declined 4 cents to C$101.05.  After appreciating to a three-year high of 94.07 cents on
July 26, the Canadian currency weakened as investors pared
riskier positions in favor of U.S. dollar safety. It lost 6.9
percent in September, the most in almost three years, as
volatility surged on speculation European officials will fail to
contain the region’s debt crisis.  Slovak lawmakers failed to approve an overhaul of  Europe ’s
bailout fund, toppling the government and leaving the euro
area’s second-poorest member with the need to repeat the vote to
pass the mechanism.  Europe Watch  Smer, the largest opposition party in Slovakia, which
didn’t back the legislation, will support the changes in a
second vote, ensuring it will pass, party leader  Robert Fico 
told reporters in the capital Bratislava. While no date has been
set for a new vote, Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said the
revamped European Financial Stability Facility will likely be
passed this week.  Slovakia is the only country in the 17-nation euro area
that hasn’t ratified the measures.  “ Risk aversion  is still very high,” said  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, in
a telephone interview. “It’s really just what’s transpiring in
Europe. The Canadian dollar is vulnerable to following the
broader trends.”  Crude futures were little changed at $85.29 a barrel today
after falling as much as 2.1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index ended up 0.1 percent after dropping as much as 0.6
percent.  Traders trimmed bets that the Canadian dollar will decline
against the U.S. dollar, Oct. 7 data from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Futures Bets  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
15,682 on Oct. 4, compared with net shorts of 20,550 a week
earlier. Futures are agreements to buy or sell asses at a set
price and date. The figures reflect holdings in currency-futures
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  “There’s cautious optimism for the moment on the Canadian
dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , an institutional-derivatives broker
at  MF Global Canada Co . in  Montreal , said by e-mail. “Europe is
still leading the charge globally. C$1.02 to C$1.06 is the new
range established over the last two weeks.”  Canada’s currency will strengthen to C$1.02 versus the U.S.
dollar by year-end, according to the median forecast of 36
economists and analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The median
forecast from a month ago was for the loonie to end 2011 at 98
cents per U.S. dollar.  “This risk is that we see dollar-Canada moving higher than
the high last week,” said  Scotia Capital ’s Sutton. “That would
put dollar-Canada in the very near term above C$1.0658. If we
look out to year-end, Canada should have retraced some of these
losses and be moving back towards parity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  