-- 
Cantor Drops ‘Mobs’ Description of Wall Street Protesters

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-11T20:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/cantor-drops-mobs-description-of-wall-street-protesters.html
Four days after he described  Wall
Street  demonstrators as “growing mobs,” House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor today said the protesters are “justifiably
frustrated” with joblessness and the weak economy.  Cantor said the demonstrators, like many Americans, are
“upset” because “they are out of work” and “their sense of
security for the future is not clear at all.”  He avoided repeating his description last week of the
protesters as mobs. Asked whether he regretted that part of his
speech at the “Value Voters Forum” in  Washington , Cantor
focused on another portion that accused Democratic leaders of
having “condoned the pitting of Americans against Americans.”  “We have elected leaders stirring the pot; that’s not
good,” Cantor, a Virginia Republican, told reporters today in
Washington.  In his Oct. 7 speech at the forum organized by the Family
Research Council, Cantor said he was “increasingly concerned
about the growing mobs occupying Wall Street and the other
cities across the country.”  A day earlier, House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat, said the protesters’ “focus is on Wall
Street and justifiably so.”  The message of the protests is that “no longer will the
recklessness of some on Wall Street cause massive joblessness,”
she said at her weekly press conference.  “God bless them for their spontaneity,” Pelosi said.
“It’s independent people coming, it’s young” and “it’s
focused and it’s going to be effective,” Pelosi said.  Tea Party  Protests  Today, Cantor also disagreed with a comment by the second-
ranking House Democrat,  Steny Hoyer , who said that the Wall
Street protests were “much less confrontational in many
respects” than those waged by Tea Party members during August
2009 town-hall meetings held by Democratic members of Congress
on pending health-care legislation.  Hoyer, of  Maryland , called the Wall Street protests
“peaceful expressions of concern” by people who want “to give
voice to their frustration, to their anger, to their fears.”  Cantor said the Tea Party movement’s protests against the
Democratic lawmakers were “very different” from the Wall
Street demonstrations because Tea Party followers were “seeking
redress of their grievances from the government.”  That’s “different from what I see of the protesters on
Wall Street and elsewhere pitting themselves against others
outside government in America,” Cantor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  