-- 
Cerberus-Innkeepers, Shell, Madoff, Rajaratnam in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-11T11:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/cerberus-innkeepers-shell-madoff-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP
reached a tentative settlement with  Innkeepers USA Trust  over
claims that it breached an agreement to buy the hotel company,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  Under the settlement Cerberus and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) 
will cut the amount they pay for Innkeepers, said the people,
who didn’t disclose the new price and asked not to be named
because the talks are private. The accord, which culminated a
weekend of negotiations, isn’t final and could fall apart, they
said. A definitive agreement is subject to approval by the U.S.
bankruptcy court judge overseeing Innkeepers’ restructuring.  Cerberus, a New York-based private-equity firm, and Chatham
in August terminated their $1.1 billion agreement to buy 64
hotels from Innkeepers, citing a clause that allowed them to
back out if there was an adverse change in the lodging company’s
business. Innkeepers, which sued to force the buyers to go
through with the May 16 deal, would have had to rework its
reorganization plan if it lost the case.  “The parties are in negotiations but no settlement has
been reached yet,” Marc Beilinson, chief restructuring officer
of Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers, said in a statement.
Officials at Cerberus and Chatham declined to comment.  A trial on the dispute, scheduled to start yesterday, was
adjourned until today, according to court papers. Innkeepers
lawyer Paul Basta and Cerberus lawyer Howard Godnick didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  The lawsuit against Cerberus is Innkeepers USA Trust v.
Cerberus Four Holdings LLC (In re Innkeepers USA Trust),
11-02557, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan). The Chapter 11 case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust,
10-13800, in the same court.  For more, click here.  Trials and Appeals  Shell Fund Joins Appeal of Madoff Judge’s ‘Feeder’ Ruling  Shell Pension Fund, which runs pension plans for  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  companies, joined an appeal of a court ruling in
the  Bernard Madoff  case that denied customer status to so-called
feeder fund investors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland backed the liquidator
of the Madoff’s firm in June, saying investors in feeders can’t
file claims for payment with the estate because they didn’t have
accounts with the Madoff firm in their own names. More than 50
companies, pension funds and individuals -- from  National Bank
of Kuwait (NBK)  SAK and  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304)  to Upstate New York Bakery
Drivers & Industry Pension Fund -- appealed the ruling, asking a
district judge to decide whether Lifland erred in defining what
a customer was.  “The claimants met the statutory definition of ‘customer’
and entrusted their investment funds to the insolvent
broker/dealer for investment through intermediaries,” they said
in a court filing last week. A copy of Shell’s joinder in the
appeal was filed Oct. 7 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Shell Pension Fund had assets of 17.4 billion euros in
2010, according to its website. Shell Pension Fund may have lost
about $45 million as a result of its indirect exposure to the
Ponzi scheme, Royal Dutch Shell said after Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The Madoff bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Assails Rakoff’s Mets Ruling, Seeks Appeal  The liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm assailed a judge’s
ruling in a $1 billion lawsuit against the New York Mets owners,
saying it “arbitrarily” gave some of Madoff’s investors
fictitious profits that “all customers were previously denied”
by a higher court ruling.  Trustee Irving Picard made the statements in a filing in
U.S. District Court in Manhattan. Picard also asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to clear the way for an appeal of his
ruling.  Rakoff last month cut Picard’s suit against the baseball
team’s owners by two-thirds, saying he could try to reclaim only
two years of withdrawals from the Ponzi scheme. The ruling,
which would allow Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz to keep purported
profits resulting from Madoff’s “machinations,” was “in
direct contravention” of an appeals court ruling that ruled out
account statements as a basis for compensating Madoff investors
for losses, Picard said in his Oct. 7 filing.  Rakoff’s decision limiting Picard to two years of
withdrawals could cost the trustee about $2.7 billion on all of
his clawback suits, Picard has said. Another $3.5 billion of so-
called preference payments is “in question” because of another
aspect of Rakoff’s ruling, he has said.  In the Oct. 7 filing, Picard asked Rakoff to enter a final
judgment in the Mets case so it could be appealed, or to allow
an appeal without the final judgment. If Rakoff lets the trustee
appeal, the appeals court will decide whether to review the
judge’s ruling.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements and Sentences  Teva Must Pay $162.5 Million in Damages over Propofol  A  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  unit and two other
drugmakers must pay $162.5 million in punitive damages for
selling the anesthetic Propofol in a way that led three
colonoscopy patients to develop Hepatitis C, a jury ruled.  Jurors in state court Las Vegas ordered Teva Parenteral
Medicines Inc., Baxter Healthcare Corp. and McKesson Corp. to
pay so-called punishment damages over sales of the anesthetic in
vials large enough to be reused by doctors. Anne Arnold, Richard
Sacks and Anthony Devito contend they contracted Hepatitis C
from reused vials during colonoscopy procedures. They had sought
more than $700 million in damages.  It’s the second punitive award against Baxter and the unit
of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva over a 2008 hepatitis
outbreak in Nevada tied to Propofol. The first case resulted in
a punitive  verdict  of more than $500 million against the
drugmakers. Teva has agreed to cover all damage awards arising
from the Nevada cases on behalf of Baxter and McKesson.  “It only took two atomic bombs to force the Japanese to
surrender,” Will Kemp, one of the lawyers for the colonoscopy
patients, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re
hoping Teva will start thinking about settling these cases after
being hit with two punitive-damage verdicts of this size.”  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, said
they plan to appeal the punitive award to the colonoscopy
patients and the jury’s earlier award of $20.1 million in
compensatory damages. The combined verdicts make the case the
10th largest jury award in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe that if we had been able to present our full
defense, this verdict and the following decision would have had
a different outcome,” Bradley said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe that the allegations against Teva are without
merit.”  Deborah Spak, a Baxter spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mails seeking comment on the award.  “McKesson believes that the claims against it lack merit
and that the verdicts against it will be reversed,” Megan
Hawkins, a McKesson spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  A separate jury in the same courthouse yesterday also held
Teva and Baxter liable for another colonoscopy patient’s
hepatitis diagnosis and awarded he and his wife $14 million in
compensatory damages. Jurors in that case will decide later this
week how much the companies should pay in punitive damages.  Teva makes Propofol and San Francisco-based  McKesson Corp. (MCK) 
serves as its current U.S. distributor. Baxter, based in
Deerfield, Illinois, sold the drug for Teva until 2009,
according to court filings.  Teva signed an indemnity agreement accepting financial
responsibility for all the Nevada Propofol cases. A judge in
Delaware ruled last month that the agreement was “valid and
enforceable.”  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in jumbo-sized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis, an incurable liver
disease.  Attorneys for Teva and the Propofol distributors countered
that improperly sanitized medical equipment, not reused Propofol
containers, caused some Nevada colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis and that the drugmakers shouldn’t be held responsible
for colonoscopy clinics’ shoddy medical practices.  “Teva should not be held liable for the blatant disregard
for patient safety by the medical professionals at their
facility,” Bradley said in yesterday’s statement. “While the
mistreatment of patients is unacceptable, it was not Teva’s
fault.”  The case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada
LLC, 08A572315, District Court for Clark County, Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more, click here.  Banks to Face Claims in Foreclosure Settlement, Iowa Says  U.S. banks may still face state securities fraud claims and
municipal lawsuits over unpaid mortgage fees under a settlement
that is “getting closer,” said the official leading talks for
state attorneys general.  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said in an interview
yesterday that any settlement wouldn’t prevent a growing number
of municipalities from suing banks for allegedly cheating them
out of millions of dollars in filing fees, or individual states
from pursuing securities claims against banks.  State attorneys general and federal officials have been
negotiating a settlement with the largest mortgage servicers,
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Officials are seeking an agreement that would fund loan
modifications for homeowners and set requirements for how the
banks conduct foreclosures.  “We’re getting closer to resolving it,” Miller said. “We
still have issues that could frustrate the agreement, but we’re
getting closer.”  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for  Citigroup Inc. (C) , one of the
five banks involved in the talks, declined to comment. Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally Financial Inc., also declined to
comment.  Representatives of the three other banks -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  Several attorneys general, including New York’s Eric Schneiderman, Delaware’s Beau Biden, and Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley , have raised concerns about the scope of
the liability releases that would be given to the banks as part
of any deal.  They have said the banks shouldn’t receive releases for
matters that haven’t been fully investigated, including the
packaging of mortgage loans into securities and the use of a
mortgage database known as MERS.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said Sept. 30
that she was rejecting a proposed settlement with the banks and
would conduct her own mortgage investigation because the state
“was being asked for a broader release of claims than we can
accept and to excuse conduct that has not been adequately
investigated.”  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam May Get Quarter Century Term Under Guidelines  Galleon Group LLC’s  Raj Rajaratnam  faces a federal judge
this week who will weigh wildly divergent portraits of the
disgraced hedge fund manager while interpreting guidelines that
may call for one of the longest insider trading sentences in
U.S. history.  Prosecutors paint Rajaratnam as a “serial insider trader”
who corrupted friends and business associates to illegally make
profits or avoid losses totaling $72 million. Defense lawyers
say Rajaratnam is a generous man who committed victimless
crimes. A prison stretch would kill him, they claim.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan, who will
sentence Rajaratnam Oct. 13, presided over the jury trial in
which the fund manager was convicted of running the biggest
insider trading ring in a generation. The judge will consult
nonbinding sentencing guidelines that sometimes recommend longer
terms for white-collar criminals than some violent offenders.  “The sentence called for by the guidelines is likely to be
excessive,” said Barry Boss, a partner in the Washington office
of Cozen O’Connor and co-chairman of the American Bar
Association’s Criminal Justice Section Sentencing Committee.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
securities fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors asked Holwell to
give him a prison sentence of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years, which they
said is within the guidelines. The defense, claiming
Rajaratnam’s actions made him only $7.4 million, argued for a
guideline calculation that would call for a sentence of 6 1/2 to
8 years, according to a person familiar with the defense case
who spoke on condition of anonymity. Defense lawyer John Dowd
declined to comment on the range.  There is no parole under the federal prison system.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here. To see a description of Galleon
Group-related defendants who have already been sentenced in the
U.S. probe, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuit News  Geronzi Indicted on Charges Connected to Parmalat’s Collapse  Former Capitalia SpA Chairman Cesare Geronzi must stand
trial on charges of fraudulent bankruptcy and extortion in
connection with  Parmalat SpA (PLT) ’s collapse.  Ennio Amodio, Geronzi’s lawyer, said the indictment
violates the banker’s rights because he faced similar charges in
the bankruptcy case of foodmaker Cirio Finanziaria SpA. Amodio,
speaking in a telephone interview, said his client hadn’t
committed any wrongdoing.  Prosecutors are investigating the role played by Geronzi in
Parmalat’s purchase of dairy company Eurolat from Cirio. In July
a judge sentenced him to a four-year jail term for his role in
the bankruptcy of Cirio. Geronzi appealed the sentence.  The Rome judge’s decision to indict Geronzi was earlier
reported by newswire Ansa and confirmed by Amodio.  Brown University  Told to Show Fundraiser Record in Rape Case  Brown University  was ordered by a federal judge to produce
fundraising documents from an alumnus whose daughter accused a
fellow student of rape.  U.S. District Judge John McConnell in Providence,  Rhode
Island , granted a request by William McCormick III, who was
accused of rape in a school internal investigation, and his
parents to compel the university to produce the records of the
father of the alleged victim, within 14 days, according to an
order dated Oct. 7.  The McCormicks sued Brown, the student who said she was
raped, and her father in October 2009, claiming that the
university falsely accused McCormick of sexual assault. In an
amended complaint filed in December 2009, the McCormicks said
that the family of the victim had libeled their son and caused
him to be expelled from the college.  The father is “an alumnus of Brown and has raised very
substantial sums of money for Brown,” the McCormicks said in
the complaint.  Marisa Quinn, a spokeswoman for Brown, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message seeking comment on the order.  McCormick, whose family lives in Waukesha, Wisconsin, was a
nationally ranked wrestler in high school, according to court
papers. He was awarded a scholarship to Brown, enrolled in
September 2006 and was sent home two weeks later, court records
show. A court filing states that he agreed to give up his
education and scholarship “under duress and under the implied
threat of false criminal rape charges.”  No criminal complaint was filed in the alleged incident.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Ecuador Seeks $504 Million From  ConocoPhillips (COP)  in Dispute  Ecuador said it’s suing a ConocoPhillips subsidiary for
$504 million as part of a dispute over alleged environmental
damage caused by the company’s oil operations in the South
American country.  Ecuador wants $488 million to clean up areas in the Amazon
region where subsidiary Burlington Resources Oriente Ltd.
operated and an additional $16 million to repair drilling
infrastructure, the Attorney General said today in an e-mailed
statement. The agency filed its lawsuit against the company on
Sept. 30.  The lawsuit against Burlington is part of an arbitration
case at the World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes after Ecuador seized the company’s oil
fields over a tax dispute in 2009. Burlington was a minority
partner with France’s Perenco SA in the Block 21 and Block 7
concession areas in the northeast.  Ecuador “presented countersuits for environmental damage
caused by the U.S. company as well as for the poor state of the
infrastructure,” the Attorney General’s Office said. The nation
wants the court “to declare Burlington responsible and order
them to pay the damages in their entirety.”  ConocoPhillips’s press office in Houston didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone message seeking comment. Calls to
Burlington’s offices in Quito went unanswered.  The arbitration court is expected to make a final ruling on
the case in 2013, the Attorney General’s Office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 