-- 
CFTC Said to Have Enough Votes to Approve Speculation Limits

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-11T23:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/cftc-may-finish-curbs-on-speculation-for-oct-18-gensler-says.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission has the three votes necessary to approve limits on
speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities at an Oct.
18 meeting, said a person briefed on the rule-making process.  At the same meeting in Washington, the agency’s five
commissioners may vote on rules governing clearinghouses that
stand between buyers and sellers in derivatives markets, CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a speech at a  Futures Industry
Association  conference today in  Chicago . The agency also may
vote to delay until next year regulations originally set to be
completed by July 2010.  “We are focusing on considering these rules thoughtfully -
- not against a clock,” Gensler said in the speech.  The person briefed on the process spoke on condition of
anonymity because the decision-making isn’t public.  The rules will govern trades conducted by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and transactions on  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, among others.  The so-called position-limits rule to curb speculation will
include an analysis estimating that it will cost the financial
industry at least $100 million to comply,  Scott O’Malia , a CFTC
commissioner, told reporters at the conference. The position-
limits rule may also come up for a vote on Oct. 18, he said.  Swaps Dealers  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission , which are
leading U.S. efforts to write derivatives regulations, also are
working on a final rule that will define which Wall Street
banks, energy firms and other companies are considered swaps
dealers or other major swaps participants. Those definitions
will lead companies to have higher capital and margin
requirements to limit risk in trades.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul of financial regulation
enacted in 2010, aims to reduce risks and boost transparency
after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis.  A requirement to clear swaps may not take effect until the
second quarter of 2012, with some smaller participants in the
derivatives markets having an additional nine months to comply,
Gensler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  