-- 
Chanos Says China Banks ‘Deteriorating,’ Vale Poised to Fall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-10-11T18:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chanos-says-china-banks-deteriorating-.html
Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager
who’s been betting that Chinese bank stocks will tumble, said a
rally spurred by government purchases of the shares hasn’t
changed his bearish outlook.  The MSCI China Financials Index surged 6 percent today
after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. started buying
shares in the four biggest Chinese lenders. The gauge of banks,
insurers and developers had tumbled as much as 43 percent in
2011 through Oct. 4, sending its price-to-earnings ratio to a
record low of 5.6 on concern that slowing economic growth will
spur bad debts after a three-year credit boom.  “The fact that people are even talking about the
government stepping in to shore up the banks, when two months
ago people thought there was nothing wrong with the Chinese
banks, should tell you just how seriously this situation is
deteriorating,” Chanos, founder of New York-based hedge fund
Kynikos Associates, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Michael McKee  today.  Chanos, who told Bloomberg News last month he was selling
short shares in “virtually all of the large banks in China,”
said today that the country’s property market is in the “first
parts of a very serious pullback” and that he’s also betting
against  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
on expectations demand from China will slow.  China’s home transactions fell during last week’s public
holidays after residential prices posted their first monthly
decline in a year, according to  Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s
biggest real estate website owner.  Huijin Purchases  “The property market is what investors ought to be
watching, because that drives everything in China,” Chanos
said.  Huijin started buying shares of  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  yesterday, according
to a statement on the the investment company’s website. Huijin,
set up to hold the government’s stakes in the banks, said it
will continue with “related market operations,” without
providing details on how much it will buy.  The unit of  China ’s sovereign wealth fund spurred a
temporary rally in Chinese banks in September 2008 as it bought
shares to shore up investor confidence after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed.  ‘Move is Symbolic’  The MSCI China Financials index surged 18 percent in two
days after the official Xinhua News Agency said on Sept. 18,
2008, that Huijin would buy shares. The gauge erased those gains
in the pursuant five weeks, falling as much as 47 percent as the
global financial crisis worsened.  “This move is symbolic,” Chanos said. “They’re just
trying to send a message. That’s appropriate.”  China has led the recovery from the world economy’s worst
recession since the 1940s, contributing more than 30 percent to
global growth last year, after the central government ordered
state-owned banks to increase lending and encouraged local
governments to boost spending on infrastructure and housing. New
loans in China since September 2008 totaled $3.8 trillion, while
property prices have climbed about 60 percent since the end of
2006, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The decline in property sales volume last week,
traditionally a peak period for Chinese developers, may mark a
turning point for a  property market  that had defied the
government’s recent efforts to contain surging home values,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Higher Rates  China’s central bank has raised its benchmark lending rate
three times this year and lifted lenders’ reserve requirements
six times. China’s banking regulator told lenders in July not to
extend the maturity of loans to developers and not to grant new
credit to help developers repay maturing debt.  Today’s rally helped the MSCI China Financials index pare
its 2011 decline to 32 percent, more than the 29 percent slide
in  Europe ’s Stoxx 600 Banks Index and the 22 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  The China gauge is valued at 1.3 times net assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chanos, who bet on a
decline in Enron Corp. shares before the company filed for
bankruptcy in 2001, said in an interview last month that the
stocks will fall below the value of their net assets.  Vale is building “a fleet that is larger than the U.S.
Navy” to ship  iron ore  to China, Chanos said today at the
GAIN/GMA conference in  New York . Rio de Janeiro-based Vale’s
preference shares have dropped 18 percent this year.  ‘Wonderful Business’  “Vale is one of the more aggressive miners that has
capital expenditure closely tied to China,” Chanos said in an
interview at the conference, adding that he’s also betting
against cement producers, without naming any specific companies.  While Chanos is short-selling Chinese banks, property
developers and construction companies, he has kept holdings in
casinos in the former Portuguese colony of Macau for 1 1/2
years, citing their growth and more credible financial figures.  “The Macau casinos have a wonderful business, it’s taking
in money from Chinese businessmen elsewhere who send it through
junky companies to casinos to gamble,” Chanos said in New York
today. “The growth continues and they have basically western
managers and western accounting, so we trust the numbers a
little bit more.”  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) ,  Asia ’s biggest casino operator, has
risen 12 percent in Hong Kong trading this year and  Wynn Macau
Ltd. (1128) , the region’s second-largest casino company by market
value, has gained 23 percent.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a security and sells
it, expecting to profit from a decline by repurchasing it later
at a lower price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  