-- 
Chanos Says New Yorkers Don’t Appreciate Anger of Wall Street Protesters

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-10-11T21:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chanos-says-new-yorkers-underappreciate-wall-street-protests.html
Jim Chanos , founder of $6 billion
hedge fund Kynikos Associates, and billionaire bond-fund manager
 Bill Gross  said they understand the anger directed at financial
companies as anti-Wall Street protests spread to  Manhattan ’s
Upper East Side, home of some of the country’s top executives.  Chanos said New Yorkers don’t appreciate the impact
government bank bailouts have had on other U.S. citizens. Gross,
who runs the biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said today in a Twitter post that wage earners are fighting
back after three decades of class warfare in which they were
“being shot at.”  “New York is so finance-centric that people here
underappreciate the reaction of the rest of the country,”
Chanos said today in an interview in  New York . “People are
angry, they feel the game is rigged, that they didn’t get their
fair shake.”  Since Sept. 17, thousands of demonstrators have transformed
New York’s Zuccotti Park, near the site of the World Trade
Center, into a sea of blue tarps, sleeping bags and tables
offering free medical care, food and library books. Gross and
Chanos join BlackRock Inc.’s  Laurence Fink , who runs the world’s
biggest asset manager, and billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
in expressing empathy with the protests.  Demonstrators in New York today marched to the Upper East
Side, home to some Wall Street executives and other wealthy New
Yorkers, carrying signs calling for higher taxes on the rich and
for U.S. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner ’s firing. The protests
drew criticism from  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager who
became a billionaire by betting against the U.S. housing market
and whose townhouse was among those targeted by marchers.  Paulson Fights Back  “Paulson & Co. and its employees have paid hundreds of
millions in  New York City  and New York State taxes in recent
years and have created over 100 high paying jobs in New York
City since its formation,” the $30 billion hedge fund said
today in an e-mailed statement. “Instead of vilifying our most
successful businesses, we should be supporting them and
encouraging them to remain in New York City and continue to
grow.”  Organizers of the Occupy  Wall Street  movement said today’s
march was a “billionaires walking tour.”  Protesters have criticized the government for propping up
hobbled financial giants, including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of
America Corp., with a $700 billion taxpayer-funded bailout in
2008, while leaving Americans to struggle with unemployment,
depressed wages, soaring foreclosures rates and slashed
retirement savings.  Citigroup and Bank of America have since repaid money they
received from the government under a program to relieve them of
toxic assets.  ‘Elderly and Savers’  In Boston, more than 100 people were arrested this morning
by police near the city’s financial district where scores have
been camping out in tents since Oct. 1 to protest Wall Street
policies, according to the organizing group, Occupy  Boston .  The arrests followed a march by thousands of students
yesterday from Boston Common to the area where the tents are
pitched.  Chanos, 53, who was born in  Milwaukee , said the
“disjointed” nature of the demonstration, which started last
month in New York’s financial district and spread to cities such
as Washington and  Seattle , shouldn’t be underestimated because
protests in the sixties started in a similar way.  “The elderly and savers have been hurt by Fed policy,”
said Chanos, whose firm is based in New York.  Fink, whose firm has $3.7 trillion under management, said
last week he understands the concerns of protesters speaking out
against financial companies in New York and other cities.  ‘Losing Hope’  “These are not lazy people sitting around looking for
something to do,” Fink, 58, said on Oct 5 during an event in
Toronto. “We have people losing hope and they’re going into the
street, whether it’s justified or not.”  Fink received $23.8 million in compensation for 2010, a 50
percent increase from the previous year.  Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said in
August that the nation’s richest people have been “coddled long
enough by a billionaire-friendly Congress” and called for
higher taxes for the “mega-rich” in the U.S.  Buffett, the world’s third-richest man, according to
Forbes, told  Charlie Rose  in New York during a Sept. 30
interview on PBS that class warfare is going on, “and my class
isn’t just winning, I mean we’re killing them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  