-- 
Chavez Praises Socialist Superhero as Cultural Foil to Superman

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-10-11T17:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chavez-praises-socialist-superhero-as-cultural-foil-to-superman.html
Watch out, Superman: Venezuelan
PresidentHugo Chavez has a new superhero to spread the tenets
of his 21st century socialist revolution.  Chavez today criticized the influence of American comic
book icons such as Superman and Wonder Woman while praising a
campaign mascot made in his image by supporters ahead of next
year’s elections.  “I think it’s very funny and very creative,” he said of
the mascot, a doll with an oversized head wearing the
president’s preferred red beret, red shirt and black army
slacks. “It’s part of the cultural battle against Superman,
Wonder Woman, Batman and Robin that they’ve tried to impose on
us down to the bone and that the Yankees made us admire.”  Chavez has vowed to defeat an undisclosed form of cancer
in time to win re-election in October 2012 to a third, six-year
term. Today he said he’d return to Cuba, where he had a
baseball-sized tumor removed in June, to monitor the progress of
his recovery after undergoing four rounds of chemotherapy that
have left him bald.  The self-declared socialist has sought to counteract the
influence of U.S. culture on  Venezuela  by funding a  film studio 
to produce movies that celebrate his nation’s fight against the
“Empire.” He’s also created a publishing company that
distributes socialist literature. Venezuelans should create
cartoons of figures such as his hero, South American liberator
 Simon Bolivar , he said today.  Still, even a mascot of himself doesn’t always win the
president’s approval. Chavez, who last week appeared on live
television dancing to hip-hop music, was quick to point out that
the doll’s pants were falling down. Nor does it have the afro
that Chavez said he intends to grow when his hair grows back.  “Buckle up, buddy, because Chavez’s pants can’t fall
down,” the 57-year-old president said during a phone call today
to the television talk show where the mascot and its creator
were being interviewed. “That mascot doesn’t dance to rap like
me. My hair
is starting to come out again and you’ll have to make another
mascot. It’s not a problem if you give him an afro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  