-- 
Chevron’s Quarterly Profit Rises on Gain From Refinery Sale

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-10-11T21:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chevron-third-quarter-net-income-unchanged-from-second-quarter.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, said third-quarter profit rose as proceeds
from a refinery sale and the strengthening U.S. dollar more than
offset slowing oil demand.  Chevron’s net income in the period that ended Sept. 30 was
“comparable” with second-quarter results, when the company
reported a profit of $7.73 billion, exceeding the $3.77 billion
earned during the third quarter of 2010. Chevron announced
selected third-quarter results in a statement distributed via
 Business Wire . The company, based in  San Ramon , California, is
scheduled to release full third-quarter results on Oct. 28.  Chevron sold a U.K. oil refinery and related storage
terminals and marketing assets in Ireland to  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
in August for $1.73 billion as part of Chief Executive Officer
John Watson’s effort to shed lower-profit fuel-making units. The
company said today that it recorded a $500 million third-quarter
gain from the sale.  Chevron’s oil and natural-gas production during July and
August fell 5 percent from the full third-quarter of 2010 to the
equivalent of 2.6 million barrels a day, the company said. The
declines stemmed from a pipeline incident in Thailand and repair
work to installations in the  Gulf of Mexico , Kazakhstan and the
U.K.  A U.K. tax increase on oil and gas production prompted
Chevron to take a $150 million “catch-up charge” during the
third quarter and will cost an additional $40 million during the
current period, according to the statement.  Exxon Mobil Corp. of Irving, Texas, is the largest U.S. oil
company by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  