-- 
Chile’s Multiexport Heads to 17-Month Low on Fish Virus Concern

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T19:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chile-s-multiexport-heads-to-17-month-low-on-fish-virus-concern.html
Multiexport Foods SA (MULTIFOO) , the only
salmon farmer on Chile’s benchmark Ipsa index, headed for a 17-
month low on concern a virus may affect production.  Multiexport retreated 4.9 percent to 115.09 pesos at 4:30
p.m. Santiago time, the lowest price on a closing basis since
May 2010. The Ipsa rose 1.9 percent.  Diario Financiero reported that regulators detected traces
of “heart and skeletal muscle inflammation,” or HSMI, a virus
among local salmon farmers.  “Multiexport is always the first local salmon stock that
falls on these occasions because it’s much more liquid than
other farmers,” Andres Galarce, an analyst at Santiago-based
brokerage firm Euroamerica Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in a
phone interview. “The report isn’t entirely news. Traces of the
virus had been detected earlier this year, and it isn’t such a
concern for the industry due to its low mortality rates.”  Chile ’s fishing regulator Sernapesca has intensified
preventive measures after it found new traces of HSMI virus on
fish, Diario Financiero reported. None of the fish presented
symptoms of the underlying disease, the newspaper wrote, citing
Sernapesca director Juan Luis Ansoleaga.  Andres Lyon, Multiexport’s chief executive officer, was not
immediately available to comment, an official at the company’s
press office said by phone. Armando Castro, head of
communications at Sernapesca, was not available to comment, an
assistant said by phone.  Empresas AquaChile SA, Chile’s largest salmon farmer, rose
2.6 percent to 287.2 pesos, while Australis Seafoods SA was
little changed at 135.06 pesos. Cia. Pesquera Camanchaca SA
retreated 1.9 percent to 50 pesos and Invertec Pesquera Mar de
Chiloe SA dropped 0.2 percent to 139 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  