-- 
Chilean Traders May Be Underestimating Inflation, BofA Says

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-11T18:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chile-swaps-traders-may-be-underestimating-inflation-bofa-says.html
Chile ’s interest-rate swaps market
is pricing in less inflation than economists forecast, creating
an opportunity for investors, according to Bank of America
Corp.’s global research unit.  “While the inflation outlook in Chile has clearly changed
with the global economic slowdown, a one-year breakeven rate of
2.4 percent does not fully take into account potential upward
risks to headline inflation,” strategist Ezequiel Aguirre wrote
today in a note to clients.  Breakeven inflation is a measure of the average future pace
of price rises as reflected by the difference between nominal
and inflation-linked yields. In Chile, the one-year breakeven
rate as measured in the swaps market fell to 2.38 percent as of
2:30 p.m. New York time today from 2.62 percent a month ago.  The one-year interest-rate swap in pesos reached a nine-
month low of 4.05 percent on Oct. 4 as traders priced in faster
and deeper interest-rate cuts. Plunging peso yields have
narrowed the gap with inflation-linked yields, leading to
breakeven inflation lower than economists’ forecasts.  The one-year swap rate in pesos rose 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 4.36 percent today and the one-year
inflation-linked rate rose 13 basis points to 1.93 percent.  Wider Gap  Investors should pay fixed  interest rates  in pesos and
receive fixed interest rates denominated in unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit, Aguirre wrote. That
would position them to profit from a wider gap between the two.  Chile’s central bank targets 3 percent inflation over a
two-year horizon with a margin of error of 1 percentage point on
either side.  The median forecast of 50 traders and investors in a
central bank survey on Sept. 27 was that prices would rise 2.8
percent in the next 12 months. The median forecast of more than
60 economists in a Sept. 9 survey was that prices would rise 3
percent in the year to August 2012 and 3 percent again in the
calendar year 2012.  The bank is scheduled to publish results of the latest
surveys tomorrow. The bank, which meets this week, has room to
lower rates, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago today.  “We have room for maneuver, as much in monetary policy as
in fiscal policy,” Larrain said.  Derivatives Tax  Larrain was promoting Chile’s new derivative law, which was
approved by Congress last week. The new rules seek to clarify
tax treatment for derivatives, including forwards, futures,
swaps and options. Previously tax treatment of derivatives was
governed by a series of findings from the country’s internal
revenue service, rather than by a single law.  By making tax treatment of derivatives easier to
understand, the government hopes to promote the use of hedging
and mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations on small and
medium-sized businesses. More than 600 Chilean companies had
used currency derivatives to hedge in the last month, Larrain
said.  Chile’s peso strengthened today as traders, returning from
a long weekend, priced in yesterday’s gains in other emerging-
market currencies and real-money investors took advantage of a
mid-morning decline in the peso to buy.  Trading Resumes  The peso gained 1.8 percent to 509.38 per  U.S. dollar  from
518.5 on Oct. 7, the steepest appreciation among the seven Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yesterday was a
trading holiday in Santiago.  After opening at 510.75, the currency retreated to an
intraday low of 517.69 as copper fell on renewed concern about
the European debt crisis. Copper accounts for most of Chile’s
exports, so higher copper prices increase the country’s dollar
income and boost the peso.  “Yesterday markets were pretty positive outside Chile, but
lack of liquidity and falling copper then took the peso back to
517 per dollar,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards
at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “Then some
real offer started to appear: pension funds and offshore banks
who are still long the dollar started selling dollars and that
pushed the peso back.”  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market,
including offshore branches of banks, had increased long
positions in the dollar versus the Chilean currency to $6.5
billion on Oct. 6, the most since May 2010, according to central
bank data.  Europe  Debt  Copper rose to the highest in almost two weeks yesterday
after the leaders of France and  Germany  pledged a plan to stem
Europe’s debt crisis in three weeks.  “The risk of disappointing policy delivery from Europe
remains high,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Copper prices have had a decent rebound, the question is
whether that is just a temporary move.”  RBS is cautious on the Chilean peso after the central bank
on Oct. 7 said it would continue buying $50 million a day,
Cattan-Naslausky said. The bank has been buying dollars daily
since January as part of a $12 billion plan to weaken the
currency and build reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  