-- 
China’s Foshan Suspends City’s Decision to Ease Home-Purchase Limits

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T03:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/china-guangdong-s-foshan-to-allow-families-to-buy-one-more-home.html
China ’s southern city of Foshan
suspended plans to ease limits on property purchases less than a
day after saying it would allow residents to buy a second home.  Foshan, which would have been the first Chinese city to
ease the restrictions, needs to further assess the curbs, the
municipality’s  Bureau of Housing and Urban-Rural Development 
said on its website late yesterday. The city, neighboring the
Guangdong provincial capital of Guangzhou, yesterday said it
would allow residents to buy a second home priced at less than
7,500 yuan ($1,180) per square meter from today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month government measures to
control the  property market  are at a critical stage and need to
focus on curbing price gains in less affluent cities after
limiting home purchases in markets including Beijing and
 Shanghai .  Home prices  in China rose every month from September
2010 before falling for the first time last month, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd.  Foshan’s announcement showed it faced the “central
government’s pressure,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients today,
maintaining his “underweight” on the property sector. The
suspension is a “dramatic move,” he said.  “Property markets may have entered a desperate state,
where a local government was pressed to try testing the central
government’s bottom line,” he said.  Limiting Home Purchases  A measure of property stocks on the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index rose 1.4 percent as of 11:10 a.m. local time. It
has declined 13 percent this year compared with a 15 percent
drop in the benchmark gauge.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, after a July 14 meeting
chaired by Wen called on cities where price gains were deemed
excessive to limit the number of homes each family is allowed to
buy. More than 40 cities, including Foshan, adopted such
restrictions.  China is trying to balance the needs of local governments
that rely on land sales for revenue and managing dissatisfaction
with housing affordability. The government this year has raised
down-payment requirements on home loans and curbed lending to
property developers among restrictions to prevent an asset
bubble and social unrest.  Property construction last year drove more than half of
economic growth, while land sales contributed 40 percent of
revenue earned by local authorities that have amassed 10.7
trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) of debt.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  