-- 
China Adds Japanese Debt for First Time in 10 Months Amid Global Turmoil

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-10-11T01:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/china-adds-japanese-debt-for-first-time-in-10-months-amid-global-turmoil.html
China  bought more Japanese debt than
it sold for the first time since October 2010 as the larger
nation sought refuges from fiscal crises in the U.S. and  Europe .  The country with the fastest growing major economy bought a
net 345.6 billion yen ($4.5 billion) in money-market instruments
and sold 166.7 billion yen in Japanese bonds and notes in
August, resulting in a total purchase of 178.9 billion yen,
according to a statement from Japan’s Ministry of Finance
released in Tokyo today.  “Adding to the broad trend that overseas central banks are
diversifying away from the  U.S. dollar  in their currency
reserves, the yen has become a refuge from the financial turmoil
that started in Europe,” said  Yuji Kameoka , managing director
of the investment strategy and research department in Tokyo at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
biggest brokerage.  The yen strengthened to a postwar record of 75.95 on Aug.
19 amid concern the European sovereign-debt crisis may spread to
the region’s bigger economies, while Japan’s benchmark 10-year
yields sank to as low as 0.97 percent that month.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s AAA long-term
credit rating for the first time on Aug. 5, citing the nation’s
political process and criticizing lawmakers for failing to cut
spending or raise revenue enough to trim record budget deficits.  The yen tends to appreciate during economic and financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital. The Japanese currency traded at
76.75 per dollar as of 9:52 a.m. in  Tokyo  from 76.68 yesterday
in  New York . Ten-year bonds yielded 1 percent.  China will continue to “seek diversification in the
management of reserve assets, strengthen risk management, and
minimize the negative impacts of the fluctuations in the
international financial market on the Chinese economy,”
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in August.
China holds the world’s largest foreign-exchange reserves at
more than $3 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 