-- 
China Record Boosts Confidence This Is No Bubble: Daniel Arbess

-- B y   D a n i e l   J .   A r b e s s
-- 
2011-10-11T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/china-s-track-record-boosts-confidence-this-is-no-bubble-daniel-j-arbess.html
As the debtor economies of the
developed world sputter, the health of  China  grows ever-more
central to the fate of the global economy. Yet, the debate on
China’s prospects remains polarized and often superficial, with
commentary either baselessly bullish or derisively bearish.  Reality, of course, is usually more nuanced. China’s model
is unbalanced and its economy has misallocated capital, but its
policy makers are using the country’s plentiful reserves and
policy tools to keep inflation under control and growth on a
sustainable path. China’s growth will probably slow, as its
model evolves from depending on exports and investment to
relying on greater consumption, but the economy is unlikely to
implode.  The financial crisis in the West marked the end of the
export-dependent phase of China’s growth. As the U.S. and  Europe 
deleveraged, China compensated by plugging its export deficit
with internal fixed-asset investment, largely in housing, which
has represented the majority of the country’s GDP growth since
2008. With its population now about 50 percent urban (the
comparable figure for the U.S. is roughly 80 percent), China is
still building the infrastructure it needs to keep urbanizing
over a million people a month. However, the Chinese can’t rely
on investment much longer without running the risk of inflation
and a treacherous bubble.  Raising Rates  Consequently, China has recently been raising interest
rates and restricting credit to slow things down. Credit growth
has  stabilized  at 17 percent from a year earlier, down from 32
percent in post-crisis 2009. It’s ironic that the China bears who
worried about inflation a few months ago now characterize the
government’s calculated moderation as an “unwinding bubble.”
Managing growth without arresting it is the very definition of a
“soft landing.”  China can continue to grow, although probably at a slower
rate, if it reduces investment dependence, but consumption will
need to pick up some of the slack. Consumption’s share of GDP
has fallen as investments have increased in recent years, but
Chinese leaders hope to promote more sustainable growth by
strengthening consumers and services, in part by deregulating
energy and wages and by revaluing the yuan. The yuan is up more
than 6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this year, and officials
are targeting full  convertibility  by 2015. Nominal  wages  are
rising 17 percent annually, and consumption has increased 12
percent, according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  Better Shape  Chinese consumers are in better shape than those in the
U.S., with a household debt-to-income ratio of 18 percent,
compared with 95 percent in the  U.S. Bank  of America points out
that Chinese households have $5.1 trillion in savings, more than
the GDPs of  India ,  Brazil  and  Russia  combined. The Chinese
middle class is almost as large as the entire  U.S. population 
and will be twice as large (as will its share of global GDP
relative to the U.S.) in 10 years.  Real consumption is already growing briskly at the high
end, where luxury retailers have seen explosive growth. Analyst
Aaron Fischer of CLSA  projects  that China’s share of the global
luxury market will rise from 14 percent in 2010 to 44 percent by
2020. The next step is for China to broaden the base of
consumption as household incomes rise across the middle class.  Market bears point to China’s “ghost cities,” instant
residential developments bereft of citizens, as proof of a major
misallocation of capital resulting in a housing bubble. However,
Chinese policy makers have been working to reduce the excess
with a range of regulations, including restrictions on multi-
property ownership, rising  interest rates  and mortgage
limitations.  Slowing Growth  As a result, growth in the most speculative markets has
moderated (and the deserved financial problems of the most
exuberant builders serve as a deterrent to further
misallocations). Today, according to CLSA analyst Andy Rothman,
89 percent of new homes are purchased by owner-occupiers making
down payments that average 44 percent of purchase price; the
majority of the rest are bought with cash. This looks more like
prudence than a bubble.  Bears are overly focused on supply, basically disregarding
the demand dynamics driving the housing market. Amid the
greatest urban migration in history, the concept of “just in
time” inventory management simply doesn’t apply. Five years ago,
the Pudong district of  Shanghai  was reckoned to be the biggest
urban real estate bubble of all; today, it’s fully occupied. In
China, if you build it, they will come.  There has indeed been substantial misallocation of capital
in the financial system. My team at Xerion estimates that up to
25 percent of Chinese bank loans may be bad, implying potential
losses as high as $1 trillion. That’s a huge bailout number, but
not beyond China’s capacity.  Eroding Savings  Fortunately, the financial system is highly liquid thanks
to the high rate of savings, which equal 80 percent of bank
capital. Lacking investment alternatives, China’s depositors are
victims of financial repression, receiving only 2 percent
interest on  bank deposits  while suffering an inflation rate of
more than 6 percent. China’s ratio of loans to deposits is about
68 percent, according to  Paul Schulte  of the China Construction
Bank International, much lower than in most developed economies,
which average 100 percent.  As long as bank deposits stay high and inflation stays low
enough to permit the continued flow of credit, problem loans can
be refinanced as they mature. In a worst case scenario, China
could deploy some of its $3.2 trillion in foreign reserves to
recapitalize its banks. China’s foreign credit status creates a
stark contrast with the weak balance sheets of many nations in
the West.  Much to Dislike  There is plenty to dislike about China’s state capitalism,
but its strong external accounts and tight control of policy
levers give it huge practical advantages relative to the
politically divided, overleveraged democracies of the developed
world. Balancing growth, solvency and inflation while
simultaneously overhauling China’s economic engine from
investment to consumption will require considerable policy
skill. But the track record of the past 30 years should earn
Chinese policy makers the benefit of the doubt. The rest of us
should view bearish criticism with skepticism and table the
counterproductive protectionist resolutions in Congress. It
should be clear by now that China’s success will be ours, too.  (Daniel J. Arbess is a partner of Perella Weinberg Partners
LP and portfolio manager of the Xerion investment strategy. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Daniel J. Arbess at  darbess@pwpartners.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 