-- 
Chinalco Will ‘Strictly’ Control Investments, Xiong Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T06:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/chinalco-to-strictly-control-investments-xiong-says-1-.html
Aluminum Corp. of China, the
nation’s biggest producer, said it will “strictly” control
project investments and be “prudent” on acquisitions amid a
slump in metal prices.  The company, known as Chinalco, should “get well prepared
to counter tough challenges” and ensure its financial safety
amid market volatilities, General Manager  Xiong Weiping  said in
a  statement  on the company’s website today.  The LME Index of six base metals traded in  London  has
dropped 24 percent from a February high on concerns the European
debt crisis and a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  may curb demand
for commodities. Xiong in March boosted the company’s annual
spending 54 percent to 22.5 billion yuan ($3.5 billion) to
diversify into coal and bauxite from “low-margin” aluminum
production.  “We should stick with the principles that cash is king and
investment return is the priority,” Xiong said in the
statement, which said he made the comments at a Sept. 23 company
meeting. He said the company will continue with its “strategic
transformation”.  Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd., the listed unit also known as
Chalco and chaired by Xiong, pared some of its earlier gains
today in Hong Kong trading following Xiong’s comment.  The shares traded at HK$3.68 as of 2:23 p.m. local time,
after climbing as much as 6.2 percent to HK$3.78. The stock has
fallen 48 percent this year, compared with a 21 percent decline
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Profit Outlook  Chalco’s first-half profit fell 22 percent to 412.6 million
yuan because of higher production costs and a 273 million-yuan
writedown on a terminated bauxite project in  Australia . Full-
year profit may rise 88 percent to 1.46 billion yuan, according
to the mean estimate of 10 analysts’ forecast compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinalco in June took over five rare-earth companies in
Jiangsu province to boost capacity. It is also looking at coal
in Chinese provinces, including Xinjiang and  Inner Mongolia ,
Xiong said in March.  Chalco agreed in July last year to pay $1.35 billion for a
stake in Rio Tinto Group’s Simandou iron ore project in Guinea,
making its first investment in the commodity.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  