-- 
China’s Stocks Rise After Sovereign Wealth Unit Buys Bank Shares

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T07:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/china-s-stocks-rally-after-sovereign-wealth-unit-buys-shares-of-top-banks.html
China’s stocks rose for the first
time in five days as a state-run investment arm began buying
shares of the nation’s four biggest banks after valuations
dropped to levels reached during the global financial crisis.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. climbed the most
in six weeks while  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  jumped at least 2
percent after  Central Huijin  Investment Ltd. acquired their
shares. China Shenhua Energy Co. and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.
plunged more than 4 percent, capping the stock market’s gains,
after the government announced higher taxes on coking coal.  “Central Huijin’s move shows the government’s intention to
save the market, which is close to a bottom,” said Yang Delong,
a fund manager at China Southern Fund Management Co., which
oversees $21 billion. “This will help boost companies with
record low valuations such as banks and automakers in the short
term.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index added 3.7 points, or 0.2
percent, to 2,348.52 at the close. The measure rallied as much
as 2.9 percent today, rebounding from a drop yesterday that sent
it to the lowest level since March 25, 2009. The CSI 300 Index
lost 0.2 percent to 2,551.99 today.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 16 percent this year as
the government raised interest rates and reserve-requirement
ratios for banks to cool inflation that’s at the highest level
in almost three years. The stock measure is valued at 10.84
times estimated profit, compared with the record low of 10.82
times set yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Some Relief’  A gauge of financial companies in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose
1.3 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. ICBC, the
world’s largest bank by market value, added 1.5 percent to 4.05
yuan, the most since Aug. 25. China Construction Bank gained 2.5
percent to 4.52 yuan. Agricultural Bank advanced 2 percent to
2.52 yuan.  Bank of China  increased 2.1 percent to 2.93 yuan.  Central Huijin will continue with “related market
operations,” the unit of China’s sovereign wealth fund said,
without providing details on how much it will invest and whether
it will buy the shares in  Hong Kong  or Shanghai.  Central Huijin bought 14.6 million Shanghai-listed A shares
in ICBC, 7.38 million yuan-denominated shares of Construction
Bank, 39.1 million shares in Agricultural Bank and 3.5 million
shares in Bank of  China , the four lenders said in separate
statements to the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges.  The bank share buying will bolster the stock market,
according to China International Capital Corp.  Financials’ Performance  “We should expect at least some relief on selling pressure
from this move by Huijin, if history is a guide,” Hao Hong, a
Beijing-based global equity strategist, said in a report to
clients.  The Shanghai Composite jumped 21 percent in a week after
the government said it would buy shares of the three largest
lenders on Sept. 18, 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., the government also cut  interest rates  for the
first time in six years, allowed most banks to set aside smaller
reserves and scrapped a tax on equity purchases.  The CSI 300 Financials Index has fallen 15 percent this
year on speculation that some of the $3.5 trillion in new loans
made since the end of 2008 may sour as the world’s fastest-
growing economy slows. ICBC has dropped 4.5 percent in 2011,
extending last year’s 21 percent slide. The stock trades at 6.83
times estimated earnings, compared with the record low of 6.67
times set on Sept. 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Support Needed  “For the longer term, the move isn’t enough to turn the
pessimistic sentiment around and the bottom may be 2,000
points,” said China Southern Fund’s Yang. “If history is any
guide, a turnaround or rally in the market will need stimulus
from all government agencies like the central bank and the China
Securities Regulatory Commission.”  China’s stocks have fallen this year amid concern the
European debt crisis is worsening and the Chinese government
will keep its tight monetary policies to tame inflation and curb
asset bubbles. Lending restrictions have hurt small companies in
Wenzhou, a city in the eastern province of Zhejiang.  The worst of the “panic and hysteria” over informal
lending in China may be over as Wenzhou works with businesses
and the central government to stabilize credit, UBS AG said.
Wenzhou accounts for less than 1 percent of national gross
domestic product, but reportedly has more than 400,000 mostly
small firms, UBS said.  “The size of informal lending is relatively small and the
concerns about the direct impact on the formal banking sector
and the economy are exaggerated,” Hong Kong-based economist
 Wang Tao  said in a note today. The “bigger risks are credit
withdrawal in both the formal and informal lending market and
contagion,” she said.  Coal Producers  China Shenhua, the listed unit of China’s biggest coal
producer, fell 4.2 percent to 24.21 yuan, the most since Aug.
18. Yanzhou Coal dropped 4.9 percent to 27.83 yuan, its biggest
loss since Aug. 8. Yangquan Coal Industry Group Co. plunged 9.3
percent to 21.79 yuan.  On a volume basis, China will levy a tax of 8 yuan to 20
yuan on every metric ton of coking coal sold starting next month
, the government said on its website. The tax on coking coal is
8 yuan a ton currently, according to Anna Yu, a Hong Kong based
energy analyst with ICBC International Research Ltd.  Emerging-market stocks are “cheap” and Pacific Investment
Management Co. is buying in China after the nation’s shares
tumbled this year, Maria Gordon, an emerging-market equity- fund
manager  at Pimco, said in an interview yesterday.  “Markets are cheap,” Gordon said. Still, “it’s very
difficult to call the bottom” given concerns that the global
economy is slowing, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  