-- 
Citigroup’s Buiter Sees Europe ‘Stumbling’ to Debt Solution

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 
2011-10-11T12:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/citigroup-s-buiter-sees-europe-stumbling-into-crisis-solution.html
Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist
Willem Buiter said European leaders will eventually resolve the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis by “stumbling” into a solution.  “I actually believe that despite everything,  Europe  will
manage to solve this issue,” Buiter said in an interview with
 Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” in  New
York  today. “Not in an elegant, timely and proactive way, but
stumbling into what they will undoubtedly call a ‘Grand
Solution,’ one slice at a time.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  warned
today that the crisis has reached a “systemic dimension” as
political leaders argued over a solution. In postponing a summit
of euro officials by five days to Oct. 23, European Union
President Herman Van Rompuy yesterday sought extra time to get
to grips with the crisis, which has propelled  Greece  to the
brink of default and shaken world markets.  Trichet’s comments were a “belated recognition” that the
crisis is a threat “not just to the European financial system,
but to the global financial system,” Buiter said. “If not
tackled soon, it could be very ugly indeed.”  Buiter, a former  Bank of England  policy maker, sees
European leaders coming up with a plan that will involve
recapitalizing banks and a “deep” debt restructuring for
Greece by Oct. 23.  Restructuring  “Provided that Spain and Italy remain on their feet and
can be ring-fenced effectively, the global banking system should
not take a devastating hit from the inevitable restructuring in
the smaller periphery countries and the banking recapitalization
that will be going on soon,” he said.  Financial markets will “absolutely” be able to manage a
Greek restructuring as investors have already priced it into
assets, Buiter said. He also said Greece should have
restructured as part of its bailout in May 2010 and that delays
have “made things much worse than they need to be.”  “At the end of it, we’ll have a  euro zone  that has the
minimal conditions in terms of fiscal discipline, restructuring
insolvent sovereigns and insolvent banks, and recapitalizing
systemically important financial institutions that it should
have had right at the beginning,” Buiter said. “The euro area
will be stronger, and before long, larger with new members.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McKee in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  