-- 
Citigroup Said to Halt Soliciting Some Japan Retail Business on FSA Probe

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-10-11T06:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/citigroup-said-to-halt-soliciting-some-japan-retail-business.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  stopped soliciting
clients for some retail banking products in Japan as it awaits
the outcome of a government investigation into its compliance
with local rules, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The U.S. bank told employees at its Japan retail unit in
late June not to market financial products such as  investment
trusts  and foreign currencies, said the people, who declined to
be identified as the information is confidential.  Citibank Japan Ltd.  is currently reviewing its compliance
processes and offering training to staff to improve internal
controls, the people said. The bank, which has 32 branches and
offices in Japan with 1,780 employees, still helps customers
exchange currencies or buy products if asked, they said.  The U.S. lender faces a possible penalty from the  Financial
Services Agency  in Japan as soon as this year for failing to
fully explain product risk to retail customers, two people
familiar with the situation said earlier this month. It would be
at least the third time Citigroup is punished by Japanese
regulators since 2004. Revenue and profit at the bank’s local
unit fell in the three months ended June.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on the bank suspending solicitation of
clients for some products.  Insufficient Information  The penalties may include suspension of operations at some
outlets, according to the people who spoke earlier this month.
The agency ended an onsite inspection of the New York-based
bank’s Tokyo offices in July, they said. Citigroup possibly had
insufficient information, such as the age and occupation of
customers, needed to measure the degree of risk they should
take, the regulators pointed out, according to the people.  Citigroup  Japan ’s profit fell 78 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier to 1.1 billion yen ($14
million), the company said in August. Revenue declined 23
percent to 20.7 billion yen.  Shares of Citigroup rose 1.9 percent to 2,006 yen at the
close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The Topix
Securities Index gained 2.7 percent.  In 2009, Citigroup was ordered by Japan’s regulator to
suspend marketing of banking services to individuals for a month
after failing to install adequate internal controls to detect
and monitor suspicious transactions. In 2004, the company was
ordered to close its private banking operations in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  