-- 
Collateral Management Needed for OTC Trades, CME’s Donohue Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-10-11T19:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/collateral-management-needed-for-otc-trades-cme-s-donohue-says.html
Demand to transform non-standard
collateral for use at swaps clearinghouses is set to grow as new
rules take effect for the $601 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market , according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s  Craig Donohue .  Under the Dodd-Frank Act passed last year, investors who
buy and sell swaps must post collateral at clearinghouses for
most trades. Many swaps users will have to post riskier
securities to third parties on derivatives trades in order to
receive eligible collateral to pledge. Clearinghouses such as
CME’s now accept cash,  government bonds  and agency debt as
collateral to back positions.  “There will be a need and a value for the collateral
transformation services,” Donohue, chief executive officer of
CME said today during a panel discussion at the Futures Industry
Association annual conference in  Chicago .  The types of accepted collateral may need to be expanded as
thousands of new users seek to back trades. While cash and
government securities will always be the least costly way to pay
for margin, some who want to pledge “three chickens and an old
Ford” will find it more expensive to have non-standard
collateral transformed into acceptable form, said Jeffrey Sprecher, chief executive officer of Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  The demand has created a “cottage industry” of firms and
units within banks that will charge a fee to hold securities or
other assets for investors in return for acceptable margin, said
Richard Prager, managing director and head of global trading for
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Users in the interest-rate swaps market, the largest OTC
derivative asset class, may need at least $1.4 trillion in new
margin payments under the Dodd-Frank rules, research firm Tabb
Group said in a report yesterday.  Donohue joked on the panel that Sprecher’s assessment of
non-standard collateral could use some adjusting.  “I immediately thought four chickens made more sense,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  