-- 
College Football Needs Way to End Conference Panic, NCAA Chief Emmert Says

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-10-11T18:16:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/college-football-needs-way-to-end-conference-panic-ncaa-chief-emmert-says.html
College football needs a way to
prevent schools from getting caught up in the panic of fast-pace
conference changes, said National Collegiate Athletic
Association President Mark Emmert.  Texas Christian University  became the fourth school to jump
leagues in a month when it agreed to join the Big 12 yesterday.
It was the second time in a year that the Fort Worth, Texas,
university changed conferences, pulling out of the  Big East  even
before its membership became official in 2012.  The most recent rush, which included three other schools
jumping leagues in the space of a month and rumblings of more to
come, left the Providence, Rhode Island-based Big East with only
six schools playing football at the highest level and the Big 12
without a commissioner. At stake is getting a piece of
television contracts as big a $225 million a year.  “We could have had complete chaos because everybody had
their finger on the trigger,” Emmert said in a telephone
interview last week.  “Very few of them wanted to pull the
trigger. But they were afraid that if they didn’t, somebody else
would. That’s a difficult climate to make thoughtful choices.”  This year’s rush started when  Texas A&M  joined the
 Southeastern Conference  in September and left the Big 12. Twelve
days later, the  University of Pittsburgh  and  Syracuse University 
left the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference. TCU, which
had agreed to join the Big East, instead paid what the
 Associated Press  reported to be a $5 million fee to get out of
its commitment.  The schools’ decisions unleashed torrents of speculation
that other schools would change leagues. Texas and  Oklahoma  gave
their presidents approval to shop for a new conference, and Big
12 Commissioner Don Beebe agreed to step down. The Big East said
yesterday it would try to add six new football-playing schools.  Empower NCAA  The NCAA needs to have enough power to step in and stop
schools from making decisions in a panic, said  William E.
Kirwan , chancellor of the University System of  Maryland  and co-
chairman of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics,
a non-profit organization that has pursued college athletic
reform since its founding in 1989.  “There is nobody in charge,” Kirwan said in a telephone
interview. “We have a mess on our hands, and I think we do need
a more central authority. I see no alternative to that than the
NCAA president or the NCAA board.”  Kirwan says that while realignment has caught the nation’s
attention, there is a greater crisis looming beneath the surface
of college athletics.  “Conferences and commissioners have a license to operate
outside of the NCAA, while making decisions that have monumental
impact on the members of the association, who have little or no
say,” Kirwan said. “It’s greed. There is so much money on the
table that everyone is in a state of panic.”  Resistance Likely  Universities still would be unlikely to accept a person or
policies that could hinder their independence, said Cedric Dempsey, NCAA president from 1994 to 2002.  “I would doubt the NCAA would be interested in a czar with
ability to act unilaterally,” Dempsey said in an e-mail. “Many
in Division I accept the expectation that eventually there will
be five to six super conferences and are trying to determine
where they will fit when that does happen.”  University of  Connecticut  President  Susan Herbst  said the
schools are still capable of solving their own problems without
any help from their governing body.  “I don’t know that more authority or regulation is needed,
but President Emmert and the NCAA can be influential in helping
presidents to think through the key issues,” she said in an e-
mail.  Student Travel  For example, the NCAA can help schools understand the cost
of travel as they consider joining conferences with members a
half-continent away.  “Hundreds of student athletes are crisscrossing the
nation, at great cost and miss class,” said Herbst, whose
school is based in Storrs, Connecticut, and is a member of the
Big East. “We rely on President Emmert to keep the conversation
focused on these most vital pressures.”  In the month of September, it was all happening too fast,
Emmert said.  “This is one of those cases where speed can really be the
enemy,” he said. “If decisions are made very quickly, out of
reaction to what others are doing, or may be doing, or you think
they may be doing, then that leads to bad decision making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  