-- 
Columbia University Drug Suspects Denied Request for Diversion

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-11T16:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/columbia-university-drug-suspects-denied-request-for-diversion.html
Two Columbia University students
arrested last year on drug charges lost their bid to enroll in a
pretrial diversion program that would let them avoid the
possibility of a prison term of as long as 2 1/2 years.  Judge Michael Sonberg turned down the request for the
program by Jose Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta and Michael Wymbs,
22, of  New York , in New York state court in  Manhattan  today.
Sonberg ordered another of the five defendants in the case,
Christopher Coles, 21, of Philadelphia, to be evaluated for the
program. Coles said he is addicted to marijuana.  “We think that the judge is wrong on the law and wrong on
the facts and we are reviewing our appellate rights,” Wymbs
attorney, Michael Bachner, said after the hearing. “This
diversion program was created specifically for people like
Michael Wymbs.”  The program, which was set up in 2009 as part of reform of
the state’s so-called Rockefeller drug laws, allows judges to
sentence some nonviolent offenders with substance abuse problems
to treatment programs instead of incarceration,  according  to the
 New York Civil Liberties Union .  The case of another defendant, Adam Klein, 21, of Closter,
 New Jersey , who also asked to be enrolled in the diversion
program, was postponed so that his attorney, Alan Abramson, can
file more paperwork, Abramson said. The four students are due
back in court next month.  Profit Motive  Assistant District Attorney William Novak had argued in
court documents that the four students -- who rejected plea
agreements offered by prosecutors in May -- weren’t eligible for
the diversion program because their sales were motivated by
profit and not addiction.  Wymbs’s attorney, Bachner, said his client was addicted to
drugs and alcohol the entire time was he at Columbia and was
undergoing treatment while at school.  “If this was not a Columbia University press case I’m
convinced they’d get diversion,” Bachner said. “The system
created to help those with drug problems failed today.”  Five students -- Coles, Klein, Perez, Wymbs and Harrison
David, 21, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts  -- were arrested in
December after a five-month investigation named “Operation Ivy
League.”  Prosecutors said undercover officers spent $11,000 buying
drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  Cocaine Sales  David pleaded guilty to selling cocaine to an undercover
officer on July 19 in exchange for six months in jail and five
years of probation. He was sentenced and began serving his
prison term on Aug. 30.  The others face sentences of as long as 2 1/2 years if
convicted of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the
fifth degree, the most serious charge against each of them. All
four turned down plea agreements in June that would have placed
each of them on five years probation.  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students and is
one of eight schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the
 Ivy League . Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc .  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York state
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 