-- 
Container Lines Delay Asia-U.S. Rates Target on Struggle to Predict Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-12T12:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/container-lines-delay-asia-u-s-rates-target-on-struggle-to-predict-demand.html
Container-shipping lines delayed
announcing targets for next year’s rates on Asia-U.S. routes as
they struggle to forecast volumes amid unsteady economic growth
and an expanding global fleet.  “No one is able to predict even the near-term outlook,”
Brian Conrad, executive administrator at the  Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement , a group of 15 container lines, said
yesterday in Shenzhen,  China . Publication of the TSA’s annual
rates guidelines, which usually happens around this month, may
be delayed until early next year, he said.  The delay reflects U.S. retailers’ unwillingness to
commitment to orders for Asian-made toys, flat-screen TVs and
sneakers amid a 9 percent jobless rate and stock-market
fluctuations. An increase in the number of container vessels in
service this year has also hindered shipping lines’ efforts to
secure higher rates.  “It’s very, very difficult to look far ahead,” said Rolf
Habben-Jansen, chief executive officer of Damco, the freight-
forwarding arm of AP Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest
container-shipping line. “The economic news is not consistent,
and there is a lot of nervousness in the market.”  The container rates squeeze and concerns about the outlook
has contributed to a Copenhagen, Denmark-based Maersk losing
about 30 percent of its market value this year. China Shipping
Container Lines Co. has fallen 60 percent in  Hong Kong , while
Evergreen Marine Corp. has tumbled 43 percent in Taipei.  China Shipping Container rose 5.4 percent to HK$1.37 today.
Evergreen fell 1 percent to NT$15.65.  Lower Surcharges  Less-than-expected demand and excess capacity meant
shipping lines were generally forced to levy lower peak-season
surcharges this year than in 2010, Habben-Jansen said at the
Journal of Commerce’s TPM Asia Conference. Maersk, China Cosco
Holdings Co. and other TSA members delayed the introduction of
suggested levies of $400 per forty-foot box to August from June.  The TSA, which has limited antitrust protection, publishes
voluntary guidelines for annual rates negotiations each year,
including targeted increases and peak-season surcharges.
Contracts generally start about May.  Cargo Guess  By this time of year, the group can usually predict what
shipping for Christmas and the Lunar New Year will be like,
Conrad said. That’s not possible this year as many companies are
making last-minute orders, he said.  “Even now, some of them are not sure how much they are
going to ship,” he said. “It’s a real guess, which is new this
year.”  The later ordering means that October volumes are
“reasonably strong,” with shipments about the same as
September, Habben-Jansen said. Customers are also more prepared
to hold off on shipments as they are less concerned about
finding space on ships, he said.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the operator of more than 4,000
stories in the U.S. and  Canada , expects international shipments
for this year’s Christmas holidays to be in line with last year,
said  Richard Smith , its transportation vice president. The
retailer may take advantage of the greater shipping flexibility
to place more orders if needed, he said.  U.S. “demand is picking up as we are getting closer to the
end of the year,” said Rodolphe Saade, executive officer at CMA
CGM SA, the world’s third-largest container line. “ Europe  is
down, but the U.S. is picking up.”  U.S. Consumers  Retail sales in the U.S. probably increased 0.7 percent in
September, the fastest pace in six months, according to the
median of 69 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of
Commerce Department figures on Oct. 14. Shops’ inventories in
July were at the lowest level for that month since the
department began compiling data in 1992. August figures are yet
to be released.  Inbound shipments at U.S. container ports may rise 9.5
percent this month and 8 percent in November after shops delayed
orders earlier in the year, according to the  National Retail
Federation . The Washington-based trade group was expecting a 12
percent increase for last month, the first gain this year,
according to a Sept. 19  statement .  Still, the container-shipping industry will probably lose
money this year because overcapacity will offset an expected 7
percent increase in global volumes, London-based  Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd.  said Oct. 10.  The losses will force container lines to mothball ships,
Saade said. Marseilles-based CMA CGM will park some vessels in
early 2012, he said without giving more details. The global
container-shipping fleet comprised 5,066 vessels at the start of
September, up from 4,964 at the beginning of the year, according
to data from shipbroker Clarkson Plc.  “Many carriers can’t afford to keep losing money the way
they are,” Saade said. “Small players with no big ships will
not be able to sustain this.”  --Jasmine Wang with assistance from Kyunghee Park in  Singapore .
Editors: Neil Denslow, Frank Longid  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  