-- 
Cook’s Stent Met Efficacy, Safety Goals, FDA Staff Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T18:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/cook-s-stent-met-efficacy-safety-goals-fda-staff-says.html
A drug-coated stent from  Cook
Medical  met safety and effectiveness goals in the treatment of
blocked femoral arteries, according to a staff report by U.S.
regulators weighing whether to clear the device for sale.  Clinical trials showed closely held Cook’s stent, the
Zilver PTX, worked as well as or better than angioplasty and
non-medicated stents in unclogging vessels, Food and Drug
Administration staff said in a preliminary  review  released today
on the agency’s website. Outside advisers to the FDA will meet
Oct. 13 to evaluate the findings.  The device from Bloomington, Indiana-based Cook would be
the first drug-coated stent approved in the U.S. to treat
 peripheral vascular disease  in the largest artery of the upper
leg. The stent could reduce leg amputations and painful bypass
surgeries, the company said after winning approval for the
device in  Europe  two years ago.  In a study of 479 patients, “there were no signals
regarding elevated rates of death, stent thrombosis, or stent
fracture” in patients treated with Cook’s device,” FDA staff
said in the report. “Limited conclusions can be drawn” from
that sample size “regarding the detection of rare adverse
events.”  Follow-Up Studies  If the device is approved, the company should be required
to conduct follow-up studies to further assess the risk of side
effects or complications, agency reviewers said in the report.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  of Abbott, Illinois, and C.R. Bard Inc.
of  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey , are among the manufacturers of
devices that treat arterial blockages in the leg.  Peripheral vascular devices, including stents, angioplasty
balloons and synthetic grafts, generated $4.3 billion in global
revenue last year and may earn $5.6 billion in 2014, according
to  Technavio , a market research firm in Elmhurst,  Illinois .  Peripheral arterial disease affects 8 million to 12 million
people in the U.S., according to the  Peripheral Arterial Disease
Coalition  in Lakewood,  Colorado . The disease can cause leg pain
and raise heart-attack and stroke risks.  Bypass surgery and angioplasty, in which a tiny balloon is
inserted into the artery to clear the blockage, are among the
standard treatments for the disease, according to the  Mayo
Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota .  C.R. Bard won FDA approval in 2009 for a non-drug-coated
stent to treat femoral artery disease. That device, known as
LifeStent, is a flexible mesh tube that expands inside a clogged
vessel and holds it open to restore blood flow.  Drug Delivery  The Zilver PTX device from Cook also props open the femoral
artery and delivers the drug paclitaxel to reduce the risk that
fatty deposits will form new blockages.  Cook’s drug-coated stent, if approved, “can be a serious
competitor to other companies in this space,” Bruce Jackson, an
analyst with Morgan Joseph TriArtisan Group in  New York , said
today in an e-mail.  “Restenosis is a problem in peripheral procedures today,
just as it was in coronary procedures when drug-eluting stents
were first introduced several years ago, and the data show that
Zilver can reduce restenosis rates,” Jackson said. “Drug-
eluting balloons are another possible approach, since some
peripheral vasculature can be difficult to stent.”  Restenosis, or a recurrence of arterial blockages, occurred
in 24 percent of patients treated with Cook’s drug-coated stent
after 12 months, and 34 percent of patients treated with
angioplasty, according to the FDA staff report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  