-- 
Copper Drops Most in a Week as China’e Exports May Ebb, Europe Woes Mount

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-11T17:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/copper-in-london-drops-first-day-in-five-on-signs-of-slower-chinese-demand.html
Copper fell the most in a week on
concern that metal demand will slide as the global economy
falters, Chinese exports wane and  Europe ’s debt woes escalate.  Chinese export growth probably declined to 20.5 percent in
September from 24.5 percent a month earlier, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the debt crisis
threatens the financial system.  “ China’s economy  is contracting, and we are not seeing any
greater demand there,”  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath
Trading in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “Europe has
real troubles that will drag on the world economy, and it will
remain a concern for the next year at least.”  Copper futures for December delivery fell 2.3 percent to
close at $3.2905 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Sept. 30.  In the third quarter, copper tumbled 26 percent, the most
since 2008. The metal touched a 14-month low of $2.994 on Oct.
3.  “With respect to China, not only are there growing
concerns about growth prospects, but renewed attention is being
placed on the state of Chinese banks and the billions of dollars
of nonperforming loans they are carrying,”  Edward Meir , a
senior commodity analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,
Connecticut, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 2.7 percent to $7,290 a metric ton ($3.31 a pound).
Aluminum, zinc, tin, nickel and lead also declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  