-- 
Daley Says He’ll Leave Obama Administration After 2012 Election

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/daley-says-he-ll-leave-white-house-after-election.html
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley , appointed by President  Barack Obama  in January to improve
relations with the business community, said he plans to leave
the administration after the 2012 election.  “I made a commitment to the president through his re-
election, which I’m confident he will do, and then my wife and I
will return to  Chicago ,” he said in an  interview  with WMAQ-TV,
the NBC affiliate station in his hometown.  Jamie Smith, a White House deputy press secretary, declined
to comment further.  Daley, 63, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive who
served as commerce secretary under President  Bill Clinton , was
brought into the administration to improve ties with business
and lead negotiations with Congress after Republicans won
control of the House in the 2010 mid-term elections  Daley played a key role in the Obama administration’s
unsuccessful attempts during talks on the debt limit increase in
July to forge a broad agreement on long-term deficit reduction
with Republican congressional leaders.  Overtures Obama made during those talks offering to accept
a higher Medicare eligibility age and reduced Social Security
annual cost-of-living adjustments generated a backlash from some
Democratic lawmakers.  Worst Day  At an event in Washington Oct. 5, Daley described the
collapse of the negotiations as his worst day in the White
House. “We were so close on a deal,” he said at the Washington
Ideas Forum. The highlight was the day in May when a U.S. Navy
SEAL team killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  The chief of staff also was a central player in a tempest
over the scheduling of Obama’s Sept. 8 address to a joint
session of Congress to announce the president’s jobs plan. Daley
spoke by telephone with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, prior to the White House’s announcement of a speech
date and then Boehner publicly requested the speech be delayed a
day.  Obama named Daley to the post after the president’s first
chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel , left for a successful campaign to
become mayor of Chicago.  The youngest of seven children of longtime Chicago Mayor
Richard J. Daley, he is part of the most powerful political
dynasty in the Midwest. Daley was also a political mentor to
Emanuel, who worked with him in the Clinton administration.
Emanuel succeeded  Richard M. Daley , who with six terms in office
was the longest serving Chicago mayor.  Unlike two of his brothers, Daley has never been elected to
office. He considered running for the  U.S. Senate  in 1996 and in
the Illinois governor’s races of 2002 and 2010, though the idea
was always complicated by potential public resentment of the
Daley family having control of both the governor’s mansion and
 City Hall .  In the WMAQ interview, Daley said he has “no plans” for
what he’ll do when he leaves the White House.  Another of Obama’s top advisers, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , also has said she plans to leave when Obama’s current
term is up in January 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  