-- 
Delta Cements LaGuardia Grip With Trade of Flight Slots

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-12T20:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/delta-wins-approval-to-build-laguardia-hub-as-u-s-backs-flight-slot-trade.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  strengthened
its grip in  New York , the nation’s busiest aviation market, by
winning federal approval to swap takeoff and landing slots with
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to expand at LaGuardia airport.  U.S. regulators gave the go-ahead to the exchange
yesterday, capping a push by Atlanta-based Delta that began more
than two years ago. Delta will gain control of about half the
flights at LaGuardia airport by trading slots to US Airways at
Ronald Reagan  Washington  National Airport.  “Delta clearly wants to own the New York market, and
they’re doing what they have to do to get there,” said  Helane Becker , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York. “Doing
this transaction with US Airways has been a long time coming.”  Taking over most of the US Airways terminal space at
LaGuardia will widen Delta’s advantage over  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines , the second-biggest carrier there. Creating a domestic
hub at LaGuardia will complement Delta’s international base at
Kennedy airport.  Delta will gain 132 more LaGuardia slot pairs while giving
up 42 pairs in Washington to Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways,
the U.S. Transportation Department said in a filing. The
carriers must divest 24 pairs to smaller rivals, 16 at LaGuardia
and eight at National.  Cash-Only Website  The divestitures will go through a cash-only “blind”
website run by the Federal Aviation Administration, with the
LaGuardia slots being packaged into two bundles that must be
sold to two separate carriers, the Transportation Department
order said.  Delta rose 2.6 percent to close at $8.42 in New York, and
 US Airways  added 6.7 percent to $6.23. The regulatory approval
was granted yesterday after the end of regular trading.  Separately, the Justice Department said yesterday it will
continue its antitrust examination of the US Airways slots at
Reagan National. Delta’s LaGuardia plan doesn’t raise
competitive concerns so that review will be dropped, according
to an e-mailed statement.  Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, said the airline had
no immediate comment. US Airways also had no comment, Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman, said today.  LaGuardia and Reagan National are so congested that they
are under federal flight restrictions, meaning carriers must
trade slots in order to grow.  New York Market  Expanding at LaGuardia will help Delta gain ground on
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , which led the New York market
with 27 percent of passengers through last year, most at a hub
at  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty airport. Delta had 20 percent,
and Fort Worth, Texas-based American had 13 percent, according
to the  Port Authority  of New York and New Jersey.  United, based in Chicago, is the world’s largest airline by
passenger traffic, followed by Delta. American is the third
biggest U.S. carrier.  While US Airways has said it will scrap most of its money-
losing LaGuardia operations to focus on Washington, the slot
exchange will sharpen New York City-area competition, where
passengers are spread among three major airports.  “While LaGuardia may have been unprofitable for US
Airways, it is less likely to be so for Delta because of its
large market share in New York,” Stephen Wilder, a
transportation analyst at Capstone Investments, wrote today in a
note to clients. “A slot swap makes sense for both parties.”
He recommends buying the shares of both carriers.  At LaGuardia, Delta’s share of flight slots will jump to 45
percent, from 24 percent previously, widening the lead over
American’s 21 percent, according to a regulatory filing in
August from  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  objecting to the trade.  Southwest and the AirTran unit, acquired earlier this year,
together control about 3.3 percent of LaGuardia slots. Other
companies that objected to the deal include  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  and Virgin America Inc.  Delta and US Airways initially sought a slot trade in 2009.
They later walked away from that deal, saying the divestitures
sought by regulators were too great.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  