-- 
Dems Seek ’12 Gain in Wall Street Protest Energy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-11T17:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/democrats-seek-12-political-gain-in-occupy-wall-street-s-energy.html
Democrats are rallying around the
 Occupy Wall Street  demonstrators, seeking to channel the
movement’s energy into votes in the 2012 elections by sharpening
contrasts with Republicans who criticize the protests.  “If you’re concerned about Wall Street and our financial
system, the president is standing on the side of consumers and
the middle class,” senior White House adviser  David Plouffe 
said when asked about the demonstrations during an interview
today on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “And a lot of these
Republicans are basically saying, ‘You know what? Let’s go back
to the same policies that led to the Great Recession in the
first place.’”  The protests, which began in  New York City ’s financial
district and have spread across the country, are likely to be
raised in tonight’s Republican presidential debate, sponsored by
Bloomberg News and The Washington Post at  Dartmouth College  in
Hanover, New Hampshire. Dartmouth students and faculty plan a
rally in support for the protesters this afternoon, before the 8
p.m. forum.  Facing declining approval ratings amid a slow U.S. economic
recovery and unemployment hovering around 9 percent, Democrats
are eager to attract disenchanted voters who identify with the
protesters. Republicans successfully tapped the energy of the
anti-tax Tea Party supporters last year to win back control of
the  House of Representatives  and expand their numbers in the
Senate.  Not ‘Mobs’  Democrats want the latest protest movement to help them
keep the White House and pick up seats in Congress next fall.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which
raises money for the party’s House candidates, circulated a
 petition  this week telling supporters the goal is “100,000
Strong Standing with Occupy Wall Street.” The appeal ties House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s recent characterization of the
protesters as “growing mobs” to Republican economic policies.  “Mobs? That must be what Republicans refer to as the
middle class, or maybe the millions of unemployed Americans
across the country,” the letter reads.  Last week, President  Barack Obama  said the movement
reflects a “broad-based frustration” among Americans about the
persistence of reckless practices on Wall Street after the
financial crisis.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
has echoed his comments, saying the demonstrators are angry over
the lack of employment prospects and government actions that are
“not relevant to their lives.”  ‘Jobs, Not Cuts’  Moveon.org , a political action group aligned with liberal
Democrats, plans to hold 275 events across the country this week
in support of the protests, linking them to spending cuts being
pushed through state legislatures by Republican governors.  “Americans need jobs, not cuts,” Justin Ruben, executive
director of MoveOn.org, said in a statement. “And Americans
know we can afford it if big banks and the super-rich pay their
fair share.’’”  While fiscally conservative Tea Party activists, many
organized by top party leaders and donors like industrialists
David and Charles Koch, volunteered for Republican candidates,
it’s yet to be seen how the decentralized Occupy Wall Street
will respond to the attention from Democrats.  The movement has no official spokesman, and many of the
protesters’ complaints are directed at the Obama administration
as well as at Republicans. They include the need to end the
influence of money in politics, devote greater attention to
finding jobs for the unemployed and raise taxes on corporations
and high-income individuals.  ‘Dividing Our Nation’  As Democrats woo the protesters, top Republicans have
stepped up their criticism of the movement.  “Dividing our nation at a time of crisis is the wrong way
to go. All the streets are connected,” Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  said yesterday at a town hall event in
Milford,  New Hampshire . “Wall Street’s connected to Main
Street, and so finding a scapegoat, finding someone to blame, in
my opinion, isn’t the right way to go.”  Another presidential candidate, former Godfather’s Pizza
chairman  Herman Cain , said the demonstrators should blame
themselves, not Wall Street or big banks, for their joblessness.  ‘Coordinated Effort’  “This is a coordinated effort on the part of unions and
Obama supporters to distract the American people from the real
problem, which is the failed policies of the Obama
administration,” Cain said on Fox News’s “Hannity” program
yesterday as he, Romney and six other participants gathered in
New Hampshire for tonight’s debate.  The event is the first of the 2012 campaign to focus solely
on the economy. It will be broadcast on Bloomberg Television,
Bloomberg Radio and WBIN-TV in New Hampshire and streamed on
Bloomberg.com and WashingtonPost.com.  Tea Party leaders are eager to contrast their supporters
with the Occupy Wall Street demonstrators.  In a statement released today, Jenny Beth Martin and Mark
Meckler, co-founders of the Tea Party Patriots, described their
backers as wanting more fiscal responsibility in government and
not subscribing to a belief the corporations are “inherently
evil.”  The Wall Street protesters, they said, “want less of what
made America great and more of what is damaging to America: a
bigger, more powerful government to come in and take care of
them so they don’t have to work like the rest of us who pay our
bills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Hanover, New Hampshire, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  