-- 
Denmark Joins France, Russia Among Teams Qualifying for Euro 2012 Soccer

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-12T10:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/denmark-france-russia-among-five-teams-claiming-european-soccer-spots.html
Denmark , France,  Russia  and Greece
all won their groups on the final day of qualifying to secure
places in the 2012 European soccer championship.  Sweden earned the last automatic berth yesterday by
finishing as the second-place team with the most points. The
nine group winners, along with the best second-place team,
qualify for Euro 2012 with co-hosts Poland and Ukraine.  The remaining eight second-place teams will play off for
the final four spots in next year’s championship. Defending
champion Spain, Germany, England, Italy and the Netherlands had
already qualified.  Michael Krohn-Delhi and Nicklas Bendtner scored as Denmark
beat Portugal 2-1 in a showdown for first place in Group H.
Portugal tied for second with Norway, which defeated Cyprus 3-1,
and got the playoff spot on a superior goal difference.  Samir Nasri scored with a 78th-minute penalty as  France 
tied Bosnia-Herzegovina 1-1 to win Group D by one point over its
opponent. Edin Dzeko had given the visitors the lead in the
first half.  Russia routed Andorra 6-0 to clinch the top spot in Group
B. Ireland finished second by beating Armenia 2-1 in a game in
which both teams had a player sent off.  Greece, the 2004 European champion, came from behind to
defeat Georgia 2-1 and win Group F. Giorgos Fotakis and Angelos Charisteas scored in the final 11 minutes as the Greeks finished
two points ahead of  Croatia , which beat Latvia 2-0.  Sweden ended the Netherlands’ perfect run in Group E to
qualify.  Spain  and Germany won at home to complete perfect
qualifying campaigns.  One Minute Apart  Sebastian Larsson and Ola Toivonen scored a minute apart in
the second half to give Sweden the 3-2 win over group winner
Netherlands. The Swedes’ 24 points was two better than Croatia
among the second-place finishers to earn the automatic berth.  Germany defeated Belgium 3-1 for its 10th straight win in
Group A. The Belgian loss enabled  Turkey  to take the playoff
place after beating Azerbaijan 1-0 on a goal from Burak Yilmaz.  World Cup champ Spain made it eight consecutive wins in
Group I by beating Scotland 3-1. The Czech Republic moved ahead
of Scotland into second place by winning 4-1 in Lithuania.  Serbia lost out on second place in Group C with a 1-0 loss
in Slovenia. Estonia, which had already finished qualifying, was
the runner-up behind  Italy , a 3-0 winner against  Northern
Ireland .  In Group G, Switzerland won 2-0 against Montenegro, which
had already clinched second place behind England, and  Wales  won
1-0 at Bulgaria.  The draw for the playoffs will be held tomorrow in Krakow,
Poland. The two-game series open Nov. 11 and 12, with the return
matches Nov. 15.  Croatia, Portugal, Ireland and the Czech Republic are the
draw’s seeded teams, as determined by their national team
coefficients, and will be in one pot, European soccer ruling
body  UEFA said  today. Turkey, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and
Estonia will be in the other pot.  Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Estonia have never
qualified for the final tournament. The Euro 2012 draw will take
place Dec. 2 in Kiev, with the tournament being played June 8 to
July 1, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 