-- 
Deutsche Telekom $5.6 Billion Greek Debt Weighs on Nemat’s Turnaround Plan

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-12T07:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/deutsche-telekom-5-6-billion-greek-debt-weighs-on-nemat-s-turnaround-plan.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  has dropped 84 percent since  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
began buying shares in the Greek operator in 2008. The German
owner will now accelerate a turnaround of the company to recoup
some of the 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) in investments.  Claudia Nemat, the McKinsey & Co. consultant who took over
this month as Deutsche Telekom’s head of  Europe , spent part of
her first week in Athens, where she said in an interview she is
“keen to develop the asset” because OTE, as the unit is known,
is among the Bonn-based company’s most important operations.  The optimism contrasts with Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges’s comment in August that any further
investment in  Greece  is uncertain as the debt crisis deepens. At
stake is Deutsche Telekom’s largest business outside  Germany  and
the U.S., where the company is fighting a lawsuit over the $39
billion sale of  T-Mobile USA . In addition to slowing client
losses and cutting wages in Greece, Nemat, 42, will need to push
for more drastic measures such as asset sales, analysts say.  “Nobody is going to buy OTE right now with the overall
economic environment in Greece so gloomy,” said Dimitri Kallianiotis, a London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. who rates
OTE “neutral.” “Deutsche Telekom will have to recognize its
losses, but it wouldn’t be reasonable to let OTE go bust.”  Fixed-Line Losses  OTE, 40 percent owned by Deutsche Telekom, also sells phone
services in  Romania , Bulgaria and Albania. The Athens-based
company had the worst mobile- and fixed-line customer losses
among all divisions, ceding 1.2 million Greek clients in the 12
months through June as the government imposed austerity measures
to stave off a default. Third-quarter revenue probably dropped
8.4 percent from a year earlier, the average of two analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Writedowns in Greece and Romania contributed to a surprise
loss at Deutsche Telekom in the final quarter of 2010.  Nemat may present a strategy for Greece and the other
European countries in early 2012, said a person with knowledge
of the matter who declined to be named as the plan isn’t public.  OTE, saddled with 4.1 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in net
debt as of June 30, has pledged to reduce annual payroll cost at
its Greek fixed-line unit by 300 million euros by 2015. This
year, it sealed a deal to slash manager allowances and spending
on company cars, and last month reached a preliminary agreement
with a union on cutting weekly working hours to 35 hours from 40
in exchange for 160 million euros in savings through 2014.  Refinancing  Michael Tsamaz, who replaced Panagis Vourloumis as OTE’s
CEO in November, has identified other areas for cost reduction,
including abolishing permanent tenure, which 75 percent of the
company’s fixed-line staff enjoy, and trimming liabilities of
about 300 million euros that are pledged toward paying
employees’ children.  OTE has about 3.3 billion euros of bonds and loans due by
2013. To refinance the debt, the company will need to sell
assets such as its 20 percent stake in Telekom Srbija AD and the
Hellas Sat satellite unit, said Citigroup’s Kallianiotis, who
estimates the businesses may fetch 600 million euros.  “These are very interesting assets, especially the mobile
business in  Serbia ,” said Nektarios Papagiannakopoulos, an
analyst at Eurobank EFG Securities in Athens. “They can fill in
the gaps in the  capital structure  in a worst-case scenario.”  Deutsche Telekom’s Hoettges said in August that his company
would step in as a “last-resort” lender for OTE if it can’t
access capital markets from 2013 onwards.  No Sells  An improved financial structure would help OTE compete as
rivals consolidate in Greece.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is discussing a
merger of its local unit with Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA,
combining the country’s second- and third-largest mobile
operators and potentially adding competitive pressure for market
leader Cosmote Mobile Telecommunications SA, owned by OTE.  OTE climbed as much as 2.5 percent to the highest level 
since August. The stock was up 1.3 percent to 3.19 euros at 
10:43 a.m. in  Athens  trading, giving the company a market value 
of 1.6 billion euros. OTE was down 49 percent this year through 
yesterday, compared with a 57 percent decline in Greece’s 
benchmark ASE Index. Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.2 percent to 
9.37 euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  Of the 19 analysts who cover OTE, 12 recommend buying, nine
say hold, none advises selling. The average of the five share-
price projections made this month is 5.94 euros.  110 Billion-Euro Bailout  “Ninety percent of the current share-price performance is
correlated with the macro situation,” said Alexandre Iatrides,
an analyst at Oddo & Cie in Paris, who has stopped adjusting his
8 euro price estimate as the economy lacks visibility. “When I
look at the fundamentals outside the macroeconomic situation,
the company is outperforming in Greece.”  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
yesterday indicated Greece will get an 8 billion-euro loan next
month under a 110 billion-euro bailout, as European leaders move
to reopen talks on a new package that may mean deeper writedowns
on Greek debt.  With the country set to enter a fourth year of recession in
2012 and consumers wary of further trims to their disposable
income, Deutsche Telekom needs to boost cost-cutting efforts,
Iatrides said. One way is to buy the remaining state shares in
OTE in exchange for regulatory concessions on fiscal guarantees
and freedom to fire people, he said.  After taking on an additional 10 percent holding in June to
boost its stake to 40 percent, Deutsche Telekom still has the
first right of refusal if the Greek government sells its
remaining 10 percent stake. Nemat declined to say whether
Deutsche Telekom would be interested in more OTE shares. Under
the investment agreement with Greece, the German company already
consolidates the unit and determines its CEO.  “There are a few side issues but we hope to solve these,”
Nemat said last week as part of German government delegation to
Athens to spur investments in Greece. “We’re very committed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  