-- 
Dexia’s Denizbank ‘Crown Jewel’ in Assets, CEO Ates Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-11T12:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/dexia-s-denizbank-crown-jewel-in-assets-ceo-ates-says-1-.html
Denizbank AS (DENIZ) ,  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s unit in
 Turkey , is a “crown jewel” for the French-Belgian lender and
there are no current plans for a sale, the Turkish bank’s chief
executive officer said amid discussions to sell off Dexia assets
after a European bailout.  “It’s a crown jewel of the company,” CEO Hakan Ates said
in an interview in Istanbul today. “Denizbank has always been a
big chance for any bank to penetrate this market with a decent
market share that will grow.”  Ates said there are currently no plans for Dexia to sell
its Turkish unit, which he said Dexia purchased for 4.7 times
book value in 2006. He will fly to  Belgium  and possibly  France 
tomorrow to meet with Dexia management and discuss the
restructuring process, after returning from meetings in Belgium
yesterday, Ates said.  “The key thing in this business, especially at this time,
is profitable growth, and we have it,” Ates said. He said he’s
not authorized to speak about any possible sale of Dexia’s
assets, including Denizbank. Any sale would have to be approved
by Turkish regulators, he said.  Denizbank shares surged 10 percent in Istanbul trading to
11.10 liras at 3:02 p.m. in Istanbul, putting the bank’s market
value at 8 billion liras ($4.4 billion), or twice that of its
parent’s 1.6 billion euro ($2.2 billion) market value.
Denizbank’s price-to-book ratio rose to 1.98, while Dexia’s fell
to 0.23.  ‘Bad Bank’  Dexia’s board met two days ago, when it reviewed a plan
under which the lender would set up a “bad bank” for its
troubled assets, hive off its French municipal loan book and
seek buyers for remaining units. France and Belgium are breaking
up the bank, one of  Europe ’s leading municipal lenders, three
years after bailing it out.  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, is studying the
possibility of acquiring Denizbank, Sberbank Chief Executive
Officer  German Gref  told reporters in Moscow today. Talks
haven’t started yet, Gref said.  Belgium, France and Luxembourg yesterday provided a 90
billion-euro ($123 billion) 10-year guarantee to cover Dexia’s
funding needs. Excluding Dexia’s consumer bank in Belgium and
its French municipal lending unit, assets will be sold to limit
the bailout costs, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Denizbank shares have gained 33 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Bryant at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net  