-- 
Dexia, NBG Units Surge in Turkey on Bets Owners Will Sell

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-11T14:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/dexia-s-denizbank-worth-double-parent-after-shares-surge-1-.html
The Turkish units of crisis-hit
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  surged amid speculation
the banks will be sold under plans to rescue their European
parents.  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , bought by Dexia in 2006, climbed 7.7 percent
to 10.90 liras at 5:05 p.m. in Istanbul, valuing the bank at
twice that of its owner. Finansbank AS, controlled by National
Bank of Greece, jumped 7.1 percent to 3.64 liras, valuing it at
8.6 billion liras ($4.7 billion), about $2.5 billion more than
its parent. The gains helped  Turkey ’s banking index rise 0.7
percent.  A decision to dismantle Dexia at the weekend coincides with
a vow by  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Angela Merkel  to outline a plan
this month to recapitalize European banks as investors hesitate
to extend short-term funding to banks. Meanwhile Turkish banks
are among the most valuable of emerging market assets owned by
European lenders as loan growth in the country surges almost 40
percent annually amid an economic boom. OAO  Sberbank of Russia (SBER) 
is among banks that have expressed an interest.  “Both of them will be sold,” said Bali Ekin, head of
equity trading at Credit Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Denizbank may go quicker than Finansbank.”  `Rock Solid'  The banks could be sold for as much as 2.5 times book
value, and possibly higher if the macro environment stabilizes,
as “Turkish banks are rock solid,” Ekin said.  Denizbank was trading at 1.95 times book value and 
Finansbank 1.64 times book value today, according to Bloomberg 
data. Dexia owns more than 99.8 percent of Denizbank, with the 
rest traded on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange . Similarly, National
Bank of  Greece  owns 99.8 percent of Finansbank, according to 
shareholder data on Finansbank’s website.  European owners’ need to raise capital makes a sale
conceivable even though National Bank of Greece and Dexia would
be getting rid of some of their most profitable assets,
said Claude Tiramani, head of the emerging markets fund at
Lucretia Capital, a Paris-based asset manager.  “Historically when a bank needs to be recapitalized it
tends to focus its activity in its home market,” Tiramani said.
“That means it sells its non-domestic assets as part of its
strategy. From the seller’s point of view, it is a situation of
sell what you can and not what you want.”  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest bank, is studying the
possibility of acquiring Denizbank, Sberbank Chief Executive
Officer  German Gref  told reporters in Moscow today. The Russian
lender hired Deutsche Bank AG and Troika Dialog Group Ltd. to
advise on a possible offer, Kommersant newspaper reported on
Oct. 8.  Denizbank’s two-day advance of 33 percent on the Istanbul
exchange values the lender at 7.8 billion liras ($4.3 billion)
compared with Dexia’s market capitalization of 1.6 billion euros
($2.1 billion). Dexia rose 0.8 percent to 81 cents in Brussels
trading today.  Dexia’s board met two days ago to review a plan under which
the lender would set up a bad bank for its troubled assets, hive
off its French municipal loan book and seek buyers for remaining
units.  The bank is the “crown jewel,” among Dexia’s assets,
Denizbank Chief Executive Officer Hakan Ates said in an
interview in Istanbul today. He said there were currently no
plans to sell the bank, and he would be flying to Belgium
tomorrow to discuss Dexia’s restructuring with management there.  “The key thing in this business, especially at this time,
is profitable growth, and we have it,” he said.  National Bank of Greece will wait to evaluate developments
before assessing any opportunities for mergers and acquisitions,
Deputy Chief Executive Anthimos Thomopoulos said Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  