-- 
MLB Commissioner Should Be Able to Sell Dodgers, Sinatra Heirs Tell Judge

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/dodgers-ticket-holders-sinatra-heirs-back-mlb-on-sale-of-los-angeles-team.html
Major League Baseball Commissioner
 Bud Selig  should be allowed to sell the bankrupt  Los Angeles
Dodgers , said season-ticket holders including the heirs of
singer Frank Sinatra.  The request was among dueling court papers filed yesterday
in which Selig,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports and ticket holders lined
up against team owner  Frank McCourt , who is battling to retain
control of the club.  The Dodgers claim that since McCourt bought the team in
2003 for about $325 million the club has seen record success
financially and on the field. The team wants court permission to
auction future television rights to raise enough money to exit
bankruptcy.  Fox, Selig and the Ad Hoc Committee of Season Ticket
Holders asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,
 Delaware , to say no.  The auction “appears to be self-motivated by Mr. McCourt
and his personal financial issues and not the interests of the
Dodgers and its core creditors, the season ticket holders,” the
ticket owners said.  Yesterday was the deadline for written arguments on
competing proposals that would either force McCourt to sell the
team or allow him to auction the TV rights.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
refused to approve a new television contract that McCourt
negotiated with Fox Sports, the current broadcaster.  Sinatra Family  The ticket holders want Gross to approve Selig’s motion to
strip McCourt of exclusive control of the Dodgers’ bankruptcy
case. That would allow MLB to file a reorganization plan in
which McCourt would be forced to sell the team.  Frank Sinatra  Jr., Tina Sinatra and Nancy Sinatra hold
eight box seats their father bought in 1958 when the Dodgers
moved to Los Angeles from  Brooklyn , New York. The elder Sinatra
died in 1998.  His children belong to the Ad Hoc Committee, which is
seeking official recognition by the court to have more influence
in the bankruptcy case. There are about 17,000 season-ticket
holders.  “The U.S. Trustee already has denied status in these
Chapter 11 proceedings to this so-called, self-described, ad hoc
committee consisting of a handful of individuals,” the Dodgers
said in a statement. “As the Dodgers have previously stated,
Dodgers Tickets LLC intends to honor all of its agreements with
season ticket holders.”  Prime Ticket  Fox, which televises the games under its Prime Ticket unit,
repeated its contention that the Dodgers’ cannot negotiate with
any potential buyer until after October 2012. The company claims
that under its current contract it has an exclusive right to
negotiate until then and has the right to match any offer.  MLB claimed in court papers that McCourt is unfit to be
owner of the team and is using the bankruptcy to sell the TV
rights in violation of its baseball contracts to settle his
personal debts.  McCourt had $47,765 in his personal bank account as of Aug.
31 and owed his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt $640,000 a month in
spousal support related to their divorce, MLB said in court
papers.  The TV deal rejected by Selig was worth about $3 billion,
McCourt said at an April 27 news conference in  New York .  Fox Fees  The team would have collected $1.7 billion in fees under
the proposed 17-year deal, MLB said in its objection. Fox would
have paid $385 million of the fees upfront in the form of a
loan, with $173.5 million earmarked to satisfy McCourt’s
personal debts and pay for his divorce settlement, MLB said in
court papers.  McCourt took $180 million from the Dodgers as owner, MLB
claimed. The Dodgers said in court filings that many of those
payments were approved by Selig and others did not involve the
team and were not subject to the commissioner’s approval.  Last year, McCourt and Fox amended the television contract,
resulting in a payment of $25 million to the Dodgers as an
advance on 2011 fees, according to court papers. That represents
71 percent of the $35.2 million telecast fees owed to the
Dodgers that year, MLB said yesterday.  After McCourt paid about $325 million for the Dodgers eight
years ago, its value grew to more than $800 million, Forbes
magazine estimated earlier this year, the Dodgers said in a
court filing.  The team went to the playoffs four times in the first six
years of McCourt’s ownership, success not matched since the
Dodgers’ moved to  Los Angeles , the team said.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 