-- 
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Falls After Calling an End to Hertz Sale Process

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-10-11T16:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/dollar-thrifty-automotive-falls-after-calling-an-end-to-hertz-sale-process.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. (DTG) , the car-rental company that has been the target of 18
months of bidding, fell as much as 3.2 percent after it said
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  didn’t meet its bid requirements by a
deadline yesterday.  The Hertz offer failed to protect against possible
antitrust objections, Dollar Thrifty said in a statement. Dollar
Thrifty said it plans to begin a $400 million repurchase program
after Nov. 1. Shares fell 1.9 percent to $59.26 at 12:04 p.m.
New York time after reaching $58.50. Hertz rose 2.7 percent to
$10.35.  The lack of an improved offer leaves Dollar Thrifty, once
the target of a bidding war between Hertz and  Avis Budget Group
Inc. (CAR) , looking for other ways to thrive independently, such as a
$400 million stock-repurchase plan. Hertz is still interested
and seeking ways to smooth the approval process, according to
Rich Broome, a spokesman for the  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
company.  Hertz has been seeking U.S. Federal Trade Commission
approval to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty, the
fourth-largest U.S. rental-car chain. It’s trying to divest its
Advantage brand to help smooth that approval. Hertz has wanted
to buy Dollar Thrifty to keep its position behind Enterprise
Holdings Inc., the largest U.S. car-rental company.  “If Hertz shows up with a bid, Dollar Thrifty has a
fiduciary duty to look at it,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, said in an e-
mail. “Dollar Thrifty shareholders are not going to be happy
with an accelerated share repurchase program if there is even a
hint that Hertz is still working toward antitrust clearance.”  Dollar Thrifty said it expects to complete share
repurchases of as much as $100 million a quarter over the next
four quarters.  Lone Suitor  “Having received no acceptable offer after conducting an
unprecedentedly open process with clearly articulated
requirements, it is time for us to move forward on a stand-alone
basis,” Dollar Thrifty Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson
said in a statement.  Hertz, the second-largest U.S. car-rental company, was
Dollar Thrifty’s lone suitor after Avis dropped its pursuit
Sept. 14. Dollar Thrifty told Hertz and Parsippany, New Jersey-
based Avis in letters dated Sept. 6 it wanted final bids
submitted by 5 p.m. New York time yesterday. Hertz has yet to
increase its offer.  Dollar Thrifty said today its board will “review and
consider” any changes to the Hertz offer “or any other
proposals that may be made by Hertz or others.”  The four biggest car-rental chains make up 83 percent of
the U.S. market, according to a September report from IBISWorld,
the  Santa Monica , California-based industry researcher.  Closely held Enterprise had a 40 percent share, followed by
Hertz with 20 percent and Avis with 17 percent. Dollar Thrifty
accounted for 5.7 percent of the industry’s sales, IBISWorld
said.  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected Hertz’s offer in
September 2010. Hertz, after calling that bid “final,” renewed
its pursuit in May with an offer valued at $1.92 billion, or
$66.21 a share, as of yesterday’s close. Dollar Thrifty
recommended on June 6 that investors not accept Hertz’s bid
because it undervalued the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  