-- 
Dubai Government Debt Yields Fall Amid Bank System Clean Up: Arab Credit

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-10-12T06:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/dubai-government-debt-yields-fall-amid-bank-system-clean-up-arab-credit.html
Dubai bonds rose to the highest in a
week after the government ordered the  United Arab Emirates ’
biggest lender to take over an unprofitable rival as the emirate
consolidates its banking system.  The increase pushed the yield on Dubai government’s 5.591
percent dollar bond down six basis points yesterday to 6.29
percent, the lowest since Oct. 3.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the
country’s biggest lender by assets, said it will take over
government-controlled Islamic lender Dubai Bank PJSC. The cost
to insure Dubai’s debt against default dropped to the lowest in
almost three weeks.  “The news is a small positive as further consolidation in
the banking sector is required,” said Emad Mostaque, a London-
based  Middle East  and North Africa strategist at Religare
Capital Markets Plc. “Comments by Emirates NBD indicate that
the structure of the acquisition and government support will
ensure minimal impact on Emirates NBD’s results.”  The U.A.E. is consolidating its banking industry after the
global credit crisis slowed lending, hurt  investment banking  and
led to an increase in loan defaults. Property prices in Dubai
dropped about 60 percent from their peak in 2008. Many of the
country’s lenders are creditors to government-owned Dubai World
that restructured about $25 billion of debt this year.  Emirates NBD said its takeover of Dubai Bank, which was
rescued by the government in May, won’t hurt profit “due to the
transaction structure and support provided by the government of
Dubai.” The bank is rated A3 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
seventh-highest investment grade.  Ruler’s Orders  The takeover was ordered by the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the government’s Media Office
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, without giving
financial details. “This comes in line with Dubai government’s
efforts to enhance the banking sector in the emirate,” it said.  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default fell 11
basis points to 484 yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 22,
according to five-year credit default swaps from data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent, should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on the Dubai government’s 6.396 percent Islamic
bond maturing November 2014 tumbled the most since May 2010,
declining 31 basis points, or 0.31 of a percentage point, to
5.99 percent yesterday. The rate on Dubai Holding Commercial
Operations’ 4.75 percent bond due January 2014 dropped 37 basis
points to 17.54 percent, the lowest in a week.  The average yield on Persian Gulf bonds fell 4 basis points
to 5.12 percent, the lowest level since Oct. 3, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional US Dollar Bond Index.  Dubai Holding, Emaar  Dubai Holding LLC, a company owned by the ruler, held a 70
percent stake in Dubai Bank, while  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  owned
the rest. The bank reported a loss of 291 million dirhams ($79
million) in 2009, according to the latest financial statements
posted on its website. It had total assets of 17.4 billion
dirhams at the end of 2009.  “If one takes a longer-term view then consolidation of the
banking sector in U.A.E. is a positive step,” said  Julian Bruce , equity sales head at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai.
“With this specific transaction in mind, however, in the short
term it is seen as burdensome for Emirates NBD.”  The bank’s shares dropped to the lowest level since April
20, falling 1.6 percent to 3.74 dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in
Dubai. They have gained 36 percent this year compared with a 15
percent drop in Dubai’s benchmark index.  “Further consolidation in the sector will still be
limited,” said  Khalid Howladar , a senior credit analyst at
Moody’s in Dubai. “While it makes good market sense in the
U.A.E.’s relatively overbanked environment, here in the region
it tends to be more state/policy driven given the large
government shareholdings in the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.ne  