-- 
Heavy Rain in Store for New York, Northeast Tomorrow, U.S. Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/heavy-rain-in-store-for-new-york-northeast-tomorrow-u-s-forecasters-say.html
A weather system moving up the U.S.
East Coast may drop 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 centimeters) of
rain throughout the Northeast, including  New York , starting
tomorrow, forecasters said.  The heaviest rain in  New York City  will fall throughout the
night and into the next day, according to Lauren Nash, a
 National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “It looks like it will be a decent rain producer,” said
Rob Carolan, founder of  Hometown Forecast Services  in Nashua,
 New Hampshire . “But nothing on the order of what they had down
in  Florida .”  Rain has been falling along the East Coast since last week,
beginning in Florida where a record 6.16 inches drenched Orlando
on Oct. 8, breaking a mark for the date set in 1954, according
to the weather service. Vero Beach had 8.3 inches, besting a
record set in 1953.  Carolan said a low pressure system building off the coasts
of  North Carolina  and  South Carolina  will draw in tropical
moisture from the Caribbean and then move north.  Rain will reach Philadelphia tomorrow before moving into
New York overnight, he said. Boston will have rain by the end of
the week.  As the system pulls out of the region, it will collide with
a front moving across the northern U.S., which will touch off
another round of showers for upstate New York and northern New
England by the end of the week, Carolan said.  The weekend will probably be windy and sunny, he said.  Carolan said that because a La Nina, a cooling of the
central Pacific Ocean, is taking hold again this year, New York
and the Northeast may stay warm for the next few weeks.  “La Nina delays the onset of the cooler weather here in
the Northeast,” Carolan said. “This is very typical to see
once it gets going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  