-- 
EU Said to Seek 9% Bank Capital in Response to Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-10-12T17:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eba-asks-banks-for-more-debt-information-in-capital-review.html
Banks face capital requirements as
high as 9 percent as part of European Commission President  Jose Barroso ’s plans to help lenders survive the region’s debt woes,
according to a person familiar with the proposals.  “Temporarily higher” capital rules should be imposed on
all lenders judged by the region’s top banking regulator to be
systemically important, Barroso said today. The  European Banking
Authority  discussed a possible 9 percent threshold for banks at
a meeting of its supervisory board in  London  last week, said the
person who couldn’t be identified because the talks are private.  The region must “urgently strengthen” its lenders,
Barroso told lawmakers in the European Parliament today. “The
sovereign contagion and the banks are now, whether we like it or
not, linked.” He said banks that can’t satisfy the new capital
thresholds should be banned from paying bonuses and dividends.  The EU’s move comes after stress tests on its banks
published in July showed that most lenders had enough capital to
withstand a recession. Those tests were criticized for not
taking into account the possibility of a sovereign default.
Backing a division of labor demanded by  Germany , Barroso
said “systemic” banks lacking capital should first seek market
finance, tap their own governments if that fails and only draw
on the European rescue fund as the ultimate backstop.  Lenders’ capital levels should now be assessed taking
account of “all sovereign debt exposure in full transparency,”
Barroso said. Those that can’t meet the capital rules should
present plans to bolster their reserves as “quickly as
possible.”  Held to Maturity  The EBA has asked lenders for information on the value of
sovereign debt holdings in their “held to maturity and loans
and receivables portfolios,” as part of the review, according
to a data template seen by Bloomberg News. Banks were also asked
for “relevant changes” to their balance sheets made since
June.  Lenders’ holdings of  government bonds  will be valued more
closely to their current market price than they were during the
stress tests, the person said.  The EBA is assessing how much extra reserves banks
will need to raise to meet the new rules, they said.  “Details on  capital ratios  and evaluation methods should
be proposed by the EBA with national supervisors, who are best
placed to judge on this,” Barroso said.  “I’m not sure the EBA knows the answer to the question of
where the money will come from to recapitalize the banks yet,”
Bob Penn, financial regulation lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP, said
in a telephone interview in London today. “They’re pushing
themselves a bit more into the center of the debate on capital
levels, which is the right thing to do.”  Basel Committee  The extra  capital requirements  would be measured using a
definition of core reserves that was developed by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , and which normally wouldn’t
apply until 2015. This definition is similar to that used in
this years’ EBA stress tests, said the person.  Nine percent of core capital based on this definition would
be roughly equivalent to the minimum 7 percent of reserves that
lenders will be obliged to hold from 2019 when the Basel plans
are fully implemented, the person familiar said. This is because
the Basel group’s definition of capital becomes stricter over
time, the person said.  Core Tier One  The possible capital ratios being considered started at 7
percent and a final figure hasn’t been decided, said a regulator
familiar with the EBA discussions.  A spokeswoman for the London-based EBA declined to comment
on the possible capital benchmarks.  European bank stocks jumped, with the 46-member Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index rising 2.8 percent.
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s largest, rose 15
percent in Athens trading, while  Austria ’s Raiffeisen Bank
advanced 14.8 percent in Vienna.  Banks would need to raise about 148 billion euros ($203.7
billion) in the event of a 60 percent writedown on their
holdings of Greek debt, 40 percent for Portugal and Ireland and
20 percent for  Italy  and  Spain ,  Kian Abouhossein , a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst, wrote in a Sept. 26 note to clients.  Barroso’s proposals will be discussed at a summit of EU
leaders taking place on Oct. 23.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 5 that the
European Financial Stability Facility, Europe’s rescue fund,
should be relied upon only as a last resort.  Eight banks failed the official European Union stress tests
in July after regulators said they had a combined capital
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros, less than predicted by analysts
and investors.  Held to Maturity  Banks were only required to maintain a capital ratio of 5
percent and losses on sovereign debt held to maturity weren’t
tested.  Requiring banks to keep a capital benchmark of 9 percent
while testing for a loss on Greek debt would give lenders a
shortfall of as much as 200 billion euros, according to an Oct.
7 report by a team led by Morgan Stanley analyst Huw van Steenis.  If the updated tests reveal a shortfall of less than 200
billion euros, they will “probably be dismissed by critics as
inadequate, the Euro zone credit crunch will probably be
intensified and the firepower of national treasuries and the
EFSF could be badly depleted for no particular benefit,”
Roger Francis, a banking analyst at Mizuho International Plc,
said in a report today.  Under a 9 percent core Tier 1 ratio and a  stress test  that
marked sovereign holdings to market prices, Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  would require about 58 billion euros, Royal of Scotland
Group Plc 18.8 billion euros,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  15.7 billion euros and
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  14.7 billion euros, according to estimates
compiled by Francis.  In all, European banks would require 339 billion euros of
capital, he said. If regulators applied only a 50 percent
haircut to Greek debt, that would fall to 144 billion euros, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 