-- 
Egyptian Finance Minister Resigns, Cabinet Offers to Quit After Violence

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-10-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/egypt-s-cabinet-offers-to-quit-en-masse-prime-minister-essam-sharaf-says.html
Egypt ’s finance minister submitted
his resignation two days after deadly clashes between Coptic
Christians and security forces in Cairo, prompting further
concerns over the effects of political unrest on the economy.  Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, leader of the
military council that took power after the popular revolt that
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , “rejected” the resignation,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said late yesterday,
without giving further details. Earlier, MENA cited Prime
Minister Essam Sharaf as saying the Cabinet “puts its
resignation at the disposal” of the council, adding that this
was “standard procedure and doesn’t mean” that the government
had quit.  The departure of Hazem El Beblawi, who was in talks with
 Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  for $5 billion in
loans, would “disrupt and delay the ongoing effort to bring any
forthcoming financial support from the neighboring countries and
discussions with the IMF and the  World Bank ,” said Alia Moubayed, London-based senior economist at  Barclays Capital .  El Beblawi, who is also deputy premier, said he was
resigning due to a “severe breach of the security and safety of
society” after the violence on Oct. 9 that left at least 25
people dead, according to MENA. He would be the second finance
minister to leave office since Mubarak’s departure, during a
period of unrest and labor strikes. Gross domestic product
contracted 4.2 percent in the first quarter and rose 0.4 percent
in the following three months, according to official data.  The day after the clashes, on Oct. 10, the country’s
benchmark stock index, the EGX 30, declined 2.3 percent to the
lowest level since March 2009.  Economic Impact  The government’s borrowing costs have soared to the highest
level since 2008 after foreign investors slashed their holdings
of treasury bills, leaving domestic banks to buy the debt.
Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due in April 2020 fell after
yesterday’s announcements, sending the yield up 6 basis points
to 6.02 percent according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This resignation embarrasses the military council,” said
Samer Soliman, an assistant professor of political economy at
the American University in Cairo, referring to El Beblawi. “The
military council has reached a very grave stage in running this
country.”  El Beblawi said last month he had “no inhibitions” about
proposals by the  International Monetary Fund  to support the
country. Egypt turned down a $3 billion loan offer from the fund
in June. He didn’t answer repeated calls to his cell phone
seeking comment yesterday.  ‘Additional Pressure’  “Any delay or disruption in bringing financial support to
Egypt will undermine the sentiment of investors, both domestic
and international, and will put additional pressure on the
currency,” said Moubayed.  Egypt’s foreign reserves fell for the ninth straight month
this year to $24 billion in September.  Sectarian tensions have increased amid fears by many
Christians that Islamists will have more influence in post-
Mubarak Egypt, where parliamentary elections are scheduled to
start on Nov. 28. The fighting erupted while Christians were
protesting an attack on a church in southern Egypt.  The Oct. 9 demonstrations started peacefully and then
turned violent when protesters were attacked by men in civilian
clothing who pelted them with stones, witnesses said. They later
clashed with security forces and some were killed and injured by
gunfire. Others were run over by an armored vehicle, they said.  Call For Protection  The Free Egyptians party co-founded by Christian
businessman  Naguib Sawiris  said in an e-mailed statement that it
“warns the military council that continuing to handle events
with force will shake the trust that Egyptians have given it.”
It called on the army to “shoulder its responsibility to
protect Christian establishments” and called the violence “a
clear attack on the freedom to peacefully protest.”  “The gap between the revolutionaries and SCAF has been
widening,” Hani Sabra, an analyst at Eurasia Group said,
referring to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, the
official name of the military council. “But not everyone hates
SCAF. SCAF does enjoy some support as guarantors of stability.”
The prime minister’s “popularity with young revolutionary
activists has plummeted. They view him as more of an enabler of
the military council.”  Egypt’s ruling military council ordered the Cabinet to form
a fact-finding committee to investigate the Oct. 9 violence.
Military prosecutors ordered the detention for 15 days of 28
Muslims and Christians in relation to the clashes pending
investigations, MENA said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 