-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise 5th Day on Europe Debt Pledge, China Banks

-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-11T21:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/emerging-market-stocks-rally-for-5th-day-as-chinese-banks-surge.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
driving the benchmark index to its steepest five-day gain in
more than two years, on speculation  Europe  will stem its debt
crisis and as a Chinese state investment fund bought shares in
four banks.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.2 percent to
909.43 at the close of trading, bringing the five-day jump to
9.4 percent. A rally in lenders helped the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprise Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  to a
4.4 percent gain. The Taiex Index surged 2.6 percent after a
holiday in Taiwan yesterday and  Brazil ’s Bovespa climbed to the
highest level in two weeks. The Micex Index retreated 1.2
percent in Moscow after jumping 9.1 percent in the preceding
three sessions.  MSCI’s developing-nation gauge posted the sharpest five-day
gain since July 2009 after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy pledged over the weekend to
deliver a plan to recapitalize Europe’s banks and address
Greece’s debt crisis by Nov. 3.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) 
led gains among the nation’s biggest lenders after Central
Huijin Investment Ltd. started buying their shares.  “What we’re starting to see is a more coordinated response
to this global problem,”  Philip Poole , head of macro and
investments strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management, said in an
interview in Hong Kong. “Europeans finally have started to get
their act together, the Fed and central banks provided dollar
swap facilities, and the Chinese are helping with sentiment by
addressing this issue in the banks.”  Slovak Vote  Slovak lawmakers failed to approve an overhaul of Europe’s
bailout fund today, but Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said the
revamped fund will likely be passed in a separate vote later
this week.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated  Greece  will get an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) loan
next month under a 110 billion-euro bailout, as European leaders
move to reopen talks on a new package that may mean deeper
writedowns on Greek debt.  The team of officials from the EU, IMF and  European Central
Bank  said Greece has made “important progress” in fiscal
consolidation, according to a statement today upon completion of
a review in Athens. The mission warned that more spending cuts
would be needed in 2013 and 2014 to meet deficit targets.  Fed Minutes  The  Federal Reserve  will release minutes of its September
meeting tomorrow, after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on Oct. 4
the U.S. central bank is prepared to take further action to
promote a stronger economic recovery.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  plunged 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 428, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The spread between U.S. and Polish debt fell 29 basis
points, the biggest drop in 10 months following Prime Minister
Donald Tusk’s election victory.  Most emerging-market currencies weakened against the
dollar, led by the Mexican peso, which dropped 1.2 percent. The
rand followed with a 1.1 percent decline as metal prices fell.
 India ’s rupee fell 0.7 percent while the lira slid 0.6 percent.
The forint depreciated 0.8 percent versus the euro.  Agricultural Bank climbed 13 percent in Hong Kong after
earlier gaining as much as 16 percent, an intraday record.
Central Huijin, the arm of China’s sovereign wealth fund, said
it began buying shares yesterday in the nation’s four biggest
banks. Shares of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.,
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  also
surged.  Macau Casinos  Jim Chanos , founder of New York-based hedge fund Kynikos
Associates, said he has kept holdings in casinos in the former
Portuguese colony of Macau for 1 1/2 years, citing their growth
and more credible financial figures.  Oil futures for November delivery gained 0.5 percent in its
fifth day of increase in  New York , capping the longest rally
this year.  The Bovespa rose 1.1 percent in Sao Paulo, led by OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, which advanced 3.1 percent
after billionaire  Eike Batista  increased his stake to 62.5
percent from 61 percent. Mexico’s IPC index rose 0.4 percent to
the highest in more than a week.  Largan Precision Industry Co. climbed 6.9 percent in Taipei
after its customer Apple Inc. received more than a million
preorders for the iPhone 4S in a single day, putting the
Cupertino, California-based company on a record-setting pace
ahead of the device’s Oct. 14 release.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.6 percent to the highest
in more than two weeks.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps declined four basis
points to 321.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  