-- 
Emirates NBD Takes Over Dubai Bank After Government Rescue on Loan Losses

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-11T13:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/emirates-nbd-to-take-over-dubai-bank-under-order-from-ruler.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  said its takeover
of unprofitable Dubai Bank PJSC, the Islamic lender rescued by
Dubai’s government in May, won’t hurt profit as the emirate
cleans up its banking industry.  The takeover “will not affect the profit and loss, the
non-performing loan percentages due to the transaction structure
and support provided by the government of Dubai,” Emirates NBD
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  told reporters in a
conference call today. “Dubai Bank will be capitalized by
Emirates NBD to the extent necessary and this will have
negligible impact on the group’s overall capital ratios.”  The takeover was ordered by the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the government’s Media Office
said in an e-mailed statement, without giving financial details.
“This comes in line with Dubai government’s efforts to enhance
the banking sector in the emirate,” it said.  Dubai Bank, an Islamic lender formerly owned by Dubai
Holding LLC and  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , was rescued by the
government after loan losses increased as the credit markets
froze following the global financial crisis. Government-
controlled Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC last year bought a majority
stake in cash-strapped Tamweel PJSC as part of a plan to boost
mortgage lending in the emirate.  Dubai Holding LLC, a company owned by the ruler, held a 70
percent stake in Dubai Bank, while Emaar Properties PJSC owned
the rest. The bank posted a loss of 291 million dirhams ($79
million) in 2009, according to the latest  financial statements 
posted on its website. It had had total assets of 17.4 billion
dirhams at the end of 2009.  Debt Restructuring  Dubai Holding, one of the three main state-owned holding
companies, is restructuring about $10 billion of debt at one of
its investment subsidiaries. Dubai World, another holding
company, restructured about $25 billion of debt this year.  “The problem was that Dubai Bank was a little too close to
Dubai Holding and a solution needed to be found,” said  Raj Madha , a Dubai-based analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. “I
do have some concerns that impairments at Dubai Holding will
impact Dubai Bank.”  Emirates NBD will take over Dubai Bank at “fair value”
and details of the transaction will be announced with the bank’s
fourth-quarter results, Chief Financial Officer Surya Subramanian said on the conference call. The impact of the
takeover will not be “material” because Dubai Bank’s assets
are about 6 to 7 percent of Emirates NBD group assets, he said.  Yields Fall  The yield on Dubai Holding Commercial Operations’ 4.75
percent bond due January 2014 dropped 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 17.66 percent, the lowest in a week, at
4:48 p.m. in Dubai. The yield on Dubai government’s 5.591
percent bond fell 5 basis points to 6.3 percent and the rate on
Emaar’s Islamic note dropped 29 basis points to 8.73 percent.  Emirates NBD’s shares fell 1.6 percent to 3.74 dirhams, the
lowest close in six months. The shares have gained 36 percent
this year compared with a 15 percent drop in the Dubai Financial
Market General Index.  Emirates NBD may also be forced to buy Amlak Finance PJSC,
the Islamic mortgage company that’s being reorganized by the
government, said  Jaap Meijer , head of the bank team at AlembicHC
Securities. he said.  Emirates NBD, formed in October 2007 after the merger of
Emirates Bank International PJSC and National Bank of Dubai
PJSC, reported a smaller-than-expected 87 percent jump in
second-quarter profit. The bank, 56 percent owned by the Dubai
government, is one of the biggest creditors to Dubai World.  “Consolidation makes sense, and it’s a trend that is going
to continue for the foreseeable future,” said Akram Annous,
 Middle East  and North Africa strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in
Dubai. “This is an overbanked market and consolidation is
important for long-term business viability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  