-- 
Employment Index in U.S. Declines for Second Straight Month

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-11T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/employment-index-in-u-s-declines-for-second-straight-month.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. fell in September for a second month, indicating the labor
market will struggle to improve through yearend.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index declined 0.4
percent, the most in five months, to 100.95 from the prior
month’s revised reading of 101.37, the New York-based private
research group said today. The measure was up 4.4 percent from
September 2010.  Today’s figures follow a Labor Department report last week
that showed payrolls rose by a more-than-forecast 103,000
workers in September while the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent. Even faster job growth may be needed to reduce the
jobless rate, keep consumers spending and boost the economy.  “Weak job growth is likely to continue for the rest of
2011,”  Gad Levanon , associate director of macroeconomic
research at the Conference Board, said in a statement. “Even as
the economy remains slow going into the next year, we do not
expect a major acceleration in layoffs because employers have
kept their workforce quite lean since the 2008-09 recession.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Six of the eight indicators weighed against the overall
gauge last month. An increase in the number of consumers saying
jobs were hard to get in September, more first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  and a rising number of part-time workers
for economic reasons were among the components that contributed
to the drop, the Conference Board said.  Private Payrolls  The Labor Department’s payrolls report, released on Oct. 7
also showed companies added 137,000 workers last month, more
than the median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer spending  slowed in August as incomes dropped for
the first time in almost two years. Purchases rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.7 percent increase the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed Sept. 30.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , is among firms
that have turned more cautious about hiring. It said last month
it will limit hiring to only “critical” jobs as the economic
slowdown continues and revenue slumps.  “We are currently only filling positions we believe are
critical to the line of business or function,”  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an interview
Sept. 15.  State Governments  Federal, state and local agencies are also cutting staff.
The U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory is offering
employees buyouts to try to cut its workforce in preparation for
expected government budget cuts.  The buyouts will be offered to 1,350 full- and part-time
employees who’ve been at the lab for at least a year, Bob Noun,
a spokesman for the lab, said last week. The Golden, Colorado-
based lab, funded by the U.S. Energy Department, expects to shed
100 to 150 employees, about 9 percent of its staff, Noun said in
a telephone interview.  Some companies are planning to boost payrolls.  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  last week said it has committed to add about 12,000 hourly
jobs in its U.S. manufacturing plants by 2015 as part of an
agreement with the  United Auto Workers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  