-- 
Merck Australia Wins Bid to Overturn Vioxx Trial Decision

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-12T00:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/merck-australia-wins-bid-to-overturn-vioxx-trial-decision.html
Merck & Co.’s Australian unit won a
bid to overturn the first trial decision outside the U.S. that
said the drugmaker failed to warn of heart risks associated with
its painkiller Vioxx.  The judgment against Merck should be set aside and the
action should be dismissed, Justice Michelle Gordon said on
behalf of the appeal panel in Federal Court in  Melbourne  today.
The decision reverses a March 5, 2010,  ruling  that awarded
Graeme Robert Peterson A$287,912 ($286,000), after he found
Vioxx contributed to Peterson’s heart attack in 2003.  Merck withdrew Vioxx in 2004 after a study showed it
doubled the risk of heart attacks and strokes. The  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based drugmaker won 11 of 16 Vioxx U.S.
suits at trial before agreeing in 2007 to create a $4.85 billion
settlement fund to resolve thousands of injury claims over the
drug. The fund didn’t apply to cases outside the U.S.  “The company is satisfied with this outcome and is in the
process of reviewing the full judgment,” Merck said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The Full Court held that Vioxx was not
proven to be the cause of the applicant’s” heart attack.  Plaintiffs’ experts have said Merck distorted the health
risks of Vioxx in medical literature, advertisements and
statements to doctors by sales representatives.  The damages relate to Merck’s MSD  Australia  unit and
Justice Christopher Jessup, who ruled against the drugmaker last
year, dismissed allegations Peterson made against the parent
company, Merck & Co., that it should have withdrawn Vioxx from
sale before it did in September 2004.  The case is Graeme Robert Peterson v Merck Sharpe & Dohme
(Australia) Pty Ltd. and Merck & Co, Inc., VID 570/2010, Full
Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  