-- 
Erste’s Treichl Says Europe Should Enact Basel Accord Uniformly

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-11T14:36:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/erste-s-treichl-says-europe-should-enact-basel-accord-uniformly.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  head Andreas Treichl said  Europe  should implement new rules by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  in a uniform way and refrain
from rules that differ from country to country.  “It’s not going to be a level playing field in Europe,”
Treichl told European Union lawmakers in Brussels today. “There
are too many people and countries in Europe who are trying to
improve it on their own,” he said. “Why don’t we just agree
that we all accept Basel III as it is. It’s great and it’s going
to make banking safer.”  Treichl said it is a “dangerous path” to change bank
capital rules without first resolving the European debt crisis.
“If you are a bank in a country that doesn’t receive private
funding anymore, whether you have a capital ratio of 8 percent,
or 10 percent, or 12 percent, or 15 percent, or 18 percent is
completeley irrelevant,” he said. “If you hold a lot of debt
from that country that doesn’t receive private funding, you’re
bust.”  Treichl, whose bank is the biggest in  Austria  and the
second-biggest in eastern Europe, said he “just can’t accept”
that the new Basel accord doesn’t help lending to companies
“whose only mistake is that they are too small to get a
rating.”  “While we increase the  capital requirements  for lending to
the real economy, high-frequency trading has tripled over the
last three years,” he said. “I’d love to have something that
kills this stupid business tomorrow.” Erste generates more than
three-quarters of its revenue from retail clients and small and
medium-sized companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net  