-- 
Esprit Shares Rise After Hedge Fund Increases Stake

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 
2011-10-11T09:29:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/esprit-shares-rise-after-hedge-fund-increases-stake-3-.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the largest
Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer, rose to a three-week high in
trading in the city after hedge fund Lone Pine Capital LLC
increased its stake to become the second-biggest shareholder.  Esprit climbed 12 percent to HK$11 at the 4 p.m. close in
 Hong Kong  trading, the stock’s highest level since Sept. 16.
Lone Pine Capital bought 38.9 million shares at an average price
of HK$9.50 each on Oct. 4, a disclosure filing to the Hong Kong
stock exchange showed.  The purchase by the Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund
helped trim a decline by Esprit since the apparel company said
Sept. 15 full-year profit fell 98 percent. Revenue from  Europe ,
where Esprit makes most of its sales, declined for a third year
amid the region’s debt crisis and intensified competition.  “The stake increase by the hedge fund is certainly a
factor driving the share price,” Kenny Tang, an analyst at AMTD
Financial Planning Ltd., said by phone today. “It may spur the
idea that further purchases could be on the way.”  Lone Pine Capital’s stake in the retailer increased to 6.23
percent from 3.22 percent after the transaction, according to
the filing. The fund’s holding trails that of  State Street
Corp. (STT) , which owns 6.41 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  ‘Lost Its Soul’  Esprit has slumped 40 percent from its Sept. 14 closing
price, compared with a 4.8 percent decline in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Net income for the year ended June
was also eroded by costs to close stores and sell Esprit’s North
American operations, the company said on Sept. 15.  European rivals  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara
have lured away customers from Esprit since the Hong Kong-listed
company posted record net income for the year ended June 2008,
prompting Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis to say last
month that the Esprit brand had “lost its soul.”  To turn the company around, Van der Vis plans to more than
double sales in China, the world’s most populous nation, in four
years. In the year ended June, it had HK$2.68 billion in revenue
from China, Esprit’s fastest-growing market.  Esprit also intends to spend HK$6.8 billion on branding
over the next four years, focusing its efforts on China and
parts of Europe, according to a company presentation. Almost
one-third of its marketing will be directed to China.  Esprit’s brand is valued at $3.4 billion, equal to  Polo
Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ’s  Ralph Lauren , according to a report
released in May by Millward Brown Optimor, a unit of WPP, the
world’s largest advertising company. By comparison, the
company’s market capitalization is about $1.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  