-- 
Estonia Approves Harvard-Educated ‘Evil Oracle’ for ECB

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-10-11T14:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/estonia-approves-harvard-educated-evil-oracle-for-ecb-council.html
Estonian central bank supervisors
picked Ardo Hansson, a Harvard-educated economist at the  World
Bank , to represent the country at the  European Central Bank .  The eight-member board of politicians and academics voted
5-3 in the capital, Tallinn, today to elect Hansson as a
successor to Governor  Andres Lipstok  over Andres Sutt, an
adviser at the  International Monetary Fund . Hansson’s seven-year
term starts on June 8, 2012, pending a background check and
formal confirmation by President Toomas Ilves.  Europe’s governments are struggling to contain a debt
crisis that has shaken the euro. Lipstok led a central bank that
managed a currency peg during the global financial crisis and
helped Estonia adopt the euro this year with the lowest debt in
the 27-nation European Union.  “Anybody from  Estonia  would stand up for conservative
principles,” Hansson told journalists after the decision. “I
think conservative principles have served us very well in our
internal deliberation, and I think for the help of the broader
European economy in the long run we want to make sure those
principles are enshrined.”  Hansson, 53, a Chicago-born son of Estonian immigrants with
a Ph.D. in Economics from  Harvard University , has been the World
Bank’s lead economist for China since September 2008.  U.S. National  After Estonia regained independence in 1991, Hansson worked
as an adviser to several prime ministers and, together with
Jeffrey Sachs of  Columbia University , was among the architects
of the Estonian kroon, later replaced by the euro in January. He
will be the first U.S. national on the ECB’s governing council.  By next June, “it would be time to start actively
contributing and find our niches of expertise,” Hansson said
yesterday in an interview with public broadcaster Eesti
Rahvusringhaeaeling. “My background is very similar to those of
most people on the ECB governing council, meaning there is
respect for each other’s knowledge and experiences.  An advocate of a frugal lifestyle, Hansson became known to
the public as the ‘‘Evil Oracle’’ for predicting Estonia’s first
post-independence recession and the bursting of a stock-market
bubble in 1997. During the 1990s, he consulted the governments
of Mongolia, Poland, Slovenia and Ukraine.  Euro region members can avoid the possible spread of the
debt crisis by being more ‘‘pro-active’’ on fiscal policy and
encouraging bank consolidation, Hansson said in a phone
interview from Beijing last month. He is more afraid of
inflation rather than deflation in the  Europe , Hansson was cited
as saying in an interview by Aeripaeev on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  