-- 
Bonus Rules Hurt EU Banks in Recruitment Fight, FSB Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-10-12T11:50:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eu-bank-recruiting-hurt-by-unequal-global-bonus-rules-fsb-says.html
Banks in the European Union face
more stringent pay and bonus rules than rivals in  North America 
and  Asia , putting them at a disadvantage in attracting talent,
the Financial Stability Board said.  The U.S, Australia,  Canada , Hong Kong and  Japan  allow banks
“more flexibility” than the U.K. and other EU countries when
implementing international bonus rules, the Basel-based FSB said
yesterday following a global review. National regulators should
address the “level-playing-field” issues, it said.  EU regulators approved laws to impose limits on cash
payouts and on the size of bankers’ bonuses.  Michel Barnier , the
EU financial-services chief has described some awards during
this year’s bonus round as “unjustifiable,” and said that he
is considering further curbs.  “More work is necessary” by some nations to fully
implement compensation principles for traders and managers
approved by the Group of 20 countries in 2009, as well as to
“address concerns over different interpretations of the
standards,” the FSB said.  Thirteen of the FSB’s member countries, including EU
nations, have implemented the FSB pay guidelines, the FSB said.
All but one of the standards have been adopted in the U.S,
Switzerland and  Australia .  Argentina  and  South Africa  are among
countries that have made the least progress.  Share Deferrals  “If you can’t be competitive with compensation, of course
it’s going to be more challenging to attract quality people,”
said Russ Gerson, chief executive officer of New York-based
executive-search firm Gerson Group. When demand for talent
increases “it’s going to become more challenging for the
European-based institutions.”  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. are among countries, in
addition to  Singapore , that have set four FSB recommendations --
such as rules on deferring bonus pay or defining the mix of cash
and equities used in awards -- as minimum requirements,
according to the report released yesterday. Authorities in the
U.S., Japan,  Hong Kong , Canada and Australia allowed firms
greater flexibility, “taking account of differences in their
business models and risk profiles,” according to the report.  The bonus rules haven’t hurt  London ’s “legacy as a global
financial center,” said Steve Leeson, operations director at
Morgan McKinley Group Ltd.’s financial services unit.  “There is limited evidence from financial institutions,
that employees are seeking opportunities” outside London “as a
result of the current market,” Leeson said. “London remains an
attractive market for financial services professionals.”  ING, Rabobank  Rules in some countries go beyond the FSB’s
recommendations, such as in the Netherlands, which imposed more
stringent limits on variable pay as a share of total awards,
according to the report. In the wake of regulations, Dutch banks
including  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and Rabobank Group are increasingly
limiting bonus payments, a committee assigned to monitor payouts
in that nation said in a report last month.  Under EU rules, as much as 60 percent of a bonus payout for
risk-takers and senior managers must be deferred for at least
three years, and half of the remaining amount must be in the
form of shares.  The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. adopted a rule in
July empowering regulators to claw back some pay from top
financial executives if their company was liquidated by the
government. The rule authorizes the FDIC to recover pay for the
two years preceding its appointment as receiver from senior
executives and directors “substantially responsible” for the
firm’s failure.  Three Years  The FDIC also has also proposed lenders should spread at
least half of top managers’ incentive pay, including stock and
options, over three years.  Some EU regulators have told the FSB that international
differences on bonus deferrals and other aspects of pay
structure “could disadvantage their banks in recruiting and
retaining key personnel,” the FSB said. The U.K. has raised
concerns that rules curbing guaranteed bonuses aren’t being
applied with equal vigor in all jurisdictions.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Authority,
told lawmakers on Oct. 4 that the EBA will “come out with some
recommendations on how to strengthen” implementation of the EU
pay rules. The EU needs “much more consistency and tightness”
in the way compensation is approached. The EBA coordinates the
work of national regulators in the 27-nation EU.  The FSB works with national regulators from G-20 nations
and sets tasks for global standard-setting organizations such as
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 