-- 
EU Considered 30 Euro Floor for Carbon From 2013, CMIA Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-11T15:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eu-considered-30-euro-floor-for-carbon-from-2013-cmia-says.html
The European Commission considered
installing a floor price in its carbon market for the third
phase from 2013 to 2020 to spur clean investment, said the
Carbon Markets & Investors Association.  “The unofficial discussion in the European Union was that,
during phase three, the commission was hoping to have an
operating floor price unofficially of about 30 euros ($41) a
metric ton,”  Miles Austin , director of the lobby group, said
today at a hearing of the energy and climate change committee in
U.K. parliament in  London .  Carbon has dropped 26 percent this year, falling as low as
9.82 euros a metric ton on Oct. 4, the cheapest for more than
two years. Austin didn’t say why the EU didn’t implement the
price floor. EU lawmakers should consider tightening the
region’s carbon cap to a 30 percent cut on 1990 levels by 2020
instead of the current 20 percent target because the economic
recession has made it cheap to do so, he said.  The  U.K. committee  is exploring ways of co-operating with
other nations to achieve a “fair deal” on climate protection
and whether the EU, which runs the world’s biggest greenhouse
gas market by traded volume, can sustain a credible carbon price
without a global climate agreement, according to the
parliament’s website.  ‘Needs to Consider’  “The EU needs to consider what it really wants to do with
the EU emissions trading system: if they want something that
works and to be a world leader or if they want something that’s
essentially oversupplied and won’t deliver,” Imtiaz Ahmad, an
 executive director  at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  representing the
International Emissions Trading Association, told the hearing.  EU carbon fell 0.8 percent to 10.64 euros at 4:25 p.m on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Boosting EU prices by linking with other carbon markets is
unlikely anytime soon, said Austin. “In the U.S. they were
getting profoundly nervous about anything going over $20 a
ton,” meaning there would be little incentive for a program
there to link with the EU market, he said.  Any plan by EU regulators to “set aside” some supply of
allowances to boost prices should be undertaken by an
independent body and any return of that supply to the market
should be made under clearly set circumstances that would be
predictable for traders, Austin said.  The declining price in the EU does not necessarily mean the
market is failing, said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London
for the investment banking arm of  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The low prices
also reflect strong supply of United Nations Certified Emission
Reduction credits, which were deliberately installed into the
program to cut its cost, he said. “It’s providing cost
containment. It’s doing what it said it was going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  