-- 
EU Proposes Optional Sales Law to Cut Trade Barriers in Region

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-11T15:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eu-proposes-optional-sales-law-to-cut-trade-barriers-in-region.html
The European Union proposed an
optional region-wide sales law that could boost the EU economy
with an extra 26 billion euros ($35.4 billion) in trade within
the bloc’s borders.  An identical sales law across the 27-nation EU that would
work alongside existing national laws would cut costs and make
it easier for companies to trade, the European Commission said
today.  “It will provide firms with an easy and cheap way to
expand their business to new markets in  Europe  while giving
consumers better deals and a high level of protection,” EU
Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The law, which still needs the approval of lawmakers in the
European Parliament and of European governments, would save
companies an average of 10,000 euros that it costs to adapt
sales contracts in line with laws in each additional country,
plus about 3,000 euros to adapt websites to sell online,
according to the commission.  The plans risk leading to uncertainty for companies and
consumers, said the Law Society of  England  and Wales.  “An ‘optional instrument’ of contract law would have no
underlying jurisprudence and practitioners are concerned that
this would lead to uncertainty for businesses and consumers as
to how it would be interpreted and applied,” said John Wotton,
the society’s president. “It would be difficult to ensure the
uniform application of the new system across the 27 EU member
states with their different legal cultures.”  Brussels-based lobby group Eurochambres said the plan
“seems appealing at first glance, but still needs to be
carefully assessed.”  “Question marks also remain about the value of a regime
that may only be applicable to cross-border transactions, not
also to domestic ones,” said Arnaldo Abruzzini, secretary
general of Eurochambres. “On the positive side, an alternative
dispute resolution scheme is foreseen and should facilitate
dispute management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  