-- 
EU’s Barroso to Make Bank Recapitalization Proposal Tomorrow

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-10-11T20:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eu-s-barroso-to-make-bank-recapitalization-proposal-tomorrow-1-.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he’ll present proposals tomorrow on the
recapitalization of banks as  Europe ’s leaders struggle to tackle
the region’s debt crisis.  “I hope that tomorrow the proposals the commission puts
forward will be an important contribution for the European
Council and the euro-area summit on Oct. 23,” Barroso told
reporters after meeting with Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  in
The Hague today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy put bank recapitalization at the top of the
priority list in an Oct. 9 declaration in Berlin that triggered
a flurry of consultations in European capitals. The European
Banking Authority should make proposals on capital, Merkel said
on Oct. 7.  European Central Bank chief Jean-Claude Trichet said on
Oct. 6 that European banks and supervisors including the EBA
should do everything they can to address the need for
recapitalization and banks shouldn’t be reluctant to accept
state help when needed.  Barroso will probably make the announcement at the European
Parliament at 3 p.m. in Brussels, European Commission
spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen said by telephone today.  ‘No New  Stress Test ’  Banks may be forced by the EBA to raise their core tier one
 capital ratios  to 9 percent after its board of supervisors
approved the idea in principle, the Financial Times reported,
citing senior regulators.  The EBA asked lenders for more information on sovereign
debt holdings as part of its review of financial industry
capital levels, four people familiar with the situation said
today. The information will be drawn from banks’ first-half
results, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the process is private.  “This is no new stress test,”  Ben Fischer , a spokesman
for German financial regulator Bafin, said in an interview.
“It’s more an update of numbers on foreign exposure, a follow-
up to the old stress test.”  A spokeswoman for the London-based EBA, which coordinates
the work of national regulators in the European Union, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in The Hague at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  