-- 
Euro to Weaken to $1.20 This Year Amid Crisis, Taylor of FX Concepts Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 
2011-10-11T18:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/euro-to-weaken-to-1-20-this-year-amid-crisis-taylor-of-fx-concepts-says.html
John Taylor , founder and chief
executive officer of FX Concepts LLC, said the euro will end the
year at $1.20 before falling to parity with the dollar as the
currency union struggles through a sovereign debt crisis.  Taylor, who restated his call for another recession in the
U.S. and Europe, said the common currency has remained supported
in the past week as leaders pledge to deliver a plan to support
banks amid the crisis. Taylor, based in  New York , runs the
world’s biggest currency hedge fund.  “I would be surprised to see the euro hold above $1
through this crisis,” Taylor said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Michael McKee . “It’s not over. The banks are
going to be in trouble when  Europe  goes into a recession next
year.”  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3662 at 2:43 p.m. in New
York, after gaining as much as 2.4 percent yesterday. It has
dropped 4.9 percent since the end of August as concern increased
that European banks holding debt of the region’s struggling
nations will have difficulty in accessing funding.  Taylor, whose firm oversees $8.5 billion, said Sept. 15
that the 17-nation currency needs to be reorganized amid a
failure to continuously coordinate policy.  The euro yesterday rose by the most in more than a year
against the dollar after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Oct. 9 that they have
given themselves three weeks to devise a plan to recapitalize
banks and find a “durable” solution for  Greece ’s debt load.  Taylor also said the dollar will strengthen as the  U.S.
economy  falls into a recession and as banks become more
reluctant to lend, driving investors to the greenback as a
refuge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McKee in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  