-- 
F-18 Fighter Helps Solar Mirrors Rival Gas-Fed Plants, Torresol Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-10-11T12:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/eurofighter-helps-solar-mirrors-compete-with-gas-torresol-says.html
Solar-thermal power plants using
technology from the F-18 fighter will compete on price with
natural gas- or coal-fired generation within a decade, according
to a Spanish company that’s spending $1.3 billion on the gear.  Torresol Energy Investments SA opened its first commercial-
scale plant this month near Seville in southern  Spain  using an
alloy developed for the F-18 Super Hornet and  Eurofighter
Typhoon  engines. The metal is used to hold molten salts heated
to 565 degrees centigrade (1,050 degrees Fahrenheit), hotter
than an atomic plant’s fluid. The main heat receiver is made by
a venture of Spanish manufacturer Sener SA and Rolls-Royce Plc.  Torresol, majority-owned by Sener, plans to use the 19.9-
megawatt “tower“-style generator as a model for learning how to
slash future costs by standardizing components, refining plant
operations and building generators side-by-side, Chairman
Enrique Sendagorta said.  “With our next tower plant, we’ll be able to reduce the
cost of power rather significantly,” Sendagorta said Oct. 7 in
an interview in  Madrid . The test plant, known as Gemasolar, is
profitable with Spain’s 29 euro cent (40 U.S. cent) a kilowatt-
hour power rate, he said, declining to provide more details.  Spain has the most electricity production in the world
employing solar thermal, a technology that’s increasingly being
questioned in the U.S. for failing to match the cost reductions
of photovoltaic panels, the main solar-power alternative.  $1.3 Billion Investment  Sener owns 60 percent of Torresol and  Abu Dhabi ’s Masdar
has 40 percent. The company has invested 940 million euros ($1.3
billion) in Gemasolar and two other plants under construction in
nearby Cadiz province, which use a different configuration
involving trough-shaped mirrors arrayed in rows.  As executives learn more about how the equipment behaves at
high temperatures they will be able to slim down the safety
margins and back-up systems deployed in the prototype, reducing
costs without adding to risk in future plants, Sendagorta said.  Torresol is developing similar projects in the U.S. and the
 Middle East , he said.  Gemasolar is the first using sunlight to directly heat
salts to power its conventional steam turbine. It employs 2,650
mirrors to bounce light at a receiver through which the salt
flows. The device, similar to a giant, circular car radiator,
sits atop a 140-meter (460-foot) tower and generates
electricity. It was inaugurated last week by Spain’s King Juan Carlos and Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed of Abu Dhabi.  Higher Operating Temperature  The 12-meter high receiver is made from a metal alloy by
Industria de Turbo Propulsores SA, owned by Bilbao-based Sener
and Rolls-Royce. The company produces turbines and components
for fighter jets, military helicopters and Airbus SAS airliners.
The receiver’s surface operates at about 650 degrees centigrade
and glows brightly enough to be seen from a nearby highway.  The composition of the alloy used is a commercial secret,
Sendagorta said.  By boosting the operating temperature of the plant,
Torresol increases its efficiency and brings it closer to
competing with conventional generating technologies.  Solar-thermal energy from tower plants costs about $233 a
megawatt-hour to produce compared with about $172 for
photovoltaic power and $63 for electricity from a natural gas-
fired plant, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Abandoning Projects  The disparity between solar thermal and photovoltaic has
prompted other developers to abandon mirror-based projects or
switch to solar panels in the past year.  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) 
last week sold its U.S. pipeline to a rival developer that will
install panels on the sites it had prepared for mirrors.  Should utilities deploying panels manage to compete with
fossil fuel plants first, “then there is no need to take solar
thermal,” said Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at German bank Joh.
Berenberg, Gossler & Co. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  