-- 
European Stocks Snap Four-Day Rally Before Slovakia Vote; Greek Banks Fall

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-11T16:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/european-stock-futures-slide-before-slovakia-vote-on-efsf-alcoa-earnings.html
European stocks fell, snapping a
four-day rally, as investors awaited the start of the U.S.
earnings season amid uncertainty that Slovakia will ratify the
euro area’s revised bailout fund.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA
sank more than 16 percent to the lowest levels on record.  ASML
Holding NV (ASML)  and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  led semiconductor shares
lower after analyst downgrades.  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , the maker of
Remy Martin, advanced after Berenberg Bank recommended buying
the shares.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
235.28 at the close of trading, having earlier retreated as much
as 1.2 percent. The gauge advanced 8.5 percent over the previous
four days for its biggest rally since November 2008. The measure
has still fallen 19 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 17
amid speculation the European debt crisis will derail the
economic recovery.  “ Slovakia  is causing some uncertainty,” said Witold Bahrke, a Copenhagen-based senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S,
which manages $45 billion. “It seems the market is pricing in
both a recapitalization of banks as well as  Germany  and France
having agreed on a larger haircut on Greek debt.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 0.1 percent and
France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.3 percent, while Germany’s DAX added
0.3 percent.  Slovakia Vote  Slovakia is due to vote today on the euro area’s retooled
bailout fund. The largest opposition party, which pledged to
reject the motion, will back the European Financial Stability
Facility in a second vote, if lawmakers fail to approve it
today,  Robert Fico , the group’s leader, told reporters in
Bratislava. That would give the measure a majority.  “There is likelihood that the bailout fund will eventually
be approved this week, one way or the other,” Slovak Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos said.  Slovakia is the only country in the 17-nation euro area
that hasn’t ratified the measures, following approval in Malta
yesterday.  “If Slovakia do not ratify EFSF enhancements then it is
feasible that the whole deal will collapse, which would most
likely lead to sharp correction in risk sentiment,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman and Co. in  New York , wrote in a report.  Jean-Claude Trichet  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the debt crisis threatens the region’s financial system as
officials race to put together a new plan to end the turmoil.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels today in his capacity as head of the
European Systemic Risk Board. “Sovereign stress has moved from
smaller economies to some of the larger countries. The crisis is
systemic and must be tackled decisively.”  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is due to
become the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
issue third-quarter earnings after the U.S. market closes today.
Net income will be 23 cents a share, compared with 9 cents a
year earlier, according the average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The four biggest Greek lenders fell more than 16 percent.
National Bank of  Greece  sank 16 percent to 1.60 euros and  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  retreated 20 percent to 56 euro cents.
 Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  tumbled 20 percent to 25.4 euro cents, while
Alpha Bank SA dropped 19 percent to 83 euro cents.  ASML Falls  ASML fell 3 percent to 26.53 euros as ING Groep NV cut
shares of Europe’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker to
“hold” from “buy,” citing recent outperformance ahead of
tomorrow’s earnings report.  STMicroelectronics declined 4.1 percent to 5.19 euros in
Milan as Citigroup Inc. downgraded the shares to “sell.”  Remy Cointreau added 3.1 percent to 56.50 euros. Berenberg
raised its recommendation on the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company,
increased 5.1 percent to 32.46 francs after Jefferies Group Inc.
upgraded the shares to “buy” from “hold.”  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  jumped 13 percent to 191.25
pence. The U.K. energy explorer focused on the Falkland Islands
raised its estimate of oil resources at the Sea Lion field after
reviewing data.  Givaudan SA (GIVN)  gained 2.6 percent to 764 francs even after the
maker of fragrances for Marc Jacobs’s Lola reported third-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  The company stuck to a mid-term forecast to expand at about
double the pace of the 2 percent to 3 percent growth predicted
for the wider market. Price increases will mitigate half the
impact of more expensive raw materials this year and fully
alleviate them next year, Givaudan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  