-- 
Ex-Chelsea CEO Peter Kenyon Is Leaving CAA Agency in Sports Restructuring

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-11T16:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ex-chelsea-ceo-peter-kenyon-is-leaving-caa-agency-in-sports-restructuring.html
Peter Kenyon, the former head of
English soccer team Chelsea, is leaving  Creative Artists Agency 
two years after the U.S.-based talent management company hired
him to expand its international sports unit.  Kenyon joined CAA to help it enter the markets for soccer
player representation and media rights. Phillipe Le Floc’h, the
former marketing director at European soccer’s governing body
who CAA brought in last year, is also leaving as part of the
changes, the company said today in a statement.  “As a result of a strategic restructuring related to CAA
Sports’ international business, Peter Kenyon and CAA Sports have
jointly decided to end our employment relationship,” the agency
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Kenyon’s departure comes after  FIFA , soccer’s governing
body, said it was looking into whether an investment fund Kenyon
set up for CAA that buys portions of soccer players’ economic
rights violates its rules. CAA said the personnel moves aren’t
connected to the fund.  Kenyon didn’t respond to a text message seeking comment.
His assistant Lara Golder didn’t return a telephone call. Le
Floc’h, who’s based in Dubai, was in meetings and unavailable to
comment. Peter Draper is among those leaving CAA. He worked with
Kenyon at sports jersey supplier Umbro.  FIFA is investigating the fund, which invested in the
future transfer value of about 15 players. Kenyon said the
fund’s managers are “very conscious” not to influence trades,
which would be a breach of FIFA rules.  Kenyon Experience  Kenyon spent five years with Chelsea after being poached
from  Manchester United  following billionaire Roman Abramovich’s
takeover of the Blues in 2003. The club won back to back league
titles in 2005 and 2006, its first league championships since
1955, as Kenyon spent more than 100 million pounds ($156
million) on players. The talent helped the west London club keep
its annual place in the  Champions League , where it lost the 2008
final to Manchester United.  Los Angeles-based CAA, which represents actors including
 George Clooney , branched into sports in 2006 and formed a
alliance with Porto, Portugal-based Gestifute, which manages
Real Madrid’s forward Cristiano Ronaldo and coach  Jose Mourinho .
Gestifute’s is led by Jorge Mendes, who with Kenyon, advises the
player fund.  Last October, private investment company TPG Capital bought
a 35 percent stake in CAA. The agency said it was part of a plan
to create a $500 million fund to make future investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  