-- 
Exelon, PJM Monitor Agree Terms for Constellation Takeover

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/exelon-pjm-monitor-agree-on-terms-for-constellation-takeover.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  reached a settlement
with the monitor of the largest U.S. wholesale power market,
alleviating concerns its $7.98 billion takeover of  Constellation
Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  would allow it to manipulate prices.  Exelon agreed to limit the price it charges for power from
some plants and said it wouldn’t sell three facilities to
companies that already own some generation in the PJM market,
according to a  filing  today with the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and Maryland state regulators.  Exelon proposed selling the three Baltimore-area plants,
which have a combined capacity of 2,648 megawatts, when the
merger was announced on April 28. The agreement filed today
excludes American Electric Power Co., FirstEnergy Corp., GenOn
Energy Inc., Edison International, Dominion Resources Inc.,
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc., Calpine Corp. and PPL
Corp. from buying the plants.  Paula Carmody,  Maryland ’s official consumer advocate, said
in a Sept. 23 filing with state regulators that Exelon should
sell 3,389 megawatts of generating capacity, including the three
coal-fired Baltimore plants and four plants in Pennsylvania.
Carmody didn’t immediately return a message left at her office
seeking comment on the settlement.  The settlement also limits the price the combined company
can charge from plants that provide electricity during peak
demand periods. PJM operates a power market and oversees
electricity flow across a region that covers all or parts of 13
states and the District of Columbia, serving more than 58
million people.  The takeover by Exelon requires approvals from federal
energy regulators, the  Justice Department ,  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  and regulators in Maryland,  New York  and Texas.  Exelon expects the purchase to close early next year. Its
shares fell 1.2 percent to $42.10 at the close in New York.
Constellation, based in Baltimore, fell 0.6 percent to $37.55.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  