-- 
Failed Bank’s Executives Sued by SEC for Concealing Losses

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-11T21:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/failed-bank-s-former-executives-sued-by-sec-over-hidden-losses.html
Three former United Commercial Bank
executives misled investors by concealing at least $65 million
in loan losses before the San Francisco-based lender collapsed
in 2009, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said.  Thomas Wu, who was the bank’s chief executive officer,
worked with chief operating officer Ebrahim Shabudin and senior
officer Thomas Yu to hide impaired assets from auditors, causing
UCBH Holdings Inc. to understate 2008 operating losses, the SEC
said in a complaint filed today in  California . Shabudin and Yu
will face related criminal fraud charges under a federal grand
jury indictment unsealed today in  San Francisco .  “Hundreds of banks have failed in the financial crisis and
the regulators need to blame someone,” Steven Bauer, Wu’s
attorney at Latham & Watkins LLP, said in a statement. “Thomas
Wu is counting on our justice system to clear his good name.”  Wu, 53, stepped down in September 2009 after the company
said it would restate earnings and boost second-quarter loan
loss provisions following an internal review. United Commercial,
which was seized by regulators two months later, was one of the
10 biggest  bank failures  to result from the 2008 credit crisis
and caused a $2.5 billion loss to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s insurance fund, the SEC said.  “Today’s charges reflect an all too familiar pattern --
corporate executives once seen as rising stars embrace deception
to avoid losses and conceal negative news, with investors and
the FDIC insurance fund left to pick up the pieces,” SEC
Director of Enforcement  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement.
“Accountability for these executives begins today.”  Entrepreneur of the Year  Wu, who was named Entrepreneur of the Year in financial and
real estate services by Ernst & Young LLP in 2006, led United
Commercial for more than 10 years. During his tenure, the bank
more than doubled deposits and loans, reporting more than $13
billion in assets by the end of 2008, the SEC said.  In late 2008 and the first three months of 2009, Wu
directed subordinates to delay including newer and lower
appraisals in the valuations of collateral and bank assets, even
though he was aware of information that would show some of them
to be nearly worthless, the SEC said.  Shabudin, 63, reviewed and approved bank records that he
knew understated loss reserves and approved memos to auditors
that he knew contained false information, the agency said. Yu,
48, prepared reserve calculations that downplayed the bank’s
losses, according to the indictment and the SEC’s complaint.  Craig On, the bank’s former chief financial officer,
separately agreed to pay $150,000 and accept a five-year
suspension from practicing before the SEC to resolve claims that
he helped the fraud, the agency said. On, 59, didn’t admit or
deny wrongdoing in settling the SEC’s claims.  Phone calls to James Lassart, a lawyer for Shabudin;
Stephen Kaus, a lawyer for Yu; and Nanci Clarence, an attorney
for On, weren’t returned.  The FDIC said today in a separate release it fined 13
former United Commercial employees more than $1.7 million
combined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  