-- 
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Cast a Wider Net in Mortgage Repurchases, PHH Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-10-11T13:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-cast-wider-net-in-mortgage-repurchases-phh-says.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac are
increasingly demanding sellers repurchase mortgages that default
years after they were made and buy back recent loans that aren’t
even delinquent, according to  PHH Corp. (PHH) , the sixth-largest U.S.
home lender.  “They’re casting the net wider than they used to,” Luke Hayden, head of PHH’s mortgage unit, said in an interview
yesterday at the Mortgage Bankers Association’s  annual
conference  in Chicago.  The government-supported mortgage-finance companies, have
typically targeted their reviews of soured mortgages at loans
that default within a few years. Widening the array of mortgages
the two firms sell back would mean lenders will face more
difficulty escaping losses from mortgages granted before the
worst housing collapse since the Great Depression began
accelerating in 2008.  An examiner at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s regulator
raised concerns in March 2010 about Freddie Mac failing to seek
repurchases on earlier loans that didn’t match their promised
quality, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s inspector general
said in a Sept. 27 report criticizing the practice.  The official noted Freddie Mac had then reviewed less than
10 percent of failed 2005 and 2006 loans, “eliminating any
chance to put ineligible loans back to the lenders from those
years” and potentially costing the company billions of dollars,
the report found.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which in 2008 bought Countrywide
Financial Corp., then the country’s largest mortgage lender, has
said this year that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s approach has
been “evolving.”  That signaled a tougher stance by the
companies as the FHFA, under acting director Edward DeMarco,
steps up its effort to have them recoup losses.  “The FHFA is taking its mandate very seriously,” PHH
Chief Executive Officer Jerome Selitto said in the interview.
His  Mount Laurel , New Jersey-based company is able to rebuff
about two-thirds of repurchase demands by the companies, Selitto
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 