-- 
Fannie, Freddie Cast Wider Net in Bad-Mortgage Repurchases

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-10-11T17:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/fannie-freddie-cast-wider-net-in-bad-mortgage-repurchases-1-.html
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  are
increasingly demanding sellers repurchase mortgages that default
years after they were made and buy back recent loans that aren’t
even delinquent, according to  PHH Corp. (PHH) , the sixth-largest U.S.
home lender.  “They’re casting the net wider,” Luke Hayden, head of
PHH’s mortgage unit, said in an interview yesterday at the
 Mortgage Bankers Association ’s  annual conference  in  Chicago .  The government-supported mortgage-finance companies have
typically targeted their reviews of soured mortgages at loans
that default within a few years. Expanding the array of
mortgages the two firms sell back would mean lenders will face
more difficulty escaping losses from mortgages granted before
2008, when the worst housing collapse since the Great Depression
began accelerating.  An examiner at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s regulator
raised concerns in March 2010 about Freddie Mac failing to seek
repurchases on earlier loans that didn’t match their promised
quality, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s inspector general
said in a Sept. 27 report criticizing the practice.  The official noted Freddie Mac had then reviewed less than
10 percent of failed 2005 and 2006 loans, “eliminating any
chance to put ineligible loans back to the lenders from those
years” and potentially costing the company billions of dollars,
the report found.  Tougher Stance  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which in 2008 bought Countrywide
Financial Corp., then the country’s largest mortgage lender, has
said this year that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s approach has
been “evolving.”  That signaled a tougher stance by the
companies as the FHFA, under acting director Edward DeMarco,
steps up its effort to have them recoup losses.  “The FHFA is taking its mandate very seriously,” PHH
Chief Executive Officer Jerome Selitto said in an interview. His
Mount Laurel, New Jersey-based company is able to rebuff about
two-thirds of repurchase demands by the companies, he said.  Charles E. Haldeman, chief executive officer of McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac, declined to comment in an interview.
 Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Mounting Losses  Mortgage companies’ growing losses from debt that was sold
to or insured by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the  Federal Housing
Administration  are leading to tougher standards on new loans,
that in turn is hurting housing, Brian Chappelle, a partner at
consulting firm  Potomac Partners LLC, said during a panel
discussion today at the conference.  Jared Bernstein , former economic policy adviser to Vice
President Joseph Biden, said during the panel that “the FHFA
very much views their job as protecting taxpayers’ book.” The
problem is “protecting taxpayers is hurting homeowners and the
economy,” he said.  Reducing lenders’ risks from mortgage repurchases is “one
of the keys to improving” the federal Home Affordable Refinance
Program, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.
HARP, which Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Oct. 6
will be revamped this month in unspecified ways, allows certain
borrowers with  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac mortgages to refinance
even if they owe more than their home’s values.  PHH’s Selitto said in the interview that HARP also has been
hindered in recent months by lenders facing a flood of
traditional refinance applications, after  mortgage rates  fell to
record lows. His company has been hiring to deal with the
increased volume, with plans to host a job fair tomorrow seeking
150 employees, he said.  PHH is comfortable adding workers even though refinance
demand may ebb in a few months because it has recently been
hired by five additional financial-adviser companies to provide
mortgages to their customers under their names. He declined to
name the clients. The firm currently does such “private-label”
work for firms including Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit,
UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Selitto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 