-- 
Fed Says Dealer Easing of Hedge Fund Lending Terms Slowed on Europe Crisis

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-11T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/fed-says-dealer-easing-of-hedge-fund-lending-terms-slows-1-.html
The number of Wall Street dealers
tightening financing rates offered to hedge funds outnumbered
those easing as  Europe ’s debt crisis escalated, a Federal
Reserve survey shows.  Almost 10 percent of dealers said they somewhat tightened
financing rates and other pricing terms offered to hedge fund
clients, compared with 4.8 percent that eased those conditions,
according to the Fed’s quarterly  survey , which questioned senior
credit officers at 21 firms from June through August. Of the
dealers surveyed, about 86 percent said pricing terms remained
unchanged.  Dealers that largely eased lending terms for at least five
quarters slowed the trend as concern intensified that Europe’s
fiscal imbalances would infect the global banking system. More
than three quarters of the respondents said the amount of
resources and attention devoted to management of concentrated
exposures to other banks and financial institutions had
increased over the three-month period.  While overall credit terms offered to counterparties were
little changed, the survey was “in contrast with the broad-
based easing that had been seen since the inaugural survey in
June 2010,” the Fed said in the report today.  The number of banks easing other terms to hedge funds, such
as haircuts, still outnumbered those tightening, the Fed survey
showed. For such terms, 9.5 percent of dealers tightened while
33.3 percent eased and 57.1 percent were unchanged, according to
the Fed.  Company Credit Risk  The survey, which was conducted from Aug. 22 to Sept. 2,
was the first since U.S. credit markets started deteriorating in
July. A benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk had the biggest
two-month jump in August and September since the period ended
November 2008, when markets seized following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, has soared 42.5 basis points to
134.5 basis points since June 30, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  