-- 
Folic Acid for Mothers Cuts Risk of Language Delays in Children

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-10-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/folic-acid-for-mothers-cuts-risk-of-language-delays-in-children.html
Women who take folic acid
supplements before conceiving and in the early weeks of
pregnancy may reduce their child’s risk of severe language
delays, a Norwegian study found.  The children of women who took folic acid supplements four
weeks before to eight weeks after conception had about half the
risk of severe language delays, including unintelligible speech,
at 3 years old compared with children of women who took no folic
acid, according to research released today by the  Journal of the
American Medical Association .  Women are encouraged to take  folic acid , a B vitamin found
in vegetables, fruits and whole grains, before they become
pregnant and throughout their pregnancy to help a fetus’s neural
tube develop properly into the spinal cord and brain, according
to the  March of Dimes . Today’s study is the first to show that
using folic acid as advised can reduce a child’s severe language
delays, lead study author Christine Roth said.  “The reduced risk of severe language delay was associated
with folic acid supplement use in the early period around
conception, in very much the same period for when women should
use a folic acid supplement to prevent neural tube defects,”
Roth, a doctoral student in the Division of Mental Health at the
 Norwegian Institute of Public Health  in Oslo, said today in an
e-mail. “So women should follow the  public health  advice of
starting to take a folic acid supplement before they become
pregnant.”  It is unclear how folic acid might work in the developing
fetus to reduce  severe language delays  at age 3, the authors
said. Folate is important for cell growth and the replication
and repair of DNA, Roth said. The vitamin also is involved in
the process that turns genes on and off.  Further Research Planned  More studies are needed to determine how folic acid
prevents language difficulties. The researchers plan to follow
up with the children in the study when they are 5 years old.  Folic acid has been used to fortify flour and grains in the
U.S. and other countries for the past decade because it reduces
congenital spinal cord defects. Norway doesn’t supplement its
flour and grains with folic acid.  Today’s findings show another role for folic acid in a
child’s development, said  Jill Rabin , chief of ambulatory care,
obstetrics and gynecology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center
in  New Hyde Park , New York.  “It sort of expands upon the benefits of folic acid around
the time of conception,” Rabin, who wasn’t an author of the
paper, said today in a telephone interview. “We know that
folate is good. There’s no reason to do anything different
except continue your folate, that’s the message.”  Decade of Data  The research involved the children of women who were part
of the  Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study , which recruited
pregnant women from 1999 to December 2008. The authors assessed
children born before 2008 whose mothers submitted a three-year
follow-up questionnaire.  Of the 38,954 children in the study, 204 had severe
language delays, defined as speaking in one-word utterances or
unintelligibly at age 3. Of those, 103 were born to mothers who
didn’t take folic acid or took supplements without folic acid
and 101 were children of mothers who took folic acid alone or in
combination with other supplements.  The study showed that the children of mothers who took
folic acid before conception and in early pregnancy had a 45
percent lower risk of the language disability.  No reduced risk of severe language delay was seen in the
children of mothers who started taking folic acid supplements
after the eighth week of pregnancy, Roth said. However, she
cautioned that was a small group of women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  