-- 
France Stays the Same for Semis, Wallabies Won’t Worry: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-11T03:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/france-stays-the-same-for-semis-wallabies-won-t-worry-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby  World Cup  in  New Zealand .  France  Unchanged  France named an unchanged team for its semifinal against
 Wales  on Oct. 15 as coach Marc Lievremont retained the same
starting lineup for the first time at the tournament.  Lievremont stuck with his decision to select Morgan Parra,
who plays his club rugby at scrum-half, at fly-half ahead of
specialist No. 10 Francois Trinh-Duc as France tries to avoid a
third straight semifinal loss at the four-yearly championship.  France, the runner-up in 1987 and 1999, rebounded from
back-to-back losses in the pool phase to New Zealand and Tonga
to beat England 19-12 two days ago and reach the final four for
the fifth straight time.  “Fatigue does play a part, but I had no hesitation in
picking this team,” Lievremont told reporters in Auckland.  FRANCE: Maxime Medard, Vincent Clerc, Aurelien Rougerie,
Maxime Mermoz, Alexis Palisson, Morgan Parra, Dimitri Yachvili,
Imanol Harinordoquy, Julien Bonnaire, Thierry Dusautoir
(captain), Lionel Nallet, Pascal Pape, Nicolas Mas, William
Servat, Jean-Baptiste Poux.  Replacements: Dimitri Szarzewski, Fabien Barcella, Julien
Pierre, Louis Picamoles, Francois Trinh-Duc, David Marty, Cedric
Heymans.  ‘World-class Player’  Australia  would be able to absorb the loss of Kurtley Beale
if the full-back is ruled out of the Oct. 16 semifinal against
New Zealand because of a hamstring injury, Wallabies vice-
captain Will Genia said.  “It would be a big blow, but you’d have to deal with it,”
Genia told reporters in Auckland. “It’s not something you can
dwell on and worry about. He’s a world-class player, but with
the depth that we have in our backline, we’d be able to cope.”  The Wallabies, seeking an unprecedented third world
championship, will face New Zealand at Auckland’s  Eden Park ,
where they last beat the All Blacks in 1986. They also lost 15-6
to Ireland in a Sept. 17 pool game.  No Resignation  Springboks coach Peter  de Villiers  said he hasn’t resigned
and was waiting for his four-year contract to expire, South
African Press Association reported.  De Villiers told reporters following South Africa’s
quarterfinal loss to Australia in Wellington that “the journey
for me is over.” Upon returning home yesterday, he said that
his comments had been misinterpreted.  “I never resigned, I was just saying it was the end of the
road,” SAPA cited De Villiers as saying. “It’s logical, I have
a four-year contract and I’ve known all along that this day
would come. I will live and die by that contract, which ends in
December and then I won’t have a job.”  Canberra Contract  Jake White, who coached  South Africa  to World Cup victory
in 2007, denied a report that he will leave his new role with
the ACT Brumbies Super Rugby team to rejoin the Springboks.  White, 48, was quoted in South Africa’s Cape Argus as
saying that he would apply for his old job following South
Africa’s quarterfinal exit to Australia two days ago. The
Brumbies today issued a statement saying he would fulfill his
contract with the Canberra-based team.  “I will not turn my back on South Africa but for at least
the next four years I am 100 percent committed to leading the
Brumbies,” White said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  