-- 
Geithner Says Europe Must Go Beyond Bank Recapitalization

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-10-11T23:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/geithner-says-europe-must-go-beyond-bank-recapitalization-to-fix-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said European leaders must go beyond a planned
recapitalization of banks to resolve the continent’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  “The most important problem is they have to make sure that
the major economies of  Europe  that are under pressure now are
able to borrow at affordable rates,” Geithner said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “They recognize the need
to do more than they’ve done so far.”  Geithner will be in Paris on Oct. 13-14 for a meeting of
Group of 20 finance ministers. European officials are striving
to meet an end-of-month target set by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to get to grips with the crisis, which has propelled
 Greece  to the brink of default, shaken world markets and fueled
speculation that the 17-nation currency might not survive in its
current form. European leaders are due to meet on Oct. 23.  “They are moving but they have some ways to go,” Geithner
said. “You saw the president of  France , the president of
 Germany  make some very promising, very encouraging statements,”
he said. “The Europeans recognize they need to put in place a
much more substantial, much more powerful response if they are
going to achieve their objectives, which is helping countries
reform by making sure they have enough oxygen that they can get
through this.”  Blueprint for Banks  France’s Sarkozy and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  have
promised a recapitalization blueprint later this month that will
overtake a 12-week-old rescue plan that has yet to be put into
place.  “We will recapitalize the banks,” Sarkozy said in Berlin
on Oct. 9 at a joint briefing with Merkel, without providing
details. “We’ll do it in complete agreement with our German
friends because the economy needs it, to assure growth and
financing.”  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated Greece will get an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) loan
next month under a 110 billion-euro bailout, as European leaders
move to reopen talks on a new package that may mean deeper
writedowns on Greek debt.  Greece’s debt load will climb to 173 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 as the economy contracts for a fifth
year. Greek bank stocks slumped for a second day today amid talk
of a deeper writedown of their holdings of  government bonds .
National Bank of Greece SA, the largest, lost almost 16 percent
to 1.60 euros at 5:19 p.m. in  Athens .  ‘Damaging’ U.S. Economy  Geithner said today that the European debt crisis is
“bigger than” recapitalization. He said the crisis is also
damaging the U.S. economy, and the U.S. must “do everything we
can to make it more likely that they move as aggressive as they
need to.”  Geithner also criticized Republicans for failing to support
President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan.  “If Congress does not act it will be because Republicans
decided they did not want to do anything to help the economy,”
Geithner said. “If Congress does not act, then growth will be
weaker, more people will be out of work, we’ll be putting off
the important challenge we have as a country going forward, and
that’s not something we should do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  