-- 
General Motors Looks at India, Asia, Africa for More Capacity

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-10-11T12:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/general-motors-looks-at-india-asia-africa-for-more-capacity.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest U.S.
automaker, is looking at India, Association of Southeast Asian
Nations member states and  Africa  as sites for expanding
production to tap growing demand in emerging markets.  “If there were two areas that I thought were open to
additional investment, those would be India and the ASEAN
area,” Tim Lee, GM’s president of international operations,
said in an interview in Dubai.  India’s economy, the third-largest in  Asia  after China’s
and Japan’s, is forecast to grow 7.8 percent in 2011 and 7.5
percent next year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in
September. India will probably in the long term become Detroit-
based GM’s third-biggest market after the U.S. and  China , Lee
said. The company builds vehicles in India in a joint venture
with Shanghai-based SAIC Motor Corp.  There is a “need to look at more production facilities,
but this is yet to be done,” Lee said in the interview
yesterday.  The U.S. automaker increased sales in India by 17 percent
in September to 10,112 vehicles, with growth propelled by the
diesel-powered Chevrolet Beat small car, GM  said  on Oct. 3. The
automaker has estimated that it accounted for 3.4 percent of
India’s car market in the first nine months of this year.  “We expect to grow our share dramatically in India over
the next 12 to 18 months,” Lee said.  The executive, who was recently on a visit to Cairo and is
headed to Johannesburg, said Africa is an emerging growth area
“that would likely support some additional capacity.”  South Africa , where GM builds vehicles in Port Elizabeth,
and Egypt, where it has a plant in the Cairo suburb of Maadi,
account for 70 percent of the U.S. company’s sales in Africa,
the manufacturer said on Nov. 22, when it announced a
reorganization of operations in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  