-- 
Georgian Billionaire Ivanishvili Stripped of Citizenship

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-10-11T14:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/georgian-billionaire-ivanishvili-stripped-of-citizenship-2-.html
Georgia  revoked the citizenship of
billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, who last week announced plans
to create an opposition party to challenge President Mikheil Saakashvili.  “He was granted Georgian citizenship in 2004, but then
obtained French citizenship,” Justice Ministry spokeswoman
Khatuna Iosava said by telephone in the capital Tbilisi today,
referring to Ivanishvili. “In accordance with the law on
Georgian citizenship and the country’s constitution, his
citizenship is now terminated.”  Ivanishvili, a Rossiiskiy Kredit Bank board member, has
squabbled publicly with Saakashvili in recent months. In May,
Ivanishvili accused the president of orchestrating a smear
campaign against him by spreading rumors that he was bankrolling
the government. On Oct. 7, he said he’d create a political party
to contest the 2012 parliamentary election.  The timing of today’s announcement “will likely trigger
speculation that the motives are political in nature, whatever
the legal circumstances may be,” said Lawrence Sheets, Caucasus
project director for the  International Crisis Group  in Tbilisi.  “In Western capitals, Georgia’s upcoming elections are
going to be watched very closely and the conduct of them will
largely determine how the country is perceived, as becoming more
democratic or less,” Sheets said.  Half of Georgian GDP  Elza Nabakhteveli, a spokeswoman for Ivanishvili, declined
to comment on the ministry’s statement when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Forbes magazine in March  estimated Ivanishvili’s wealth  at
$5.5 billion, equal to almost half of Georgia’s $11.7 billion
economy. Nabakhteveli said in May that the Forbes estimate is
accurate and that he holds about one-third of his assets in
 Russia  and the remainder in market investments abroad.
Ivanishvili lives primarily in his native village, Chorvila.  A spokesman for Ivanishvili, Irakli Triploski, said by
telephone late yesterday that the billionaire had been invited
to appear on Georgian state television and would consider the
offer.  Khatuna Berdzenishvili, head of the news department at
Georgian Public Broadcasting, said Ivanishvili would only be
given airtime if he agreed to answer questions in person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  