-- 
Irish Debt Leads Declines for Euro-Area Bonds on Banks, Recovery

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T15:42:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/german-bunds-rise-before-slovakia-votes-on-europe-rescue-fund.html
Irish bonds fell, leading declines
in the debt of  Europe ’s high-deficit nations, amid speculation
weaker economic expansion and vulnerable banks in the region may
hamper a resolution of the debt crisis.  Ten-year Irish yields rose the most since July 6 as credit-
rating company DBRS Inc. said slower growth in the U.S. and
Europe will probably damage Ireland’s prospects for recovery.
Italian securities fell before the nation sells bonds maturing
between 2016 and 2025 later this week. German bonds were little
changed before Slovakian lawmakers vote on the retooled euro-
area bailout. Greek notes gained on optimism the country will
get its next aid payout.  “Ireland has been the star performer in the European
government bond space over the past months,” said Norbert Aul,
a European interest-rate strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “Negative news flow, for instance from rating agencies
and around the pending Slovak vote, could have caused a
correction. For  Italy , the upcoming supply has been weighing on
the five- and 10-year sectors.”  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds was 47 basis points higher
at 8.21 percent as of 4:42 p.m. London time. It earlier rose 73
basis points, the most since July 6. Italian 10-year yields
advanced six basis points to 5.63 percent, Portuguese rates for
similar-maturity bonds climbed 13 basis points to 11.55 percent
and Belgian yields were 10 basis points higher at 4.17 percent.  Bank Funding  The 10-year bund yielded 2.09 percent, after rising to 2.10
percent, the highest level since Sept. 2. The 2.25 percent
security due September 2021 was little changed at 101.45.  Ireland may face a delay in stabilizing its debt load amid
international growth, according to DBRS, which has an A (Low)
rating on Ireland with a “negative” trend.  Euro-area officials are debating ways to calm the debt
crisis, including measures to help boost bank funding in the
region, with European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
saying today the debt crisis is threatening the region’s
financial system. European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said he plans to present proposals tomorrow on issues including
the recapitalization of European banks.  The region is close to clinching a revamping of its
European Financial Stability Facility bailout fund, with
Slovakia likely to approve the plan after a political storm
likely to topple Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s governing
coalition. The largest opposition party, which pledged to reject
the motion today, will back the revamped EFSF in a second vote,
should lawmakers fail to approve it at the initial vote, said
leader  Robert Fico .  Slovakia Vote  Slovakia is the only country in the euro area that hasn’t
ratified the measure, following approval in Malta yesterday.  “Everybody’s waiting on the vote in Slovakia,” said
Christian Reicherter, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Because of the insecurity about the debt crisis and of course
the possible no vote from Slovakia, bunds should trade slightly
higher.”  Greek two-year notes reversed an earlier decline after
officials said the country is likely to get an 8 billion-euro
loan payment next month under its 110 billion-euro bailout
agreed in April last year. They said the nation still needs to
implement more spending cuts to meet its 2013 and 2014 targets.  The two-year yield fell 20 basis points to 73.20 percent
after earlier rising to 77.15 percent. The securities traded at
39.56 percent of face value.  Bond Auctions  Greek 10-year bonds pared an intraday drop, leaving the
yield 13 basis points higher at 24.04 percent.  Greece  sold 1.3 billion euros of 26-week Treasury bills
today, exceeding its target amount of 1 billion euros, at a
yield of 4.86 percent, according to the country’s Public Debt
Management Agency. Investors bid for 2.73 times the securities
offered, the agency said.  Italy sold 9.5 billion euros of bills today, the maximum
set for the auction. Italian 10-year yields increased six basis
points to 5.63 percent. The nation will sell up to 6.5 billion
euros of bonds on Oct. 13.  German bunds have returned 6.6 percent this year, while
U.S. Treasuries have gained 8.3 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  