-- 
Germany’s DAX Index Advances, Led by Bayer, Linde, Volkswagen, Daimler

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-11T16:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/germany-s-dax-index-drops-before-slovakia-vote-on-european-bailout-fund.html
German stocks jumped, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rallying for a fifth day, its longest
winning streak since July, as carmakers and chemical companies
advanced.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  led the gainers, increasing more than 3 percent.
 Linde AG (LIN)  climbed 2 percent. Carmakers  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  rose.  The benchmark DAX Index gained 0.3 percent to 5,865.01 at
the close in Frankfurt. The gauge rose 12 percent over the past
five days as investors speculated that policy makers will act to
support the region’s debt crisis and U.S. jobs data spurred
optimism that the world’s largest economy will avoid a
recession. The broader HDAX Index also advanced 0.3 percent
today.  “Everyone is waiting to see what will come out of the
third-quarter earnings season with Alcoa kicking off today,”
said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist at Deutsche
Postbank AG in Bonn.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  will become the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to issue third-quarter earnings after the
U.S. market closes today. The largest U.S. aluminum producer may
report a slowdown in its earnings recovery after the lightweight
metal used in beverage cans and aircraft erased all this year’s
price gains.  Slovakia may approve the euro area’s new bailout fund even
as a political storm threatens to topple Prime Minister Iveta Radicova’s governing coalition.  Slovakia Vote  Slovakia’s largest opposition party, which pledged to
reject the motion today, will back the European Financial
Stability Facility in a second vote, if lawmakers reject it
today, Robert Fico, the group’s leader, told reporters in
Bratislava today. That would give the measure a majority.
Parliament has not set a date for a second vote.  Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos predicted that
lawmakers will ratify the EFSF this week. Slovakia is the only
country in the 17-nation euro area that has yet to ratify the
measure, after Malta’s parliament approved the fund yesterday.  “It should be OK for the EFSF, but not for the government
of Slovakia,” Sonnenschein said.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the debt crisis threatens the region’s financial system as
officials raced to put together a new plan to end the turmoil.  ’Systemic Dimension’  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels today in his capacity as head of the
European Systemic Risk Board. “Sovereign stress has moved from
smaller economies to some of the larger countries. The crisis is
systemic and must be tackled decisively.”  The ECB opposes any backsliding from a July 21 accord on a
second Greek bailout, a central bank official said yesterday. An
appeal to “fully implement all aspects” of the July road map
was inserted into last week’s monthly policy statement as a
warning to Germany, the official said under condition of
anonymity.  Bayer advanced 3.4 percent to 43.61 euros. Linde, the gases
and engineering company, climbed 2 percent to 109.85 euros.  Volkswagen increased 1.7 percent to 108.10 euros. BMW rose
1.4 percent to 53.75 euros. Daimler jumped 1.4 percent to 35.85
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  