-- 
Global Rules to Cut Derivatives Risk May Miss Deadline, FSB Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/global-rules-to-cut-derivatives-risk-may-miss-deadline-fsb-says.html
Global rules for trading of over-
the-counter derivatives risk being implemented behind schedule
and in an inconsistent way that weakens their effectiveness, the
 Financial Stability Board  said.  Some Group of 20 nations may miss an end-2012 deadline for
implementing the rules, putting at risk the resilience of the
global economy to dangers stemming from defaults on derivatives
trades, the FSB said. Gaps include failure to put in place
measures to push trades through clearinghouses and making
trading systems more transparent.  “Consistency in implementation across jurisdictions is
critical” to reduce the risk that this trading could cause
another financial crisis, the FSB said in a progress report
published on its website yesterday.  Regulators sought new rules for OTC derivatives following
following the collapse in 2008 of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the
largest traders in credit default swaps.  In addition to the clearing and transparency rules, the
plans also include forcing banks and other firms to hold more
capital to guard again losses, and pushing traders to use
exchanges and other recognized trading venues.  Japan  and the U.S. are so far “the only jurisdictions that
have adopted legislation mandating central clearing” of
standard types of OTC derivatives, the FSB said.  “Many jurisdictions,” have indicated that they will press
ahead with rules once the U.S. and 27-nation European Union has
put in place measures.  ‘Aggressively Push’  Nations should “aggressively push” to meet the end-2012
deadline “in as many reform areas as possible,” the FSB said.
 Canada ,  Hong Kong ,  India ,  Mexico ,  South Korea  and  Russia , are
among the countries that may miss the implementation date unless
they take further steps, the board said.  There is also a risk that traders may get round the
requirements unless nations ensure that they also apply to
trading that is moved from the OTC market onto exchanges and
other organized venues, the FSB said.  Nations are facing “implementation challenges” due in
part to the “complexity of needed laws and regulations,” the
board said.  “The FSB has been aware from the outset that there is a
risk that overlaps, gaps or conflicts in legislative and
regulatory frameworks, if not addressed, could compromise
achievement of the G-20 objectives,” the board said in its
report.  ‘Regulatory Arbitrage’  One risk is that in some nations the clearing and trading
rules will cease to apply once the derivatives are traded on
exchanges or other platforms, potentially creating
“opportunities for regulatory arbitrage” and compromising
attempts to “reduce systemic risk,” the FSB said.  Finance ministers from the EU reached an agreement on Oct.
4 on how the rules should apply in the region. The final version
of the law will now be hammered out in negotiations with the
European Parliament.  The U.K. had threatened to oppose the deal in part because
of concerns that the law would not cover trading moved onto
exchanges. U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  agreed to back the
rules after securing an EU declaration that future legislation
will further increase the role of central clearing. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has also urged for the EU
measures to have a broad scope.  The FSB brings together regulators and finance ministry
officials from the G-20, as well as standard-setting bodies such
as the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Nations also appear to be taking “divergent approaches”
to pushing trading onto organized venues, the FSB said.  The board’s next progress report will be published in early
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 