-- 
Grace Jones, Frank Gehry Party in London Po-Mo Show: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-10-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/grace-jones-frank-gehry-party-in-london-po-mo-show-review.html
The  Victoria & Albert Museum  has
picked a conundrum of a subject for its new sprawling survey
exhibition: “Postmodernism: Style and Subversion 1970-1990.”  There’s little consensus as to exactly what po-mo was, or
even whether it’s over yet. On the other hand, it turns out to
be more fun than you might expect.  One way of thinking about styles in the visual arts is to
ask the question, what are they good at? Art Deco, the subject
of a previous gather-all show at the V&A, excelled at bathrooms,
hotels and party dresses. The strong points of postmodernism in
the arts were similarly connected with leisure and pleasure.  At the heart of the exhibition is a space resembling a
nightclub -- or discotheque as it would have been termed back in
the 1970s -- dominated by huge screens on which performers such
as Grace Jones and Talking Heads can be seen and heard.  Nearby are smaller screens and headphones through which you
can experience period phenomena including hip-hop, break dancing
and a pas de deux by performance artist Leigh Bowery and ballet
dancer  Michael Clarke  wearing rococo spacesuits. Elsewhere,
clips from “Blade Runner” (1982),  Ridley Scott ’s epic film of a
wild and dark urban future, are projected.  I enjoyed all that, being the kind of person who resists
contemporary culture while it’s actually happening then likes it
once it’s safely in the past. It’s moot whether po-mo achieved
much of lasting value in the non-performing arts. While there’s
plenty of oomph on display, there aren’t many masterpieces (not
a very postmodern idea, the great work).  Zany Angles  A few pieces by art stars such as Rauschenberg and Warhol
are scattered around, though you wonder whether they belong
there. In architecture, displayed mainly in the form of plans
and photographs, postmodernism could be engaging, when small-
scale and playful -- as in  Frank Gehry ’s own house in  Santa
Monica  (1977-78), a witty assemblage of crazy angles and
unexpected materials.  Monumental postmodernist architecture, though, tended to be
ghastly, as you might expect of a style that depended on
questioning all verities and throwing away the rule book.
Applied to public buildings, this often resulted in an attempt
both to parody and to undermine more rule-bound idioms such as
classicism and modernism. Hence: Chippendale office blocks and
shopping malls adorned with clunky Doric columns.  The V&A is basically a museum of decorative arts, so in
these big surveys, whatever the style under consideration may be
-- Baroque, Art Nouveau, Arts and Crafts -- there’s always a lot
of furniture and crockery on display. In this case, umpteen
postmodernist chairs and coffee sets are on show, plus, more
surprisingly, craft ceramics.  Jumble of Styles  A lot of these depend on a more or less outrageous mix-and-
match of incongruous stylistic ingredients. Alessandro Mendini’s
“Proust Chair” (1978) is a case in point: a Baroque seat covered
with pointillist dots like a painting by Seurat. It’s memorable,
imaginative and a bit horrible. A lot of po-mo is like that. In
fact, it has a certain amount in common with the stylistic free-
for-all of the mid-19th century. That is: Victoriana or
premodernism.  In retrospect, the best of postmodernism is full of energy
and pzazz. It was a party style, incongruously for an idiom that
is also associated with impenetrably dense theorizing and
profoundly dull prose.  Is it over yet? Perhaps not. Renzo Piano’s Shard of Glass,
currently rising at  London  Bridge, looks like a post-modern
building to me. What’s gone is the exuberance, suggesting that
the current period may be a sort of morning-after-the-party
aesthetic hangover: post-postmodernism.  “Postmodernism: Style and Subversion 1970-1990” is at the
Victoria & Albert Museum, London, through Jan. 15, 2012. The
exhibition is supported by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Barclays Wealth.
Information:  http://www.vam.ac.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “A
Bigger Message: Conversations with  David Hockney .” The  opinions 
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 