-- 
Greek $11 Billion Loan Payment Likely in Early November as Debt Talks Loom

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-10-11T16:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/greek-11-billion-loan-payment-likely-in-early-november-as-debt-talks-loom.html
European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials indicated  Greece  will get an 8 billion-
euro ($11 billion) loan next month under a 110 billion-euro
bailout, as European leaders move to reopen talks on a new
package that may mean deeper writedowns on Greek debt.  The team of officials from the EU, IMF and  European Central
Bank  said Greece has made “important progress” in fiscal
consolidation, according to an e-mailed statement today upon
completion of a review in  Athens . The mission warned that more
spending cuts would be needed in 2013 and 2014 to meet deficit
targets.  “Continuing funding to Greece is the least worst option
available,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
 London . “We should be thankful that sanity is prevailing, for
now at least.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the
government will meet commitments to international creditors to
deepen pension and wage cuts, promising parliamentary approval
for the draft 2012 budget, which was passed at the finance
committee level yesterday, and budget measures including a new
wage scale and eventual lay-offs for 30,000 state workers.  “What needs to be done on our side is to do what we said
we will do by the end of October,” Venizelos told Athens-based
Mega TV in an interview early today. Venizelos has said the
country has cash to operate till mid-November.  Bank Proposals  With European leaders due to meet on Oct. 23 to tackle the
debt crisis, Venizelos said today that a law on new cuts to
pensions, wages and jobs must be approved by Parliament before
then. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  pledged to
present proposals tomorrow on the recapitalization of European
banks for discussion at the summit.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told lawmakers in Brussels today.
“Sovereign stress has moved from smaller economies to some of
the larger countries. The crisis is systemic and must be tackled
decisively.”  European officials are toiling to meet an end-of-month
deadline set by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to get to grips
with the crisis, which has propelled Greece to the brink of
default, shaken world markets and fueled speculation that the
17-nation currency might not survive in its current form.  Troika Report  The so-called troika of creditors to Greece will need about
10 days to prepare a report that will form the basis of EU talks
on changes to a July 21 accord on future financing for Greece.
 Germany ,  Europe ’s dominant economy, is pushing for a bigger
reduction in Greece’s debt burden to forge a lasting solution to
the debt crisis that has roiled markets and shaken confidence in
the euro.  “Once the Eurogroup and the IMF’s Executive Board have
approved the conclusions of the fifth review, the next tranche
of 8 billion euros will become available, most likely, in early
November,” the statement said.  Greece’s debt load will climb to 172.7 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 as the economy contracts for a fifth
year. Greek bank stocks slumped for a second day today amid talk
of a deeper writedown of their holdings of  government bonds .
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the largest, lost almost 16 percent
to 1.60 euros at 5:19 p.m. in Athens.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 9 after
meeting with Sarkozy that the Troika report will help determine
the next steps. Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said
yesterday the crisis summit now scheduled for Oct. 23 should
focus on boosting the 440 billion-euro rescue fund.  Summit Delayed  The search for a comprehensive fix led European leaders to
push back the crisis summit by five days. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  plans to meet European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  in Brussels on Oct. 13.  The report today said Greece would miss its 2011 deficit
target as the country’s economy contracted under the weight of
Papandreou’s austerity measures. The Greek government’s 2012
budget now expects the deficit to be 8.5 percent of GDP this
year, or 18.7 billion euros, and decline to 14.9 billion euros
next year.  More work will be needed in 2013 and 2014, the troika said,
underlining that revenue assumptions are “ambitious” and that
Greece needed to focus on the spending side.  Papandreou risks a replay of social and political unrest
that almost brought down his government in June when he was
forced to push through a 78 billion-euro package of budget cuts
and state asset sales before receiving a fifth loan payment
under the May 2010 bailout.  Austerity Measures  The latest chapter of austerity measures, announced last
month, will impose a property tax on all homes owned while
public-sector workers will see their salaries cut by a further
20 percent on average and pensions reduced by 4 percent. The
plans also include moving 30,000 state workers into a labor
reserve system that will mean reduced pay and eventual
dismissal. The economy is now forecast to shrink 5.5 percent
this year and 2.5 percent next year, according to the budget.  Greece’s inflation rate rose in September for the first
time in six months after restaurants started charging a higher
 sales tax , part of the government’s June package of budget
measures. The inflation rate using a harmonized EU method,
increased to 2.9 percent from 1.4 percent in August, the first
annual increase since March, the Hellenic Statistical Authority
said.  Garbage is piling up on city streets as local government
workers strike over the measures and protesters cut off access
to government offices and  Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA which
is to be sold. Greece’s biggest union groups will hold a 48-hour
strike from Oct. 18, state-run NET Radio reported yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  