-- 
Greek Petroleum Workers Strike Against Government Measures

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-10-11T15:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/greek-petroleum-workers-strike-against-government-measures-1-.html
Greek petroleum refinery workers
called an indefinite strike beginning today to oppose government
plans to cut wages and change work rules.  “This will be a struggle for as long as is necessary,”
the Athens-based Panhellenic Federation of Employees in
Petroleum Products and Refineries said in a  statement  on its
website. “The government wants to dissolve unions.”  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said today that a law
on lower wages and pensions for state workers will be pushed
through Parliament next week. International creditors are
pressing for permanent spending cuts to allow the release of an
8 billion-euro ($10.8 billion) loan under a May 2010 bailout.  A European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and European
Central Bank mission, the so-called troika, said today  Greece 
has made “important progress.” The country may need additional
measures in 2013 and 2014 to meet budget targets, according to
an e-mailed statement from the European Commission.  Approval of the mission’s findings by Euro area finance
ministers and the IMF board will allow the loan to be released,
according to the statement.  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Greece’s biggest refiner, processes
312,000 barrels of oil a day at its three refineries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Motor Oil Hellas SA is the
second-biggest refiner in the country.  Blocking Access  Union opposition to the government’s budget measures is
mounting. The country’s two biggest worker groups plan a two-day
strike from Oct. 18, NET Radio reported yesterday, without
saying where it got the information.  Today, state workers blocked access to the Interior
Ministry, General Accounting Office and state-run  Agricultural
Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA in Athens, according to state-run Athens News
Agency. Strike action by municipal workers over the past two
weeks has left piles of garbage on Athenian streets. Culture
Ministry employees will strike for 48 hours as of tomorrow,
shutting down museums and archaeological sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  