-- 
Pimco’s Gross Boosts Mortgage Holdings

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-11T21:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/gross-boosts-pimco-fund-s-mortgage-holdings-to-highest-level-since-january.html
Bill Gross  increased holdings of
mortgage bonds in his flagship fund to the highest level since
January as the  Federal Reserve  announced plans to reinvest
housing debt into the securities to drive borrowing rates lower.  The  Pacific Investment Management Co.  founder boosted
housing bonds to 38 percent of assets in his $242 billion Total
Return Fund in September, from 32 percent the prior month,
according to data on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
 website . Cash equivalents and money-market securities fell to
negative 19 percent, from negative nine percent in August.  Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage securities
that guide U.S. home-loan rates tumbled the most in more than
two years relative to Treasuries after the Fed announced the
purchases on Sept. 21 as part of a plan that’s become known as
Operation Twist. The Fed switched tactics after previously
reinvesting into Treasuries the cash generated by its holdings
of agency mortgage securities and debt.  “We like agency mortgages because the Fed is going to be
buying them, because they yield 3 percent, plus or minus, as
opposed to one half to 1 percent in the short-term portion of
the Treasury curve,” Gross said during a Bloomberg Television
interview Oct. 4. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
asset changes in the world’s largest bond fund.  Yield Spread  Fannie Mae ’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
securities fell about 0.16 percentage point to 1.06 percentage
point more than 10-year  U.S. government debt  on Sept. 21, the
largest drop since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That narrowing had followed the Fed’s decision to
increase its initial buying of agency mortgage securities to
$1.25 trillion from as much as $500 billion.  “You can pick up an agency guarantee with a yield that
obviously isn’t what it used to be, but is much better than what
the Treasury and the Fed in conjunction are offering these
days,” Gross said during the interview with Lisa Murphy on
“Street Smart.”  Holdings of Treasuries were unchanged at 16 percent last
month. After eliminating Treasuries from his Total Return Fund
in February because they were too expensive, Gross has steadily
increased his holdings in U.S. government securities as the debt
last quarter posted the highest returns in almost three years.
Pimco favors the so-called safe sovereign debt of nations that
have the ability to raise monetary stimulus as the risk of
recession in developed nations increases, Gross said during a
Bloomberg Radio interview Oct. 7.  Trailing Peers  The Total Return Fund returned 1 percent in the past year,
trailing behind 83 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month return is negative 2.83
percent, outpacing 2 percent of its competitors.  The fund can have a so-called negative position in a sector
by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  The global economy risks lapsing into recession with the
pace of growth falling below the “new normal” level the firm has
predicted since 2009, Gross said in a monthly outlook posted on
Pimco’s website Oct. 3. Pimco predicted after the 2008 market
collapse that the  U.S. economy  would grow at a below-average
pace for several years as unemployment stayed elevated and the
“heavy hand of government” would be evident in markets.  “Sovereign balance sheets resemble an overweight diabetic
on the verge of a heart attack,” Gross wrote in the outlook.
“If global policy makers could focus on structural as opposed
to cyclical financial solutions, new normal growth as opposed to
recession might be possible.”  Treasuries returned 8.2 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master Index.  Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE . The
firm managed $1.34 trillion in assets as of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  