-- 
Groupama of France Says It Will Make Bond Payments This Month

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-11T10:26:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/groupama-of-france-says-it-will-make-bond-payments-this-month.html
Groupama SA, the French insurer that
holds the third-biggest stake in  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, said it
will pay interest due on bonds this month after doubts about its
capital spurred a ratings downgrade.  Groupama’s 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of 6.298 percent
subordinated perpetual bonds don’t pay a coupon if a measure of
the issuer’s solvency falls below a certain level, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Such an event would also give the
Paris-based insurer the option of skipping interest payments on
its 750 million euros of 7.875 percent senior subordinated notes
due in 2039. The next payments are due Oct. 22 and Oct. 27.  “Groupama won’t defer coupon payments on any of its
bonds,” spokeswoman Aneta Lazarevic said in emailed response to
questions. The insurer’s solvency ratio -- a measure of how much
capital it holds compared with the amount required by regulators
-- was 117 percent as of June 30, she said, more than the 100
percent threshold laid down in the bond conditions.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Groupama last month, citing “the
increased risk of coupon deferral” on the subordinated bonds
amid speculation its capital buffer would deteriorate. The
insurer’s holdings of SocGen shares, whose price halved over the
last three months, and government debt from the euro-region
periphery have sent its bonds plunging to less than 40 percent
of face value.  Groupama’s undated junior notes are quoted at 27.1 cents on
the euro, down from 78.3 cents six months ago, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Its senior subordinated bonds,
which can be redeemed by the issuer in 2019, have fallen to 36.9
cents from 98.1.  Peripheral Exposure  Groupama’s bonds fell because of “concerns about their
capitalization and their exposure to peripheral sovereign
debt,” said Rotger Franz, an analyst at SocGen in  London .
“They have quite a risky asset portfolio,” he said.  Fitch lowered Groupama’s financial-strength rating by two
steps to BBB on Sept. 27 and cut its subordinated debt rating to
BB from BBB-.  “The downgrade reflects the deterioration of Fitch’s view
of Groupama’s capital adequacy following volatility in the
financial markets, as a result of the group’s continued exposure
to volatile asset classes,” according to the report.
“Groupama’s largest challenge will be to smoothly manage the
reduction of its exposure to equities and southern European
 government bonds .”  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Groupama’s rating one step to BBB
four days earlier, citing its “sizable exposure” to Greek and
Portuguese government debt.  An insurer’s solvency ratio is a measure of its ability to
meet long-term liabilities, with a higher percentage reflecting
a greater chance net income can cover future payouts to
creditors and customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  