-- 
Libya Fighters Set to Gain Full Control Over Qaddafi Hometown, Nato Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-11T14:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/libya-fighters-set-to-gain-full-control-over-qaddafi-hometown-nato-says.html
Libyan fighters advanced to the
center of Sirte, Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown, pushing out forces
loyal to the former leader, North Atlantic Treaty Organization
spokesman Colonel Roland Lavoie said.  “Qaddafi forces have been dislodged from the university,
the conference center and the main hospital,” Lavoie told
reporters today via video link from the mission’s headquarters
in Naples,  Italy . “They have lost key positions and cannot
effectively control the city or be reinforced or resupplied.”  Libya ’s National Transitional Council, which took over
control of the capital, Tripoli, from Qaddafi in late August,
says a new government to see the country through to elections
will be announced a month after Sirte is fully under its
control. Thousands of civilians have fled the city during lulls
in the fighting, which erupted early last month after talks on
its surrender broke down.  Humanitarian aid can now reach Sirte’s main hospital and
civilians are able to escape from contested areas, Lavoie said.
Valerie Amos, the United Nations coordinator for emergency
relief, called yesterday on both sides in the conflict to spare
civilians from the effects of hostilities, and enable medical
treatment for casualties.  In Bani Walid, a landlocked town further south held by
Qaddafi supporters, NTC forces are moving toward the outskirts
of the town, where “the situation was static until last
weekend,” Lavoie said. The council says senior Qaddafi aides
are hiding in the town, including Saif al-Islam, the former
leader’s son and presumed heir.  NATO, which began an air campaign to protect civilians in
March about a month after the uprising began, is “essentially
monitoring the situation” and stands ready to help when needed,
Lavoie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 