-- 
Michigan’s Pension Changes Serve as Model

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-10-11T16:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/michigan-s-embrace-of-401-k-may-show-remedy-for-ailing-state-pensions.html
Michigan ’s “radical reform” 14
years ago to rescue its retirement system by placing newly hired
workers in a 401(k) program may show struggling states the way
back from the worst pension crisis ever.  Thirty-three states have assets less than 80 percent of
what is needed to pay promised benefits, a common threshold for
sustainability, according to an annual study of pensions by
Bloomberg Rankings. Median funding fell to 73.7 percent from
76.2 percent in 2009, the data show, even as the  U.S. economy 
rebounded from the deepest contraction since the Depression.  “This is a crisis that is requiring states and
municipalities to evaluate and take real, pro-active steps,”
said William Jasien, executive vice president for institutional
markets at  ING U.S. , a subsidiary of Amsterdam-based ING Groep
NV that manages retirement programs for about half the states,
including Michigan. They face “very volatile markets, funding
pressures -- a lot of public eyes on these pension benefits.”  Rating companies are now considering the liabilities in
determining credit grades, and 40 states, including New Jersey,
New York and  Illinois , have taken such steps as increasing what
employees pay into retirement funds and curbing cost-of-living
increases for future retirees. California’s $146.6 billion
teachers retirement plan will ask lawmakers for money to
diminish a $56 billion unfunded liability, which has more than
doubled since 2008.  Looking Ahead  State and local pension assets dropped to $2.17 trillion by
the end of 2009 from $3.2 trillion in September 2007, the
largest dollar loss ever, said  Keith Brainard , the Georgetown,
Texas-based research director at National Association of State
Retirement Administrators. Since then, assets have rebounded to
almost $3 trillion, he said, the largest gain.  Michigan saw the crisis coming. In 1997, with its
 unemployment rate  the lowest in at least two decades, the state
placed all new employees -- including legislators, judges and
other elected officials -- in a 401(k) as a way to head off
future funding crunches. The idea faced little opposition.  Other states should copy the “radical reform,” said  Scott
Beaulier , director of the Johnson Center for Political Economy
at Troy University in  Alabama . Michigan’s pension-funding ratio
was 78.8 percent in 2010 -- 18th best among the 48 states
Bloomberg ranked.  “They were able to get around some of the challenges that
other states face now,” Beaulier said.  Michigan converted when its pension was well funded and the
stock market was growing. Beaulier said it would be harder for
states with unfunded liabilities to switch now.  Taking the Risk  So-called defined-contribution plans such as a 401(k) set
the amount employers and employees pay into investments, and,
unlike traditional pensions, don’t guarantee a set return for
retirees. Some plans let workers choose investment strategies,
and they assume the risk -- rather than the government.  In 2004, 80 percent of public employees relied on a
defined-benefit pension plan. In private enterprises, 64 percent
were in defined-contribution plans, according to the Center for
Retirement Research at  Boston  College.  Michigan’s switch shaved as much as $4.3 billion from its
obligations, according to a study by the  Mackinac Center for
Public Policy  in June.  The Bloomberg ranking didn’t include  Hawaii  and showed only
Wisconsin’s pension-funding ratio for 2009 because of
insufficient data. The analysis combined each state’s pension
plans to calculate an overall funding deficit.  Growing Share  Pension costs consumed an average 3.8 percent of state and
local government operating budgets in 2008. That share may grow
to as much as 12.5 percent by 2014 in places with large unfunded
liabilities, according to an October 2010 report by the Center
for Retirement Research.  Since 2009, 40 states have cut benefits, made employees pay
more for retirement or both, said Ronald Snell, senior fellow at
the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Still, seven states this year rejected plans to switch to
401(k)s, Snell said. Among them was  Oklahoma , where lawmakers
decided conversion was too expensive, said Tom Spencer,
executive director of the Public Employees Retirement System.  Oklahoma’s pension funding was in a three-way tie for
fourth lowest, at 55.9 percent, along with  Louisiana  and West
Virginia, according to Bloomberg data.  Spencer said the funds were eroded by the stock market
plunge and the Legislature’s failure to fund benefit increases
it approved in the 1990s. Lawmakers this year eliminated cost-
of-living increases and raised the  retirement age . Those changes
will reduce the liability by one-third, Spencer said.  Paying In  In Michigan, about 19,000 employees covered by the old
pension plan pay nothing into it. For the 25,000 in the 401(k)
plan, the state places a minimum 4 percent of their salaries
into their fund. If they contribute an additional 3 percent, the
state matches it.  Last fiscal year, Michigan paid $370 million into the
pre-1997 pension fund and $96 million into 401(k) plans as of
Sept. 30, 2010, according to the Office of Retirement Services.  The average monthly benefit to retirees in the old plan was
$1,497 as of Sept. 30, 2009. Thirty percent -- those with 30
years’ service -- received an average $2,234.  Teachers have a separate pension, and since 2010 new ones
have been placed in a hybrid plan that combines features of
traditional program and a 401(k).  Michigan’s cost-cutting retirement programs don’t get good
reviews from all its members.  Tapping the Fund  Amanda Sweet, 35, said her 401(k) isn’t helping her save
much. She’s worked 11 years as a disability examiner for the
Department of Human Services in Traverse City.  With five children, she’s had to often tap her account for
expenses, even with a combined $80,000 annual income with her
husband, a charter-flight pilot.  “The 401(k) plan is really for people who can save their
money, put as much into a savings as they can and never withdraw
it, who don’t have kids,” Sweet said.  Some states give employees the option of either a
traditional pension or a defined-contribution plan. And
Michigan, Utah,  Georgia ,  Indiana  and Oregon have plans that
combine pensions with defined contribution deals.  Economic Boon  New York  Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  is among those who say
401(k)s are no substitute for the security of traditional
government pensions. They are, he said, “a bad idea.”  “Maintaining strong defined-benefit pensions is not only
the right thing to do for our citizens, it’s the best thing for
our nation’s economy,” he told the Council of Institutional
Investors in Boston on Sept. 27.  New York’s pension system, with more than 1 million members
and assets of $147 billion, was the best-funded in 2010, at
101.5 percent, the Bloomberg data show.  Brainard, of the retirement administrators group, said
401(k) plans are expensive to administer and unreliable for
employees who don’t build up an adequate nest egg and must delay
retirement. Nebraska and West Virginia tried and abandoned
401(k) plans for public employees because they didn’t provide
enough for retirements, he said.  “A pension not only helps employers retain qualified
workers, it also allows workers to retire in a timely and
orderly manner, when the employer is ready for them to go,”
Brainard said in an e-mail.  Keeping Tabs  Unfunded liabilities can harm credit ratings, said  Ted
Hampton , vice president and analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service. Since April 2009, Moody’s has downgraded Illinois three
times --with one upgrade -- dropping it to A1 with a negative
outlook from Aa3, and tying it with  California  as the company’s
lowest-rated states.  “In each case, the weakness of Illinois’ public retirement
plan was a primary consideration,” Hampton said. The Bloomberg
data show Illinois with a funding ratio of 45.4 percent, the
lowest among the states.                          Dave Urbanek, spokesman for the Illinois Teachers
Retirement System, said that in 2010 the General Assembly acted
to reduce the fund’s deficit. New employees must work until 67
to retire with full benefits, and cost-of-living increases were
limited.  In May, legislation requiring employees to contribute as
much as three times more toward retirement stalled in the face
of union opposition. Unfunded liabilities for the pension system
were at $80 billion.  Half Enough  “We’ve never missed a pension check,” Urbanek said in a
telephone interview. “We’re treading water. We’re not where
actuaries would like us to be, but we’re far from going broke.”  The 18-month economic contraction that ended in June 2009
reduced the value of the 100 largest public retirement funds by
$835 billion, according to a U.S. Census 2010 report. Meanwhile,
the $99.9 billion paid from those state and local pensions in
the first half of 2011 was 47.7 percent more than benefits paid
five years ago, in the first half of 2006, according to the
census.  The largest state retirement funds earned half what they
needed during the past decade to meet future payouts, Bloomberg
News reported in July. In that survey of pensions with more than
$20 billion in assets, all gained below 4 percent for the decade
through June 30, 2010 -- less than the 8 percent that many
assume.  Too Little  New Jersey ’s pension systems saw unfunded obligations reach
$53.8 billion as of that date, said  Andy Pratt , spokesman for
the Treasury in Trenton. The state hasn’t paid enough in, he
said, and in 2001, it boosted benefits by 9 percent.  The deficit will shrink because of such changes as
eliminating cost-of-living increases, requiring employees to pay
more and gradually increasing state payments, Pratt said.  “If we follow this, we will be 88 percent funded by
2041,” Pratt said.  The changes weren’t enough to forestall a downgrade by
 Fitch Ratings  in August, to fourth-highest AA-. Fitch cited
pressure from pension and employee-benefit deficits.  Economist Beaulier said that like Michigan, other states
should convert to defined-contribution plans, even if they have
to borrow to pay upfront costs. He said while traditional
pensions may provide more security and benefits, young employees
will have to pay too much to sustain them.  “It’s a question of how comfortable do people need to be
made in the retirement years?” Beaulier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  