-- 
High Frequency Trades, Volcker Draft, French Audits: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-11T12:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/high-frequency-trades-volcker-draft-french-audits-compliance.html
Mary Schapiro , the chairwoman of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and regulators from the
U.S., Europe and Asia will meet in  London  to discuss high-
frequency trading, said two people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The summit at the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  on Oct.
14 will also include  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodities
and Futures Trading Commission, and Steven Maijoor, chairman of
the  European Securities and Markets Authority , according to the
people, who declined to comment because the meetings are
private. Officials from Japan, Brazil, Italy, Spain and Canada
will also attend the meetings, which will look at regulatory
issues other than high-frequency trading.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The European Union is planning to impose limits on high-
frequency trading firms to prevent a glut of trades from causing
the system to malfunction and possibly create a disorderly
market, according to draft version of the measures scheduled to
be formally proposed later this month.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Volcker Rule Proposal  Volcker Rule May Cut Fixed-Income Revenue; Top Brass Responsible  U.S. regulators may begin seeking comment on Dodd-Frank Act
restrictions that have already led banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to wind down
proprietary trading desks in anticipation.  The so-called Volcker rule, which would limit how banks can
invest their own capital, is scheduled for consideration by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board at a meeting in  Washington 
today.  The FDIC, Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will solicit public
feedback on their joint proposal by Dec. 16. A final version is
slated to take effect on July 21, 2012.  The measure, crafted by the FDIC and three other agencies,
is aimed at heading off risk-taking that helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. Analysts say it could cut revenue and reduce
market liquidity in the name of limiting risk.  Wall Street’s fixed-income desks could suffer a 25 percent
decline in revenue under a Volcker rule proposal that may outlaw
so-called flow trading, according to brokerage analyst Brad
Hintz.  The draft proposal, written by regulators including the
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System  and the FDIC,
forbids market-makers who trade debt securities for customers
from amassing positions “in expectation of future price
appreciation,” Hintz, of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote
yesterday in a note to investors. Therefore, “flow trading may
be prohibited.”  Such a move would cut fixed-income revenue by 25 percent
and reduce profit margins by 18 percent, Hintz estimated.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  would be the
most negatively affected if the rules were adopted because they
are most dependent on fixed-income revenue, Hintz wrote.  The Volcker rule draft, also written by the  Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, was leaked last week. The proposal would be more
damaging to fixed-income trading units than to equities
businesses, which make a larger portion of their money from
client commissions, Hintz wrote.  Separately, chief executive officers and directors of Wall
Street banks, who would be responsible for setting an
“appropriate culture of compliance,” would have to personally
approve compliance with a ban on proprietary trading under the
Volcker rule, according to the draft proposal.  Financial regulators would require senior management to
establish detailed programs for ensuring their banks are
following the new rules, according to the 288-page proposal
dated Sept. 30 and labeled “confidential and predecisional.”  The Volcker rule was named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker, who has argued that banks with access to
Fed lending programs should be prevented from making speculative
bets with their money or from investing in hedge funds or
private equity funds.  For more, click here.  Separately, drafts of the proposal have been leaking out in
recent weeks. A Sept. 30 version included a ban on positions
held for 60 days or less unless banks could show they weren’t
proprietary, Bloomberg News reported.  The draft also included exemptions for some short-term
trades, changed the way traders involved in market-making
activities are compensated and made senior bank executives
responsible for compliance.  Regulators are grappling with a difficult task in
distinguishing between what is permitted, and potential
proprietary trading that is not permitted, said Kim Olson, a
principal at Deloitte and Touche LLP in  New York .  The draft proposal included a series of exemptions for
trades designed to hedge credit,  interest rate  or other specific
risks.  Compliance Policy  Leterme Urges EU Bank Plan Before Talk of Deeper Greek Debt Cut  European leaders need a strategy for shoring up banks
before plunging into the “sensitive” question of deeper-than-
planned writedowns on Greek debt, Belgian Prime Minister  Yves
Leterme  said.  Leterme, who was interviewed by Bloomberg News yesterday at
his Brussels residence, said an Oct. 23 crisis summit should
focus on boosting the 440 billion-euro ($602 billion) rescue
fund instead of reopening a July accord to cut Greek bond values
by an average of 21 percent.  Germany,  Europe ’s dominant economy, is pushing for a bigger
reduction in Greece’s debt burden to forge a lasting solution to
the debt crisis that has roiled markets and shaken confidence in
the euro.  The search for a comprehensive fix led European leaders
yesterday to push back the crisis summit by five days.  A planned upgrade of the European Financial Stability
Facility, faces its sternest test today with a vote in
Slovakia’s parliament. One party in the governing coalition is
holding out against approval. Separately, the  European Central
Bank  opposes Germany’s push to rewrite the euro area’s 12 week-
old-rescue plan as leaders prepare the ground for a potential
Greek default, a central bank official said.  German and French leaders are moving beyond the accord
reached in July, which targets bank losses of 21 percent on
Greek debt, amid rising pressure to stem a crisis that threatens
the world economy.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President
Nicolas Sarkozy Oct. 9 pledged to provide a blueprint for
recapitalizing European banks that would help them survive any
Greek default.  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  See EXT4 for more on the euro-area financial crisis.  Rate Derivatives Margin Rules May Cost $1.4 Trillion, Tabb Says  Interest-rate derivative users may have to set aside at
least $1.4 trillion in margin payments under new rules mandated
by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, according to research firm Tabb
Group.  The costs will come in the next three to five years as
derivatives based on interest-rates such as swaps are required
to be processed by clearinghouses to reduce risk in the $465
trillion market, E. Paul Rowady, a TABB senior analyst, said in
a report yesterday. Clearinghouses collect daily margin, monitor
prices on trades and help settle defaults. LCH.Clearnet Ltd.,
the world’s largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, has
processed voluntary bank-to-bank trades since 1999.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are writing the rules now for the swap
market based on last year’s Dodd-Frank Act.  Basel Levy for Systemic Banks Won’t Hit Recovery, Regulators Say  Capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percentage points on
the world’s biggest banks will have only a “modest impact” on
the economic recovery and may eventually help spur growth,
according to global regulators.  The proposals, coupled with other rules to force banks to
build up their reserves, will cut economic output by a maximum
of 0.34 percent during a transition period, the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision and the  Financial Stability Board  said in
a report yesterday. Longer term, the combined plans will bolster
output by as much as 2.5 percent a year because of the reduced
risk of financial turmoil.  Regulators have clashed with lenders over the plans, with
banks warning that the measures may constrain lending and hurt
the economy. The Basel committee agreed to press ahead with the
surcharges at a meeting last month, while proposing changes to
how they calculate the size of levies individual banks should
face. As many as 28 banks may face the extra capital rules, the
group has said, without naming the lenders. The FSB endorsed the
surcharge plans at a meeting in Zurich last week.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.K. Regulator Criticizes Auditing of French Banks, FT Reports  Britain’s leading accounting regulator criticized French
auditors for allowing France’s banks to report smaller losses on
Greek  government bonds  than some European competitors, the
Financial Times reported.  Stephen Haddrill, the chief executive officer of the
Financial Reporting Council, told the newspaper he doesn’t see
“strong auditing going on” in France.  In the first half of this year, various French banks and
insurance companies posted 21 percent losses on “available for
sale” Greek government bonds, rather than the writedown of 50
percent implied by market prices, arguing that trading was too
sparse to be meaningful, the FT said.  China  to Extend Tax on Oil, Gas Resources Nationwide Next Month  China will extend a value-based tax on oil and natural gas
sales to the entire nation starting next month to help conserve
energy use in the world’s fastest-growing major economy and
boost local government revenue.  The tax will be 5 percent to 10 percent of sales, the
government said on its  website  yesterday. China will apply a
value-based tax on other commodities when the time is right, the
government said in a separate statement.  China, which levies the tax based on volume, introduced a 5
percent tax on oil and gas sales in western Xinjiang region on a
trial basis in June last year. The new tax regulation may crimp
the earnings of companies including PetroChina Co. and  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , said Qiu Xiaofeng, an analyst at
Beijing-based Galaxy Securities Co.  It is likely China will apply a 5 percent tax nationwide,
according to Qiu.  Interviews/Speeches  Banks Report Between Neutral and Helpful for U.K., Says Winters  The report of the U.K.’s  Independent Commission on Banking 
had an effect “between neutral and helpful” for London’s
competitiveness, said  Bill Winters , a commission member.  The effect on “the competitiveness of the U.K. should be
between neutral and very helpful,” Winters, former co-chief
executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank,
told members of the House of Commons Treasury Committee in
London yesterday. “Britain’s banks will come out of this at the
end of the day, having gone through some difficult times in much
better and stronger shape.”  John Vickers, chairman of the commission, said there is a
“low probability” of British-domiciled banks moving abroad as
a result of the commission’s recommendations and that its
findings were adjusted to stop that happening.  Vickers also testified that Moody’s downgrading of British
banks is “benign” insofar as it reflects progress in getting
the taxpayer “one step further off the hook.”  For the video, click here.  Valliere Says Wall Street Protests Reveal Deep-Seated Anger  Gregory Valliere, chief political strategist at the  Potomac
Research Group , discussed the so-called Occupy Wall Street
protests, proposed taxes on millionaires, and the prospects for
corporate-repatriation.  Valliere spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Asmussen Gets EU Parliament Committee Approval for ECB Job  German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  won the
support of the  European Parliament ’s Economic and Monetary
Affairs Committee to succeed Juergen Stark at the European
Central Bank.  The committee recommended Asmussen’s nomination to the
Executive Board of the Frankfurt-based central bank, Chair
Sharon Bowles told reporters after a meeting in Brussels
yesterday.  Stark resigned last month after signaling his opposition to
the ECB’s ramped-up program of buying sovereign bonds in a bid
to tame the debt crisis. Asmussen, a trained economist, has been
a key negotiator at the heart of German Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s economic policy since she came to power in 2006.  The change of personnel on the  Executive Board  comes as
Germany, France and the ECB wrestle with Greece’s debt crisis
and euro countries work on measures to recapitalize European
banks and a ramp-up of their crisis-fighting fund. Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy vowed yesterday to produce a
plan by the end of October.  Italy  Needs to Name Central Bank Head, Frattini Tells La Stampa  Silvio Berlusconi’s government must urgently name Mario
Draghi’s successor as head of the Italian central bank to meet a
commitment with France on the seats in the European Central
Bank’s Executive Board, Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini
told  La Stampa  in an interview.  European Union leaders in June named Draghi as ECB
President for an eight-year term starting on Nov. 1. The
appointment took place after French President Nicolas Sarkozy
sought assurances that Bini Smaghi would quit early to make way
for a Frenchman, three officials said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 