-- 
Military Bank Plans Vietnam’s Biggest Listing This Year

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T10:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/military-bank-plans-vietnam-s-biggest-listing-this-year.html
Military Commercial Joint-Stock
Bank is moving ahead with Vietnam’s biggest listing this year,
as it seeks to boost liquidity even after the stock market
posted the second-worst performance in  Southeast Asia .  The Hanoi-based lender may start trading 730 million
shares on the bourse on Nov. 1 with an initial price of
13,000 dong each, said Quach Manh Hao, deputy chief executive
officer at Thang Long Securities Joint-Stock Co., the
brokerage that’s managing the listing. Military Bank will
start marketing the shares to investors on Oct. 27, he added.  “Military Bank is big and good enough to attract
investors to have a successful listing, even in these market
conditions,” said Attila Vajda, Ho Chi Minh City-based head
of institutional clients at ACB Securities Co. “Vietnamese
banks will continuously need to raise capital in the
following years in order to stay healthy and to be able to
finance their growth.”  Military Bank in April received the exchange’s initial
approval to list the shares on the Ho Chi Minh City bourse.
It traded at as high as 13,500 dong each in the over-the-
counter market, according to SanOTC, which tracks OTC prices
in  Vietnam . Foreign investors who want to purchase banking
stocks in the over-the-counter market will have to seek
approval from the central bank, according to ACB Securities.  Boosting Image  “The listing is part of its plan and will create
liquidity for the stock, encouraging transparency and
boosting the bank’s image,” Hao said. Military Bank is still
waiting for final approval from the bourse for the listing,
Hao said.  Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index has tumbled 14 percent this
year, the most after  Singapore  among Southeast Asian stock
markets tracked by Bloomberg. The measure has fallen more
than 20 percent from its Feb. 9 peak this year, a decline
investors consider a bear market, following government
efforts to contain the region’s fastest inflation.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  