-- 
Time Warner Brings HBO Go to TVs Through Roku Set-Top Boxes

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-10-11T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/time-warner-brings-hbo-go-to-tvs-through-roku-set-top-boxes.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  will begin offering
its  HBO  Go streaming-video service on set-top boxes made by  Roku
Inc. , which said the deal will add 1,400 titles for viewing on
big-screen televisions.  HBO Go, which streams all episodes of “The Sopranos” and
“The Wire” along with newer programming, will be available for
free beginning at the end of October to customers who already
receive HBO through their pay-TV service.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said
on Oct. 5 that its $60-a-year Xbox Live video-game service also
would feature HBO Go.  Time Warner, Comcast Inc. and other program suppliers are
opening up access to their pay-TV shows to keep their customers
from canceling and signing up for cheaper online services from
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Hulu LLC and online retailer Amazon.com.  With more than 300 channels of programming on the Roku box,
“Netflix is declining as a percentage of the overall content
watched,” Roku Chief Executive Officer Anthony Wood said in an
interview.  Roku, based in Saratoga,  California , also said it’s cutting
the price of its cheapest set-top box to $50 from $60. The lower
price will make pay TV available to a wider audience, Wood said.  Roku’s set-top boxes provide Internet links that allow TV
viewers to watch movie rentals from Netflix or pipe music from
services such as Pandora Media Inc. through their home
entertainment systems.  Netflix hired Wood in 2007 to help the DVD-rental company
develop an online service. Netflix planned to release its own
set-top box until Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings decided
to stay out of the hardware business. Wood created a separate
company, and Netflix backed it with $6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  