-- 
Asia Girds for Europe Fallout With Indonesia Rate Cut, Philippine Stimulus

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-10-12T09:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/indonesia-unexpectedly-lowers-interest-rate-to-bolster-economic-expansion.html
Asian policy makers are bolstering
efforts to protect their economies from weakening global growth,
as Indonesia unexpectedly cut  interest rates  and the Philippines
unveiled a stimulus plan.  Bank Indonesia  lowered its  reference rate  by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6.5 percent yesterday, defying the
predictions of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Philippine President Benigno Aquino announced a 72 billion-peso
($1.7 billion) spending package today as his government cut
growth estimates, while Singapore’s central bank is forecast by
economists to say this week that it will slow or end its
currency appreciation.  “We want to be ahead of the curve in anticipating the
impact of the global economy,” Perry Warjiyo, Bank Indonesia’s
director of economic research, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “It will impact through the region, and we
will see there is a decelerating trend of inflation and a
downward revision to economic growth. Sooner or later, central
banks need to rebalance the preference of their monetary policy
response.”  Emerging-market nations have turned from fighting inflation
to supporting growth as a struggling U.S. recovery and deepening
European crisis threaten the global economy.  Brazil ,  Turkey ,
 Russia  and  Pakistan  have cut borrowing costs in 2011, while
Asian countries from the Philippines to  South Korea  have
refrained from further rate increases in recent weeks.  Taking Insurance  “It’s primarily because of the weaker global economic
backdrop that they are taking out some insurance against the
global economic headwinds,” said Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks has slumped 15.4
percent this year as investors pare bets on emerging markets.
Some Asian currencies have tumbled against the dollar in the
same period, led by a slide of about 9 percent in the Indian
rupee, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s rupiah has weakened 3.5 percent in the past
month. Bank Indonesia said yesterday it has sufficient foreign-
exchange reserves to support the currency.  “We are confident we can stabilize the market,” Warjiyo
said in the interview today.  Asian nations from  Malaysia  to the  Philippines  are shifting
their focus to shielding growth even as elevated inflation
prompts policy makers in countries such as Vietnam and  India  to
persist with monetary tightening.  India’s industrial output rose 4.1 percent in August from a
year earlier, less than the median 4.7 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, a report showed today.  Philippine Spending  Aquino said today the additional spending he authorized for
the stimulus package includes 5.5 billion pesos for
infrastructure. The Philippine government cut its growth
forecasts for the Southeast Asian nation for 2011 and 2012.  “If the fiscal stimulus does its job, this should give the
necessary push to keep our economic growth in a solid upward
trajectory,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today.
The Philippines has sufficient liquidity, a stable  exchange rate 
and a “manageable” inflation outlook along with “fiscal
space” to help support economic growth, he said in an e-mail
reply to questions.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will consider global
developments, including Indonesia’s rate cut and the slump in
Philippine exports in next week’s policy meeting, Tetangco said.  “In most jurisdictions, inflation seems to have become
less of a pressing concern,” he said. “The weakness in
advanced economies is seen to weigh more on emerging economies
than previously anticipated.”  Malaysian Budget  In neighboring Malaysia, Prime Minister Najib Razak
announced in the country’s annual budget last week that he will
distribute cash to low-income families, raise wages for civil
servants and boost spending on transportation.  “As growth weakens, the policy makers elsewhere in the
region may well follow a similar path,” Edward Teather, an
economist at UBS AG in  Singapore , said after Indonesia’s rate
cut. “We do actually forecast lower policy rates for Malaysia,
 Thailand  and the Philippines” over the next six months, he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will reduce the degree
of policy tightening by adjusting the exchange-rate band for its
currency, according to 14 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News before the central bank releases its decision on Oct. 14.
The island uses the local dollar to manage inflation and reviews
its stance twice a year.  Indonesian Stimulus  Consumer prices in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, rose 4.61 percent in September from a year earlier,
after climbing 4.79 percent in August. The inflation rate may be
less than 5 percent this year and next, Warjiyo said.  Indonesia  is preparing a stimulus package that it may
implement in the first half of 2012 if needed, the government
said last month. It agreed to maintain subsidized fuel prices
for 2012 at this year’s level, Melchias Mekeng, head of the
parliament’s budget committee, said yesterday.  Indonesia’s gross domestic product rose 6.49 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, after increasing 6.47
percent in the three months through March. HSBC has cut its
estimate for the 2011 expansion to 6.4 percent from 6.5 percent.  “If the global economy is slowing, inflationary pressures
will be declining,” Governor  Darmin Nasution  told reporters
yesterday. “Many countries may shift their policy focus from
maintaining low inflation to supporting economic growth.”  ‘Jumped the Gun’  Still, Bank Indonesia needs to ensure inflation
expectations remain under control, said Wisnu Wardana, an
economist at PT BNI Securities in Jakarta. A weaker currency may
fan import prices, impeding the moderation in inflation in the
world’s fourth-most populous nation.  Before yesterday’s cut, the central bank had refrained from
boosting its key rate after raising it by a quarter of a
percentage point in February. Credit Suisse AG called the rate
reduction “premature” while HSBC said there is a risk
Indonesian policy makers may have “jumped the gun.”  “Bank Indonesia might have beaten its peers in the region
in loosening its monetary policy, but the move might be seen as
a little hasty,”  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore, said in a note. “There is no clear
sign that inflation would ease going forward.”  Indonesia is one step away from its first investment-grade
 credit rating  in more than a decade, as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targets growth of as much as 6.6 percent on average
through the remainder of his term ending in 2014.  He plans to double spending on roads, ports and airports to
$140 billion by then. Toyota Motor Co. and  Unilever NV (UNA)  are among
companies investing in the $707 billion economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  