-- 
Inflation Bonds Lose Most Since 2008 on Slowdown: Poland Credit

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-12T09:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/inflation-bonds-lose-most-since-2008-on-slowdown-poland-credit.html
Polish inflation-linked bonds are
losing the most in three years as slowing growth in the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy damps the outlook for consumer
price increases.  Bonds with returns tied to the  consumer price index  fell
1.5 percent since the end of June, lagging behind gains of 8.3
percent in Brazil and 6 percent in emerging markets, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. Bondholders pared Polish
inflation expectations to 2.37 percent for the next five years
from 3.08 percent in July, based on the yield difference between
fixed-rate bonds and those linked to consumer prices, known as
the breakeven rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Inflation slowed to an annual 4.1 percent in September from
4.3 percent in August, the Statistics Office in Warsaw will
report tomorrow, according to the median forecast from 32
analysts polled by Bloomberg. Poland relies on the euro region
for 55 percent of its exports and its banks are 66 percent owned
by foreign lenders with fortunes tied to the outcome of Greek
bailout talks. Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Fitch Ratings cut forecasts for Polish growth in the past month.  “I don’t see the possibility of inflation skyrocketing and
developing into territory that would be dangerous for bonds,”
said Jakub Taborowicz, a fixed-income portfolio manager at the
asset management unit of PZU SA in Warsaw,  Poland ’s largest
insurer. His $454 million of assets doesn’t include inflation-
linked bonds.  Spending Cap  Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who led the ruling Civic
Platform party to victory in last weekend’s general election,
has pledged to cap public spending growth at 1 percentage point
above inflation to help trim the  budget deficit . His previous
administration froze the wages of government workers, lowered
state contributions to private pension funds and increased the
value-added  tax rate  by 1 percentage point to 23 percent.  The government’s draft budget assumes inflation at 2.8
percent next year while the central bank said in July it expects
the pace will slow to 2.4 percent in 2013, compared with a
previous forecast of 2.9 percent.  Inflation is less than half the 7.3 percent annual pace in
 Brazil  and  Turkey ’s 6.2 percent rate. The breakeven rate for
Brazil hit a three-year high in September as inflation
accelerated in  Latin America ’s largest economy. South African
inflation-linked bonds returned 3.4 percent in the third quarter
as consumer inflation in Africa’s biggest economy quickened 5.3
percent in August, the highest rate in 15 months.  Depreciation  While Brazil and Turkey surprised investors with interest-
rate cuts this year, Polish policy makers have held borrowing
costs the past three meetings to shield the  exchange rate  from
depreciation. The zloty lost 10 percent against the euro in the
third quarter, the biggest loss among more than 170 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The  National Bank of Poland  lifted its main  interest rate 
by 1 percentage point between January and June to 4.5 percent as
inflation jumped to the highest in a decade at 5 percent.  It’s too early to talk about lowering borrowing costs
because inflation remains “very elevated,” central bank
Governor Marek Belka said in Warsaw on Sept. 8. The zloty’s
weakening is making it harder for policy makers to control
inflation, Belka said on Sept. 22 in comments posted on the
central bank’s website.  A cut in interest rates would be “premature” as inflation
remains faster than the bank’s goal and the zloty is set to
weaken,  Zyta Gilowska , a member of the Monetary Policy Council,
said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.  Euro Turmoil  Concern that the euro region’s debt turmoil and a sluggish
 U.S. economy  will undermine the global recovery has lowered
inflation expectations in the U.S. and  Europe . The difference
between yields on five-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the U.S. breakeven rate, fell to 1.45
percent from a 2011 high of 2.47 percent on April 29.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for Polish
economic growth to 3.8 percent this year and 3 percent in 2012
in a Sept. 20 report, citing concern an escalation of the euro
region’s crisis “would undermine growth in emerging Europe.”
The European Commission on Sept. 15 warned the euro-area economy
may come “close to standstill at year-end.”  The 17-nation euro economy probably expanded 0.2 percent in
the third quarter and will grow 0.1 percent in the fourth, down
from an estimate in March for 0.4 percent expansion in both
periods, according to the Brussels-based commission.  “Everyone is expecting inflation to be more or less in the
central bank target,” Marcin Zoltek, chief investment officer
at Aviva PTE, manager of the nation’s second-largest pension
fund with the equivalent of $16.4 billion in assets, said in a
Sept. 29 Warsaw interview. “Unless you expect tax hikes,
inflation will be dropping at the beginning of next year.”  Extra Yield  The zloty advanced 0.2 percent to 4.3157 per euro at 10:38
a.m. in Warsaw. The currency has 7.8 percent since the start of
July, compared with the Hungarian forint’s 9.4 percent decline
and the Czech koruna’s 1.7 percent slump.  Yields on 10-year domestic bonds fell 1 basis point to 5.68
percent, extending a drop of 22 basis points this month in
Poland. That compares with an increase of 3 basis points for
Czech 10-year bonds.  The extra yield investors demand on Poland’s dollar bonds
over U.S. Treasuries dropped 13 basis points to 286 basis points
yesterday. The spread reached 343 basis points, the highest
level since January 2009, on Oct. 4, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes. Poland is rated A- by Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s , two levels above  Russia  and below the Czech Republic.  Default Risk  Poland’s credit-default swaps climbed 143 basis points to
296 basis points between July and September for the biggest
quarterly increase since December 2008 as the euro-area credit
crisis worsened. The contracts fell 8 basis points to 268 basis
points yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The level was 52 basis points below the average for
governments in eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa 
included in indexes compiled by Markit on Oct. 7, compared with
a gap of 68 on Oct. 4.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Inflation-linked debt pays interest tied to the consumer-
 price index . When inflation speeds up, the securities pay more
interest. Poland’s 15.1 billion zloty ($4.8 billion) of bonds
pegged to inflation represent 2 percent of the government’s
zloty-denominated debt market, compared with about 30 percent
for Brazil and 24 percent for  South Africa , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Three-Year Low  Poland resumed sales of inflation-linked bonds for the
first time in more than two years in December 2010 as investors
sought protection against consumer price increases. The
government isn’t planning to offer more of the bonds this year,
according to  Finance Ministry ’s debt supply plan from Sept. 30.  The inflation-linked securities lost 1.3 percent between
July and September, the most since the last three months of 2008
and lagging behind 4.8 percent gains for emerging-market debt
linked to consumer prices, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. The bonds tumbled 13.5 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2008 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy
and set off the worst global financial crisis since Great
Depression. The government’s fixed-rate bonds returned 3.8
percent in the same period, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  The yield gap between Polish 12-year inflation-linked bonds
and the closest maturity fixed-rate securities, due in 2022,
fell to 2.57 percent yesterday from as high as 3.38 percent in
March.  “General perception is that these bonds are much less
liquid,” Aviva PTE’s Zoltek said. “It’s always a one-way
trade, either everyone is trying to buy or everyone is trying to
sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  