-- 
Infosys Bearish Bets Reach Highest in Seven Months on Earnings Outlook

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-10-11T10:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/infosys-bearish-bets-reach-7-month-high.html
Options traders are the most bearish
on Infosys Ltd. in seven months on speculation  India ’s second-
biggest software maker may cut its earnings forecast tomorrow
amid uncertainties in the global economy.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the shares versus
calls to buy reached 0.86 yesterday, the highest since March,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The reading for larger rival
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  held near a two-week high.  Infosys has dropped 27 percent this year, compared with a
19 percent slide in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index, on
concerns customers are holding off on new contracts amid the
global market turmoil. Europe and  North America  accounted for
almost 87 percent of Infosys’s sales in the year ended March 31.  “When the U.S. and Europe are not doing that great, some
cut in earnings forecast is likely to happen,”  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at New Delhi-based SMC Wealth
Management Services Ltd., told Bloomberg Television today.
“They will probably give an indication of a bearish outlook
with clients cutting their information technology spending.”  Infosys in July forecast sales in the year ending March to
range from $7.1 billion to $7.3 billion, less than $7.5 billion
average of 56 analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
Bangalore-based company may say tomorrow profit rose to 18.8
billion rupees ($383 million) in the quarter ended September,
from 17.4 billion a year ago, according to the median estimate
of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Currency Headwinds’  “I think that the cut in U.S. dollar guidance won’t be
beyond 150 basis points, of that 110 points will be from the
change in the dollar against the euro, Australian dollar and the
pound,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an analyst at Mumbai-based Elara
Securities India Pvt. “Most of it will be from currency
headwinds alone, and maybe another 40-50 basis points from the
changed demand scenario.”  Most currencies weakened against the dollar in the three
months ended Sept. 30 as investors sought the relative safety of
the greenback amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. The dollar index, which
tracks the currency’s performance against six major trading
partners, rose 5.72 percent during the period.  Infosys, which has the second-highest weighting on the
Sensex, fell 3.3 percent to 2,504.55 rupees as of the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, ending a three-day, 6.2 percent advance. Tata
Consultancy dropped 2.2 percent to 1,040.85 rupees. The company
is due to report earnings on Oct. 17.  “Traders are buying protection amid uncertainty on the
revenue outlook for the next two quarters,” said Savio Shetty,
derivatives strategist at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai.  A  call option  gives investors the right to buy a security
at a set price by a specific date. A  put option  gives the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the prices of securities they own, speculate on share-price
moves or bet that volatility will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  