-- 
Intel Says Costa Rican Tax Law Revision May Threaten Investment

-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-10-11T19:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/intel-says-costa-rican-tax-law-revision-may-threaten-investment.html
Costa’s Rica’s consideration of a
plan to tax foreign-owned companies operating in free-trade
zones may threaten overseas investment in the Central American
nation, said Intel  Costa Rica ’s general manager.  Potential taxation of free-trade zone businesses is part of
a tax overhaul presented to the Legislative Assembly on Sept.
27. Most foreign companies that operate in the free-trade zones
now pay no income taxes. Under the plan, companies may face a
tax rate of as much as 15 percent on investments made after 2015
while current investments would remain exempt.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  has been invested in Costa Rica since  1997  when
it built a $300 million semiconductor assembly and test  plant  as
the country’s free-trade zone regime helped attract other
multinational companies. The world’s biggest chipmaker decided
against a large investment in Costa Rica in 2010 due to
“uncertain fiscal policies,” Michael Forrest, Intel Costa
Rica’s general manager, said yesterday. Intel is the largest
revenue-earning company in the $35 billion economy.  “Intel makes future investments on a long-term horizon,
and one of the things we consider very seriously is fiscal
policy stability and consistency,” said Forrest, who
participated in panel discussion of foreign business owners and
managers in  San Jose . “If there are fluctuations and
instability of fiscal policies in certain countries, those
countries are removed from investment consideration.”  Fiscal reform is a priority of President Laura Chinchilla’s
government as its seeks to trim a  budget deficit  that’s
estimated at about 5 percent of gross domestic product.  According to the Costa Rican Investment Promotion Agency,
known as  CINDE , the 256 free-trade zone companies earned $2.865
billion in 2010, or about 8 percent of GDP. Over 60,000 Costa
Ricans are employed by free-trade zone companies.  Forrest also noted the rising costs of electricity and
utilities in Costa Rica.  “When you look at the utility rates of what we pay here in
Costa Rica versus what our sister companies pay in Malaysia,
Vietnam or  China , it is significantly higher here in Costa Rica
than in the rest of the world,” Forrest said.  The colon has weakened 0.8 percent to 517.25 per  U.S.
dollar  this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Williams at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  