-- 
Intel Abandons Plans to Get Its Processors Into Televisions

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-11T20:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/intel-abandons-plans-to-get-its-processors-into-televisions.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, is giving up on an effort to get its processors into
televisions after failing to gain a foothold in the market.  The company, which will continue supplying chips to TV set-
top box makers, plans to move resources to a group focused on
tablet computers, said Claudine Mangano, a spokeswoman for  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel.  “This is a business decision where we’re taking those
resources and applying them to corporate priorities,” she said.
The company decided that engineers at its Digital Home Group
should focus more on tablets, smartphones and a new category of
laptops, which Intel is calling Ultrabooks, she said.  By walking away from TVs, Intel is exiting part of a market
that Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  targeted as he sought
to lessen the company’s reliance on personal computers. Intel
has won set-top box orders from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable company, and some European television service providers,
and has supplied chips for Google Inc.’s Google TV devices made
by Sony Corp. and Logitech International SA.  While Intel’s processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s PCs, its line of lower-power chips, called Atom, have
yet to stimulate significant sales growth outside computing.  “It’s never been big enough to be a footnote even in their
earnings statements,” said  Cody Acree , a Dallas-based analyst
at Williams Financial Group. He has a hold rating on Intel’s
stock.  TV Makers  Intel has been unable to provide a chip that offered
significantly different performance from rival offerings, and
failed to convince TV makers such as Samsung Electronics Co. or
Sony Corp. that they needed its chips, Acree said.  Comcast is using an Intel product in its Xfinity TV set-top
device, which will offer improved on-screen navigation, search
and other programs. Pace Plc is building the boxes for Comcast.
Google TV products with Intel processors have fallen short of
sales targets in the U.S.  Intel shares rose 11 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $22.99 at
the close in  New York . The stock has gained 9.3 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  