-- 
Israel September Inflation Probably Slowed on Consumer Protests

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-10-11T14:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/israel-september-inflation-probably-slowed-on-consumer-protests.html
Israeli inflation probably eased in
September as food costs declined following consumer protests and
end-of-summer sales brought down apparel prices.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.2 percent from 3.4 percent,
according to the median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The  consumer price index  remained unchanged from the
previous month, according to the survey. The Jerusalem-based
Central Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to release the data at
2 p.m. local time on Oct. 14.  “Inflation has come down a lot,” David Petitcolin, an
emerging-markets analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London , said by telephone. “There is a favorable base effect
since commodity prices increased sharply last year. The global
crisis has helped to lower prices and in  Israel  we’ve had the
social unrest, which is spurring companies to bring down
prices.”  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer , who had been
raising rates for more than two years to battle inflation,
reversed policy on Sept. 26 and cut the key rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent, citing the worsening global
economic outlook. The change came as expectations for inflation,
which have exceeded the 1 percent to 3 percent target range
every month this year, fall.  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectation declined to 2.3
percent from 2.7 percent a month earlier, the central bank
reported Sept. 20, the lowest since February 2010. Two-year
interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for
the benchmark rate over the period, were at 2.77, close to their
lowest in a year.  Cost of Living  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Cabinet approved a
program on Oct. 9 that aims to ease the cost of living after
rallies brought hundreds of thousands of protesters onto the
streets.  The demonstrations and boycotts, which started in June
over the cost of cottage cheese, prodded Tnuva Food Industries
Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd., which controls about 70
percent of the dairy market, to cut recommended selling prices
by as much as 15 percent last week. Competitor Strauss Group
Ltd. followed with reductions of 12 percent on some of its  milk
products .  The Bank of Israel cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and next on Sept. 22, citing increased uncertainty
about the global economy and a decline in the rate of growth in
world trade. The economy will expand 4.7 percent in 2011 and 3.2
percent in 2012, the central bank said, lowering its forecasts
from 4.8 percent and 3.9 percent.  The  central bureau of statistics  said today that the
economy is expected to expand 4.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 