-- 
Italian Government Loses Parliamentary Vote on 2010 Budget

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   G i o v a n n i   S a l z a n o
-- 
2011-10-11T16:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/italian-government-loses-parliamentary-vote-on-2010-budget.html
Italy’s Parliament failed to approve
the government’s 2010 budget in an “unprecedented” vote that
raised questions about the strength of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s majority, with the opposition urging him to resign.  The government was unable to obtain a majority of votes on
the 2010 final budget in the lower house in Rome today,
following its approval earlier by the Senate.  Gianfranco Fini ,
speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, said the ballot was an
“unprecedented case,” Ansa newswire reported, as the budget is
simply a record of spending and revenue that can’t be changed.  Fini, in remarks broadcast on the Chamber’s television
channel, called another lower-house session for 1 p.m. in Rome
tomorrow when the issue may be revisited. Economy Ministry
Undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti said the government will find a
“technical solution,” Radiocor newswire reported.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  held talks with Berlusconi
after the vote, Ansa newswire said. The government, with a slim
majority in the Chamber, has previously lost ballots there even
as it’s won every confidence vote that it’s faced since coming
to power in 2008.  Fabrizio Cicchitto, who heads Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party in the lower house, told reporters in Rome that
the government may have to hold a vote in the Chamber to
“verify” whether it still has a ruling majority, Ansa said.  Opposition leaders including Anna Finocchiaro, who heads
the  Democratic Party  in the Senate, called on the government to
resign. “With the failure to pass Article 1 of the general
state budget, the very preconditions for public-finance
accounting no longer exist,” Finocchiaro said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 asarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 