-- 
Itochu Targets 54% Profit Surge at Chemicals, Forestry Unit

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-10-11T06:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/itochu-targets-54-profit-surge-at-chemicals-forestry-unit-1-.html
Itochu Corp. (8001) , Japan’s third-largest
trading company, plans to boost net income 54 percent by 2015 at
its chemical and forestry unit, the biggest outside of metals
and energy.  The division targets annual profit of 40 billion yen ($521
million) within three fiscal years by expanding rubber output in
 Indonesia  and expanding global sales of pulp and chemicals,
Itochu managing executive officer Satoshi Kikuchi said at a
briefing in  Tokyo  today. This year’s purchase of U.K. tire
retailer Kwik-Fit will also boost earnings, Kikuchi said.  Trading in chemicals, rubber and construction materials
overtook textile and food as Itochu’s second-biggest contributor
to profit this year. In buying Kwik-Fit for $1 billion the
chemicals division completed Itochu’s largest purchase in a
decade and increased its focus on retailing outside  Japan ,
according to Bloomberg data.  “We’re confident that we can make our target” in spite of
a recent weakness in global markets, Kikuchi said.  This year, the trading house is expanding its rubber
factories in Indonesia and pulp production in Brazil, viewing
the domestic market as having little growth potential, according
to an Itochu presentation made in Tokyo today.  Last year’s start-up of a methanol plant in Brunei, in
which Itochu holds a 25 percent stake, and a planned expansion
for a Chinese chemicals complex, should help Itochu boost its
chemicals trading volume to 4 million metric tons in 2015 from
2.55 million tons last year, Itochu said.  The strategy hinges on continued demand growth in  China  and
Asia as a whole, which has started to feel the effects of the
sovereign crisis in  Europe  and sluggish U.S. economic growth,
Yuji Fukuda, Itochu’s chief operating officer for the chemicals
division, said at the presentation.  “There is a risk that tightening credit markets and
weakness in Europe and the U.S. will start to hurt sales in
China over the short term,” Fukuda said. “That may temporarily
weaken the chemicals market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  