-- 
Japan Sovereign Bond Risk Declines as Europe Concern Eases

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-10-11T08:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/japan-sovereign-bond-risk-declines-as-europe-concern-eases-1-.html
Japan ’s bond risk dropped, heading
for the biggest four-day decline since 2004, as European leaders
pledge to produce a plan to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Credit-default swaps to insure Japan’s government bonds
against non payment dropped 17 basis points to 109 basis points
as of 3:18 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Deutsche Bank AG prices.
The swap rate has fallen 31 basis points since climbing to a
record 154.8 basis points on Oct. 4 and is set to complete its
biggest four-day decline since December 2004, according to data
provider CMA prices in  New York .  “Those who speculated that Japan’s sovereign CDS rate
would go even higher would be cutting losses now,” as concerns
about Europe have eased, said Taketoshi Tsuchiya, Tokyo-based
director of credit trading at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd. “The
widening was unusual. Japan’s fundamentals are unchanged.”  Germany and France on Oct. 9 set an end-of-month deadline
for a breakthrough in handling Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  put recapitalization of the region’s banks at the top of
the priority list in a joint declaration in Berlin. Sarkozy said
they would deliver a plan by the Nov. 3 Group of 20 meeting.  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, fall as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve and rise as they deteriorate. A basis
point is equivalent to $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of bonds and loans.  Japan’s public debt is projected to reach  219 percent  of
gross domestic product next year, even before accounting for
borrowing to fund reconstruction after the March earthquake,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in  Tokyo  at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  