-- 
Japanese Stock Futures, Australia Shares Fall on Alcoa, Europe

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-10-11T23:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/japanese-stock-futures-australia-shares-fall-on-alcoa-profit-europe-debt.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian shares fell as optimism about U.S. corporate earnings
waned after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  reported third-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates and amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen.  American depositary receipts of Nissan Motor Co., a
carmaker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
fell 0.5 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of
Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest automaker by revenue,
lost 1.6 percent after it said production may fall by about
4,500 vehicles because of plant closures caused by flooding in
 Thailand .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
dropped 1.3 percent after metal prices declined.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,745 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,770 in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at 8,730
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
lost 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 1.9
percent in Wellington.  “Less-than-expected earnings from Alcoa will likely move
investors to sell exporter shares to lock in profits, as the
market had been rising on optimism about U.S. corporate
earnings,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today. In  New York , the index rose 0.1 percent yesterday,
trading within a 1 percent range between its high and low level
for the day. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated 0.2
percent yesterday.  Alcoa ‘Disaster’  Alcoa, the first company of the Dow to report results for
the third quarter, climbed 2.1 percent in regular trading. The
shares tumbled 4.8 percent at 5:08 p.m. after the largest U.S.
smelter of aluminum reported profit that trailed analysts’
estimates as production costs increased and the pace of global
demand growth slowed.  The earnings were a “disaster,”  Charles Bradford , a
metals analyst at Bradford Research Inc. in New York, said in an
interview. “The only way that could happen is if you let costs
get out of control.”  In  Europe , the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.3
percent yesterday, snapping a four-day rally, amid uncertainty
that Slovakia will ratify the euro area’s revised bailout fund.
Slovakia is the only member of the euro area that hasn’t
ratified a retooled bailout fund.  ‘Asia Vulnerable’  “Asian stocks remain vulnerable to short-term setbacks,
particularly in places like Europe, which could trigger profit
taking,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP
Capital Investors Ltd.  Copper fell 2.3 percent yesterday in New York, the biggest
drop for a most-active contract since Sept. 30, on concern that
metal demand will slide as the global economy falters, Chinese
exports wane and Europe’s debt woes escalate. The London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper and
aluminum lost 2.3 percent yesterday, its first drop in four days.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 16 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.9 percent loss by the  S&P
500  and a 15 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.9 times for the S&P 500
and 10 times for the Stoxx 600.  The Japanese government is scheduled to release a report on
machinery orders at 8:50 a.m. today in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 