-- 
Liberians Begin Voting as Johnson-Sirleaf Seeks Second Term

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   S e s a y   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-10-11T09:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/johnson-sirleaf-seeks-second-term-in-liberia.html
Liberians began voting today,
deciding whether to give Nobel Peace Prize winner Ellen Johnson- Sirleaf a second term in the presidency amid promises to create
jobs and boost investment.  Liberians lined up in rainy weather for at least two hours
before voting stations opened at 8 a.m. in the capital,
Monrovia.  “There are no reported incidents of violence or any form of
disruptions,” Bobby Livingstone, director of press for the
 National Elections Commission , said by phone.  Johnson-Sirleaf, 72, faces 15 candidates including Winston
Tubman, 70, a lawyer whose running mate is  George Weah , a soccer
star who won the FIFA World Player of the Year award in 1995,
and 60-year-old lawyer Charles Brumskine. If no candidate wins
more than 50 percent of the vote a second round of balloting
will be held.  Announcement of results will start tomorrow with the final
outcome given Oct. 26, said James Fromoyan, chairman of the
elections body, in a statement broadcast on  radio stations  Oct.
9. Voters are also choosing 15 junior senators and 73 lawmakers,
he said.  Closing Borders  Johnson-Sirleaf, who was elected  Africa ’s first female
president, has been working to rebuild a country devastated by a
14-year civil war that ended in 2003, leaving an estimated
250,000 people dead. The economy is forecast to expand 6.9
percent this year, outpacing the estimated sub-Saharan African
average of 5.2 percent, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . The former banker was named a joint winner of the  Nobel
prize  on Oct. 7 for her work in promoting  women’s rights .  The voting period may ignite tensions in the country where
“there are over 100,000 former combatants who do not have a
livelihood,” Joseph Lake, an analyst with London-based
Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an interview on Oct. 6.  After a disputed election in neighboring  Ivory Coast  last
year, hundreds of former Liberian fighters crossed the border as
mercenaries in a violent conflict that killed as many as 3,000
people, according to the  International Criminal Court .  Liberia closed its land borders yesterday until results are
announced, said Immigration Commissioner Chris Massaquoi.  “We have not done this to instill fear in any citizen,” he
said by phone. “There is every reason for us to be able to
institute those measures to protect our territorial borders and
our citizens in order to avoid any disruption during the
electoral exercise.”  Infrastructure, Jobs  Candidates have promised to improve infrastructure and
create jobs in a country where 15 percent of the workforce is
formally employed, according to the U.S. State Department. It
ranks 162nd out of 169 countries on the UN’s Human Development
Index, which measures development indicators including education
and income.  Since taking office in 2005, the country has attracted more
than $16 billion in investments and “we are now able to create
jobs for the next six years for the people of Liberia if we win
the elections,” she said in a Sept. 23 statement on the
presidency’s website. She promised to create at least 20,000
positions a year, according to the statement.  Johnson-Sirleaf “has been quite successful in negotiating
large mining contracts,” Lake said. “Unfortunately, the impact
of the foreign investment her government has been able to
attract has yet to be felt. The perception of corruption is
widespread and there has been a relative lack of progress in
terms of  job creation .”  Iron Ore, Oil  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, started
iron-ore shipments on Sept. 27. OAO Severstal,  Russia ’s largest
steelmaker, is developing the Putu iron ore mine in a $2.5
billion investment and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S.
oil company, will start exploration drilling off the Liberian
coast in the fourth quarter of this year.  “Johnson-Sirleaf has a lot of international support but
Liberians do not find her as strong a president as she is being
portrayed outside the country,” Titi Ajayi, a research fellow
with Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said by phone
from Dakar on Oct. 5. “There are allegations of corruption and
criticism that she didn’t do enough to fight it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Sesay in Monrovia via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 