-- 
JPMorgan Boosts High-Grade Debt to ‘Neutral’ From ‘Underweight’

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-10-11T14:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/jpmorgan-boosts-high-grade-debt-to-neutral-from-underweight-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the top-ranked
fixed-income research firm on  Wall Street , upgraded its
recommendation on high-grade corporate debt to “neutral” as
the assets attract more money from investors.  The bank, which cut the debt to “underweight” on June 15,
said valuations are more attractive than low-yielding U.S.
Treasuries, especially after the  Federal Reserve ’s “Operation
Twist” program announced last month, analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote in a note today. Inflows to the asset class,
high cash balances and “solid” corporate credit fundamentals
also fueled the outlook shift, according to the note.  “Year-end tends to be when investors review their asset
allocations, and we believe HG U.S. corporate bonds will be
deemed about the best asset class to own heading into the low
growth and potentially recessionary environment of 2012,”
analysts from the New York-based bank wrote.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury have fallen to
about 2.1 percent from 2.97 percent four months ago as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis worsens and after the Fed decided to
replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds in a policy known as Operation Twist.
Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds have increased to
4.13 percent from 3.72 percent on June 15, increasing the allure
of such securities.  The analysts, ranked No. 1 investment-grade strategists in
Institutional Investor magazine’s annual poll, didn’t assign an
“overweight” recommendation to high-grade corporate debt,
citing growth slowdowns in the U.S. and Europe that will lead to
heightened “event risk,” according to the note. They also
cited the lack of a solution to the European debt crisis, asset
sales by European banks and limited allocations to financial
debt versus non-financial.  A “neutral” recommendation at JPMorgan means the position
is expected to perform in line with benchmarks over the next
three months, according to today’s note.  Investment-grade bonds are rated Baa3 or higher by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- and above by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  