-- 
JPMorgan Stays No. 1 in Institutional Investor Analyst Rankings

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-10-11T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/jpmorgan-stays-no-1-in-institutional-investor-analyst-rankings.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  stock analysts
took top honors in Institutional Investor magazine’s rating of
the best U.S. financial researchers for the second consecutive
year, winning by the narrowest margin of any firm since 2002.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, had 40
top-ranked analysts in the survey, edging out  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch, which tied for second
place with 39 each, the publication said today in a statement.
The number of top analysts at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rose to 25 from
18, the largest increase, as  Germany ’s biggest lender climbed to
eighth place from ninth last year.  Institutional Investor’s 40th annual All-America Research
Team ranking tallied ratings from 3,500 fund managers and
analysts at more than 1,000 investment firms overseeing $10.7
trillion of U.S. equities. New York-based JPMorgan, Barclays and
Bank of America held the top spots even as fewer of their
analysts made the cut.  “The competition is fierce,” Thomas Johnson, the
magazine’s research editor, said in the statement. “In a period
of unprecedented economic uncertainty, from sovereign debt
crises in  Europe  and political unrest in the  Middle East  to
gridlock in  Washington , it’s not surprising that investors would
flock to banks with global platforms.”  UBS Gains  JPMorgan had 46 analysts on the list in 2010 to capture the
top ranking for the first time, snapping a two-year winning
streak for  Barclays Capital , the brokerage arm of London-based
Barclays, which placed second with 43 analysts. Barclays owns
the U.S. operations of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which
ranked No. 1 in each of the previous five years.  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America ranked third in 2010.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, climbed to tie  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in fourth place with 43 analysts, up from fifth
last year. New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. was the
only firm in the top 10 to fall, slipping to ninth place from
sixth with 22 analysts, down from 25 last year.  Winners include John Pitzer, who covers technology for
Zurich-based Credit Suisse, and JPMorgan’s Steven Alexopoulos,
who took the top spot for Banks/Midcap analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  