-- 
Ljubljana Mayor Joins Slovenia Election Race to Challenge Jansa

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-11T12:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ljubljana-mayor-joins-slovenia-election-race-to-challenge-jansa.html
Zoran Jankovic, the mayor of
Slovenia’s capital Ljubljana, will form his own party to compete
in early elections in December, kicking off a battle for
leadership in the euro region nation that is struggling to
control public spending amid a debt crisis in Europe.  Jankovic, 58, the former chief executive officer of
 Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d., will jump into the race
immediately, he told reporters in Ljubljana today.  Jankovic will compete with Janez Jansa, a former Prime
Minister and leader of the  Slovenian Democratic Party  which is
ahead in opinion polls. The new government will have to tackle
spending cuts and spur the export-driven economy as demand in
Europe wanes and as the debt and banking crisis weigh on
confidence.  “Jankovic’s candidacy would increase the choice for voters
and like Jansa, he has a couple of weaknesses,” Ali Zerdin, a
political analyst and editor at Delo newspaper in Ljubljana,
said in an e-mail before the announcement. “The main question
is, will Jankovic convince voters outside  Ljubljana ? On the
positive side, he knows about more about balance sheets unlike
many other politicians here.”  Jansa’s party will likely form the new government,
according to a survey by Delo Stik after Prime Minister Borut
Pahor’s administration was toppled on Sept. 20 following
disagreements between coalition partners over the pension
changes and an early vote.  Second in Poll  Jansa would get 16.7 percent of the vote, followed by
Jankovic with a 4.9 percent support, while outgoing Prime
Minister Borut Pahor is close behind with 4.8 percent, the
polling company said on Oct. 7. The survey was carried out among
400 people. No margin of error was given.  Slovenia is headed for a “difficult period” as the
banking industry struggles to find financing and the economy
slows because of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, central bank
Governor Marko Kranjec said on Oct. 4.  Seven Slovenian banks had their  credit rating  cut by Fitch
Sept. 29 on poor asset quality and after the ratings service
lowered the credit score of the euro region member by one level
to AA- because of risk to the stability of the banking system
and a worsening fiscal position. Moody’s also cut the country’s
credit score on Sept. 23 one level to Aa3, the fourth-highest
investment grade and warned another downgrade is possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  