-- 
KDB Is Said to Discuss Buying HSBC’s Korean Retail Bank Business

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-11T06:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/kdb-is-said-to-discuss-buying-hsbc-s-korean-retail-bank-business.html
KDB Financial Group Inc. is in talks
with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to buy its retail banking operations in
 South Korea , a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Purchasing HSBC’s 11 Korean branches is one way that KDB, a
state-run South Korean financial group, could grow its deposit
base, according to the person, who declined to be identified as
the discussions are private.  KDB executives contacted HSBC and formed a team to review a
takeover of the branches, Seoul Economic Daily reported
yesterday, citing unidentified financial industry officials. The
newspaper didn’t mention a purchase price.  Park Chan Ho, a spokesman for Seoul-based KDB, declined to
comment on the potential purchase when asked by telephone. Laine Santana, a spokeswoman for HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in an e-
mailed response that the London-based bank’s policy is not to
comment on market speculation.  HSBC, which plans to cut 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, is
selling assets as the euro-area debt crisis saps profit and
regulators demand thicker capital buffers. Foreign financial
firms operating in Korea have faced setbacks this year, with
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s local unit temporarily closing branches
following a worker strike, and Lone Star Funds’ planned sale of
 Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  delayed because of legal action.  HSBC’s South Korean business posted net income of 293.5
billion won ($252 million) last year, with 24.4 trillion won in
consolidated assets, according to data on its  website . It
employed about 840 staff in Korea as of Dec. 31, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  