-- 
Kenya Shilling Leads World Currencies’ Drop, Weakens to Record

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-10-11T14:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/kenyan-shilling-falls-to-record-world-s-worst-currency-in-2011.html
Kenya ’s shilling led declines
against the dollar and weakened to the lowest on record as
demand for dollars by oil importers and telecommunications
companies increased.  The shilling slumped as much as 3 percent to 106.75 per
dollar, the weakest on record, according to International
Monetary Fund data. It traded 2.5 percent down at 106.15 by 5:18
p.m. in Nairobi, extending its drop this year to 24 percent,
making it the world’s worst-performing currency over both
periods.  “The high demand for dollars by oil importers is still
putting pressure on the shilling and we expect it to continue
weakening,” John Muli, a trader at Nairobi-based African
Banking Corp., said in a phone interview. Duncan Kinuthia, head
of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said there had
also been demand for dollars from telecommunications companies.  Inflation accelerated to 17.3 percent last month, more than
triple the government’s 5 percent target. Kenya’s central bank
last week raised its benchmark  interest rate  by four percentage
points to a record 11 percent to bolster the currency.  The shilling may weaken further in the coming two to three
weeks, possibly to as low as 110 per dollar “on momentum
alone,” said  Aly-Khan Satchu , head of Rich Management, a
Nairobi-based  investment company .  “There is some kind of Africa risk aversion going on”
amid the European debt crisis, Satchu said by phone. “We have a
very illiquid and nervous market where no one is prepared to
take any risk.”  Kenya’s government announced plans earlier today to help
stabilize the shilling by boosting domestic  food production  to
curb imports and demand for foreign exchange to pay for them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  