-- 
Kenya Pledges Measures to Help Shilling as Currency Hits New Low

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-10-11T11:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/kenyan-government-plans-measures-to-boost-supply-side-of-economy.html
Kenya ’s government pledged to
introduce new measures to help stabilize the shilling as the
currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy plunged to a new low.  The country will boost farm output and the nation’s
strategic food reserves in an effort to curb food imports and
“thereby support the foreign-exchange reserves and balance of
payments,” Chris Okemo, head of the parliamentary finance
committee, told reporters today in Nairobi.  The government is continuing talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  about providing $250 million to $300 million of
balance-of-payments support, said Okemo, a former finance
minister of Kenya. The funds would be in addition to an almost
$509 million, three-year credit facility agreed to in
January, the  Finance Ministry  said last week.  The shilling has weakened 24 percent this year as inflation
accelerated to 17.3 percent last month, more than triple the
government’s 5 percent target. Kenya’s central bank on Oct. 5
raised its benchmark  interest rate  by four percentage points to
a record 11 percent to bolster the currency. Two days later,
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said the country would do
“everything possible” to stabilize domestic financial markets.  The shilling was trading at 106.45 against the dollar, the
weakest on record according to IMF data, at 2:47 p.m. in
Nairobi. It closed at 103.60 yesterday.  ‘High Demand’  “There is high demand in a thin market and we are seeing
very little in terms of inflows,” Duncan Kinuthia, head of
trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview from Nairobi today. “Most of the demand is from
telecommunication companies.”  The shilling may weaken further in the coming two to three
weeks, possibly as low as 110 per dollar “on momentum alone,”
said  Aly-Khan Satchu , head of Rich Management, a Nairobi-based
 investment company .  “There is some kind of Africa risk aversion going on” amid
the European debt crisis, Satchu said by phone. “We have a very
illiquid and nervous market where no one is prepared to take any
risk.”  The parliamentary committee will meet officials from the
agriculture, finance and energy ministries at a future date to
discuss measures to help the shilling, Okemo said. He spoke
after Central Bank of Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u addressed
the committee about the shilling’s depreciation.  Ndung’u said the recent drop in Kenya’s foreign-exchange
reserves is largely because of sales by the central bank to
support the shilling. The country’s reserves declined to $3.73
billion last week from $3.78 a week earlier, the central bank
said on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  