-- 
Keynes and Hayek, the Great Debate (Part 4): Nicholas Wapshott

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   W a p s h o t t
-- 
2011-10-11T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/keynes-and-hayek-s-great-debate-part-4-commentary-by-nicholas-wapshott.html
So, more than 80 years after
Friedrich Hayek and John  Maynard Keynes  first crossed swords,
who won the most famous duel in the history of economics?  Although Keynesianism has been declared dead a number of
times since the mid-1970s,  Milton Friedman ’s acknowledgment in
1966 that “in one sense, we are all Keynesians now; in another,
nobody is any longer a Keynesian” is a more accurate, if
teasingly ambiguous, assessment of the state of economics in the
early 21st century.  One key difference between the two men, whether an economy
is best understood from the top down or the bottom up, through
macroeconomics or microeconomics, left Keynes in the ascendant.
His big-picture approach is universally used today, as are such
concepts as gross domestic product, key tools by which
economists measure an economy.  Friedman, in his monetarist prescriptions, refined Keynes,
but he didn’t replace him. Monetarism “has benefited much from
Keynes’s work,” he wrote in 1970. “If Keynes were alive today,
he would no doubt be at the forefront of the [monetarist]
counter-revolution.” Keynes was looking for a cure for mass
unemployment. His remedy was to increase total aggregate demand.
He suggested a number of routes: through monetary means, by
lowering  interest rates  and funneling new money into the
economy; by tax breaks; and through public works.  Friedman convinced economists that when on an even keel,
the economy would be served better by a gradual, moderate,
predictable increase in the supply of money. It was Friedman,
not Keynes, whom most economists and politicians from the mid-
1970s on adopted as their guide, after the application of all
three of Keynes’s remedies simultaneously for three decades
resulted in stagflation. From the moment in 1979 when  Paul Volcker , then the Federal Reserve chairman, rebooted the economy
by deliberately inducing a recession, Friedman’s principles were
widely applied. Friedman adopted Keynes’s idea of running an
economy through macroeconomics, and politicians have gone along
with it, whatever Hayekian rhetoric they may sometimes employ.  Hayek took an absolutist position, that because no one
could know what was in the minds of every member of society, and
that the best indicator of their conflicting needs was market
prices, all attempts to direct an economy were misplaced. Over
time, his failure to attract support during the Keynesian
hegemony appeared to drive him into arguing his case ad
absurdum. Eventually Hayek wanted state power to withdraw to a
minimal citadel, and he wished to see every last element of the
economy, even the issuance of money, in private hands because he
challenged the state’s monopoly of money-creating powers. This
put him in direct opposition to Friedman, who, while wishing for
the government to be minimized, believed that an economy should
be managed to provide steady growth.  While Hayek may have risen in influence in the last 30
years, Keynes has never been far from economists’ thoughts. The
federal government’s urgent response to the financial crisis of
2007-8, initiated by  George W. Bush  and continued by  Barack Obama , was thoroughly Keynesian, with both administrations
intervening in the marketplace to head off the economy’s
collapse. America faced an existential threat, and as in the
1930s, a failure to act was considered so foolhardy it was
barely contemplated.  At the height of the crisis, there were few in the short
run who countered this resurgence of Keynesianism, even fewer
who with a straight face promoted the Hayekian solution, to let
the market find its own level. The view of Austrian-American
political philosopher  Joseph Schumpeter  that the free market
must from time to time endure a period of “creative destruction”
wasn’t allowed to be put to the test. Having so markedly been
proved wrong, the widely held assumption that the free market
always righted itself over time wasn’t given a second chance.
Few have tried to plot the dire consequences that would
accompany the collapse of the economy: How many people made
unemployed; how many deprived of their homes; how many declared
bankrupt; and how many businesses shuttered.  Yet Bush and Obama received little credit for taking
precipitate action to avoid an economic Armageddon. And
Keynesianism proved to be no panacea. As the stimulus failed to
quickly reduce the numbers of unemployed, and the tales of
“wasted” money for contentious public programs began to spread,
many Americans became alarmed at the extent of  government
borrowing . For some, such as Harvard economics professor Robert Barro, Keynes became a figure of derision, a pied piper who
lured the children of future generations into a dark cave of
intolerable indebtedness. Others accused Obama and his economic
advisers of being closet socialists. Hayek’s Austrian School
argument -- that public money put into investments would be
wasted -- was dusted off.  Like Keynes and Hayek, John Kenneth Galbraith didn’t
live to see the Great Recession, but he had an explanation for
why conservatives couldn’t applaud Keynes’s efforts to save
capitalism from itself.  “Keynes was exceedingly comfortable with the economic
system he so brilliantly explored,” observed Galbraith. “So the
broad thrust of his efforts, like that of Roosevelt, was
conservative; it was to help ensure that the system would
survive. But such conservatism in the English-speaking countries
does not appeal to the truly committed conservative. . . .
Better to accept the unemployment, idled plants, and mass
despair of the Great Depression, with all the resulting damage
to the reputation of the capitalist system, than to retreat on
true principle. . . . When capitalism finally succumbs, it will
be to the thunderous cheers of those who are celebrating their
final victory over people like Keynes.”  (Nicholas Wapshott, a former senior editor at the Times of
 London  and the New York Sun, is the author of “ Ronald Reagan  and
 Margaret Thatcher : A Political Marriage.” This is the last in a
four-part series excerpted from his new  book , “Keynes Hayek:
The Clash that Defined Modern Economics,” to be published Oct.
11 by W.W. Norton. See  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 3 )  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Wapshott at  wapshott@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 