-- 
Kirin Wins Court Order Allowing Takeover of Brazil Beer Maker Schincariol

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-10-11T23:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/kirin-wins-court-order-allowing-takeover-of-brazil-beer-maker-schincariol.html
Kirin Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest brewer by volume, won a Brazilian court ruling allowing
it to proceed with its takeover of Schincariol Participacoes &
Representacoes.  The court in  Sao Paulo  state in a ruling yesterday
overturned a previous injunction blocking the deal, said Fabio
Rosas, a partner at Tozzini Freire Advogados, the law firm
representing Kirin. The injunction was granted Aug. 4 after
minority shareholders Jose Augusto Schincariol, Daniela
Schincariol and Gilberto Schincariol Junior sued, claiming they
have the right of first refusal to the controlling stake that
Kirin purchased in August.  On Aug. 1, Kirin paid 3.95 billion reais ($2.2 billion) for
Aleadri-Schinni Participacoes & Representacoes SA, which owns
50.45 percent of Schincariol. The deal, which was the global
beer industry’s second-largest this year, gave Tokyo-based Kirin
a foothold in  Latin America ’s largest beer market with brands
such as Nova Schin and Devassa, whose television ads feature
socialite  Paris Hilton .  “The acquisition was legitimate and was made with all the
care in the world, so it’s not a surprise that the justice
recognized it,” said Fabio Ozi, a partner at Mattos Filho Veiga
Filho Marrey Junior & Quiroga Advogados, the law firm
representing majority shareholder Adriano Schincariol and
Aleadri-Schinni, who also appealed the injunction.  Resuming Talks  Yesterday’s ruling paves the way for Kirin to take control
of the company’s administration and resume talks to buy out
minority shareholders. The Japanese brewer has offered at least
2 billion reais for the minority stakes, a person with knowledge
of the discussions, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private, said late last month.  Kirin hired UBS AG to advise on the talks with minority
shareholders, two people familiar with the process said last
month. Citigroup Inc. acted as adviser for the accord to buy the
controlling stake.  Minority shareholders Jose Augusto Schincariol, Daniela
Schincariol and Gilberto Schincariol Junior plan to appeal
yesterday’s ruling, according to their  law firm , Teixeira,
Martins & Advogados.  Kirin’s Schincariol purchase was the second largest in the
global beer industry this year, trailing SabMiller Plc’s A$9.9
billion ($9.9 billion) acquisition of Foster’s Group Ltd. in
September.  Editors: Jessica Brice, Edward Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.netFor  Related News and Information: 