-- 
Korean Won Rises to Two-Week High as Europe Tackles Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-11T07:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/korean-won-rises-to-two-week-high-as-europe-tackles-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
South  Korea ’s won rose to a two-week
high after German and French leaders pledged to stem a European
debt crisis that’s bolstered the dollar and curbed demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Government bonds  advanced.  The won has rebounded 3.8 percent since hitting a 14-month
low of 1,208.25 versus the greenback a week ago. Germany and
France on Oct. 9 set an end-of-month deadline for a breakthrough
in handling the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has pushed
 Greece  to the brink of default and roiled global markets. South
Korea has more than $300 billion of foreign-exchange reserves
and this will help it weather the turmoil, the Dong-A Ilbo
newspaper reported today, citing Benjamin Hung, chief executive
officer of Standard Chartered Plc’s Hong Kong unit.  “The market is heartened by signs that  Europe  is finally
working on a plan to stabilize the region,” said Kim Sung Soon,
a Seoul-based currency dealer at state-run Industrial Bank of
Korea. “Korea is fundamentally strong and the won is rebounding
fast from last month’s sharp decline.”  The won strengthened 0.6 percent to close at 1,164.50 per
dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,160.80, the strongest level since Sept. 23. The Kospi
index of shares rallied 1.6 percent as overseas investors bought
more of the nation’s shares than they sold today.  South Korea’s benchmark five-year bonds gained. The yield
on the 3.5 percent notes due September 2016 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.59 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  The central bank reported today that producer prices rose
in September at the slowest pace in nine months, giving policy
makers greater scope to leave  interest rates  unchanged this week.
The bank will leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
3.25 percent for a fourth month on Oct. 13, according to all 14
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  