-- 
Kuwaiti Customs Strike for Second Day, Threaten Oil Shipments

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-11T06:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/kuwaiti-customs-strike-for-second-day-threaten-oil-shipments.html
Customs employees in  Kuwait  went on
strike for a second day and threatened to block oil exports in a
protest over wages, a customs union official said.  “Late yesterday, about six tankers needed permission to
leave the ports but it wasn’t given to them,” Fahad al-Ajmi, a
union board member, said in a telephone interview from Kuwait
today. “We’re not going to stop our strike until the Cabinet
itself issues a statement supporting our demands.”  The strike, which involves at least 4,000 workers, has also
disrupted operations at the country’s main airport, sea ports
and border crossings, according to al-Ajmi.  Kuwait’s government “rejected” strikes and said demands
by state employees should be discussed through “calm
dialogue,” the state news agency  KUNA  reported today, citing
government spokesman Ali al-Rashed. The government set up a team
to “take all necessary measures to run the country to fill gaps
caused by strikes,” KUNA said.  State-run Kuwait Petroleum Corp. said yesterday its
business has been operating normally.  “Arrangements are being made to get permission for tankers
to load and leave for the next three days,” KPC Chief Executive
Officer Farouk al-Zanki said in a phone interview. “There is
nothing serious so far and operations are normal, so far.”  Kuwait is the fifth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped 2.56 million barrels a
day of crude oil in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  