-- 
NBA Cancels First Two Weeks of Regular Season as Labor Dispute Persists

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T04:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/nba-cancels-first-two-weeks-of-regular-season-as-labor-dispute-persists.html
The National Basketball Association
season’s first two weeks were canceled and more games are in
jeopardy after owners and players failed to reach a new labor
agreement.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  announced last night,
following seven hours of talks with the  National Basketball
Players Association  at a Manhattan hotel, that 100 regular-
season games had been wiped out.  Asked if the announcement means there’s no chance of having
a full 82-game season, Stern said, “Yes, I think that’s
right.”  “And every day that goes by, I think we need to look at
further reductions in what’s left of the season,” Stern told
reporters.  No further negotiations are scheduled between the sides.  The season was slated to start Nov. 1. Dropping the first
two weeks eliminates games including the  New York Knicks ’ home
opener against  LeBron James  and the  Miami Heat .  The second cancellation in the league’s 66-year history
comes more than three months after owners locked out players
when they were unable to agree on a new collective bargaining
contract. The league had about $4.3 billion in revenue last
season and Stern has said the league’s 30 teams together lost at
least $300 million in each of the past three seasons.  The NBA’s 450 players got 57 percent of basketball-related
income under the previous collective bargaining agreement.
Players recently were asking for 53 percent this time, while
owners were offering 47 percent. Each percentage point is worth
about $40 million. Stern said on Oct. 4 that owners could be
convinced to accept 50 percent.  ‘Philosophical Differences’  “There’s a place in the middle that we could all meet,”
union President  Derek Fisher  said last night. “We’re not sure
where that may eventually be, but on the system there were just
some philosophical differences that continue to prevent us from
getting this deal done.”  Stern agreed that the more difficult issues to overcome
relate to the system the league operates under, including length
of the labor agreement, players’ contract lengths, annual salary
increases and the level of league taxation that teams would face
if they surpass the cap on payrolls.  “I’m convinced that this is all part of the plan,” union
Executive Director  Billy Hunter  told reporters. “Everybody is
waiting for the players to cave. They figure that once a player
misses a check or two it’s all over. I’m saying to you that that
would be a horrible mistake if they think that’s going to happen,
because it’s not going to happen.”  Broadcast Rights Fees  NBA owners receive broadcast rights-fee payments from their
television partners even if games aren’t played. The money, more
than $900 million a season, would have to be repaid to  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and ESPN and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT, Stern has
said.  Stern and Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver also said on Oct.
4 that the league lost about $200 million in revenue from the
cancellation of the preseason and faced “hundreds of millions
of dollars” in losses from wiping out the first two weeks of
the season.  “We have to account for the losses that we’re suffering,
so those losses will be factored in as we move forward,” Stern
said last night.  The only other time the NBA, which began play in 1946,
delayed the season was in 1998, when a labor dispute put the
start back to February 1999 and shortened the campaign to 50
games from 82. During that lockout, the two sides reached a
preliminary agreement on Jan. 6, 1999.  “Regardless of what has happened tonight, we still have a
responsibility to try and find a resolution,” Hunter said. “So
I don’t think that means that this process is over, but I can’t
begin to speculate on when we may meet again and how fast or
slow this will now unfold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  