-- 
Netanyahu to Name Panel on ‘Unclear’ West Bank Construction

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-11T16:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/netanyahu-to-name-panel-on-unclear-west-bank-construction-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will appoint a committee to review policies on the
construction of settlements in the  West Bank  at locations where
the status of the land is “unclear,” his office said.  Settlement opponents said that Netanyahu may use the panel
to delay action or legalize the expansion of so-called outposts
that were built on private land belonging to Palestinians and
never authorized by the Israeli government.  The committee will consider “policy tools and principles
of action connected to construction whose status is unclear” in
the West Bank, according to a statement the prime minister’s
office sent to reporters today by text message. The
recommendations will be used in responding to court challenges
to the building activity, it said.  The Israeli Justice Ministry said in March that it would
remove all unauthorized outposts that were built on private
land, in reaction to a petition brought to the country’s High
Court of Justice. Peace Now, an Israeli organization opposed to
settlements, says that would mean demolishing 70 outposts.  “Even if this taskforce doesn’t come up with legal
solutions, the government will probably be able to use it in
order to buy more time from the courts, and ask to wait with the
enforcement of the law,” Peace Now spokesman Yariv Oppenheimer
said in an e-mailed statement.  Since 1960s  Israel  has constructed about 120 government-authorized
settlements in the West Bank since the late 1960s. Another 100
outposts that never received Israeli government approval have
been built in the West Bank during the past decade.  The  United Nations  says all settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has
refused to renew peace talks unless Israel freezes settlement
construction.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  In the West Bank city of  Ramallah  today, the Palestine
Liberation Organization called on residents of the West Bank and
 Gaza Strip  to shut their businesses for a two-hour general
strike tomorrow in solidarity with hunger-striking Palestinians
held in Israeli prisons, according to a statement e-mailed by
the PLO Executive Committee.  At least 243 Palestinian inmates have joined a hunger
strike to protest prison living conditions, the Israel Prisons
Service said Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 