-- 
Stricken Ship Starts to Crack as New Zealand Arrests Captain After Spills

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-12T09:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/new-zealand-arrests-stricken-ship-s-captain-as-containers-fall-oil-spills.html
New Zealand’s biggest maritime
environmental disaster may worsen as the stranded container ship
leaking oil off the nation’s northeast coast has cracks in its
hull and is tilting in high seas, tipping cargo overboard.  “There are substantial cracks and stress fractures now in
the hull of the ship and therefore the probability of it
breaking up has to be substantially increased,” Prime Minister
John Key said at a televised news conference in Tauranga today.  The stricken Rena, carrying 1,700 metric tons of  fuel oil 
and 1,368 containers, ran aground Oct. 5 in the Bay of Plenty
near Tauranga, 100 miles (160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland.
The vessel has likely spilled as much as 350 tons of oil, which
is washing up on beaches, and about 70 containers are now in the
water,  Maritime New Zealand  said.  The ship’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have both been charged under the Maritime
Act, for operating a vessel in a manner causing unnecessary
danger or risk, the maritime agency said in a  statement . The
master appeared in court today and surrendered his passport. The
second officer will be in court tomorrow, the agency said. The
charge carries a maximum penalty of NZ$10,000 ($7,900) or 12
months’ imprisonment, it said.  “Whoever is responsible for this has to be held to
account,” Key said. “The responsibilities of those on the ship
were to navigate a reef that is well documented. We’re entitled
to have answers about why that happened.”  Hazardous Cargo  Salvagers have mobilized three tugs to stabilize the stern
of the ship, which is in danger of breaking away, Maritime  New
Zealand  said. The tugs will either hold the stern on a reef
while oil is removed, or pull it to shallow waters so that the
oil can be extracted there, it said.  Six vessels have also been deployed to catch debris
floating in the water, the agency said. The cargo on the 32-
year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena includes four containers of
ferrosilicon, a solid substance that can be hazardous when in
contact with water and can emit hydrogen, according to  Maritime
New Zealand.   New Zealand officials are seeking to determine how the
vessel settled on the Astrolabe Reef after interviewing crew on
duty during the accident and seizing recording and navigation
equipment, according to a statement on the  Transport Accident
Investigation Commission’s website . The inquiry’s final analysis
may not be ready until the middle of 2012, the statement said.  Cost of Disaster  The cost of the disaster may exceed the maximum under the
shipowner’s insurance, Key said. The government will pick up any
extra costs.  “We are totally committed to the cleaning up of the
environment,” he said. “These beaches need to be restored to
the condition they were in before and we’ll make sure that
happens.”  More containers may fall into the ocean and navigational
warnings have been issued to mariners, while major shipping has
been re-routed, Maritime New Zealand said.  The public should advise authorities if containers wash
ashore and leave them alone as they may contain hazardous
substances,  New Zealand Police  said in a statement.  3-Meter Waves  New Zealand’s  MetService  earlier canceled a gale warning in
place for the Bay of Plenty coastal region, and forecasts wind
as high 28 miles (45 kilometers) an hour with rain, limited
visibility and waves up to 3 meters.  Personnel were evacuated from the ship yesterday as it
shifted in the heavy seas, while attempts to pump fuel oil onto
a barge were also unable to resume.  Oil has come ashore at Mount Maunganui beach and is
expected to enter Tauranga harbor and affect other beaches on
the coast, Maritime New Zealand said. There is a public health
warning in place and people are being urged to stay away from
the oil that has come onto beaches.  “It is New Zealand’s most significant maritime
environmental disaster,” Environment Minister Nick Smith told
reporters in Tauranga yesterday. The spill is the worst the
nation has experienced, exceeding the 20 tons that were lost by
the Jody F Millennium when it grounded near Gisborne in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  