-- 
New Zealand House Price Index Rises 1.7% to 22-Month High

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-12T00:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/new-zealand-september-home-price-index-rises-1-7-from-august.html
New Zealand’s  house prices  rose to a
22-month high in September as a shortage of new listings created
a supply crunch, economists said.  Prices rose 1.7 percent from August to the highest since
November 2009, the  Real Estate Institute  said in an e-mailed
statement, citing an index. The time to sell a property fell,
while the number of sales was little changed at 5,235 from 5,192
in August, the Auckland-based institute said.  “With the length of time to sell continuing to fall and
prices remaining supported, it suggests to us that the tight
inventory situation is still a key driver of current market
trends,” said  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs &
Partners  New Zealand  Ltd. in Auckland. “We see this lack of
listings as consistent with ongoing household caution more
generally.”  Fewer properties are being offered for sale amid a slow
economic recovery, with consumers preferring to save and reduce
debt rather than spend. Central bank Governor Alan Bollard has
kept  interest rates  at a record-low since March to bolster
demand. He may not raise borrowing costs until next year,
according to 12 of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  House prices rose 2.7 percent from September last year,
while sales increased 21 percent, the institute said. The time
to complete the median house sale fell to 37 days in September
from 39 in August.  Quotable Value New Zealand, the government-owned valuation
agency, today said its measure of house prices rose 0.7 percent
in September from a year earlier. Prices in Auckland, home to a
quarter of the nation’s 4.4 million people, rose 3.4 percent, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  