-- 
New South Battles Old Poverty as Right-to-Work Promises Fade

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/new-south-battles-old-poverty-as-right-to-work-promises-fade.html
Nineteen years ago, when BMW
announced a new factory off Interstate 85 in Spartanburg, South
Carolina looked like the king of smokestack recruiting.  The world’s biggest manufacturer of  luxury vehicles  would
make the city a “Mecca of foreign investment in the  United
States ,” The Independent of London predicted. It would see a
rush of industry chasing Munich-based  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG. (BMW)  Downtown would spring to life. I-85 would be America’s
Autobahn.  “Oh, they were going to solve all of our problems,” said
Cynthia Lounds, director of community economic development at
Piedmont Community Actions Inc., a social-service agency.  Today, South Carolina is one of the most impoverished
states in the nation, becoming the seventh poorest in 2010 from
11th in 2007, according to recent  U.S. Census data . Its
percentage of residents living in poverty shot to 18.2 percent
from 15 percent in that period. In downtown Spartanburg, near-
empty Morgan Square features a used clothing store and two pawn
shops.  South Carolina  and other southern U.S. states topped the
nation’s poverty rankings, a sign of trouble in the so-called
New South known for its growth and ability to lure employers
with laws restricting union organizing. The South was the
country’s only region with an increase from 2009 to 2010 in both
the number of poor and their proportion of the population, the
census said.  ‘Downward Pressure on Wages’  The numbers show that even as South Carolina trumpeted
coups like BMW, the state’s stance toward organized labor has
depressed living standards, said Chris Kromm, executive director
of the  Institute for Southern Studies  in Durham, North Carolina.  “There’s been this kind of undertow of low-wage jobs all
along,” Kromm said. “There have been successes in luring
industries, there’s no question about that. But it brought an
overall downward pressure on wages.”  Job creation  is at the center of the 2012 presidential
campaign. South Carolina on Jan. 21 will play a key role as host
to the first Southern primary in the race to select President
 Barack Obama ’s Republican challenger.  The effect of right-to-work laws on wages has been the
subject of intense debate for years. The National Right to Work
Committee, for instance, says that employee compensation rose
faster in states with those laws, according to the
organization’s website.  Boeing Battle  South Carolina’s rising poverty rate coincides with a
dispute over expansion of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  plant in North
Charleston. The  National Labor Relations Board  sued Boeing Co.
over its decision to locate a 4,000-job factory there, saying
the move was intended to punish union activity at its base in
Washington State.  “It’s like the Obama administration can’t come up with
anything else to stifle business growth in this state,” said
Lewis Gossett, president of the South Carolina Manufacturers
Alliance.  Hostility to organized labor was at the core of the
region’s strategy for attracting jobs: South Carolina joined the
ranks of right-to-work states in 1954, outlawing contracts that
require union membership or dues, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor.  ‘Come on Down!’  The state marketed its non-union labor in the unionized
North, said Brett Bursey, executive director of the SC
Progressive Network, an activist group based in Columbia. One
industry recruiting poster from the 1980s, he said, showed a man
in a T-shirt and a swelling belly. “South Carolina has no labor
pains,” it read. “Come on down!”  The fight over Chicago-based Boeing’s efforts to expand in
North Charleston has revived the issue. With the state’s
unemployment rate at 11.1 percent in August, compared with 9.1
percent nationwide, even some critics of the state’s labor
stance want the Boeing plant to stay open.  “There’s not a lot of debate about that around here,”
said Joseph Darby, a pastor of Morris Brown AME Church in
Charleston who criticized what he said is the state’s emphasis
on low-skill work over education. “The area is so starved for
jobs.”  Like much of the Southeast, South Carolina lost
construction employment during the recession. Its  textile
industry  continued to bleed jobs as well: Union County, about 20
miles from Spartanburg, had the state’s fourth-highest
unemployment rate after a sock factory and a mill closed in 2009
and 2010. The county also lost a 150-job Disney distribution
warehouse it had lured from Memphis 12 years earlier with tax
breaks. Disney moved the operation back to  Tennessee  in July.  Warehouse Work  “I’m just waiting to see what God has in store for me,”
said Joan Bobo, 49, who worked at the facility since it opened.
“I’m experienced in warehouse work. I haven’t found anything
yet.”  South Carolina has seen good business news in the past
year. Manufacturing employment in August was up 11,000 jobs from
a year earlier, including 1,600 new jobs at BMW. The state beat
out  North Carolina  for a Continental Tire company factory on
Oct. 6. It’s getting an Amazon distribution center near
Columbia.  BMW’s South Carolina plant directly and indirectly
supported 23,050 jobs in 2007 and 2008, generating $1.2 billion
in wages,  according to a study  by the Moore School of Business
at the University of South Carolina in Columbia. The automaker’s
direct employees at the plant accounted for 2.2 percent of the
state’s manufacturing employment, the study said.  Expectations ‘Exceeded’  “Since announcing our BMW operations in South Carolina in
1992, and beginning production in 1994, our expectations have
continually been exceeded,” Max Metcalf, a spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  Some of the new jobs in the state, though, have carried a
downside. Employers began hiring through staffing agencies,
instead of directly. The jobs were temporary and lower paid than
permanent positions. At BMW, the difference was $15 per hour
compared with $15.50, Metcalf said. The company needs the
flexibility to respond to demand, he said, and recently moved
many temporary workers to permanent status.  While South Carolina’s private businesses have added
employment, the state lost 15,700 government positions in the
year ending in August.  Juanita Dixon, 33, lost her seven-year government job in
February. A community-college graduate and mother of two, Dixon
earned $10.25 an hour, paid vacation and insurance as a medical
assistant at a county rehabilitation center. Budget cuts closed
it, she said in a phone interview.  Five Applications Daily  Dixon put in five job applications daily, she said. When
BMW’s staffing contractor held a job fair at a hotel, she
applied and was told the wage was $13 an hour.  She passed a written test, but failed a physical one. “You
have to put tires on a car, and you have to do so many in so
much time,” Dixon said. “They said, ‘You can reapply in a
year.’”  Dixon now works at Spartanburg’s new Adidas Distribution
Center, earning $9 an hour doing factory warehouse work. She got
the job through a staffing agency in September: “It’s a
temporary job for three months,” she said.  When BMW arrived in the city, the look of the place was
transformed, said Lounds, of Piedmont Community Actions. Factory
workers tooled around town in cars bought with employee
discounts.  “There were more BMWs around here than Fords,” she said.  Drawn by BMW  Out on I-85, BMW now employs 7,000, nearly twice the 4,000
promised in the 1990s, said Metcalf, the spokesman. The
automaker attracted more than 40 suppliers to the state, spurred
investment in the Port of Charleston and invested $750 million
during the recession in Spartanburg, which now has 277,916
people, according to the census.  Yet the I-85 “autobahn” of industry didn’t materialize,
said Holly Ulrich, senior scholar at the Strom Thurmond
Institute of Government and Public Affairs at  Clemson
University .  “Those predictions were made during the boom years for South
Carolina and the South, before a series of national economic
catastrophes,” Ulrich said. “I haven’t seen evidence that it
happened.”  On Sept. 27, five days after the census poverty numbers
were released, the first-term Republican governor, Nikki Haley,
tried to boost morale. She ordered state workers to change the
way they answered the phone.  By the next morning, callers to an unemployment office in
Spartanburg heard the new message: ‘It’s a great day in South
Carolina.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
 Frank Bass  in  Washington  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  