-- 
News Corp. Said to Probe E-Mails, Private Detective Use at U.K. Newspapers

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-12T16:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/news-corp-said-to-probe-e-mails-detective-use-at-u-k-titles.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is reviewing e-mails and
interviewing reporters at its remaining U.K. titles for signs
employees might have hacked into voice mails or e-mails, or
hired private detectives improperly, two people familiar with
the investigation said.  News Corp.’s internal probe of the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times staff is expected to last beyond the end of the
year and any evidence of wrongdoing will be turned over to the
Metropolitan Police, said one of the people who declined to be
named because details of the investigation are private.  The probe, led by law firm Linklaters LLP, will focus on
the use of private detectives, knowledge of voice-mail hacking
and other forms of electronic interception and cash payments,
the people said. Linklaters is acting for News Corp.’s
Management and Standards Committee, formed by the board after
the company shut the News of the World tabloid amid claims that
reporters hacked into voice mails and paid police for stories.  The internal investigation coincides with renewed pressure
from shareholder groups on Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch and his son, James, to step down. A U.K. parliamentary
committee has said James will have to answer further questions
about phone-hacking and yesterday asked  Les Hinton , former CEO
of Dow Jones & Co., to testify on Oct. 24.  A reporter at the company’s Sun newspaper, who declined to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to discuss internal
company matters, said investigators have been studying staff e-
mails to find links to phone-hacking. The reporter said the
investigators were using keyword search terms in an effort to
match them to illegal activities.  Assisting Police  News Corp. said it was investigating its other U.K. titles
in a regulatory filing yesterday. Spokeswoman Miranda Higham
declined to comment on them beyond the statement.  Paul Durman, a spokesman for the New York-based company’s
Management and Standards Committee, declined to comment.
Linklaters spokesman Rupert Winlaw declined to immediately
comment.  News Corp. said in August that while the group is
authorized to conduct investigations, its primary objective was
to assist police and politicians conducting outside inquiries.
The company also said the body wouldn’t probe what happened at
the News of the World. News Corp. previously said it would
review journalistic standards at its U.K. newspapers following
the hacking scandal.  ‘Decisive Actions’  The committee was formed in July after revelations that
News of the World reporters hacked into the voice mail of
murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  for stories. A police
investigation into phone hacking has led to at least 16 arrests,
among them  Andy Coulson , Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s former
communications chief and an ex-News of the World editor.  “News Corporation has already taken decisive actions to
hold people accountable and will take all prudent steps designed
to prevent something like this from ever occurring again,” the
company said in the statement.  Les Hinton, former executive chairman of the company’s
British unit News International, will be questioned by the U.K.
House of Commons Culture, Media and Sport Committee as part of
its investigation into the scandal, the panel said. Hinton will
appear via video-link.  James Murdoch , deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., appeared in July before the same committee and said
repeatedly he didn’t know of widespread phone hacking at News of
the World. He has been recalled to answer further questions
later this year after his testimony was challenged by former
executives at the U.K. newspaper unit.  Dropped BSkyB Bid  The scandal also forced News Corp. to drop a 7.8 billion-
pound bid for full control of pay-TV operator  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  James Murdoch, facing investors at the
annual general meeting next month, should step down as chairman
of BSkyB, investor Franklin Resources Mutual Series said today.  “An independent chairman would be advisable,” Mutual
Series Chief Investment Officer Peter Langerman said according
to Franklin spokeswoman Lisa Gallegos. The Financial Times
reported Langerman’s comments earlier.  Mutual Series owns about 3 percent of BSkyB, according to
Bloomberg data.  News Corp. also said yesterday that calls by proxy advisory
firm Institutional Shareholder Services for the ouster of 13 of
15 board members following the scandal are “misguided.” The
compensation of Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch is
“aligned with performance,” it said.  Calls for Ouster  News Corp. has suffered financial consequences from the
phone-hacking scandal that reflect a lack of oversight, said
ISS, which advises more than 1,700 investors on corporate
governance issues. It recommended investors vote against  Rupert
Murdoch , his sons James and Lachlan, and 10 other directors.  The members of the management and standards committee
include William Lewis, News International’s former general
manager and  Simon Greenberg , News International’s former
corporate affairs director. Jeff Palker, a third member, also
serves as News Corp.’s general counsel for Europe and  Asia .  Anthony Grabiner, a veteran commercial lawyer and a member
of the U.K. parliament’s House of Lords, was hired as an
independent overseer of the project. He reports to  Joel Klein , a
News Corp. board member. Klein discusses the committee’s
findings with Rod Eddington, the lead director, twice weekly,
the company said in the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net . 