-- 
News Corp. Investigates All Its U.K. Newspapers Following Hacking Scandal

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T13:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/news-corp-investigates-its-u-k-newspapers-after-hacking-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , which closed its U.K.
News of the World tabloid this year following a phone-hacking
scandal, said its Management and Standards Committee is
investigating the company’s three other British newspapers.  The company hired  law firm  Linklaters LLP to advise it on
the investigation, New York-based News Corp. said in a U.S.
regulatory filing today.  News Corp. had been vague about the committee’s duties,
saying in August that while the group is authorized to conduct
investigations, its primary objective is to facilitate outside
inquiries by police and politicians. The company also said the
body wouldn’t investigate what happened at the News of the
World. News Corp. has said that it would hold a review of
journalistic standards at its U.K. newspapers following the
hacking scandal.  The committee was formed in July after the company closed
the News of the World tabloid following revelations that
reporters had hacked into the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl
 Milly Dowler  for stories. A police investigation into phone
hacking has led to at least 16 arrests, among them  Andy Coulson ,
Prime Minister David Cameron’s former communications chief and
an ex-News of the World editor.  “News Corporation has already taken decisive actions to
hold people accountable and will take all prudent steps designed
to prevent something like this from ever occurring again,” the
company said in the statement.  Open Questions  News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham today declined to
comment further. The company’s British titles, published under
the  News International  unit, are the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times.  Les Hinton , former executive chairman of News
International, will be questioned by the U.K. House of Commons
Culture, Media and Sport Committee on Oct. 24 as part of its
investigation into the scandal, the panel said today. Hinton
will appear via video-link.  James Murdoch , deputy operating chief of News Corp.,
appeared in July before the same committee to explain how much
he knew about phone hacking at News of the World. He was
recalled to answer further questions later this year. James
Murdoch said repeatedly that he didn’t know of widespread
hacking, testimony that has been challenged by former executives
at the U.K. newspaper unit.  Shareholder Pressure  News Corp. also said today that calls by proxy advisory
firm Institutional Shareholder Services for the ouster of 13 out
of 15 board members following the scandal are “misguided.” The
compensation of Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch is
“aligned with performance,” it said.  News Corp. has suffered financial consequences from the
phone-hacking scandal that reflect a lack of oversight, said
ISS, which advises more than 1,700 investors on corporate
governance issues. It recommended investors vote against  Rupert
Murdoch , his sons James and Lachlan, and 10 other directors.  The executive members of the committee include William Lewis, News International’s former general manager and  Simon Greenberg , News International’s former corporate affairs
director. Jeff Palker, a third member, also serves as News
Corp.’s general counsel for Europe and  Asia .  Anthony Grabiner, a veteran commercial lawyer and a member
of the U.K. parliament’s House of Lords, was hired as an
independent overseer of the project. He reports to  Joel Klein , a
News Corp. board member. Klein discusses the committee’s
findings with Rod Eddington, the lead director, twice weekly,
the company said in the filing.  News Corp. rose 68 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $16.93 in New
York trading yesterday. The stock gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  