-- 
NFL Will Continue Playing UK Games Through 2016 After Owner Vote

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-10-11T20:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/nfl-to-continue-playing-uk-games-through-2016-after-owners-extend-program.html
The  National Football League  will
continue playing games in the U.K. in each of the next five
years after owners extended the international series of the
U.S.’s most popular sport through 2016.  Owners approved a plan that allows teams to volunteer to
play at least one regular-season game each year in the U.K.
while the league decides how many games to play there each
season, the NFL said in a news release.  “Because of the outstanding support of our British fans,
we are confident that hosting additional games in the U.K. will
be well received and support our goal of bringing football to
more fans in the U.K. and beyond,” NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said in the release.  The NFL originally planned to have different teams visit
the U.K. each year, before deciding that having some teams
return regularly would help build their fan bases there,
according to Chris Parsons, the league’s vice president of
international business.  “We think there is a tremendous benefit for a team to
return to the U.K. on an annual basis,” he said.  The games have helped the NFL’s U.K. fan base grow 32
percent to 11 million in the past two years, and increased
television ratings in the country by 91 percent, according to
the release. The U.K. television audience for the  Super Bowl  has
increased 74 percent since 2006.  This year’s game between the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and
 Chicago Bears  on Oct. 23 will be the fifth regular-season game
played at London’s Wembley Stadium. Teams including the  New York
Giants , New Orleans Saints and  New England Patriots  have also
visited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  