-- 
Nigeria, Kenya Buck Global Trend to Help Rescue Currencies

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-10-12T14:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/nigeria-kenya-buck-global-rate-trend-to-help-rescue-currencies.html
Nigeria , Kenya and  Uganda  bucked a
global trend by raising  interest rates  to record levels in the
past week as they struggle to protect their currencies and curb
soaring inflation.  Nigeria’s central bank boosted its key rate by 275 basis
points to 12 percent on Oct. 10 at an emergency meeting, less
than a week after Kenya and Uganda lifted their policy rates by
4 percentage points each. The currencies of the two East African
nations have lost a fifth of their value this year, making them
the worst performers in the world, according to Bloomberg data.  “Central banks are going to try to look after their
currencies to steer inflation away from increasing as
significantly as it has,” Celeste Fauconnier, an  Africa  analyst
at Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank, said in a telephone
interview. “The only way they can sort of manage the issue is
through monetary policy.”  Before Nigeria’s rate decision, the naira slumped 7.4
percent against the dollar on the interbank market this year,
reaching as low as 166.60 on Oct. 10. The currency surged as
much as 4.6 percent the day after the rate announcement.  The worst drought in 60 years in East Africa fueled
inflation in Kenya and Uganda, driving investors to abandon the
currencies just as risk aversion globally picked up, compounding
their plunge. Inflation in Uganda surged to 28.3 percent in
September and reached 17.3 percent in Kenya.  Rate Cuts  Brazil , Turkey, Switzerland, Israel and Indonesia have cut
borrowing costs since August to support their economies as a
debt crisis in  Europe  threatens the global recovery, while the
U.S., U.K. and  Japan  have kept rates near zero.  India  is the
only large emerging-market nation to raise borrowing costs in
the past two months, lifting its repurchase rate by 25 basis
points to 8.25 percent in September.  The central bank in Kenya raised its benchmark rate to 11
percent on Oct. 5, while Uganda boosted its rate to 20 percent
the day before, with both indicating they will increase
borrowing costs further to help support their currencies. In
 Rwanda , which borders Uganda, Tanzania,  Burundi  and  Democratic
Republic  of Congo, the central bank increased its key rate for
the first time in almost three years to 6.5 percent on Oct. 7.  Banks Coordinate  The central banks of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi and
Rwanda agreed to coordinate the tightening of monetary policy,
curb currency speculation and reduce currency volatility, the
East African Community said in an e-mailed statement today.  Price pressures may increase in Nigeria after the naira
weakened and the government prepares to remove fuel subsidies
next year. Inflation slowed to 9.3 percent in August, staying
below 10 percent for a second consecutive month, the statistics
office said on Sept. 14.  “Maintaining exchange rate stability, especially in times
of global uncertainty, is crucial to the mandate of  price
stability ,” Nigerian central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said
on Oct. 10.  The naira gained 1.8 percent to 156.1 per dollar at 2:42
p.m. in Lagos. The Kenyan shilling rose 1.8 percent to 104.23
per dollar, while the Ugandan shilling advanced 0.1 percent to
2,880.  Oil-price declines and high dollar demand at twice-weekly
foreign exchange sales have depleted Nigeria’s foreign-currency
reserves, making it more difficult for the central bank to
support the naira within its targeted 3 percentage-point band
above or below 150 per dollar.  Oil Reserves  The reserves of Africa’s biggest oil producer have declined
9 percent to $31.4 billion in the 12 months through Oct. 6,
according to data from the Abuja-based central bank.  In  Kenya , the weaker currency is driving import prices
higher, reducing personal spending and investment and threatens
growth, Charles Robertson, global chief economist for
Renaissance Capital in  London , said in a phone interview. Higher
rates may help draw investment back to the region, he said.  “In a world of zero percent rates in the West, these sort
of levels are likely to help stabilize currencies,” Robertson
said. “When the global markets get more confident, which I
imagine will happen in the next two or three months, you will
see a rally in these currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  