-- 
Northwest Gasoline at Highest Premium in Four Years on Repairs

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-10-11T21:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/northwest-gasoline-extends-highest-premium-in-four-years-on-work.html
Spot gasoline in the Northwest
extended its highest premium to gasoline futures since at least
2007 as BP Plc,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  conducted
work at  Washington ’s three largest oil refineries.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , rose 0.38 cent to 49.38 cents above futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:24 p.m. in New
York, its largest premium, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to Nov. 27, 2007. Prompt delivery of the
fuel has risen 17 percent to $3.2414 a gallon since Oct. 3.  London-based BP shut two coker heaters and a hydrocracker
compressor, among other units, at the 243,000-barrel-a-day
Cherry Point refinery for work last week. Shell and Tesoro are
conducting maintenance at their refineries in Anacortes,
Washington.  “The work is the main driver,” David Hackett, president
of energy consultant Stillwater Associates in  Irvine ,
 California , said in a telephone interview. “Gasoline stocks in
the West are also relatively low, 10 percent lower than last
year.”  Motor gasoline inventories on the West Coast dipped 0.8
percent last week to 28.3 million barrels, the lowest level
since Sept. 2.  Tesoro Anacortes  Tesoro, based in  San Antonio , is conducting “unspecified”
maintenance at the 125,000-barrel-a-day Anacortes refinery, Mike
Marcy, a company spokesman based in Martinez, California, said
in an e-mail today.  “We expect to meet our contractual supply obligations with
our customers in the region,” Marcy said.  Tesoro has been working on a supercritical extraction unit,
known as a ROSE unit, at the Anacortes refinery since late
August. The unit, which refines heavier, residual oils into
asphalt, resin and lighter oil products, was initially scheduled
to return to service last month.  Hague-based Shell shut several units, including a crude
unit, a delayed coker and a catalytic reforming unit, at its own
147,500-barrel-a-day Anacortes plant on Sept. 23 for work
scheduled to last until Nov. 8.  BP has not publicly said how long units will be down for
work at the Cherry Point refinery.  ConocoPhillips (COP)   California-blend gasoline strengthened for the second day
after ConocoPhillips was said to shut a hydrotreater that caught
fire over the weekend at the 147,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington
refinery. The Houston-based company reported flaring today
related to a breakdown at the plant, south of  Los Angeles .  Rich Johnson, a Conoco spokesman in Houston, declined to
comment on the flaring and the status of the hydrotreater.  The premium for Carbob in Los Angeles rose 1.5 cents to 44
cents a gallon versus futures on the Nymex, and in  San Francisco 
the fuel increased the same amount to 43 cents over futures.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  started maintenance at the  240,000-barrel-a-
day Richmond refinery in Northern California Oct. 3 that’s
expected to last four to six weeks. An additional 1,650 workers
have been brought into the plant to help conduct the work,
according to a letter the San Ramon, California-based company
sent to residents.  The premium for California-blend diesel in Los Angeles fell
3.5 cents to 12 cents above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in  New York  at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  