-- 
Ho Chi Minh’s Office Rents May Rebound in 2012, CBRE Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T03:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ho-chi-minh-s-office-rents-may-rebound-in-2012-cbre-says.html
Ho Chi Minh City’s office rents
may rebound by the end of next year, boosted by demand and a
lack of new supply after the opening of the city’s tallest
building, CBRE  Vietnam  Co. said.  Office rents in Vietnam’s biggest city may fall another
5 percent and stabilize by mid-2012 before picking up as
space in the new building is absorbed, said Marc Townsend,
managing director at the Vietnam unit of the world’s biggest
commercial property broker. Binh Minh Import-Export
Production & Trade Co., known as Bitexco, opened its 262-
meter (860-foot), $270 million tower a year ago, adding
37,000 square meters of  office space .  “We’ve got a few more months of falling rents and
associated values,” Townsend said in an interview yesterday.
“Buildings like the Bitexco Financial Tower opening were
bound to affect the market, but now there are only a few more
big buildings to come on the market.”  The decline in rents by next year may make Vietnam more
competitive for investors seeking to expand after office
leasing rates in  Ho Chi Minh City  surged past those of
Jakarta and Bangkok during the nation’s property boom before
the global financial crisis in 2008, Townsend said. The
nation’s economy is expected to expand 6.3 percent in 2012,
according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  New supply may be limited by Vietnam’s banking industry,
which has been hampered by the impact of property bubbles in
recent years, the  World Bank   said in June . Curbs on credit
for real estate contributed to a sharp slowdown in the
nation’s construction in the first half, the  Asian
Development Bank   said last month , while high  interest rates 
and inflation fed “weak” real estate sales this year,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in August.  ‘Very Painful’  “The decline in rents is very painful for people who
borrowed large amounts of money to develop property over the
last three years,” said Townsend. “But we don’t expect to
see many new projects because very few banks will look at
loans now for property.”  The average asking rent in the third quarter was down
between 7 percent and 9 percent from a year earlier,
according to  a report  from CBRE Vietnam. Slow office rental
markets and high interest rates contributed to a feeling of
“desperation” in the country’s property market, according
to the U.K.-listed  Vietnam Property Fund Ltd. (VPF)   “The third quarter of 2011 has continued to provide a
difficult climate for real estate, with loan restrictions and
high interest rates,” London-based property brokerage Knight
Frank LLP said in a report on Ho Chi Minh City’s property
market released this week, adding that “the current market
is believed by some to be near the bottom of the property
cycle.”  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Linus Chua,
Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  