-- 
Obama Aides Seek to Frame Republicans’ Debate on the Economy

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-11T23:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/obama-aides-seek-to-counter-republicans-message-on-economy-before-debate.html
As Republican presidential
candidates prepared to debate economic policy in New Hampshire
tonight, President  Barack Obama  and his allies went on the
offensive, maintaining the president’s would-be challengers
don’t have a plan to revive the economy.  Republicans want to “basically build a bridge back to the
recession,” White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said this
morning on NBC’s “Today” program. Their policy prescriptions
would “let  Wall Street  write their own rules, cut taxes for the
wealthiest, let polluters have their way with our air and
water.”  “That’s not going to grow jobs now or in the long term,”
he said.  Plouffe’s appearance on the show was one of several by
administration officials and party leaders in what amounts to a
coordinated effort by the president’s team to seize the
initiative before eight Republican presidential contenders
discuss economic issues in a debate sponsored by Bloomberg LP
and The Washington Post tonight in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “It’s not atypical of a White House to do this,” said Tom Rath, a former New Hampshire attorney general who is backing
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , one of the
frontrunners in the Republican contest. “They don’t have a race
on their side, except against themselves.”  Criticism From Romney  Romney leads polls in New Hampshire, which will hold the
first primary early next year, and he criticized Obama’s
handling of the economy as he campaigned in the state yesterday.
At a Veterans of Foreign Wars post in Milford, he said Obama’s
stewardship has created a “‘Where’s Waldo?’ economy,”
referring to the children’s books in which the challenge is to
hunt for a small, hard-to-find man on a crowded page. In
Romney’s analogy, the jobs are Waldo.  He also accused Obama of fostering “class warfare” that
Romney said demonized groups of people unfairly. “I’ve been
really disappointed -- and, in some respects, a little
frightened -- by the president’s rhetoric -- this class warfare,
trying to find someone to blame,” Romney said.  Democratic National Committee  Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a U.S. representative from Florida, also is in New
Hampshire today echoing the theme laid out by Plouffe.  Counter Point  The Republican presidential candidates have offered no
solutions “other than the ones that already got us into the
economic crisis in the first place,” she said on  MSNBC .  The White House offensive also preceded a test vote tonight
in the Senate on the president’s $447 billion plan to stimulate
hiring through a combination of tax cuts and spending. The
nation’s jobless rate was 9.1 percent in September, the sixth
consecutive month it has been at 9 percent or higher.  With the vote tally still taking place, Senate opponents of
the president’s proposal had enough votes to block debate,
effectively shelving the legislation. It would have faced likely
defeat in the House, where Republicans have a majority and have
expressed opposition to tax increases in the plan.  Obama earlier in the day called it “a moment of truth” in
the Senate. “Today’s the day when every American will find out
where their senators stand on this jobs bill,” Obama said today
in remarks at the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers Local No. 5 Training Center in Pittsburgh.  Strategy  The president and his advisers said they expect the
legislation will be broken up into narrower measures that can
draw at least some Republican votes, such as the tax cuts.  Obama’s campaign manager,  Jim Messina , sent an e-mail to
supporters saying Republicans will block the proposal because
they “only have a political plan” instead of a plan for the
economy.  “They think that the more folks see Washington taking no
action to create jobs, the better their chances in the next
election,” Messina’s e-mail said.  According to a Bloomberg-Washington Post poll, more than
two-thirds of Americans, including a majority of Republicans,
say wealthier people should pay more in taxes to bring down the
 budget deficit , and even larger numbers say Medicare and Social
Security benefits should be left alone.  More than eight of 10 Americans say the middle class will
have to make financial sacrifices to cut the deficit even as the
public just as strongly opposes higher taxes for middle-income
families, according to the poll, conducted Oct. 6-9.  Fundraising  Obama traveled to  Florida  tonight for back-to-back
fundraisers in the Orlando area, raising money jointly for his
re-election campaign and the Democratic National Committee.  The first event was for about 450 donors at a downtown
hotel with ticket prices ranging from $25 for students up to
$35,800. The other fundraiser was for about 300 guests at the
home of lawyer John Morgan and featured professional sports
figures including NBA stars  Patrick Ewing  and Grant Hill.  In between, the president stopped to have drinks with
unemployed construction workers and Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer.  “You guys are what this country’s all about,” Obama told
the three men and one woman seated with him and Dyer at a table.  Josh Earnest , an administration spokesman, said Obama
wasn’t planning to watch the Republican debate and probably will
tune into the American League playoff game between the  Detroit
Tigers  and  Texas Rangers .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Hanover, New Hampshire, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Pittsburgh at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  