-- 
Obama’s Jobs Council Proposes Plan to Boost Foreign Investment

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-11T17:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/obama-s-jobs-council-proposes-plan-to-boost-foreign-investment.html
A group of executives advising
President  Barack Obama  on jobs is recommending an effort to
attract $1 trillion in foreign direct investment within five
years and upgrade the nation’s transportation and energy
infrastructure.  The  President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness , headed
by  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt , released its 52-page  report  today during a
meeting with Obama in Pittsburgh, where the president also is
promoting his $447 billion jobs plan.  Obama told the panel that the legislation he’s proposed
“incorporates a lot of the ideas” in the report. Still he said
he recognized that opposition from Republicans may block passage
of his full plan and if it fails to get through “we’re going to
have to break it up” into parts.  With the U.S. jobless rate at 9.1 percent in September --
the sixth consecutive month it’s been at 9 percent or higher --
Obama is pressing Congress to act on his jobs plan. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has scheduled a
procedural vote this evening on the legislation, which faces
resistance from Republicans and some Democrats on its tax and
spending provisions.  Counting Votes  Democrats have 53 seats in the Senate with 60 votes needed
to move forward. Maryland Representative  Steny Hoyer , the
second-ranking Democrat in the House, urged fellow party members
in the Senate to stay united on tonight’s vote even if they
disagree with portions of the legislation. Failure to do so
risks “undermining the president’s message,” he said at his
weekly news conference.  Administration officials said they expect to get almost
unanimous support from Democrats even as the total falls short
of the 60 needed to proceed.  The president met with his jobs council while visiting the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local No. 5
Training Center.  He called the report “outstanding” without endorsing
specific recommendations.  The jobs council report, published on its website, calls
for more extensive initiatives than the president has proposed,
touching on immigration,  tax policy , business regulation and
worker training. It contains recommendations that support
Obama’s proposals, such as infrastructure spending, as well as
those that Republicans back, including relaxing some regulation.  “There is no ‘silver bullet’ to create jobs,” the report
says.  Foreign Investment  One way is to get more investment from overseas, according
to the council. The report says the U.S. attracts 18 percent of
global direct investment, down from nearly 26 percent in the
late 1990s.  That trend can be reversed as the wage gap between the U.S.
and China falls and ocean freight and Chinese real estate prices
rise, the report says. The council’s goal of $1 trillion in
foreign direct investment in the next four to five years would
be a 20 percent to 25 percent increase over current trends, it
says.  The council backs Obama’s call for spending on
infrastructure improvements both to spur hiring in the short
term and improve the nation’s long-term competitiveness by
making the economy more productive. It also recommends steps to
encourage private investment in advanced energy technology.  The U.S. is falling behind economic competitors such as
 China  in infrastructure, such as roadways, ports, rail links and
airports, according to the report.  ‘Two-Fer’ Projects  The report says roads, schools, electric grids and other
infrastructure projects are “two-fers” because they create
short-term jobs and promote competitiveness in the long term.  “If  Washington  can agree on anything, it should be this,”
the council said.  The council calls for a reauthorization of surface
transportation funding legislation rather than repeated
extensions that Congress has passed. The panel also endorsed
Obama’s proposal to create an infrastructure bank that would
leverage private funds to projects.  To get construction under way, the council said federal
regulatory and permitting reviews should be streamlined and
speeded up. Increasing infrastructure projects is “not just a
question of money” and the government should “simplify
regulatory review” to avoid “unnecessary delays.”  Sarbanes-Oxley  In order to reduce barriers for firms to make initial
public offerings, the council recommended modifying the 2002
Sarbanes-Oxley law to let shareholders of public companies with
market valuations of less than $1 billion opt out of compliance
requirements.  Obama said alterations to the law should be examined for
their impact on smaller companies and asked the council to
recommend specific “tweaks.”  Among the other recommendations: eliminate capital gains
taxes on investments of up to $25 million in privately held
companies as long as the investment is held for at least five
years; give accredited angel group investors a refundable 30
percent tax credit; further streamline the patent process and
access to Small Business Administration financing; speed visas
and expand immigration opportunities for highly skilled workers;
train more engineers and health care workers; and require
independent regulatory commissions to conduct cost-benefit
analyses on any “economically significant” regulatory actions
with an annual impact of $100 million or more.  “Bipartisan action on this agenda in Washington -- even on
modest issues, to start -- would boost confidence at this
juncture and have a positive effect on our economy,” the report
said.  Along with Immelt, the 27 members of the jobs council
include  Steve Case , Revolution LLC CEO and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  co-founder,
Ursula Burns, chairman and CEO of  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ,  Sheryl Sandberg ,
chief operating officer of Facebook Inc., Jim McNerney, CEO of
 Boeing Co. (BA) , and  Richard Parsons , chairman of Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  