-- 
Obama, Facing Defeat of Broad Job-Creating Plan, Eyes Piecemeal Approach

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-11T18:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/obama-says-jobs-package-may-be-broken-up-if-it-can-t-get-through-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  said that if
lawmakers won’t pass his entire $447 billion jobs package it may
be broken up into individual provisions that can get through
Congress.  “I don’t know how Congress will respond to the overall
package, but our expectation is, is if they don’t pass the whole
package, we’re going to break it up into constituent parts,”
Obama said as he met with his council on jobs and
competitiveness in Pittsburgh.  The Senate appears poised to block the president’s full
plan later today amid opposition from Republicans and some
Democrats who object to spending provisions and tax increases to
help offset its cost. Democrats have 53 seats in the chamber,
and 60 votes are needed to begin debate.  “This is a moment of truth for the  U.S. Senate ,” Obama
told workers at the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers Local No. 5 Training Center in Pittsburgh. “Today’s the
day when every American will find out where their senators stand
on this jobs bill.”  Two administration officials today outlined parts of the
plan that might be pursued individually, such as cuts in payroll
taxes for workers and employers, renewed  unemployment benefits 
for the jobless, small business tax cuts, and spending for
infrastructure.  Pressure on Republicans  White House officials anticipate political pressure on
Republicans will help push through some of the smaller measures,
because Republicans won’t want to return home at year’s end
without some sign of progress on the jobs front, said the aides,
who were not authorized to speak publicly. The officials also
said elements of Obama’s proposal might be included in proposals
from a congressional  supercommittee  given the task of
identifying $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years.  The aides said the jobs plan will become a prime focus for
Obama as he seeks to set the stage for his 2012 re-election bid.
They said he intends to underscore the lack of a significant
counterproposal from Republicans in Congress as an alternative
to Obama’s ideas for lowering the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate.  Obama proposes to cut payroll taxes for workers and
employers by half, extend jobless benefits, provide aid to
states for schools and emergency workers and boost spending on
public works projects such as roads and bridges. He also would
provide tax breaks for employers to hire the unemployed.  Millionaire Surtax  The plan to be considered by the Senate would be financed
by a surtax on people earning at least $1 million a year, which
the U.S.  Congressional Budget Office  said would raise $453
billion. Senate Democratic leaders proposed that offset to
replace Obama’s initial plan for revenue increases that ran into
resistance from some Democrats.  Obama proposed capping itemized deductions for individuals
earning more than $200,000 a year and couples earning more than
$250,000. He also proposed raising taxes on private equity firm
managers, real estate investors and venture capitalists, and
ending oil and gas subsidies. Obama has said he would accept the
surtax.  Obama’s plan also faces hurdles in the House. Republicans,
who hold the majority, oppose the tax increases, and party
leaders there say it adds spending in many areas already
bolstered in 2009’s economic stimulus measure, which they say
wasn’t effective.  House Republican leaders say some of Obama’s ideas, such as
payroll tax cuts, are worth considering, though they object to
the spending proposals and oppose raising other taxes to pay for
them.  Maryland  Representative  Steny Hoyer , the second-ranking
Democrat in the House, urged Senate Democrats to give united
support for today’s vote to allow debate on Obama’s jobs bill.
Failure would undermine the president’s message that Republicans
are blocking the plan, Hoyer, of Maryland, said at his weekly
press conference in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Pittsburgh at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  