-- 
Oil Drops First Day in Six on U.S., Europe Fuel Demand Outlook, Stockpiles

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-12T07:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/oil-drops-for-first-day-in-six-after-europe-vote-fails-opec-cuts-outlook.html
Oil fell in  New York , snapping the
longest run of gains this year, on speculation fuel demand will
slow as the U.S. and  Europe  struggle to shore up their faltering
economies.  Prices slid as much as 1.5 percent before a report that may
show U.S. crude stockpiles increased last week. Futures also
dropped after Slovak lawmakers voted against an overhaul of
Europe’s bailout fund and the  U.S. Senate  blocked President
Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan. Brent’s premium to New
York oil was at the widest in almost a month.  “The market is starting to come to grips with the depth of
the issues in Europe,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. Investors
are “questioning the ongoing demand for crude oil,” he said.  Crude for November delivery was at $85.56 a barrel, down 25
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 6:11 p.m. Sydney time. The contract climbed 0.5 percent
yesterday to $85.81, the highest close since Sept. 21. Prices
are down 6.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement rose 12 cents to $110.85
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at a premium of $25.29 to U.S. crude, the
most since Sept. 15 and down from a record of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles probably rose by 800,000 barrels
last week, according to the median of 15 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey before a weekly Energy Department report.
The department is releasing the data a day later than usual
because of this week’s Columbus Day holiday.  U.S. Jobs, Euro  Opponents of Obama’s jobs plan had enough votes to block
the measure in the Senate, with Democratic Senators Jon Tester
of Montana and  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska opposing the plan. It
includes cuts in payroll taxes for workers and employers and
provides new funding for roads, bridges and other
infrastructure.  In the 17-nation region using the euro, Slovakia is the
only country that hasn’t ratified the enhancement of the
European Financial Stability Facility. Lawmakers need to vote
again “as soon as possible,” according to Prime Minister  Iveta
Radicova .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  