-- 
Crude Oil Rises for Fifth Session as Equities Gain on Earnings Optimism

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-10-11T20:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/oil-drops-from-two-week-high-in-new-york-before-europe-debt-vote.html
Crude oil capped the longest rally
this year in  New York  as gasoline prices surged and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index held gains a day after making the biggest
advance since August.  Futures increased for a fifth day as prices for the motor
fuel climbed amid speculation that supplies will decline after
Sunoco Inc. shut part of a fluid catalytic cracker at its Marcus
Hook refinery in Pennsylvania. The  S&P 500  gained 0.1 percent
amid optimism about third-quarter earnings.  “Equities are high and that gives hope for the crude
market,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research with Blue Ocean LLC in New York. “Units going down at
Marcus Hook would be bullish for both gasoline and oil because
there’s going to be less demand for imported oil on the East
Coast and more demand for crude in the midcontinent.”  Crude for November delivery at Cushing, Oklahoma, gained 40
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $85.81 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 21.
Prices have risen 5.3 percent in the past week. The five-day
advance was the longest since the period ended Dec. 23, 2010.
Futures have fallen 6.1 percent this year.  Gasoline for November delivery gained 5.23 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $2.7476 a gallon on the Nymex, a three-week high.  “Oil got some bullish news with the refinery issue,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.
“ Marcus Hook  gave us a little bit of a bounce.”  Marcus Hook  Sunoco is conducting work expected to take about four days
on the unit at Marcus Hook, said Kevin Sunday, a spokesman for
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. Thomas Golembeski, a Sunoco spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  rose to 1,195.54 from 1,194.89 yesterday.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 0.1 percent to
11,416.30.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer,
increased 2.1 percent before reporting its quarterly results
today.  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  jumped 4.3 percent and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  climbed 3
percent.  “Oil traders are very responsive to the condition of
equities,” said  Richard Ilczyszyn , a Chicago-based senior
market strategist at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  “Equities are a
little stronger and the markets have rebounded.”  Prices also increased after the  Justice Department  charged
two men in an alleged plot to use a weapon of mass destruction
to kill Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S. The kingdom is the
world’s largest oil exporter and OPEC’s biggest producer.  Alleged Plot  Manssor Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri were charged in a
purported conspiracy to murder Adel Al-Jubeir in a scheme that
began early this year and progressed through Sept. 29, according
to papers filed in Manhattan federal court.  Brent oil for November settlement rose $1.78, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $110.73 on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  Earlier, oil and equities tumbled after European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the region’s debt crisis
threatens the financial system and because of uncertainty before
a government vote in Slovakia on the euro area’s bailout fund.  Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos told Parliament today
that lawmakers should back the European Financial Stability
Facility, the euro region’s enhanced bailout fund. Slovakia is
the only country in the 17-nation euro area that hasn’t ratified
the measure, following approval in Malta yesterday.  Slovak Vote  Slovak lawmakers rejected the bill, which is tied to a no-
confidence vote against Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova . Miklos
said the measure would likely be approved in a subsequent vote.  “All the attention is focused on what’s going on in Europe
and what’s going on with the dollar and equities and not really
the oil fundamentals,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  The euro was little changed at $1.3664 at 2:36 p.m. in New
York from $1.3642 yesterday. Earlier, it fell as much as 0.6
percent to $1.3566.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reduced
its demand estimate for this year for a third month today on
threats to the world economy. It predicted oil demand will grow
880,000 barrels a day this year, revised down from 1.06 million
barrels a day in a report last month.  The oil market is in a “very comfortable” situation and
it is “too early” to talk about the next OPEC meeting, its
Secretary General Abdalla El-Badri said in  London  today.  U.S. Supplies  An Energy Department report Oct. 13 may show U.S. crude
supplies rose 800,000 barrels last week, according to the median
of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
department is releasing the data a day later than usual because
of yesterday’s Columbus Day holiday.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 632,119
contracts as of 2:36 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 556,770
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.42 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  