-- 
Tsang Faces Anger Over Home Prices, Poverty in Last Hong Kon Policy Speech

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-10-12T03:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/hong-kong-s-tsang-vows-remedy-for-public-anger-over-home-prices.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  began his final annual  policy speech  today in which he is
expected to address discontent at a surge in  home prices  that
threatens to mar his legacy.  The top government official of the Chinese territory on
Oct. 9 pledged to “break with tradition” after admitting to
mistakes in housing policy during his six years in charge. While
proximity to  China  boosted exports, retail spending and services
in the former British colony, an influx of mainland money also
pushed home prices beyond the reach of many people.  Tsang took office in 2005 after mass protests led his
predecessor to quit, and with the economy smaller than when the
city was returned to Chinese rule eight years earlier. Gross
domestic product growth of 26 percent since then, unemployment
at a 13-year low and a minimum-wage law failed to stop his
popularity plunging as a widening wealth gap fuels public anger.  With policy options limited by the currency’s peg to the
dollar, Tsang on  Oct. 9  signaled he will repeat a pattern that’s
seen more than HK$180 billion ($23 billion) in power subsidies,
tax rebates and other sweeteners awarded by the government in
the past four years.  “Tsang’s quick fixes of handing out candies are like
opening a Pandora’s box,” said  Joseph Cheng , a professor of
politics at the  City University  of Hong Kong. “Hong Kong can be
pretty proud of its economic performance, but Tsang has made no
efforts to push long-term policies addressing livelihood
issues.”  Tsang, 67, admitted to “mistakes” by stopping the supply
of land after property prices collapsed in 1997. The subsequent
surge in home prices was the biggest source of public anger, he
said in a radio interview broadcast on Oct. 8. He is likely to
unveil a new subsidized home-ownership program in today’s
speech, the  South China Morning Post  reported yesterday.  ‘Worst Nightmare’  A career civil servant who held posts as financial and
chief secretary, Tsang’s first stint in the top job began after
Tung Chee-hwa quit two years early following protests by more
than 500,000 people in 2003 and hundreds of thousands in 2004.  “Tsang’s worst nightmare would be a repeat of seeing half
a million people taking to the streets,” said Ivan Choi, a
politics lecturer at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong . “He
tries to avoid anything that could trigger social conflicts.
He’s just a politician working for his own survival, not a
statesman with vision.”  Tsang’s legacy was hard to see as many of his initiatives
were “realized in a watered-down version,” Choi said.  The final policy address will be longer than usual, Tsang
said Oct. 9 as he plans to review his four decades of public
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  