-- 
Moody’s Says Poland Needs Contingency Plan as Economy Slows

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-11T10:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/moody-s-says-poland-s-2012-budget-gap-goal-may-be-out-of-reach-.html
Poland’s rating outlook may come
under pressure unless the government presents “contingency
plans” to reduce the  budget deficit  as economic growth slows
amid the European debt crisis, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The government’s plan to cut the deficit to 2.9 percent of
gross domestic product next year “might be out of reach,”
Jaime Reusche, an assistant vice president for sovereign risk at
Moody’s in  New York , wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News yesterday. Moody’s rates Poland A2, the
sixth-highest investment grade.  “Underestimating the risks of what is to come is
dangerous, but policy-makers in Poland are conscious about these
challenges and the uncertainty that surrounds the operating
environment,” Reusche wrote. “Nevertheless, we have not yet
seen contingency plans by the government, and this could
certainly impact the stable outlook.”  The government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, which won
general election over the weekend, promised to cut the budget
gap to below 3 percent of GDP next year after it widened to a
record 7.9 percent in 2010. Under his stewardship,  Poland  was
the only European Union economy to keep growing through the
global credit crisis helped by tax cuts and construction
projects funded in part by EU aid.  “The challenge of what is to come highlights risks that
could lead to a negative outlook,” Reusche wrote. “Poland has
remained resilient throughout the first episode of the crisis,
which showed evidence of its credit strengths, the second
episode will continue to test that resilience given the
successive shocks to the government’s balance sheet and the
economy.”  The risks to Moody’s projection that Poland economy will
expand by around 3 percent next year “are clearly on the
downside” as growth may be dragged down by the sovereign debt
crisis in the euro area, according to Reusche. Tusk has based
its deficit plan on the economy growing 4 percent in 2012.  The goal of reducing the shortfall to 2.9 percent of GDP is
“practically impossible” and the euro region’s economy slowing
to “near-zero” growth would limit Polish expansion to between
1.5 percent and 2.5 percent,  Dariusz Filar , an economic adviser
to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, said in an interview yesterday.
The gap may be near this year’s 5.6 percent goal, he said.
Poland sends 55 percent of its exports to the euro region,
according to data from the Statistics Office.  Poland must reduce its budget deficit or face a possible
rating cut in the “medium term,”  David Riley , head of
sovereign ratings at  Fitch Ratings , said in an interview
yesterday. The election outcome has no immediate effect on
Poland’s sovereign rating of A- with a stable outlook, Standard
& Poors said yesterday in an e-mail, adding it will focus on
“whether the new government will introduce additional measures
aimed at consolidating public finances.”  “The message seems to be that Poland doesn’t want change
jockeys in the middle of the race, alluding to the fact that the
second episode of the crisis looms near,” Reusche wrote. “The
fact that the current government will remain in power eliminates
transition costs in the form of stop-and-go policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  