-- 
Top Currency Forecasters Say Best Over for Dollar as Fed Embraces Easing

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-11T18:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/top-currency-forecasters-say-best-over-for-dollar-as-fed-embraces-easing.html
The most accurate foreign-exchange
forecasters say the dollar’s best quarterly rally since 2008 has
no chance of continuing to year-end as a slow economy spurs the
 Federal Reserve  to flood the world with more U.S. currency.  Led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., the five best strategists as
measured by Bloomberg News in the six quarters through September
see the currency averaging $1.34 per euro in the final three
months of 2011, from $1.3387 on Sept. 30. They estimate it will
average 76.6 yen, from 77.06.  Reports on everything from jobs to housing and incomes show
the world’s largest economy may be in jeopardy of slipping back
into recession, forcing the Fed to print more money for the
third time in three years to inject into the financial system
through bond purchases. Forecasters say the strategy would
debase the dollar, which is down 22 percent since March 2009
even with last quarter’s gains.  “The Fed could start discussing the expansion of its
balance sheet by the end of this year and begin with the asset
purchases in early 2012,” John Normand, the London-based global
head of foreign-exchange strategy at JPMorgan, said in an
interview on Oct. 5. “The bias will be for a modest retracement
in the dollar from current levels. Investors are already
extraordinarily long of dollars.”  Global Turmoil  Normand, the top forecaster with a 4.37 percent margin of
error, sees the 17-nation euro at $1.38 by year-end. The firm’s
yen prediction is 75 per dollar.  The U.S. currency fell 0.1 percent to $1.3661 per euro and
was little changed at 76.69 yen at 2:40 p.m. New York time.  Turmoil in global financial markets last quarter as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened and  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped the U.S. of its top AAA credit rating led investors to
shun all but the safest assets, such as Treasuries. That helped
spark a 7.14 percent gain in the dollar against a basket of nine
developed-nation peers as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted indexes. That beat bonds, stocks and commodities.  While almost three years of near-zero  interest rates  from
the Fed and $2.35 trillion of bond purchases helped pull the
economy out of a recession, concern is rising that gross
domestic product may soon start to shrink.  Jobs, Incomes  The U.S. unemployment rate has held at or above 9 percent
every month except for two since May 2009, including a reading
of 9.1 percent in September. Personal incomes fell for the first
time in almost two years in August, declining 0.1 percent, the
Commerce Department said Sept. 30. New home purchases declined
to a six-month low in August.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its forecasts for the U.S. last month, saying the $15
trillion economy likely grew 1.1 percent in the third quarter
and will expand just 0.4 percent in the fourth.  The Fed “will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 in
testimony to Congress’s Joint Economic Committee in  Washington .  To the most accurate forecasters, that may mean the Fed
conducts a third round of quantitative easing, or QE. After
cutting rates to a record low, the Fed twice bought bonds to
inject cash into the economy.  Dollar Reaction  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show the dollar
tumbled 13.6 percent after the Fed bought $1.75 trillion in
Treasuries and mortgage debt from December 2008 through March
2010. It sank 6.3 percent between November 2010 and June 2011 as
the Fed spent $600 billion buying bonds.  “Further QE will ultimately put a floor under euro-
dollar,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp., the second most-accurate
forecaster, said in a telephone interview Oct. 4.  While the U.S. currency may advance beyond $1.30 per euro
during bouts of  risk aversion , it will struggle to rally above
that level and end the year at about $1.31, Cavenagh said.
Westpac had a margin of error of 4.44 percent in the survey.  For all the headwinds facing the  U.S. economy , it will
likely hold up better than those of Europe and  Japan . Growth in
the three biggest euro economies will shrink 0.4 percent this
quarter and will stall in Japan, the OECD said Sept. 8.  ‘Haven Bid’  “In the short-term, the dollar will continue to strengthen
on the safe-haven bid and over the medium-term it will benefit
from the fact that the U.S. economy is still in better shape
than most other major economies,” said  Daragh Maher , London-
based deputy head of global foreign-exchange strategy at  Credit
Agricole  SA. “The recession fears in the U.S. are overblown. I
don’t think we’ll get QE III.”  The company, ranked fifth in the survey with a margin of
error of 4.83 percent, expects the dollar to finish this year at
$1.33 per euro, and appreciate to $1.26 by the end of 2012.
Credit Agricole forecasts the U.S. economy will grow 1.8 percent
this year, compared with 1.2 percent in the U.K. and 1.1 percent
in the euro-region, Maher said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators expect America’s
currency to strengthen against a basket of the euro, yen, pound,
Swiss franc,  Mexican peso , and the Australian, Canadian and New
Zealand dollars.  Net Wagers  The difference in the number of contracts betting on an
advance in the dollar compared with those on a decline rose to
131,704 last week, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data released Oct. 7 and compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the most since June 2010. In March, there were a net
405,267 contracts outstanding betting on a decline, a record.  At its last policy meeting on Sept. 21, the Fed decided
against another round of QE and instead said it would sell $400
billion of short-term debt holdings and invest the proceeds in
longer-term Treasuries to reduce borrowing costs and counter
rising risks of a recession.  After stripping out distortions caused by the Fed’s record
low overnight lending rate, two-year Treasury notes yield just
0.2 percentage point less than five-year securities, suggesting
the economy has a 60 percent chance of contracting within 12
months, according to Bank of America Corp.  Analysts are wary of further gains in the dollar and expect
it to stay little changed against Group of 10 currencies this
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They forecast
it will end next year at $1.40 per euro, based on the median
estimate of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fiscal ‘Challenges’  Last quarter’s survey of the top-ranked strategists showed
that while they correctly forecast that a year-long slide in the
dollar would end, they failed to predict its rally. The best
estimates showed the greenback would end 2011 at $1.42 per euro,
on average, from $1.43 on July 8, the last trading day before
the poll’s publication.  “We were never particularly optimistic on the euro and
always more optimistic on the dollar,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said by
telephone Oct. 3. Fiscal “challenges appear more manageable for
the U.S. than  Europe ,” where consensus among 17 nations is
harder to reach, he said  Wells Fargo, ranked third in Bloomberg’s survey with a 4.58
percent margin of error, estimates the dollar will end the year
at $1.32 per euro.  Deficits, Diversification  For Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., the U.S.’s budget
deficit of more than $1 trillion, the possibility of another
round of QE by the Fed, an improvement in the euro-area debt
crisis and foreign-exchange diversification by central banks may
start to weigh on America’s currency.  “Going out into 2012, I think the weak dollar story may
start to reassert itself,” Emmanuel Ng, a currency strategist
at the fourth-ranked forecaster, said in a phone interview on
Oct. 6. The firm sees the dollar ending this year at $1.32 euro,
before falling to $1.35 by end of the first quarter and ending
2012 at about $1.43.  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
estimates for 13 currency pairs in each of six quarters
beginning with the three months ended June 2010. To test long-
term accuracy, Bloomberg News added one annual forecast, which
was made on Sept. 30, 2010, for Sept. 30, 2011.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
 currency pair  were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least eight of 13 pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall predictors. Thirty-six firms qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  