-- 
Orban Sees More ‘Unchartered’ Steps to Escape Hungary Franc Trap

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-11T11:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/orban-sees-more-unchartered-steps-to-escape-hungary-franc-trap.html
Hungary , which is forcing lenders to
swallow losses on Swiss franc loans, must escape its dependence
on foreign currencies by moving in an “unexpected, unchartered
and unknown” direction, Premier  Viktor Orban  said.  “Hungary needs to break out of its foreign-currency
debt,” Orban told lawmakers in Budapest today. “We have to
break out of this trap, just as we did with the early-repayment
plan, in a direction that’s unexpected, unchartered and unknown
to everyone. We have to implement this policy fully, and this is
the most important task for next year.”  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
currency rose to a record, boosting defaults and pushing up
monthly payments.  Lawmakers last month approved a law that allows the early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at more than 20 percent
below market rates and forces lenders to absorb exchange-rate
losses on the loans. The measure followed an extraordinary bank
tax in 2010 to raise 120 billion forint ($554 million) annually
to plug budget holes.  The European Union has said the mortgage plan may violate
its rules, while Hungary’s central bank warned that local
lenders will suffer “significant” losses, causing damage to
lending and growth prospects. Hungarian banks have vowed to take
their case to the country’s  Constitutional Court .  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest
lender, became the first foreign bank to recapitalize its
Hungarian unit after the mortgage-loan plan came into effect.  Erste Provisions  Erste will inject 600 million euros ($817 million) into the
subsidiary, the Vienna-based lender said in a statement
yesterday. The bank, which expects a loss of 500 million euros
in Hungary this year, is provisioning an additional 450 million
euros to cover credit losses caused by the mortgage plan and
worsening economic prospects. Austria’s Raiffeisen International
Bank AG will announce an “additional significant provisioning”
at its Hungarian unit on top of 100 million euros that was
already announced, it said yesterday.  The early-repayment plan may affect banks’ profitability
and capital, Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 5. The
rating company placed Erste’s Hungarian unit on review for a
downgrade along with OTP Bank Nyrt. and its mortgage arm,
Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., as well as the local units of
KBC Groep NV, General Electric Co. and  Bayerische Landesbank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  