-- 
Morgan Stanley Credit Risk Falls to Three-Week Low on Europe Bank Optimism

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-11T23:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/morgan-stanley-credit-risk-falls-to-three-week-low-swaps-show.html
The cost to protect against losses
on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  debt dropped to the lowest in almost three
weeks after European leaders pledged this week to ensure the
region’s banks have enough capital to withstand the sovereign
debt crisis.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley bonds fell 41.7
basis points from Oct. 7 to 392.9 basis points, the lowest since
Sept. 21, according to data provider CMA. The New York-based
bank’s contracts have declined from 582.7 on Oct. 3, the highest
since October 2008. Bond markets in the U.S. were closed
yesterday for the Columbus Day holiday. A benchmark gauge of
U.S. corporate credit risk tumbled to the lowest in three weeks.  The drop in swaps prices signals that investors are
regaining some confidence in the banking system since German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Oct. 9 that the region’s leaders
will do “everything necessary” to ensure that European banks
are capitalized after meeting with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Morgan Stanley’s swaps had led a surge in contracts on
U.S. banks amid concerns that an escalating crisis in  Europe 
would trigger losses globally.  “We have valuations in the market now that reflect the
binary outcomes we’re facing as investors: whether we’re going
to see a blowup in Europe or whether we’re going to see an
austerity program in the U.S. or whether were going to somehow
keep on keeping on with gridlock in  Washington  and the  euro zone 
keeping together,”  Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which manages $17
billion, said in a webcast today.  Markit CDX Index  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 4 basis points from
Oct. 7 to a mid-price of 135.3 basis points, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The index has fallen from 150.1 basis points on Oct.
3, the highest since May 2009. In  London , the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose
0.8 for the day to 179.1.  Both indexes typically decrease as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  