-- 
Toyota to Face Three Trials in California Over Sudden-Acceleration Claims

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-10-12T01:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/toyota-judge-sets-first-2-trials-in-acceleration-suits-correct-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will face three
trials in 2013 over sudden-acceleration claims in federal court
in  Santa Ana ,  California , a judge said.  The first trial, set for Feb. 19, 2013, will cover claims
by the families of two people who were killed in a crash in Utah
in 2010, U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana ruled
today. That lawsuit, dismissed last month on jurisdictional
grounds, was reinstated after the families re-filed their claim.  Selna also scheduled the first trial over claims of
economic loss tied to unintended acceleration for July 2013 and
a second wrongful death case for November 2013. Selna said he
probably would limit the economic loss trial to claims from car
owners in three states.  “I doubt I would add another state to any class-action,”
Selna said today at a hearing, telling the lawyers to decide
which three states to include in the economic-loss trial.  Those cases, filed as class actions on behalf of all car
owners in a state, claim that Toyota drove down the value of
their vehicles by failing to disclose or fix defects related to
sudden acceleration.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers are seeking to include cases from
California,  New York  and  Florida , which according to arguments
before the judge have more liberal consumer laws. Toyota lawyers
are seeking to include cases from states with less consumer
friendly laws such as Georgia, Ohio and  Illinois .  Claims of Defects  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled at least
8 million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of
defects and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration.
The recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims
of injuries and deaths.  The three cases were selected for bellwether trials, which
will be used by the court and lawyers for both sides to test
evidence and liability theories before moving on to other
trials, limiting future litigation and helping the judge decide
whether to grant the cases class-action status. Selna has been
overseeing the lawsuits for evidence-gathering and pre-trial
rulings.  Toyota opposes class-action treatment of the economic loss
lawsuits,  Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “We are confident that no common class of litigants
exists and that plaintiffs are not entitled to individual or
class-wide relief.”  ‘No Defect’  The plaintiffs “still have not identified any supposed
defect in Toyota’s electronic throttle control system, and they
have advanced no reliable scientific theory or proof to support
any such defect claim in any Toyota vehicle, much less in all of
them,” she said. “With no defect, there can be no class.”  The first trial will be over the deaths of Paul Van Alfen
and passenger Charlene Lloyd, who were killed when Van Alfen’s
2008 Toyota Camry crashed into a wall.  Van Alfen’s wife and son were injured in the 2010 crash and
are suing as well. The families say the accident happened when
the vehicle unexpectedly accelerated as Van Alfen pulled onto an
exit ramp on I-80 near Wendover,  Utah , and didn’t stop even
after he slammed on the brakes.  The Camry was defective and the Toyota City, Japan-based
carmaker failed to include a brake override system or device to
stop inadvertent acceleration, the families maintain.  ‘Van Alfen II’  “We’re happy the Van Alfen case was reinstated as the
first bellwether case after we removed the Utah dealer” as a
defendant, said plaintiff’s attorney  Mark Robinson . “If it were
a movie, it would be called ‘Van Alfen II.’”  Migliore said, “Toyota is ready, willing and able to
defend itself in the Van Alfen case now that important
jurisdictional issues have been resolved.”  The second wrongful death trial, set for November 2013,
will be a case selected by Toyota, the judge said at today’s
hearing.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  