-- 
Palin Says Growing Chinese Army Not ‘Necessarily’ Good (Voices)

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-11T04:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/palin-says-growing-chinese-army-not-necessarily-good-voices-.html
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin
spoke at the World Knowledge Forum in  Seoul ,  South Korea , about
security, the impact of technology on social change, and the
strength of Asia’s economies.  On  China ’s military build-up:  “I’m not one to share that opinion that growing the
military might of China in this region will necessarily be good
for the region or good for the cause of peace overall.  ‘‘I would not be one to encourage the muscling of China’s
military might in order to protect some of the interests in this
region. We’re very thankful for America’s influence, I hope
others are also, and Amercia’s commitment to help protect
freedom in this region.”  On social changes brought about by mobile technology:  “I carry around my iPad, I keep up with what’s going on
all around the world. I don’t have to rely on one news source. I
am able to check all sorts of news sources everywhere.  ‘‘The ability for governments, then, around the world to
keep controlling access to information in order to control their
people is thankfully becoming more difficult because of this new
technology.  ‘‘Technology is taking power away from central authorities
and providing individuals more choices.’’  On increased government bureaucracy:  ‘‘What is perplexing, though, and ironic is while the world
around us is moving aggressively towards empowering individuals,
it’s government that seems to be going in the opposite
direction.  ‘‘The world around is becoming more bottom up, but the
political elite, they want the world to become even more top
down in some respects, because they want greater control.  ‘‘Never mind that they were the ones in charge with
regarding to this financial mess in the first place.  ‘‘The problem is those in power are all too often not aware
of their own limitations. They fail to see the unintended
consequences of their actions.  ‘‘Fortunately, there are solutions, there is real hope. You
can trust freedom, not centralized government. You can trust
individuals, not bureaucracies.’’  On the strength of Asian economies:  ‘‘Parts of  Asia , especially in South Korea, the
fundamentals are strong here, because of adoption of democratic
principles and of free market principles.  ‘‘The rise of the middle class in numbers in China and
rising prosperity in places like  India , the demand there for
 consumer goods , I think, will certainly help drive the global
recovery, and the world is not going to look solely at the U.S
and our desire and need for goods to contribute to that
recovery.’’  On U.S.-Korea FTA:  ‘‘I support what is being debated right now in  Washington ,
D.C., with the FTA with South Korea because we are natural
trading partners from automobiles to agricultural products.  ‘‘What government can do is to open the gate and then get
out of the way and let the people trade, let the markets dictate
what should be traded and much of the terms, and I do look
forward to seeing that outcome from the U.S. and Korea free-
trade agreement.’’  On  North Korea :  ‘‘The first victims of his regime are his own people. That
is so inherently unfair and unjust that I look forward to this
entire regime being able to be rebuilt, South Korea being able
to assist North Korea when that regime is finally ousted.’’  On spending on national security in the U.S.:  ‘‘I want to make sure that we have no debt, but that we
have enough money to spend on national security measures in
order to help create a more peaceful and prosperous world for
all of you, not just the U.S.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 