-- 
Pandora Slow to Lure Mobile-Ad Dollars Even as Users Flock: Tech

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-11T21:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/pandora-slow-to-lure-mobile-ad-dollars-even-as-ipad-listeners-flock-tech.html
Pandora Media Inc.’s online music
service is so popular among smartphone users that it’s the most-
downloaded free music program on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
app stores. So far that hasn’t won over mobile advertisers.  Pandora users are listening to more music on Apple’s
iPhones and iPads and the devices that run Google’s Android
operating system. While more than 70 percent of the service’s
usage happens on smartphones and tablets, less than 1 percent of
overall U.S. advertising spending is devoted to mobile devices.  Though the company draws larger audiences in  New York  and
 Los Angeles  than those cities’ biggest  radio stations , analysts
don’t expect listener growth to translate into annual profit
until fiscal 2014. With competition accelerating from music-
streaming services Rdio Inc.,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Last.fm and U.K.-based
Spotify Ltd., signs that advertisers aren’t spending much to
reach mobile audiences have wiped 11 percent from Pandora’s
stock since its June initial public offering.  “They just can’t sell advertising that fast,” said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  San Francisco , who
recommends buying the shares. Users are “shifting so rapidly
towards mobile devices, and it’s going to take longer for the
monetization to pick up.”  Pandora shares gained 6.3 percent to $14.28 today. Deborah Roth, a spokeswoman for Pandora, declined to comment on the
company’s mobile advertising trends.  Advertising Blends  The Oakland, California-based company is forecast to
continue its rapid expansion. The service, which had 23 million
active users in fiscal 2011, is projected to grow 21 percent
annually and reach 159 million active listeners worldwide by
fiscal 2021, Scott Devitt, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New
York, said in an interview. By 2021, users of the service will
stream an average 18 hours of ad-supported music each month, up
from 13 hours last year, he estimates.  The mobile service has struggled to attract marketers in
part because Pandora is creating new types of advertising,
blending 15-second audio clips, display ads and video spots.
Audio ads on the radio have traditionally been directed to local
audiences, while display advertisers are more often national
brands. Pandora’s service is multimedia and focused on national
and local advertisers, an experiment that most companies aren’t
used to.  Short on Salespeople  The company also doesn’t have enough sales representatives
to keep up with user growth, and in cities like Miami and
Atlanta, it has no salespeople, said Chief Financial Officer
Steve Cakebread.  “It’s really tough to grow our sales organization 125
percent year-over-year,” Cakebread said at a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. conference on Sept. 22.  In cities where Pandora has sales offices, including New
York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, the company already
averages more time with listeners than the biggest local radio
stations, Devitt said, citing Pandora-supplied estimates and
data from  Arbitron Inc. (ARB) , a radio researcher.  Meanwhile, Pandora is subsidizing its mobile business by
bolstering advertising on its website. Last month, it added new
features including video commercials that command higher rates
from advertisers compared with audio spots, Cakebread said.
After subtracting licensing costs, revenue from Pandora
listeners using computers is nine times higher per hour than
from those on mobile devices, Devitt estimates.  Listening Cap  Along with the site redesign, the company lifted a 40-hour
monthly cap on computer listening, which had required users to
pay for a premium service if they wanted more hours. Previously,
when the cap was reached, users would switch to listening on
mobile devices. Any amount of listening is now free and ad-
supported, a change that may add $53 million in revenue in the
next four years, Devitt said in a Sept. 23 report. Removing the
cap will also result in $11 million less in subscription fees,
Devitt wrote.  The company needs that extra cash to deal with another
challenge -- a growing field of rivals.  CC Media Holdings Inc. (CCMO) ,
the largest owner of U.S. radio stations, last month jump-
started its iHeartRadio Internet offering with a series of
concerts in  Las Vegas . The service, available online and through
applications on mobile devices, lets listeners create
personalized playlists and listen to its broadcast outlets.  Pandora also faces new competition for listeners’ time from
Spotify, operator of  Europe ’s biggest online music service,
which in July began signing up U.S. customers for its ad-
supported and subscription plans, and from Rdio, started by a
co-founder of Skype Technologies SA, which on Oct. 6 began
offering  free music  without advertising.  Free Service  The competition has unnecessarily dragged down Pandora’s
stock price in recent months, because the service is free, and
it has a vast music portfolio and a loyal audience, Mahaney
said.  “You’d have to have a dramatically better mousetrap for
somebody to switch away from a free service to a $10-a-month
service,” Mahaney said in an interview. “The end market is a
lot bigger for an advertising-supported model than for a
subscription-supported model.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Devitt agrees that it’s just a matter of
time before ad dollars follow the users. Mobile revenue for each
hour of music provided to listeners will almost double to $40 in
2016, topping the rising costs Pandora pays the record labels to
license music, Devitt estimates. He says licensing fees will
climb 35 percent to $23 an hour.  Advertising on mobile devices is expected to jump almost
12-fold from last year to $10.5 billion in 2015, compared with a
32 percent rise in overall U.S. ad sales to $328.6 billion,
according to IDC data. Pandora is preparing for that surge by
putting its service in front of as many music lovers as
possible, even if it’s a currently a money-losing endeavor.  Pandora in Cars  Pandora’s lead over traditional radio will accelerate as
its service becomes more widely available in automobiles
starting with 2012 models, Devitt said. The company has deals
with  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet,  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  said Oct. 6 Pandora will be offered in its newest
Camry and Tacoma vehicles. That presents an opportunity for
mobile ad growth for Pandora even beyond smartphones.  “Pandora in every car is pretty powerful,” said Josh Felser, co-founder of venture firm Freestyle Capital in San
Francisco, who previously sold music startup Spinner.com to  AOL
Inc. (AOL)  “People are still in their cars multiple hours a day and
radio is the dominant way they listen to music. Pandora is going
to dominate that market.”  Still, to satisfy investors, Pandora will have to make sure
that its mobile advertising begins to catch up as smartphone and
tablet listening grows and rivals push ahead.  “It’s a challenge for any company blazing a trail in a
consumer space,” said Myk Willis, chief executive officer of
Deerfield Beach, Florida-based  Myxer , a mobile-entertainment
company that will offer an Internet radio service this year.
“When you’re driving consumer growth in a category that is
relatively new, ad dollars always flow slowly into that space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 Alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  