-- 
Panetta Says Weapons Buying, Operations Face ‘Targeted’ Changes

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-11T17:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/panetta-says-weapons-buying-operations-face-targeted-changes.html
The Pentagon is making “targeted
changes” to weapons programs, upgrades and operations costs
that constitute the largest part of a potential $450 billion in
defense budget reductions through 2021, according to Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta .  “Every program, contract and facility will be scrutinized
for savings that won’t reduce readiness or our ability to
perform essential missions,” Panetta said today in the prepared
text of his first major policy address since becoming defense
secretary, the first of three this week.  Panetta has released little detail to date about the
Pentagon’s review of military roles and missions, which is
intended to guide about $450 billion in budget reductions.  Speaking at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington,
Panetta didn’t identify weapons systems for reductions. Cuts
must be “carefully targeted to avoid a hollow force, to ensure
we maintain a robust industrial base and to protect the new
military capabilities we need,” he said.  Departing Deputy Defense Secretary  William Lynn  in an
interview said the Pentagon’s largest weapons program, the
Lockheed Martin F-35 program, was not “being singled out but
everything is on the table.”  Panetta today said that Congress must be a “responsible”
partner to support defense strategies “that may not always
include their favorite bases or weapons systems.”  “We need to consider accepting reduced levels of
modernization in some areas, carefully informed by strategy and
rigorous analysis,” he said.  Weapons Growth  The U.S. Defense Department’s five-year weapons-buying
budget, while lower than the military planned last year, still
results in annual, inflation-adjusted growth of about 2.6
percent, according Pentagon projections.  Weapons procurement would increase to $137.2 billion in
fiscal 2016, up from $113 billion in President Barack Obama’s
fiscal 2012 budget.  The plan calls for $117.6 billion in fiscal 2013, $125.9
billion in 2014 and $129.5 billion in 2015, before reaching the
$137.2 billion in 2016.  U.S. spending on weapons through 2016 grows faster than the
overall  defense budget , which will have annual increases of
about 0.5 percent above inflation.  Force Structure  Panetta also said the Pentagon review is looking at a
smaller force, including ground troops, as the U.S. presence is
reduced in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Still, “while some limited
reductions can take place, I must be able to maintain a
sufficient force to confront the potential of having to fight
more than one war,” Panetta said.  “What would be helpful here is maintaining a strong
National Guard and Reserve that can help respond to a crisis,”
Panetta said.  Army Chief of Staff General Ray Odierno yesterday said “we
will have to change the strategy and what we are able to do if
we continue to fall below a certain level.”  U.S. Army Lieutenant General Robert Lennox said today the
Army’s share of planned defense spending cuts may translate to
between $12 billion and $14 billion a year.  The Army already plans to shrink the number of active-duty
soldiers to about 520,000 from about 570,0000 today.  Because the size of the force can’t be reduced quickly
enough to offset spending reductions, “the brunt of those cuts
will come in modernization and training,” said Lennox, deputy
chief of staff for weapons programs. “It’s just math.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  