-- 
Permitorium to 9-9-9: Viewers’ Guide to the Jargon of Debates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T17:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/permitorium-to-9-9-9-viewers-guide-to-the-jargon-of-debates.html
U.S. presidential debates are an
occasion for voters to size up the would-be leaders of the
world’s largest economy.  To do so, though, viewers will need to translate the
jargon, acronyms and bureaucratic talk that become a native
language on the campaign trail.  This presidential campaign has developed its own lexicon.
What happens if you dial 9-9-9? Who’s Ponzi? How do you get a
tax holiday? What’s a permitorium? Want to dance the Operation
Twist?  Here’s a viewers’ guide to 25 words and phrases likely to
be heard during tonight’s Bloomberg/Washington Post Republican
presidential debate at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire . Coverage begins at 7 p.m. New York time on Bloomberg
Television, and the debate will be streamed live beginning at 8
p.m. on Bloomberg.com and washingtonpost.com. This debate will
focus on the economy, debt, deficits, taxes, trade and jobs.  CRONY CAPITALISM: Critics on both ends of the political spectrum
have decried what they call government’s penchant for helping
favored companies. On the political left, the criticism is that
the government propped up financial institutions such as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  during the financial crisis of 2008, while doing
little to buffer homeowners and workers who suffered. Some
Republicans have seized on that term and used it against
President  Barack Obama , arguing that his 2009 economic-stimulus
plan poured funds into politically connected companies,
especially in renewable-energy technology and the  auto industry .  CURRENCY MANIPULATION: Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
has said he would officially label China a “currency
manipulator” and impose duties on its goods until that nation
raised the value of its currency to “fair value.” China takes
steps in the market to hold down the value of its currency,
giving its exporters a cost advantage over companies in other
countries and contributing to the  U.S. trade deficit . The U.S.
Treasury Department releases a report twice a year in which it
is supposed to identify any country that it believes is
manipulating its currency. The department hasn’t labeled any
country a manipulator since 1994. Under current law, there are
no consequences for a country named a manipulator.  DEBT LIMIT: The debt limit is the total amount of money the
federal government can borrow to meet its obligations, including
interest on the debt, Social Security and Medicare benefits,
military salaries, tax refunds and other payments. The debt
limit allows the government to finance existing legal
obligations that Congress and presidents have made in the past.
Since 1960, Congress has raised the threshold 78 times,
including 49 times under Republican presidents and 29 times
under Democrats. On Aug. 2, Obama signed into law a bill to
instantly give the Treasury Department $400 billion in
additional borrowing power.  DEFICIT: Deficits are the amounts by which the government’s
total expenditures exceed its annual revenue. Deficits differ
from debt, which is the accumulation of yearly budget
shortfalls. At 8.5 percent of gross domestic product, the $1.3
trillion  budget deficit  that the Congressional Budget Office
projects for 2011 will be the third-largest shortfall in the
past 65 years. This year’s deficit stems in part from the
financial crisis and its effect on the economy, according to the
CBO. Although economic output began to expand again two years
ago, the pace of the recovery has been slow and the economy
remains in a “severe slump,” the CBO said.  DOUBLE-DIP RECESSION: This is informal shorthand to describe the
shape of an economic slump. Economists often use letters, such
as V, U, L and W, to describe recessions and their ensuing
recoveries. A W-shaped recession and recovery is one in which a
brief period of growth is followed by another contraction,
giving rise to the term “double dip.” The recessions of 1980
and 1981-82 are the ones most commonly linked to a W, or double
dip. The term is used today to describe the risk that the
economy will again tip into a recession because the recovery
that started in June 2009 has been so weak.  FLAT TAX: A flat tax is a system of taxation that features a
constant  tax rate  for all income, whether it is wages or
corporate profits. Candidate Herman Cain’s 9-9-9 plan (see
below) could be considered a flat-tax proposal. Critics of a
flat tax contend it’s regressive because it disproportionately
hurts lower-income households.  JOBLESS RECOVERY: This is a phrase used to describe an economy
that is growing without generating employment, usually during
the early stages of a recovery from a recession. The term was
widely used following the 1990-1991 recession, when employment
in the U.S. stagnated for more than a year after the contraction
ended in March 1991. It was an even more apt description of the
circumstances following the 2001 recession, when the economy
lost an additional 1.1 million jobs in the 21 months after the
slump ended. The term also was used to describe the current job
environment, when it took nine months to generate sustained
gains in payrolls after the recession ended in June 2009.  MANDATE: Most Americans will be required to purchase health-care
coverage as part of the 2010 health-care law, or else pay a
fine. The so-called individual mandate in the law is the target
of lawsuits from 27 states asserting that Congress exceeded its
powers with the requirement. The Obama administration and states
have asked the U.S. Supreme Court to rule on the requirement’s
constitutionality in its current term, meaning a decision could
come during the 2012 U.S. presidential election campaign. Romney
instituted a coverage mandate when he was governor of
 Massachusetts .  MEANS-TESTING: Some Social Security overhaul proposals would
save money by using means-testing to provide smaller benefits,
or end them altogether, for senior citizens with higher incomes.
Proponents say those are the people who least need the benefits,
while opponents say that would change Social Security from an
insurance program into a welfare plan and weaken public support.
Under current law, higher-income retired people must pay taxes
on part of their Social Security benefits. That tax money goes
into the  trust fund .  MEDICARE/MEDICAID: Medicare, the federal health program for the
elderly and disabled, covers 47 million people and spent an
estimated $525 billion last year, according to the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services. Medicaid, the joint federal-state
health insurance program that spent $401 billion last year,
covered about 50 million low-income Americans as of June 2010,
Kaiser Family Foundation data show, with the U.S. paying more
than half the costs. Medicaid is one of the biggest expenses for
states.  MILITARY ADVENTURISM:  Texas  Governor Rick Perry and
Representative Ron Paul of Texas have said U.S. “military
adventurism” should end and the money spent on foreign
conflicts be kept at home. Romney has said troops must be
brought back from Afghanistan as soon as U.S. commanders say
“conditions on the ground” permit it. The Obama administration
has brought home troops from  Iraq  with a goal of withdrawing all
of them from the country, except for those training the Iraqi
military, by the end of the year. In Afghanistan, the U.S. is
also beginning to reduce the number of troops following a surge
designed to defeat the Taliban. The U.S. has 46,000 troops in
Iraq and 98,000 in Afghanistan. According to the latest
government figures, the two operations cost taxpayers about
$11.6 billion a month as of July 30, up from $9.7 billion at the
end of April.  OBAMACARE: A derisive reference, often used by Republicans, to
describe the health-care law that Obama lobbied for and Congress
passed last year without a single Republican vote. The law would
expand coverage to an estimated 32 million uninsured Americans
and extend the government’s role in health-care delivery, partly
by setting up regulated insurance marketplaces where the
uninsured may buy policies. The law will reduce the federal
deficit by $143 million from 2010 to 2019, the CBO said in March
2010. The agency said in January 2011 that repealing the law
would add $230 billion to the deficit through 2021.  OPERATION TWIST: This is the term given to the  Federal Reserve 
Board’s plan to lower long-term  interest rates  in an effort to
spur borrowing either for major purchases like homes or for
mortgage refinancing. Operation Twist entails pushing down
longer-term yields by using the proceeds from sales of debt with
maturities of three years or less to buy securities maturing in
the next six to 30 years. The strategy was dubbed Operation
Twist after a similar action in 1961 that got its name from a
hit song, “The Twist,” by Chubby Checker. Since the program’s
announcement, the gap between yields on 10-year and 30-year
Treasuries has shrunk to its lowest since June 2010.  PAYROLL TAX: Obama has proposed reducing the portion of the
payroll tax that employers pay as a way to help boost job growth
and the economy. The portion of the tax that employees pay was
reduced to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent as part of December’s
tax bill. Economists generally concur that this cut boosted
economic growth by about 0.25 percent. Research conducted by the
nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  indicates that the payroll tax cut
probably helped a bit, but at a cost of $240 billion in revenue
to the Treasury.  PERMITORIUM: This phrase represents the Republican contention
that Obama is standing in the way of oil and gas development,
costing jobs and maintaining U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The
administration banned all deepwater drilling after the BP spill
in April 2010. It lifted the ban in October. Republicans say the
administration has delayed new drilling permits ever since,
hence the new word “permitorium.”  PONZI SCHEME : Perry has described the Social Security system as
a “Ponzi scheme,” by which he means that the system relies on
payments from future beneficiaries to pay current ones. The
Social Security system does run on a “pay as you go” basis,
where payments by current workers pay for the benefits to
today’s retirees. Social Security is unlike a Ponzi scheme in
that the federal government has the ability to compel payment
into the system. The CBO reported that in 2010, for the first
time, Social Security payouts were greater than the revenue
brought in. The phrase is named after Charles Ponzi, who used
the technique before being exposed in 1920.  QUANTITATIVE EASING: During quantitative easing, the Federal
Reserve Board buys assets, like notes and bonds, to inject a
predetermined amount of cash into the economy in a bid to lower
borrowing costs. The Federal Reserve announced such actions,
dubbed QE1 and QE2, in November 2008 and again in November 2010.
Since the central bank couldn’t lower the target interest rate
to less than zero, it had to rely on other measures to try to
spur a recovery.  REPEAL: Republican opponents of the health-care overhaul vowed
to repeal, and in some cases replace, its provisions as soon as
Obama signed it into law last year. Democrats have vowed to
block repeal as long as they control at least one branch of
Congress and the White House. The Obama administration is
implementing the law by issuing rules and regulations even as it
faces challenges in federal court. While Republican governors
oppose the law in states such as Mississippi, Arkansas and
Indiana, they have tried to keep from ceding control of
insurance provisions to federal authorities.  SIMPSON-BOWLES: In December 2010, Republican former Senator Alan Simpson and Democratic former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, the co-chairmen of Obama’s fiscal commission, issued a
report recommending $3.8 trillion in savings to cut the deficit.
They recommended trimming Social Security and Medicare, reducing
income-tax rates and eliminating tax breaks, including the
mortgage-interest deduction. The report, which fell short of the
votes needed to go to Congress for consideration, is among the
plans the new congressional supercommittee is reviewing as it
seeks agreement on a $1.5 trillion debt plan.  SOLYNDRA: The California solar panel company filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, two years after receiving a
$535 million loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department.
Republicans have used Solyndra LLC to discredit Obama’s
promotion of clean energy as a way to create jobs. Obama visited
the Solyndra plant built with U.S. tax dollars in May 2010. By
then, his own advisers and supporters outside the White House
were warning the company was in trouble.  SUPERCOMMITTEE: The legislation Obama signed into law in August
raising the debt ceiling also created a bipartisan committee of
six Republican and six Democratic lawmakers charged with finding
$1.5 trillion in savings on the national debt. The panel must
reach an agreement by Nov. 23 and both chambers of Congress must
vote on the plan by Dec. 23. If either fails, $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts, divided equally between domestic and
defense programs, will be triggered. They wouldn’t take effect
until 2013, giving Congress time to override them.  TAX HOLIDAY: The repatriation tax holiday refers to the proposal
to allow U.S. multinational companies to bring back profits from
their overseas operations at a reduced rate, to just below 6
percent from the 35 percent that currently would apply. Congress
enacted a one-time holiday in 2004 during which many major
corporations brought back more than $360 billion in foreign
profits. Independent studies have shown that when that tax
holiday was offered, the lower tax rate for returning profits
spurred little hiring or domestic investment. Most of the money
was used to buy back stock. A coalition of about 40
corporations, including Pfizer, Inc., Apple, Inc., and Cisco,
Systems, Inc. known as WIN America, is lobbying for another tax
holiday.  TRADE DEFICIT: The difference between the amount the U.S.
exports and the amount it imports. The U.S. runs a large trade
deficit with the rest of the world. Last year, the deficit was
almost $635 billion. The trade deficit has been blamed for
unemployment, slow economic growth and the decline of American
manufacturing. The largest contributors to the deficit are
imports of oil and imports from  China . Last year, oil accounted
for 29 percent of the trade deficit and China alone accounted
for 43 percent.  TRUST FUND: This fund keeps track of Social Security payroll
taxes and invests them in special-issue  Treasury securities 
until the money is needed to pay benefits. It was valued at $2.6
trillion at the end of 2010. Because of interest earnings, the
fund is projected by its trustees to grow through 2022 even
though Social Security costs have begun exceeding non-interest
income. After 2022, the fund is expected to begin shrinking
until it is exhausted in 2036. From that time, current Social
Security payroll tax rates will provide enough money to pay
three-fourths of scheduled benefits through 2085, trustees say.  9-9-9: Cain’s 9-9-9 Plan calls for replacing the current U.S.
tax code with a 9 percent levy on sales transactions and gross
income for individuals and businesses, after limited deductions.
The plan would eliminate most tax benefits currently in the
code, including the mortgage interest deduction. Business
deductions would be allowed only for investment spending,
purchases from other businesses and dividends. The individual
tax would apply only to gross income, less charitable
contributions. The 9 percent national  sales tax  would apply to
all purchases of goods and services. The U.S. currently doesn’t
have a national sales tax. Cain’s plan would largely eliminate
all other taxes including the estate tax, Social Security
payroll taxes, and capital gains taxes. His campaign hasn’t
produced specific revenue estimates for the proposal. Some
economists have expressed concern about the amount of money that
would be generated from the plan. The U.S. collected about $2.2
trillion in revenue in 2010, according to the White House Office
of Management and Budget. If Cain’s plan were in place that
year, it would have generated about $2 trillion, according to a
Bloomberg News calculation based on data from the Commerce
Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  