-- 
Peterson Says Time to Call ‘Theology’ of No New Taxes ‘Nonsense’

-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 
2011-10-11T20:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/peterson-says-time-to-call-theology-of-no-new-taxes-nonsense-.html
Pete Peterson, retired investment
banker and advocate of balancing the federal budget, said
Republican presidential candidates engaged in “nonsense” when
they opposed raising revenue to help cut the deficit.  Peterson, who said he has watched all of this year’s
presidential debates, called today for an end to anti-tax
“theology” that he said threatens the U.S.’s economic health.
“The lowest” point of the debates was the response by the
candidates at the Reagan Library on Sept. 7 when none said they
would accept $1 in revenue increases for $10 in budget cuts.  “We’ve become so theological and locked into these
positions,” Peterson said at a casual discussion with students
at  Dartmouth College ’s Tuck School of Business before the
presidential debate tonight in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “Let’s quit this ideology and theology where any revenue
increase is going to destroy the country,” said Peterson,
chairman emeritus and co-founder of Blackstone Group and
chairman of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation. “Part of what has
to happen is somebody has to step forward and say this is
nonsense and why it’s nonsense and say we need a balanced
program.”  Self-Effacing Humor  Peterson, interspersing observations about the federal
deficit with self-effacing humor about his own life, answered
questions from students and the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek
magazine at a forum the day of a Bloomberg News-Washington Post-
sponsored debate of the Republican presidential candidates. The
Peterson Foundation also is sponsoring tonight’s debate.  Was it true that Peterson, a former chief executive officer
of  Lehman Brothers , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  and U.S. commerce secretary under President  Richard Nixon ,
had cashed out of his business with $1.8 billion, Businessweek
Editor Josh Tyrangiel asked?  “Three times,” said Peterson.  What was it like receiving that wire, he was asked?  “Better than the alternative,” he said.  “I was a lucky American dreamer,” said Peterson, son of a
Greek immigrant who worked for a railroad washing dishes, saved
money and “started the inevitable Greek restaurant. His place
was not noted for its cuisine, for sure.”  When he retired, he wanted to pursue a passion of his own,
he said -- the burden of  U.S. debt .  Threat to America  “I decided the most important threat to America’s future
was the long-term debt,” said Peterson, calling the growing
deficit “truly unsustainable.”  Peterson supports a balanced approach to combating debt
espoused by the co-chairmen of President Barack Obama’s deficit
commission, former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  of  Wyoming 
and Democrat Erskine Bowles, a chief of staff for former
President  Bill Clinton . Simpson and Bowles have called for a
combination of tax increases, including elimination of
exemptions, and budget cuts.  Peterson said that containing entitlement spending on
programs such as Social Security and Medicare must be in the
mix. “Never mind what the politicians say,” he said. “There
is no solution to our long-term situation without reforming
entitlements.”  Yet lower-income Americans shouldn’t bear the brunt of
those cuts, he said.  The thought of reducing benefits for the poor is
“immoral” and “unthinkable,” Peterson said. “But there are
a variety of things you can do to reduce the benefits for people
like me.”  ‘Not Sustainable’  “Given our demands for investment, the whole idea of
universal entitlements in which all of us -- regardless of
income or net worth or whatever -- are entitled to a subsidy is
simply not sustainable,” he said.  “The thrust has to be that the wealthy get less and pay
more,” he said. “It’s the moral thing to do, and ultimately
the politically necessary thing to do.”  As a congressional supercommittee searching for ways to
trim $1.5 trillion from the deficit by late November works
behind closed doors, Peterson said he has found some optimism in
the possibility of members making tough decisions.  “Where I get a little bit of hope is that in their privacy
they are able to make deals that they are unable to make
publicly,” he said.  That would include taxing carried interest, a staple of the
business in which Peterson achieved success, as earned income
instead of as a capital gain.  “I am often asked some very pointed questions,” he said.
“It’s rather easy for me to answer it now that I am retired.”
He said “it’s hard to argue” why carried interest shouldn’t be
taxed at the higher rate applied to other forms of income.  If the advice of Simpson and Bowles were followed, Peterson
said, higher taxes such as those would be offset by lowering top
personal and corporate tax rates.  “The case for simplifying and reforming the tax system”
and abolishing the many inequities in it, Peterson suggested,
“is enormous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  