-- 
Poland’s 2012 Budget Gap May Be Near 2011 Level, Filar Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-10-11T08:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/poland-s-2012-deficit-may-be-near-2011-level-filar-says.html
Poland may fail to make
“significant” cuts in the  budget deficit  next year as economic
growth may slow to as low as 1.5 percent, said  Dariusz Filar , an
economic adviser to Prime Minister Donald Tusk.  The government’s goal of reducing the shortfall to 2.9
percent of gross domestic product is “practically impossible”
and the euro region’s economy slowing to “near-zero” growth
would limit Polish expansion to between 1.5 percent and 2.5
percent, Filar said in an interview yesterday. That would mean
that the 2012 budget gap may be near this year’s 5.6 percent
goal, he said.  Tusk’s Civic Platform party, which won a second election on
Oct. 9, made its deficit pledge based on a forecast of economic
growth remaining at this year’s 4 percent pace. The
 International Monetary Fund , BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup Inc.
forecast growth slower than that as the economy sputters in the
euro region, which buys 55 percent of the country’s exports.  ““The new government has to begin thorough changes
regardless of how unpopular they are,” Filar said. “The 2.9
percent deficit goal was very difficult even with a 4 percent
economic growth, and looking at what’s going on in the euro zone
now, it is practically impossible.”  The zloty retreated from a three-week high, declining 0.7
percent to 4.3338 per euro at 10:48 a.m. in Warsaw, from 4.3042
yesterday.  Austerity Measures  The risks to Polish economic growth are “clearly on the
downside” and the country needs to prepare for a second stage
of the global financial crisis that could inflict “successive
shocks to the government’s balance sheet and the economy,”
Jaime Reusche, an assistant vice president for sovereign
risk at Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , said yesterday in
an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Reusche also said the government’s 2012 deficit goal
“might be out of reach,”  The new government should consider canceling all tax
incentives, increasing employers’ contribution to social-welfare
funds and easing regulations for doing business, Filar said. It
also needs to eliminate pension privileges for soldiers,
policemen and miners as well as extend the working age, he
added.  Without those measures, the Cabinet may have to resort to
raising the value-added tax, a sales levy, or cutting transfers
to private pension funds as Poland did earlier Filar said,
adding that those are short-term solutions.  The European Commission may punish  Poland  for an excessive
deficit by reducing its eligibility for European Union funding
that helped the bloc’s largest eastern country avert a recession
in 2009 and is boosting growth.  While Poland has a chance to receive 300 billion euros
($409 billion) from the next EU budget, the funds hinge on
compliance with the EU’s fiscal requirements, Filar said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  