-- 
Portman Urges Obama to Be More Aggressive in Seeking Trade Deals

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-11T15:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/portman-urges-obama-to-be-more-aggressive-in-seeking-trade-deals.html
Senator  Rob Portman , the Ohio
Republican who negotiated three free-trade deals set for votes
in Congress as soon as tomorrow, said President Barack Obama
needs to be more aggressive in seeking trade agreements.  Portman, the U.S. Trade Representative under George W. Bush, said Obama should revive talks with nations in the stalled
Free Trade Area of the Americas, such as  Brazil  and Argentina,
to boost exports and economic growth. He also urged Obama to
work with the European Union to lower tariffs, a step backed by
 Thomas Donohue , president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
Washington.  “I am very concerned by the fact that the United States
has chosen to take itself out of the game,” Portman said in an
interview. “We’re sitting on the sidelines while over 100
bilateral trade negotiations are taking place.”  The agreements with  South Korea ,  Colombia  and Panama were
reached under Bush by Portman and his successor, Susan Schwab.
The three deals would boost U.S. exports by as much as $12
billion in the first year in which they are in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Obama has pledged to double U.S. exports by 2015, and his
administration is negotiating an accord with eight nations that
rim the Pacific. Trade with Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,
 New Zealand , Peru,  Singapore  and Vietnam totaled $170 billion
last year, according to the Commerce Department. It would be the
biggest for the U.S. since the North American Free Trade
Agreement in 1994.  Bilateral Deals  While Portman supports the initiative, he said the U.S.
also needs to pursue bilateral deals because such accords offer
the opportunity for tariff reductions in the most industries.  The U.S. and Brazil in March established a commission, with
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk as co-chairman, to expand
trade and remove non-tariff barriers.  Obama spent two years seeking to broaden Democratic support
for the three pending accords. He negotiated terms for auto
tariffs in the South Korea agreement that won over the United
Auto Workers union, an exchange of tax information with Panama
and labor-rights assurances from Colombia. Companies from
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  General Electric Co. (GE)  have lobbied for the
agreements to increase market access.  Portman predicted the accords will pass.  “My fervent hope is that after a good vote this week the
administration will get back in the business of negotiating
future agreements,” he said.  The U.S. is scheduled to meet in Cartagena, Colombia, in
April with leaders from Latin American nations to discuss
regional cooperation and development. Since the collapse of the
trade area talks in 2006, the U.S. has strengthened economic
ties in the region, implementing agreements with Central
American nations, the Dominican Republic and Peru, building on
the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico
that took effect in 1994 and a 2004 pact with Chile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  