-- 
Pound Falls After U.K. Manufacturing Shrinks More Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-10-11T15:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/pound-remains-weaker-as-data-shows-manufacturing-fell-more-than-estimated.html
The pound fell against the dollar,
snapping a two-day gain, as a government report showing U.K.
manufacturing contracted in August more than analysts forecast
added to signs the recovery is struggling.  Sterling declined from a one-week high versus the greenback
after the British Chambers of Commerce said the expansion of the
central bank’s monetary stimulus program announced last week may
not be enough to prevent another recession. The monthly
contraction in manufacturing was the third in succession and the
biggest since April. Gilts rose.  “The U.K. macro data continues to be overwhelmingly
disappointing and accounts for why sterling is underperforming
against the dollar,”  Neil Jones , London-based head of European
hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., wrote in an e-
mailed comment. “It’s one of the reasons for the expansion of
QE. Gilt yields can go lower still.”  The pound depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.5600 at 4:15 p.m.
London time, after rising to $1.5689 yesterday, the highest
level since Sept. 29. It was 0.4 percent weaker at 87.42 pence
per euro, its lowest level since Sept. 26.  Britain’s currency may decline to below $1.50 and lower
than 85 pence per euro by year-end, Jones said. Yields on 10-
year gilts may drop to 2 percent from 2.58 percent today, he
said.  Factory output fell 0.3 percent from July, when it slid a
revised 0.2 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in
London. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a decline to 0.2 percent. Overall industrial production,
which includes mining and oil and gas, rose 0.2 percent.  Extra Stimulus  The pound depreciated against most of its major
counterparts last week as the  Bank of England ’s reactivation of
its quantitative-easing program fueled concern that quickening
inflation will erode the value of the currency.  The central bank raised the ceiling for bond purchases to
275 billion pounds from 200 billion pounds, the biggest
expansion since the first round of stimulus in March 2009,
saying slowing global growth and the turmoil in  Europe  threaten
the U.K. recovery.  “The recent increase” in quantitative easing “is
welcomed, but more radical measures are needed,” British
Chambers of Commerce Chief Economist  David Kern  said in an e-
mailed statement in London.  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said in London
yesterday that while the economic outlook has worsened, there
were “good reasons” to think that the extra stimulus will aid
the recovery.  The U.K economy grew less than economists forecast in the
second quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, the Office for National Statistics said last week. That
was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published and missed
the 0.2 percent expansion forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The pound has declined 1.5 percent in the past six months
and 3.1 percent in the past year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure a basket of 10
developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  