-- 
Putin Blames U.S., EU for ‘Political’ Delay to Russia’s WTO Bid

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-11T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/putin-blames-u-s-eu-for-political-delay-to-russia-s-wto-bid.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  blamed the U.S. and European Union for “political”
delays to  Russia ’s bid to join the  World Trade Organization .  “This is a purely political issue now,” Putin said in an
interview with Chinese state media in Beijing today. “From our
side, we’ve done everything.”  Putin, who is making his first foreign trip since
announcing plans to return to the presidency next year, said
last week the U.S. and EU shouldn’t “hide behind” Georgia in
postponing Russia’s entry into the WTO. Russia, the largest
economy outside the trade arbiter, has been trying to join it
since 1993, surpassing the 15 years  China  had to wait before
becoming a member.  Georgia and Russia, who fought a five-day war in 2008, made
no progress at their latest Swiss-mediated talks in Geneva,
Georgian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergi Kapanadze said Oct. 8.
The Black Sea nation has withheld approval of Russia’s bid,
saying disputes remain over customs checkpoints in the two
breakaway regions of  South Ossetia  and Abkhazia.  Negotiations could be concluded by year-end, said Putin,
who added that the “main problems are resolved” and entry into
the WTO will have a “positive impact” on the Russian economy
by increasing investor confidence.  Russia is in the “final stretch” of its talks to join the
WTO and may complete the accession process in December, Interfax
reported Oct. 4, citing Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Slepnyov.  The country has “in general” reached an agreement on
lowering meat import quotas with “key players” and has
resolved disagreements on industrial-assembly rules with the
U.S., Slepnyov was cited as saying by the news service, adding
that a “number of technical” questions remain to be negotiated
with European countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  