-- 
Rabobank Placed $102 Billion at Central Banks, Spokesman Says

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-10-11T09:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rabobank-has-eu75-bln-at-central-banks-dagblad-says-correct-.html
Rabobank Groep, the biggest Dutch
retail lender, placed 75 billion euros ($102 billion) at central
banks as clients entrusted more money to the AAA-rated
institution, which became more reluctant to lend to competitors.  Rabobank deposited the funds, mostly at the  European
Central Bank , for reasons of “prudent liquidity management”
amid “good inflows” of deposits, Hendrik Jan Eijpe, a
spokesman for the Utrecht-based lender said today. Inflows, with
a short duration, were mainly from companies and “bigger
savers,” Eijpe said today, without specifying the size of the
deposits.  The ECB yesterday said financial institutions increased
overnight deposits to the highest in 15 months as concern about
other banks’ sovereign debt holdings discouraged them from
lending to each other. Euro-area banks placed 255.6 billion
euros at the Frankfurt-based ECB on Oct. 7, the most since June
30, 2010.  Rabobank accounted for about a fifth of that amount, Dutch
newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad reported earlier today.  Chief Financial Officer Bert Bruggink said in August that
Rabobank was showing greater caution in lending to other banks
and that the circumstances reminded him of the period around the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. His bank
maintained an AAA credit rating throughout the financial crisis
and didn’t need state support.  In the Netherlands, savings of as much as 100,000 euros
fall under a deposit-guarantee program aimed at reimbursing
depositors when banks fail. Dutch banks such as Rabobank and  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  paid hundreds of millions of euros under the program to
compensate clients of DSB Bank NV after the regional lender
collapsed in October 2009.  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager plans to force
banks to contribute to a fund of at least 4 billion euros up
front by having them pay a premium of at least 0.1 percent of
deposits annually from 2012. The fund would cover an estimated
400 billion euros in savings, the  finance ministry  said in
August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  