-- 
Rand Leads Drop in Major Currencies on Renewed Concern About European Debt

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-11T13:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rand-slides-from-two-week-high-as-slovakian-vote-holds-up-european-bailout.html
The rand led a drop among major
currencies against the dollar after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the debt crisis threatens the
financial system, sapping demand for riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency retreated 1.5 percent to 7.9615 by
3:27 p.m. in Johannesburg, the most out of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. Against the euro, it slipped 1 percent
to 10.8191.  Europe ’s debt crisis has reached a “systemic dimension,”
Trichet told European lawmakers in Brussels today as Slovakia,
the only country in the region that hasn’t ratified the retooled
bailout fund, prepared to vote on the package. South Africa’s
stock index reversed gains and commodity prices fell for the
first day in five. South African bond yields rose.  “Those were quite grave opinions from Trichet, and they
brought home the realization that the fundamental challenges are
not really being addressed,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit
of  South Africa ’s fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “Risk
appetite is being downgraded, we start losing global investment
flows, and the rand has to weaken.”  European officials are toiling to meet an end-of-month
deadline set by French President Nicolas Sarkozy to get to grips
with the crisis, which has propelled  Greece  to the brink of
default, shaken world markets and fueled speculation that the
17-nation currency might not survive in its current form.  Greece Loan  The rand remained weaker after EU and International
Monetary Fund officials indicated Greece will get an 8 billion-
euro ($11 billion) loan next month under a 110 billion-euro
bailout. Sarkozy and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said at the
weekend they will unveil plans to recapitalize the region’s
banks by the month’s end.  “While recent assurances have provided hope of a
resolution to the debt debacle, there are still signs of banking
sector stress,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in a research note.  The South African currency extended declines on concern
 China ’s decision to buy shares in four banks may be a sign
lenders in the world’s second-biggest economy are also facing
funding problems, Nedbank’s Cruickshanks said.  “Why is China adding capital to its banks? Because they
need it,” he said. “It is a symptom of the worldwide funding
shortage.”  Bonds declined for the first day in six on concern the
weaker rand will fuel inflation, leaving the central bank less
room to cut  interest rates . South African 10-year bond yields
added nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.10
percent.  Forward-rate agreements starting in March, which investors
use to lock in borrowing costs, climbed four basis points to
5.29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  