-- 
TransUnion’s Credit Data Sale Hurts Unemployed, Groups Say

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-10-11T19:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/transunion-s-sale-of-credit-data-hurts-unemployed-groups-say.html
TransUnion Corp., which provides
credit information to banks and consumers, should stop selling
its reports to employers who use the information in hiring
decisions, according to civil-rights groups and the AFL-CIO.  Credit checks by employers discriminate against black,
Latino and unemployed applicants, according to a statement
signed by 25 groups and sent today to TransUnion, which keeps
credit histories on 500 million consumers and businesses.
Chicago-based TransUnion has led lobbying against state laws
restricting the use of credit histories in hiring, according to
the statement.  “We believe that hard work and dedication, not hiring
tools with a discriminatory impact such as credit reports,
should be the economic passport for working people,” the groups
said.  Employers’ use of credit checks in hiring is being
challenged by state and federal agencies. The U.S. has sued
companies such as the  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan education
unit over the practice. California’s Democratic Governor Jerry Brown signed a law limiting many employers from using credit
reports in hiring, according to a statement yesterday on the
state website.  Employers are interested in “whether an individual acted
prudently while he or she was employed,” Colleen Tunney-Ryan, a
TransUnion spokeswoman, said in an e-mail, without commenting on
the call to stop selling its reports. “A pre-employment report
is one tool to help them assess that.”  Money, Secrets  Employers frequently research credit histories when hiring
for jobs that involve handling money, trade secrets, client
assets and sensitive personal information, she said. Pre-
employment credit reports help employers protect their employees
and customers, she said.  The campaign to stop TransUnion is backed by the
Washington-based National Organization for Women, a feminist-
activist group; the NAACP, a Baltimore-based group seeking to
end race discrimination; the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor
group; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.  “An individual’s credit score isn’t indicative of the type
of employees they will be,” said Hilary Shelton, senior vice
president for advocacy at the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People. Blacks have a higher  unemployment
rate  and lower credit scores than whites, he said.  All credit-reporting companies should stop selling them to
companies who use them in hiring, he said.  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and
 Experian Plc (EXPN)  are among other companies selling credit reports.  Employer Checks  Almost half of U.S. businesses check credit histories of
candidates, and about 13 percent order checks for all
applicants, according to the Alexandria, Virginia-based Society
for Human Resource Management.  “Some private-sector employers are required, by federal
law, to examine credit history for applicants,”  Michael Eastman , executive director of labor-law policy at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business federation, said
in an e-mail. “Robust laws and protections already exist to
prevent the use of this data for discriminatory purposes.”  California ,  Connecticut , Hawaii,  Illinois ,  Maryland , Oregon
and Washington state also limit use of credit reports, according
to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Almost 60
bills in 28 states and  District of Columbia  were introduced or
pending in 2011, according to the conference’s web site.  Kaplan Higher Education was sued Dec. 21 by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, which said the company
rejected job applicants based on their credit information,
causing a disparate impact on black candidates.  “For employees whose responsibilities include financial
matters, such as those who advise students on financial aid,
background checks also include credit histories,” Kaplan said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 