-- 
Transatlantic Enters Discussions With Additional Suitor

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-11T13:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/transatlantic-enters-discussions-with-additional-suitor-2-.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the
reinsurer seeking a buyer, said it has entered discussions with
an additional unidentified party after a deal to merge with
Allied World Assurance Co. Holdings AG was scrapped.  Private-equity fund manager Christopher Flowers may be part
of the group including  Enstar Group Ltd. (ESGR)  and C.V. Starr & Co.
that is now in talks with New York-based Transatlantic, the
Insurance Insider reported today. The publication said last
month that Joseph Brandon, the former chief executive officer of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s General Re, is also bidding.  Validus
Holdings Ltd. (VR) , the Bermuda-based reinsurer, has disclosed making
an offer and said that it entered a confidentiality agreement.  Transatlantic is negotiating with potential bidders as
Michael Sapnar prepares to succeed Robert F. Orlich as the
reinsurer’s CEO. American International Group Inc. previously
owned a majority stake in Transatlantic, which it sold in two
public offerings after being bailed out in 2008.  A plan to merge with Allied World was scuttled last month
after Transatlantic’s largest shareholder, Davis Selected
Advisers LP, said that it would oppose the transaction.
Transatlantic also walked away last month from a $3.25 billion
bid from National Indemnity Co., a unit of Berkshire.  Validus’s cash-and-stock offer values Transatlantic at
about $47.95 a share, or about $3 billion, based on yesterday’s
closing share price for the bidder. Transatlantic advanced 27
cents to $50.37 at 9:39 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Starr, Enstar  An assistant to Flowers declined to comment in an e-mail.
Calls weren’t immediately returned by representatives of
Transatlantic and C.V. Starr, the investment firm run by former
AIG CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg. A spokesman couldn’t
immediately be reached at Enstar, the Bermuda-based company that
assumes risk from insurers seeking to exit the business.  “There can be no assurance that these discussions will
result in a proposal or transaction,” Transatlantic said today
in a statement disclosing the additional party. “Transatlantic
does not intend to comment further regarding its discussions
unless and until required by law or NYSE regulations.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Moelis & Co. are providing
financial advice to Transatlantic, and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP is acting as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  