-- 
Transgene Says 3 Patients in Hepatitis Trial Had Blood Disorders

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-10-11T17:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/transgene-says-3-patients-in-hepatitis-trial-had-blood-disorders.html
Transgene SA (TNG)  said three patients in
a mid-stage trial for its TG4040 vaccine to treat chronic
hepatitis C developed blood disorders, prompting the
biotechnology company to propose changing the study’s design.  One patient suffered aplastic anemia and two others
developed thrombocytopenia, including one with neutropenia,
after interferon therapy and not during direct treatment with
TG4040, said Transgene, whose biggest shareholder is the French
family headed by Alain Merieux, in an e-mailed statement today.
TG4040 is used in combination with pegylated interferon alpha
and ribavirin in the study, which included 154 people.  “A possible relationship with TG4040 cannot be today
formally ruled out and is under active investigation,” the
company, based near Strasbourg,  France , said in the statement.
“The company has decided to submit an amendment to the study
design so as to avoid further exposing patients to possible
similar adverse events.”  No such side effects occurred in an early-stage trial
involving 39 patients who hadn’t received treatment for the
disease, Transgene said. These severe events are possible though
rare with the standard treatment alone, the company said.  A voicemail message left for Elisabetta Castelli, a
Transgene spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately returned after
business hours.  Aplastic anemia is a condition in which bone marrow doesn’t
produce enough new blood cells. Thrombocytopenia is a decrease
in platelets, a component of blood that aids clotting, and
neutropenia is a decrease in neutrophils, the most common type
of white blood cell.  Hepatitis C is caused by a virus that leads to chronic
disease in 75 percent to 85 percent of those infected, according
to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta. About 170 million people carry the virus worldwide, the
CDC said on its website.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  