-- 
Real Madrid Wants to Sign Manchester United’s Hernandez, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-10-11T09:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/real-madrid-wants-to-sign-manchester-united-s-hernandez-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hernandez Bid  Real Madrid is ready to pay 30 million pounds ($46.9
million) to sign Mexico striker  Javier Hernandez  from  Manchester
United ,  the Sun  reported.  United wants to keep the 23-year-old and is offering to
triple his wages to 75,000 pounds a week after a debut season in
which he scored 20 goals, the Sun said.  Ashley Cole  Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola wants to sign Chelsea full-
back Ashley Cole for about 12 million pounds, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Chelsea refused to sell Cole when Real Madrid tried to
acquire him last summer, the Mirror said.  Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala is willing to offer Cole,
30, a 200,000 pounds a week contract to acquire the England
player,  according to the Sun .  Drogba Exit?  Contract talks between Chelsea and striker  Didier Drogba 
are on hold, raising the possibility of the 33-year-old leaving
the club when his current deal expires at the end of the season,
the Times reported.  Drogba wants a two-year deal, while the Blues are only
prepared to offer a one-year extension, the newspaper said.  England Team  England’s national team isn’t good enough to win the 2012
European Championship or the 2014  World Cup , former striker Ian
Wright told  the Sun .  Wright said in a column that soccer authorities must raise
the technical standards of younger players.  Rooney Letter  Wayne Rooney  has written to UEFA to try and limit his
European Championship ban for receiving a red card against
Montenegro, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Rooney was dismissed for kicking Montenegro’s Miodrag
Dzudovic in last week’s qualifier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  