-- 
Treasuries Fall a Fifth Day on Speculation Europe Will Contain Debt Crisis

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-11T21:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-auctions-32-billion-of-three-year-securities.html
Treasuries fell for a fifth day amid
speculation  Europe ’s leaders will be able to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis and as the U.S. began selling $66
billion in notes and bonds this week.  Three-year note yields were at almost a two-month high as
the U.S. auctioned $32 billion of the securities. The notes drew
a yield of 0.544 percent, compared with the average forecast of
0.540 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 22 primary dealers. Ten-year yields touched the
highest level in more than a month.  “We are seeing a selloff in Treasuries as there is some
optimism that the worst-case scenario overseas might not take
place, and as the market expects some sort of plan coming from
the  euro zone ,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors.  Three-year note yields rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 0.52 percent at 5:06 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They reached 0.55
percent earlier, the highest level since Aug. 1. The 0.25
percent securities due in September 2014 fell 2/32, or 63 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 7/32.  Benchmark 10-year yields advanced seven basis points to
2.15 percent. They touched 2.18 percent, the most since Sept. 1.
Thirty-year bond yields increased eight basis points to 3.10
percent and reached 3.12 percent, the highest since Sept. 28.  Treasuries didn’t trade yesterday because of holidays in
the U.S. and  Japan .  ‘Important Progress’  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
indicated  Greece  will get an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) loan
next month under a 110 billion-euro bailout, as European leaders
move to reopen talks on a new package that may mean deeper
writedowns on Greek debt.  A team of inspectors from the EU, IMF and  European Central
Bank  said Greece has made “important progress” in fiscal
consolidation.  With European leaders due to meet on Oct. 23 to tackle the
debt crisis, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the
nation will meet commitments to international creditors to
deepen pension and wage cuts, promising parliamentary approval
for the draft 2012 budget. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  pledged to present proposals tomorrow on the
recapitalization of European banks for discussion at the summit.  ‘Something Positive’  “I don’t know anyone who is convinced things are better,
but we are at a point where the mood is people feeling more
confident that something positive will come out of Europe,”
said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New
York at the primary dealer Morgan Stanley. “Europe is the thing
driving the train, and we’ve had a significant turnaround in
sentiment which has weighed on Treasuries.”  Lawmakers in Slovakia will reconsider an expansion of
Europe’s bailout fund. The country is the only one in the 17-
nation euro region that hasn’t ratified the measure, which
failed to win approval in a vote today. The government fell.  Smer, largest opposition party, which didn’t back the move
today, will support it in a second vote, ensuring it will pass,
party leader  Robert Fico  told reporters in the capital
Bratislava. While no date has been set for a new vote, Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos said the revamped European Financial
Stability Facility will likely be passed this week.  Treasury Offering  At today’s Treasury auction, the bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.30, compared with 3.15 at the
September auction of the securities and an average of 3.17 for
the past 10 offerings.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 37.8 percent of the notes, versus 35.7
percent at the September auction and an average of 35.8 percent
for the past 10 sales. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer
investors that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
purchased 7.8 percent of the notes, the lowest level since
December 2009.  The previous auction of Treasury three-year notes, on Sept.
12, drew a record low yield of 0.334 percent.  The Fed bought $2.502 billion of Treasuries under its
program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs and counter recession risks. The securities
purchased today mature from February 2036 to May 2041. The
central bank will sell $8 billion to $9 billion tomorrow of
notes due from March to October 2013.  Not Much Interest  “There just didn’t seem to be all that much interest in
this afternoon’s auction,” said  Jim Vogel , an interest rate
strategist at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “People are
concerned about Fed sales at the short end. People are still
slow in getting back from the extended weekend.”  The Treasury is due to sell $21 billion of 10-year notes
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Oct. 13.  Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent this year, according to
indexes developed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, partly on
concern that the U.S. will slip into another recession and as
the European debt crisis fueled demand for safety. German bonds,
regarded as the safest  government securities  in Europe, have
risen 6.7 percent since Dec. 31, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  