-- 
Treasuries Drop Before Auctions of Notes, Bonds as Europe Pessimism Eases

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-11T15:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/treasuries-decline-before-auctions-of-notes-bonds-amid-optimism-on-europe.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields to a one-month high, as the U.S. prepared to sell $66
billion in notes and bonds and pessimism eased that  Europe ’s
leaders won’t be able to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Three-year securities slid before an auction of $32 billion
of the debt today. The Treasury is due to offer 10-year notes
tomorrow and 30-year bonds on Oct. 13. A team of international
inspectors said Greece has made overall progress in fiscal
consolidation and is likely to receive its next payment of
rescue funds in early November, damping demand for refuge.  “People are feeling less pessimistic, as there seems to be
some traction in Europe, which is still in driver’s seat, so
Treasuries are weaker,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 22 primary
dealers that trades directly with the  Federal Reserve . “There
is less eagerness to buy the long end ahead of the Treasury
auction as well.”  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.15 percent at 11:20 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched
2.18 percent, the highest level since Sept. 1. The 2.125 percent
security due August 2021 dropped 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 25/32.  The three-year yield rose three basis points to 0.52
percent and touched 0.55 percent, the highest since Aug. 1.  Treasuries didn’t trade yesterday due to holidays in the
U.S. and  Japan .  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought $2.502 billion of Treasuries under its
program to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs and counter recession risks. The securities
purchased today mature from February 2036 to May 2041.  “The global markets’ eerie doom-and-gloom feel has made
quite a reversal, with the risk-on trade back as investors are
much more confident that European officials are acknowledging
and looking to stem the debt crisis,” said Justin Lederer,  an
interest-rate strategist at the primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in  New York . “We do not believe there will be many issues
underwriting the auction today and expect results to be fair.”  Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent this year, according
to indexes developed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, partly on
concern that the U.S. will slip into another recession and as
the European debt crisis fueled demand for safety. German bonds,
regarded as the safest  government securities  in Europe, have
risen 6.7 percent since Dec. 31, the indexes show.  ‘Market-Nudging’  “The auctions should go well, but it might take a little
’market-nudging’ in the form of higher rates to get investors
off the bench and into the game,” wrote  Kevin Giddis , president
of fixed-income capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan
Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , in a note to clients.  The previous auction of Treasury three-year notes, on Sept.
12, drew a record low yield of 0.334 percent.  Investors bid for 3.15 times the amount of available debt
last month, versus the average of 3.17 for the past 10
offerings. Indirect bidders, a category that includes foreign
central banks, bought 35.7 percent of the securities, versus the
10-auction average of 35.8.  Inspectors from the European Union,  International Monetary
Fund  and  European Central Bank  indicated Greece will get an 8
billion-euro ($11 billion) loan next month under a 110 billion-
euro bailout. They said  Greece  has made “important progress” in
fiscal consolidation.  Slovakian Vote  Slovakia may approve the euro region’s retooled bailout
fund after a political storm that’s likely to topple Prime
Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s ruling coalition. The country is the
only one in the 17-nation euro area that hasn’t ratified the
measure.  The largest opposition party, which said it won’t back the
motion today, will support the revamped European Financial
Stability Facility in a second vote, should the first try fail
and bring down the government,  Robert Fico , the group’s leader,
told reporters in the capital Bratislava. That would give the
measure a majority. There is no date set for a repeat vote.  In postponing a summit of euro leaders by five days
yesterday to Oct. 23, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
sought extra time to pursue a “comprehensive” package
including a solution for Greece, aid for banks and a further
strengthening of the rescue fund.  The debt crisis in Europe has reached a “systemic
dimension,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told European
lawmakers in Brussels today.  Losses by Treasuries may be limited as there’s still a
chance U.S. gross domestic product will contract, judging by the
country’s government bond yields.  Recession Indicator  The bond-market indicator that has predicted every American
recession since 1970 shows that the economy has about a 60
percent chance of shrinking within 12 months.  The so-called Treasury yield curve, adjusted for
distortions caused by the Fed’s record low zero to 0.25 percent
target interest rate for overnight loans between banks, shows
that two-year notes yield 20 basis points less than five-year
notes, according to Bank of America Corp. research. The
unadjusted gap of 79 basis points at the end of last week
indicates the chance of recession at about 15 percent.  Short-term rates have been higher than longer-term yields,
or inverted, before each of the seven recessions since 1970. A
contraction would make it harder for President  Barack Obama  to
reduce unemployment, which has held at or above 9 percent every
month except two since May 2009, including a reading of 9.1
percent in September. It may also help bolster Treasuries and
keep yields near all-time lows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  