-- 
U.S. Treasuries Decline Before Sales Amid Bets U.S. Can Avoid a Recession

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-11T10:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/treasuries-slide-for-fifth-day-following-surge-in-u-s-stocks.html
Treasuries fell for a fifth day as
the U.S. prepared to sell securities before reports this week
that economists said will bolster optimism that the U.S. can
avoid a recession.  Three-year notes slid before an auction of $32 billion of
the debt today. The Treasury is due to offer 10-year securities
tomorrow and 30-year bonds on Oct. 13. U.S. retail sales rose
0.7 percent in September, the most in six months, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the Commerce Department reports the data on Oct. 14. The
Labor Department is to publish the latest jobless claims numbers
on Oct. 13.  “The data has been better than expected, and some of the
negative pricing action for the general economic scenario is
being scaled back somewhat,” said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “What’s
also important this week is that we have some supply.”  Benchmark 10-year yields rose four basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.12 percent at 6:46 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
security due August 2021 fell 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 1/32. The yield climbed to 2.18 percent earlier,
the highest since Sept. 1. The three-year yield was little
changed at 0.51 percent.  Treasuries didn’t trade yesterday due to holidays in the
U.S. and  Japan .  Retail Sales  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to  buy  $2.25 billion to
$2.75 billion of Treasuries due between 2036 and 2041 today,
according to its website. The purchases are part of the central
bank’s plan to support the economy by keeping long-term
borrowing costs down and safeguard the economic recovery.  “The  U.S. economy  is not that weak,” said Kei Katayama,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $64.7 billion as leader of
the foreign fixed-income group at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in
 Tokyo . European officials are “trying to solve the problem.
Yields will rise,” he said.  Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent this year, according
to indexes developed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, partly on
concern that the U.S. will slip into another recession and as
the European debt crisis fueled demand for safety. German bonds,
regarded as the safest  government securities  in  Europe , have
risen 6.7 percent since Dec. 31, the indexes show.  Summit Postponed  European leaders postponed a debt-crisis summit amid
opposition to  Germany ’s drive for deeper-than-planned Greek bond
writedowns that Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker says may exceed
60 percent. When asked on Austrian television late yesterday to
comment on speculation investors may lose between 50 percent and
60 percent of the value of their holdings, Luxembourg’s prime
minister said “we’re talking about even more.” He didn’t
comment further. The Oct. 18 meeting was postponed to Oct. 23.  Guy Schuller, a spokesman for the Luxembourg government,
said Juncker didn’t mean to signal bondholder losses could
exceed 60 percent. He meant instead they could be higher than
the 21 percent already agreed to in July, he said in a telephone
interview.  Losses by Treasuries may also be limited as there’s still a
chance U.S. gross domestic product will contract, judging by the
country’s government bond yields.  The bond market indicator that has predicted every American
recession since 1970 shows that the economy has about a 60
percent chance of shrinking within 12 months.  Recession Indicator  The so-called Treasury yield curve, adjusted for
distortions caused by the Fed’s record low zero to 0.25 percent
target interest rate for overnight loans between banks, shows
that two-year notes yield 20 basis points less than five-year
notes, according to Bank of America Corp. research. The
unadjusted gap of 79 basis points at the end of last week
indicates the chance of recession at about 15 percent.  Short-term rates have been higher than longer-term yields,
or inverted, before each of the seven recessions since 1970. A
contraction would make it harder for U.S. President  Barack Obama 
to reduce unemployment, which has held at or above 9 percent
every month except two since May 2009, including a reading of
9.1 percent in September. It may also help bolster Treasuries
and keep yields near all-time lows.  Money managers are bearish on Treasuries, according to a
survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a New Jersey-based unit of
the world’s largest interdealer broker.  The company’s gauge on the outlook for  U.S. debt  through
Dec. 31 held at 47 in the seven days ended Oct. 7 from the week
before, according to the responses. A figure less than 50 shows
investors expect prices to fall.  The previous auction, on Sept. 12, of the securities being
sold today drew a record-low yield of 0.334 percent.  Investors bid for 3.15 times the amount of available debt
last month, versus the average of 3.17 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks, bought
35.7 percent of the securities, versus the 10-auction average of
35.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  