-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields May Drop to Record Below 1%, BT Investment Says

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-11T04:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/treasury-10-year-yields-may-drop-below-1-bt-investment-says.html
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes may
drop to a record low on prospects sagging confidence and slowing
economic growth will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to expand
monetary stimulus, BT Investment Management Ltd. said.  Benchmark yields, which touched a record 1.6714 percent on
Sept. 23, may fall below 1 percent over the next year, according
to Vimal Gor, the Sydney-based head of income and fixed interest
at BT Investment. Gor predicted last October that yields would
go below 2 percent as the Fed expanded purchases of Treasuries.
Policy makers said last month that the central bank would
replace much of the short-term debt it holds with longer-term
Treasuries in a bid to reduce borrowing costs, a move that has
been dubbed Operation Twist by analysts.  “The Fed basically told us to be bullish Treasuries by
doing Operation Twist,” Gor, who oversees the equivalent of $13
billion, said in an Oct. 7 interview. “With the next move down
in confidence and as we get into proper recessionary mode in the
developed world, we will see another leg down in yields.”  Ten-year yields increased six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.13 percent as of 5:50 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
security due in August 2021 fell 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 29/32.  The weighted average of about 70 economists in a Bloomberg
survey that gives a greater emphasis to recent estimates is for
the 10-year yield to finish the year at 2.11 percent and be at
2.3 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Below 1 Percent  Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent this year, including
reinvested interest, poised for the biggest annual advance since
2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “You could make a very credible case for 10-year Treasury
yields trading sub-1 percent in the coming year,” said Gor.  This year’s rally was bolstered as the Fed bought the debt
through June in a second round of purchases, or so-called
quantitative easing, announced in November last year.  The central bank said on Sept. 21 it will buy securities
with maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less.  The Fed failed to force investors out of safe assets by
flooding the financial system with liquidity through its first
two packages of quantitative easing, Gor said.  “So now they’ve gone the other route and they’re
explicitly trying to get  interest rates  down,” he said. If
unsuccessful, the central bank’s next move may be to introduce
yield targets on bonds. “We think that’s a reasonable
likelihood sometime in the next 12 months,” Gor said.  The Fed has an “implicit target” for 10-year yields of
1.5 percent or less, Dominic Konstam, the global head of rates
research at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , wrote in a report sent
via e-mail last week. Deutsche Bank is one of the 22 primary
dealers authorized to trade directly with the Fed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  