-- 
Record Coal Price Risk Gaining on Australian Rain: Commodities

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-12T06:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/record-coal-price-risk-gaining-on-australian-rain-commodities.html
The record rains that flooded
 Australia  and led to surging coking coal prices last year are
brewing again.  The chances of above-average rainfall in parts of Northern
Queensland in the rest of the year are 65 percent to 70 percent,
Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said Sept. 19. One contributor
is the returning La Nina weather event that cooling ocean
temperatures and stronger trade winds are indicating may return
this quarter.  The prospect of disrupted supply from the world’s biggest
exporter led Citigroup Inc. analyst Daniel Hynes to say coal may
“spike” more than 20 percent to about $350 a metric ton, if
the disruption is as severe as last summer. The previous La Nina,
Australia’s most expensive natural disaster, shut mines and sent
coal to a record $330 a ton in the June quarter.  “Last year was a near record La Nina event, possibly the
second strongest since 1917-1918,” Andrew Watkins, the bureau’s
manager of climate prediction, said by phone from Melbourne.
“About 50 percent of the time a La Nina follows a La Nina, so
it’s not that uncommon to have a double whammy.”  A lack of inventory at  steel mills  could well cause a
“degree of panic” should the forecast La Nina bring more rain
to Queensland, disrupting supply, Macquarie Group Ltd. said last
month.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest producer of coking
coal with mines in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, recorded a 30 jump
in earnings from the fuel in fiscal 2011 because of higher
prices even as the bad weather cut output.  Sharp Rise  “The impact on the coking coal market is enormous if the
Bowen Basin is out of action,”  Richard Knights , a mining
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London , said by phone. A
prolonged period of supply disruption “would mean a sharp rise
in the next quarterly contract,” he said.  Conditions in the tropical  Pacific Ocean  are consistent
with a late-forming La Nina, which is likely to be weaker than
the strong 2010-2011 event, the bureau said today.  The threat of further disruptions in Queensland comes as
global steel consumption is forecast by the World Steel
Association to gain 5.9 percent this year and 6 percent next
year. As a result of lost production, Australia’s exports are
set to drop 14 percent this year to 137 million tons, according
to the nation’s commodity forecaster. The “spectre” of another
La Nina, though forecast to be weaker than 2010, is starting to
build, Macquarie said in a Sept. 23 report.  Some producers in the Bowen Basin, which supplies about 60
percent of the global market, have struggled to remove water
from their mines over the winter months and BHP expects
production and exports to be crimped until years’ end.  Rain Preparation  “The La Nina weather cycle is anticipated to continue to
affect rainfall and general weather patterns in central
Queensland into 2012,”  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. (COK) , a producer that
counts Mitsui Corp. and South Korean steel mill  Posco (005490)  amongst
equity and project partners, said in a presentation this month.  Cockatoo is building a new bridge “which will
significantly reduce the likelihood of road closures during the
wet season,” the company said in an e-mail. It’s also
completing a new levee designed for a 1 in 1,000 year flood
event, to replace a 1:100 levee, the company said.  Rising coking coal costs have helped dent earnings at
steel mills including Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,  China ’s biggest
publicly traded steelmaker,  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405) ,
 Japan ’s third-largest steelmaker, and  India ’s  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)   Rising Costs  Every ton of crude steel needs about 600 kilograms of
coking coal, according to BHP, which forecasts demand for the
fuel to gain more than 50 percent by 2025, driven by China.  BHP,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Rio Tinto Group were among
companies to notify customers they would miss shipments after
heavy rain and flooding in November through January inundated
mines. The BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, a venture with
Mitsubishi Development Pty., is the largest global seaborne
supplier of coking coal with a 22 percent global share.  While producers have increased supplies following the
floods, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc analysts led by  Lyndon Fagan 
said last month in a report that Australian supply will remain
constrained. “The potential for a La Nina to re-occur in late
2011 and 2012 cannot be ruled out.”  Australia’s economy shrank in the first quarter by the most
in 20 years after flooded coal mines, railways and farmland hurt
exports. The government in June estimated the bill from the
floods had reached A$12 billion ($11.8 billion).  Wettest Season  Contract prices have dropped from their second-quarter
record amid turmoil in global markets and as China moved to cool
economic growth. Sumitomo Metal agreed to pay Anglo and BHP
about $285 a ton for the three months starting Oct. 1, compared
with $315 a ton the previous quarter, according to a statement.  Rio said Sept. 20 that its Australian coal operations have
“largely recovered” from flooding earlier this year. Prices
may drop to $275 a ton in the first-quarter, Deutsche Bank AG
forecasts.  “If it’s going to be ongoing wet conditions that are
reasonable, that can be tolerated at the mines as they have done
in the past,” Peter Rudd, mining and resources manager at
Armytage Private Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne .  The November-to-April wet season in Queensland was the
second wettest on record with more than 905 millimeters of rain
recorded, the bureau said. The August-to-April period was the
nation’s wettest on record. The Bowen Basin alone received 350
millimeters of rain last December, while 727 millimeters fell at
BHP’s Hay Point export terminal, BHP said in a Sept. 30
presentation, citing weather bureau data.  ‘Girl-Child’  La Nina means “the girl-child” in Spanish and is the
opposite of the weather event El Nino, which can cause drought
in Australia. It refers to the cooling of the central and
eastern Pacific Ocean and can shift weather patterns around the
world. La Nina is associated with the increased chance of wetter
conditions in Australia.  La Nina, though not as strong as in September 2010, is
expected to strengthen gradually into 2012, the U.S. Climate
Prediction Center said Oct. 6.  China’s imports of coking coal are forecast to gain at an
average rate of 9 percent a year to reach 73 million metric tons
in 2016, according to Australian government forecasts. India may
triple coking coal imports within five years to meet surging
demand from steelmakers,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  forecast in May.  “Underlying demand for coking coal should continue to grow
as blast furnace steel production increases and as China ramps
up production from new, large blast furnaces which must use
high-quality coking coal to produce high-quality steels,”
Jefferies & Co. Inc. said in a Sept. 6 report. “We expect the
current hard coking coal price of almost $300 per ton to persist
for at least the next two years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  