-- 
Republican Insurgent-Love a Myth, Romney Shows: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-10-11T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/republican-insurgent-love-a-myth-romney-shows-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The conventional wisdom now treats
 Mitt Romney , the former governor of  Massachusetts , as the strong
favorite for the Republican nomination. On Intrade.com, he is
given a 61 percent chance of winning the nomination -- more than
three times his closest rival, Texas Governor  Rick Perry .  Romney’s strength may seem puzzling. He is running as the
establishment candidate: the one favored by the party apparatus,
the big donors, the Republicans who care more about the party’s
power than about ideology. We have been told again and again
that the Republican rank and file is more hostile than ever to
the party’s establishment, which they regard as a collection of
sellouts. So how can Romney be on track to win the nomination?  The answer is that the Republican establishment almost
always wins presidential-nomination contests, and conservative
insurgents almost never do. Since 1984, nobody substantially to
the right of the party establishment has won the nomination.
Make a mental list of the last four Republican nominees --
 George H.W. Bush , Bob Dole,  George W. Bush  and  John McCain  --
and the notion of a Romney victory in the primaries becomes less
surprising.  Establishment-oriented candidates keep winning for two
reasons. The first is that the party establishment has moved to
the right, too, co-opting conservatives who might otherwise have
overthrown it.  Avoiding Clashes  In particular, it has avoided clashing with conservatives
on issues of intense concern to them. The first president Bush
turned against abortion. Bob Dole, after losing the 1988
nomination fight partly because conservatives distrusted him on
taxes, signed a pledge to oppose any further tax increases to
get the 1996 nomination. The second Bush spent much of 1999
assuring Republicans he was more conservative than his father.
McCain, too, moved to the right to win the primaries, pledging
to keep in perpetuity tax cuts he had previously voted against.  The shift is apparent in Congress as well. As recently as
the 1980s, the Senate included a strong liberal Republican
contingent. There are no heirs to Chuck Percy and Lowell Weicker
today.  But it’s not just the nominees themselves who have moved
right, and it’s not just a matter of political convenience. The
officials, donors and operatives who make up the Republican
establishment are much more conservative than their counterparts
of two decades ago. They are more likely to be pro-life, more
firmly opposed to tax increases, and more skeptical of
environmental regulation. And these positions are typically held
sincerely, if not always passionately.  Splitting the Vote  The second reason the establishment wins is that its
opponents never unify behind another candidate. In 1988,
conservatives who couldn’t support the establishment candidates
split three ways. Pat Robertson ran as the social-conservative
champion; Pete du Pont as the voice of economic libertarians;
and  Jack Kemp  as the “movement conservative” who could unite
both groups. The same pattern held in the next open nomination
contest, in 1996, with Pat Buchanan,  Steve Forbes  and Phil Gramm
playing these roles. Neither the social conservatives nor the
economic libertarians could win the nomination on their own, but
their attempt to do so made it impossible to assemble a winning
coalition combining the most conservative elements of the party.  The influx of evangelical Christian conservatives to the
Republican Party has pulled it rightward, but also made winning
the nomination easier for establishmentarian candidates.  Mike Huckabee ’s campaign in 2008 illustrates the dynamic. He asked
for the votes of his fellow evangelicals on the basis of
religious solidarity. It was “important,” he said, for a
presidential candidate to speak “the language of Zion.”  There are enough evangelical voters to make this a tempting
strategy, and Huckabee won some primaries and caucuses. But the
strategy can’t win the nomination because it leaves non-
evangelicals and even some evangelicals cold. Huckabee’s numbers
among non-evangelicals were dismal. He didn’t crack 15 percent
in  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,  Michigan  or  South Carolina .  Although a candidacy based on evangelical identity politics
can’t prevail, it can prevent a movement-conservative candidate
from being nominated. Winning a majority to the right of the
party establishment requires building a coalition that includes
most evangelical conservatives but goes beyond them, and a
Huckabee-style candidacy makes that impossible.  The movement-conservative candidate has another burden: He
is competing for votes with both the establishment candidate and
candidates who appeal to subsets of conservatives. So all of
those other candidates have an incentive to attack him, while
not necessarily having an incentive to attack each other. Thus,
McCain and Huckabee -- and everyone else, for that matter --
ganged up on Romney in 2008, when he was trying to run as the
movement candidate.  What Romney Learned  Perhaps having learned from that experience, Romney has
decided to play a different role this time. Perry is running as
the conservative candidate, and so he is, as he put it, the
pinata at every debate: a target for Romney, but also for
 Michele Bachmann ,  Rick Santorum  and  Herman Cain .  The funny thing is that even though Romney is running as
the “moderate,” rather than the “conservative,” in the race, his
actual positions are to the right of the ones he had in 2008.
For example, he signed a pledge to oppose raising the debt
ceiling until Congress passes a Balanced Budget Amendment. Like
previous successful establishment candidates, he is placating
the party base.  And that’s how it works in the  Republican Party , post-
 Ronald Reagan . The establishment gets the nominations, and the
conservatives get the party.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 