-- 
Trichet Sees ’Systemic Dimension’ to Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-11T10:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/trichet-sees-systemic-danger-as-greek-writedowns-divide-eu.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  warned of threats to the financial system as
the conflict among political leaders intensified over how to
extricate  Europe  from the debt crisis.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told European lawmakers in Brussels today. “Sovereign stress
has moved from smaller economies to some of the larger
countries. The crisis is systemic and must be tackled
decisively.”  European officials are toiling to meet an end-of-month
deadline set by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to get to grips
with the crisis, which has propelled Greece to the brink of
default, shaken world markets and fueled speculation that the
17-nation currency might not survive in its current form.  Trichet’s message comes as Slovakian lawmakers vote on the
euro region’s retooled bailout fund. The country is the only
member of the 17-nation euro area that hasn’t ratified the
measure agreed between leaders in July to fight turmoil that has
spread from Greece to larger nations including  Italy . Slovakia’s
largest opposition party, which pledged to
reject the motion today, said it will back the revamp in a
second vote if it fails to pass the first time.  Stocks in Europe dropped for the first time in five days
and the euro fell from a three-week high against the dollar. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.8 percent as of 11:46 a.m. in
 London . The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3588.  Italy sold 9.5 billion euros ($12.9 billion) of Treasury
bills today, the maximum set for the auction, as borrowing costs
fell and demand rose.  Slovak Vote  Today’s crisis-management efforts range from a vote in
Slovakia on upgrading the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) rescue
fund to the release of a report by European and International
Monetary Fund experts on  Greece ’s economic prospects. Risks to
the region’s economic outlook have increased as governments
struggle to contain the crisis, the European Commission said in
a separate assessment published today.  After Malta’s endorsement late yesterday, the Slovak
parliament stands as the only barrier to reinforcing the fund
with the power to buy bonds in the primary and secondary
markets, offer precautionary credit lines and enable the
bolstering of bank capital.  Ratification Vote  Slovak Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  sought to sideline
opponents in her coalition by tying the EFSF ratification to a
no-confidence motion. The Freedom of Solidarity party, one of
the members of Radicova’s four-way coalition, said it won’t
support the EFSF.  Nevertheless, Slovakia’s opposition Smer party will back
the bailout revamp in a second vote if the first one fails, its
leader,  Robert Fico , told reporters in the capital Bratislava.
There is no date set for a repeated vote.  Political jousting in Slovakia, which sat out Greece’s
original 110 billion-euro aid program last year, showed how
Europe’s unanimous decision-making principle makes the emergency
response hostage to local politics.  ‘Comprehensive’  In postponing a summit of euro leaders by five days
yesterday to Oct. 23, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
sought extra time to pursue a “comprehensive” package
including a solution for Greece, aid for banks and a further
strengthening of the rescue fund.  The summit, now slated for a Sunday when the U.S. and
European markets are closed, will be preceded by a finance
ministers’ meeting on a date to be determined. Weekends are
Europe’s traditional time for market-sensitive decisions, as
when the euro area created the rescue fund in May 2010.  “There’s no obvious solution,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden told reporters in Luxembourg today. “There
are several options that must be examined from the technical and
political points of view.”  Greek bondholders may face writedowns of more than the 21
percent envisioned in a July rescue plan, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said, setting the stage for high-
stakes bargaining at the leaders’ summit.  Juncker’s Comments  Asked by  Austrian television  last night whether Europe is
considering writedowns of 50 percent to 60 percent, Juncker, who
chairs euro-area finance meetings, said: “We’re talking about
more.” A spokesman for Juncker, Guy Schuller, said today
Juncker meant euro-area officials were discussing investor
losses on their Greek holdings exceeding 21 percent. Both the
ECB and banks oppose such a revision.  The ECB gave its blessing to one method of bolstering the
fund, saying it could be used to insure a portion of new bonds
sold by debt-strapped nations, automatically extending the
fund’s coverage.  EFSF resources “should be dedicated to enhance sovereign
debt new issuance of securities, thus multiplying their
effect,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in Milan
yesterday.  Officials are working out how to scale up the EFSF’s
firepower without requiring another round of parliamentary
approvals or dipping into the balance sheet of the ECB. The
central bank has ruled out granting the EFSF a banking license.  For Greece, the endgame drew nearer with an announcement
that EU, ECB and IMF experts are likely to complete their
economic-review mission today.  The report will put Greece’s 2011 budget deficit at 9.1
percent of gross domestic product, missing the original target
of 7.5 percent and a revised target of 8.5 percent, Kathimerini
newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  