-- 
Rihanna in Bikini Bumps, Grinds, Looks Lost on Tour: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-10-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rihanna-in-bikini-bumps-grinds-looks-lost-on-tour-review.html
It’s like being pelted with
pornographic candy. Rihanna tumbles out of a giant hamster ball
onto a stage hyperactive with cavorting day-glo dancers and
thrusting hydraulic platforms. Her skimpy blue dress is soon
off, revealing a bikini as immodest as it is lurid.  The 23-year-old Barbadian singer recently became similarly
undressed in a field in  Northern Ireland  during a promotional
video shoot. Rihanna had her first international hit at age 17 
and has since released five albums with combined sales of more 
than 20 million. She’s also known for her comely looks. The 
field’s God-fearing farmer, though, remained unimpressed. 
Rihanna was ordered to promptly re-robe and get off his land.  No such complaints are being heard on Rihanna’s 99-date
 tour  which continues around  Europe  over the next few months,
including many events at  London ’s  O2 Arena  (until Dec. 22.)  Rihanna’s concerts prove that sex sells. Throughout the 90
minutes of her O2 gigs, she bumps and grinds, grabs her crotch,
and rocks, waggles and rolls her under-dressed posterior.  Her microphone crassly dangles between her legs. She makes
Madonna look like a virgin. Madonna, though, maintains a
commanding charisma. Rihanna is small in the middle of her stage
and seems unconvinced by the endless raunch. One wonders about
her welfare -- not the ideal reaction in a pop concert.  The music too is as brazen and plastic as a cheap sex toy.
The sound quality is poor. Rihanna’s voice is swaddled in reverb
while the music is busy with too many instrumentalists (nobody
needs two keytars played at the same time).  Nevertheless, songs like “Only Girl (in the World),” the
soaring “Love the Way You Lie” and the mighty “Umbrella” still
hit the spot. A perfect mix of sleek R’n’B, high voltage electro
and crunchy rock guitars, each is a devastatingly effective
piece of modern pop engineering.  Rihanna is happiest, her performance at its best, when she
returns to her dancehall roots. The stripped-down beats of “Rude
Boy” put a spark into her singing and a tease into her wiggle.
It is a welcome relief from the tiresomely sexual spectacle.  Rating: **.  Rihanna next plays the O2 tomorrow, with other dates this
month in  France ,  Belgium ,  Germany , Denmark,  Norway  and  Sweden .
The tour also visits Switzerland, the Netherlands and Ireland.  Information:  http://www.theo2.co.uk , +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.rihannanow.com/live   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 