-- 
RIM Shareholder Says More Investors Support Push for Sale

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-11T20:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rim-shareholder-says-more-investors-support-its-push-for-sale.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  shareholder
 Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  said more investors support its campaign
to urge the BlackBerry maker to sell itself, seek a merger
partner or divide into separate companies.  Investors owning 8 percent of Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM
now support Jaguar’s push, according to a statement today from
the firm. Jaguar is in talks with other investors to bring the
number to 12 percent, Vic Alboini, Jaguar’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in an interview. He declined to name any
of the supporting shareholders or give the size of his stake.  RIM has come under pressure from investors to make
strategic changes after its shares lost more than half their
value this year amid market-share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  Jaguar’s plan includes replacing co-CEOs and co-
chairmen Jim Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis , who have made RIM a
“reactionary company trying to compete in an innovative
industry.”  RIM is hurt by “management dominance and a lack of board
oversight, which leads to a leaderless company,” Alboini said.
“The timing is very ripe now for a new CEO to step in,” he
said, adding he also wants RIM to have an independent chairman.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  In June, Northwest & Ethical Investments LP called for RIM
to split the roles of chairman and CEO to shake up the
leadership.  Activist Investor  Toronto-based Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant
bank that invests in undervalued small-cap companies, has been
active in the past to pursue its goals.  Hudbay Minerals Inc. (HBM) 
agreed in 2009 to cancel its C$672 million ($534 million)
takeover of  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  after Jaguar’s Alboini rallied
shareholders to oppose the bid.  Jaguar, which is  publicly traded   and  has a market
capitalization of C$5.4 million, last month said shareholders
owning less than 5 percent of RIM backed its plan.  Alboini, who is also CEO of investment firm Northern
Securities Inc., is alleged along with colleagues to have broken
trading and investment rules by the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada. He declined to comment today
on the charges.  RIM rose 5.1 percent to $24.41 at the close in New York and
has lost 58 percent this year.  Alboini said he hasn’t contacted RIM to discuss his
concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  