-- 
RIM’s BlackBerry Service Suffers Disruptions for Second Day

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-11T21:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rim-s-blackberry-service-suffers-new-outage-vodafone-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry
service was disrupted for a second day in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa, and some subscribers in India, Brazil, Chile
and Argentina also suffered delays after a switch failure.  Those affected “are experiencing messaging and browsing
delays,” RIM said today in an e-mailed statement. “We are
working to restore normal service as quickly as possible.”  Some users yesterday lost access to data for more than
seven hours before that service was restored last night. RIM,
which has built a reputation as a maker of secure and reliable
e-mail devices, is struggling to stem declines in market share
to touchscreen phones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone that offer
more consumer applications.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, routes its traffic through
two main centers, in Waterloo for  North America  and in Slough,
southern England, for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said
Nick Dillon, an analyst at research firm Ovum in  London .  That network concentration “has always been a risk to the
service,” Dillon said. BlackBerry “is still the most robust
e-mail system.”  The delays today were caused by a core switch failure
within RIM’s infrastructure, the company said in a separate,
later e-mail. While the system is designed to transfer to a
backup switch, that didn’t happen, the company said. The result
was a large backlog of data that RIM said it’s trying to clear
as fast as it can.  RIM rose 5.1 percent to $24.41 at 4:29 p.m. New York time.
The shares have dropped 58 percent this year.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which offers BlackBerry service across
Europe, said earlier today that the service was suffering a
partial failure affecting some users in Egypt and possibly in
the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  