-- 
Rio Says Greece Risk Overdone, China Beats ‘Wall of Worry’

-- B y   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-11T16:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/rio-tinto-ceo-says-greece-risk-overdone-as-china-overcomes-wall-of-worry-.html
Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest
mining company, said concerns arising from the European debt
crisis that have shaken world markets don’t reflect the “real
economy” as demand for  iron ore  and coal remains strong.  “My sense is that the expectations are actually more
gloomy than what is taking place on the ground,” Tom Albanese,
Rio’s chief executive officer, said today in an interview.
“From what I’m seeing, the actual real economy is probably
doing better than the financial markets are worrying about.”  An index of six metals on the London Metal Exchange has
dropped 18 percent this half on signs economic growth is slowing
in the U.S. and as speculation increases that the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  is spreading. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said today Europe’s debt crisis threatens
the region’s financial system, while officials are racing to put
together a new plan to end the turmoil.  “The risks and the questions around  Greece  and the
questions around contagion beyond Greece are probably having a
further dampening on sentiment,” Albanese said in the interview
in  Seoul . “I would just hope that the leaders, particularly in
Europe, who are dealing immediately with the debt crisis in
Greece, recognize that they themselves can influence
expectations.”  Albanese said last month commodity markets were “somewhat
weaker” than six months earlier in anticipation concerns over
the health of developed economies would curb demand. Rio’s order
books were full and pricing was strong, he said at the time.  ‘Going OK’  “Since I made those comments in September, we haven’t seen
that much of a change in sentiment or our underlying
businesses,” he said today. “What we’ve been seeing in our
business is that the general economy is going OK, even in the
U.S.”  European officials are toiling to meet an end-of-month
deadline set by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to get to grips
with the debt crisis, which has propelled Greece to the brink of
default, roiled global markets and fueled speculation that the
17-nation currency might not survive in its current form.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told European lawmakers in Brussels today. “Sovereign stress
has moved from smaller economies to some of the larger
countries. The crisis is systemic and must be tackled
decisively.”  Demand Forecasts  Rio advanced 0.4 percent to 3,261.5 pence by the close of
London trading. It earlier increased 0.9 percent to A$68 on the
Australian stock exchange in Sydney.  The company last month maintained a long-term forecast for
demand for copper, aluminum and iron ore to double over 15 to 20
years. Rio has approved spending of $27 billion on expansion and
new mines and is studying an extra $35 billion of investment.  Albanese said demand from  China , his biggest customer, will
be sustained, supporting expansion plans. “What we would hope
to see is that as the rest of the world sorts itself out, the
Chinese economy basically can continue to moderate,” he said.
“It will slow down but it’s going to slow down from a very
large size and for us that’s just enough business.”  China is the world’s biggest consumer of metals and largest
buyer of iron ore, used in steel. The price of ore for immediate
delivery to China has dropped 1.4 percent since July 1.  Rio, the second-biggest exporter of the raw material,
generated two-thirds of its earnings last year from iron ore
sales. It’s studying expanding output 50 percent by 2015.  “What we’ve seen over the past five years is that China
continues to climb a wall of worry,” Albanese said. “It
continues to see concerns, but it grows past those concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  