-- 
Romanian CPI Falls to 21-Year Low, Makes Room for Rate Cut

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-10-11T08:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/romanian-september-inflation-slows-to-lowest-since-communism.html
Romania ’s inflation rate fell more
than expected in September to the lowest level in two decades as
a bumper harvest lowered food prices, giving policy makers scope
to cut the European Union’s highest borrowing costs.  Inflation slowed to 3.45 percent, within the central bank’s
target, from 4.25 percent in August, the  National Statistics
Institute  in Bucharest said today in an e-mailed statement. The
decline exceeded the median forecast of 4 percent by 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices fell 0.2 percent on the
month.  Central banks in eastern Europe including Romania have kept
rates on hold in past months on expectations inflation will slow
and economies will weaken because of a deceleration of growth in
western  Europe , the main importer of goods from the region.  “Even if the food price dynamic proves to be transitory,
inflation is coming back to target sooner than expected, which
opens the door for rate cuts in the near term,” said Bank of
America Merrill Lynch economist  Raffaella Tenconi , who sees
rates unchanged in 2011 and 2012. “Our rate call was based on a
slower disinflation path and the contagion risks from the” EU-
sovereign debt crisis. If both issues improve, then there is the
opportunity for a rate cut sooner than thought.’’  Romania probably will cut  interest rates  after an accord is
reached on the 2012 budget with the  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Union and inflation slows to within the target,
central bank Chief Economist Valentin Lazea told Hotnews.ro
yesterday.  November Policy Meeting  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the EU’s main rate at
6.25 percent for an 11th meeting on Sept. 29, refraining from a
cut that would spur capital outflows and weaken the leu. The
next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for Nov. 2.  The leu, the sixth-best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg so far this
year, weakened 0.3 percent to 4.3290 per euro as of 11:08 a.m.
in Bucharest trading.  Today’s data confirms a prediction by central bank Governor
Mugur Isarescu who said on Oct. 5 that the inflation rate would
fall this year within the central bank’s target of 3 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point, for 2011 and 2012 on lower
food costs and as the effects of a government tax increase
dissipate.  Food-price growth slowed to 1.7 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with 3.8 percent in August, on plunging
potato, vegetable and fruit prices, according to the institute.  Non-food costs dropped to 4.8 percent in the last month
from 4.9 percent in August, while service prices were unchanged
at 3.5 percent from the previous month, the institute said.  “We expect the inflation to remain at low levels until
mid-2012 and start rising again when a new harvest, probably
worse than this year, is in place,” ING Bank Romania SA
economist Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc said today. “The
central bank probably won’t hurry to cut rates this year because
of leu depreciation pressures and we expect a first cut to
happen as early as February because of slower-than-expected
economic growth next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  