-- 
Romney Steers Debate Course; Cain Trumpets 9-9-9

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-12T03:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/romney-wins-christie-s-vote-as-republican-candidates-set-to-debate-economy.html
Former pizza executive  Herman Cain 
sought to capitalize on his rise in opinion polls by repeatedly
promoting his 9-9-9 tax plan at a debate focused on the economy,
as other Republican presidential candidates derided it as
impractical and criticized each other’s credentials.  Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor who is the
party’s frontrunner, navigated through repeated attacks from his
opponents, including  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, who is
struggling to reignite his candidacy.  The debate tonight showcased disputes among the candidates
on a range of economic issues, including Chinese currency,
housing loans,  job creation  and the possibility of future
bailouts should the nation face another economic crisis. The
candidates were united in their criticism of government, blaming
President  Barack Obama , the  Federal Reserve  and Congress for the
nation’s economic struggles without noting that Republicans
control the U.S. House.  The session was viewed as especially important for Cain,
65, and Perry, 61. Cain’s polling gains have reshaped the
primary race and created a new challenge for Perry as he tries
to regain ground he has lost to Romney.  The debate, moderated by  Charlie Rose  at Dartmouth College
in Hanover, New Hampshire, and sponsored by Bloomberg News and
the Washington Post, prodded the candidates to detail their
plans for turning around an economy with an unemployment rate of
9.1 percent.  Cain’s Plan  Cain proposes to replace the tax system with 9 percent
corporate and individual taxes and a 9 percent sales tax. Cain
challenged a Bloomberg analysis of his tax plan that found it
short in needed revenue. He has not publicly released his own
campaign’s analysis and the assumptions used in the plan.  Jon Huntsman Jr., a former U.S. ambassador to  China  and ex-
Utah governor, was one of those to mock Cain’s plan.  “I thought it was the price of a pizza when I first heard
it,” Huntsman said, adding that instead something needs to be
done that is “doable-doable-doable.”  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota said: “When
you take the 9-9-9 plan and turn it upside down, I think the
devil is in the details.”  Bailouts  Romney left open the possibility that he would support
another rescue package for the financial community though he
criticized implementation of the 2008 package backed by both
parties.  “I’m not interested in bailing out individual institutions
that have wealthy people that want to make sure their shares are
worth something,” Romney said. “I am interested in making sure
that we preserve our financial system, our currency.”  Romney, 64, and seven Republican rivals are competing to
persuade voters they are best-suited to challenge Obama on the
economy.  Perry, who is scheduled to give a speech on the economy and
energy in Pittsburgh on Oct. 14, said he wanted to open up the
nation’s “treasure trove” of energy resources to invigorate
the economy. “That’s the real key,” he said.  “The reason we have that many people living in poverty is
because we have a president of the United States who’s a job
killer,” Perry said. “You have a president that does not
understand how to create wealth.”  Health-Care Issue  Perry questioned the health-care plan Romney passed as
governor of  Massachusetts , saying it raised insurance premiums
in the state.  “I’m proud of the fact that we took on a major problem in
my state,” Romney said, explaining that his goal was to tackle
the problem of uninsured children. That problem, he said, was
solved.  “We have less than one percent of kids uninsured in
Massachusetts,” he said. “You have a million kids uninsured in
Texas.”  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas criticized Cain’s
background, saying that as a one-time member of the board of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City  he resisted efforts to audit
the bank.  “I don’t have a problem with the Federal Reserve being
audited,” Cain responded. “It’s simply not my top priority. My
top priority is 9-9-9. Jobs. Jobs. Jobs.”  Bernanke Targeted  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  won applause
when he called for the removal of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.  “Bernanke has in secret spent hundreds of billions of
dollars bailing out one group and not bailing out another
group,” he said. “It is wrong and it is corrupt for one man to
have that kind of power.”  Romney said he would pick a new Fed chairman as president,
though he declined to indicate who he might choose.  Cain named  Alan Greenspan  as his favorite Federal Reserve
chairman over the past several decades.  “I don’t believe in ending the Fed,” he said. “I believe
we can fix the Fed.”  Paul called Greenspan “a disaster,” saying that although
he hoped to end the bank, Paul Volcker was the only chairman who
did “a little bit of good.”  Rick Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania ,
said he wants to increase American economic competitiveness by
beating out China.  “I want to go to war with China and make America the most
attractive place in the world to do business,” he said.  Perry was asked whether he would follow the model of
President  Ronald Reagan  and agree to tax increases as part of
spending cuts. “I don’t think he ever saw those reductions,”
Perry said, as he called for a balanced budget amendment.  Balanced Budget  “One of the reasons that I think Americans are so
untrustworthy of what’s going on is because they never see a cut
in spending,” Perry said. “The fact of the matter is the issue
is we need to have a balanced budget amendment to the  United
States .”  Reagan, renowned by Republicans as a tax-cutter, also
increased revenue about a dozen times when confronted with
surging deficits. The Treasury Department has estimated those
measures would be the equivalent of $300 billion annually today.  Hours before the debate Romney won the endorsement of
Governor  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey , who came to the state to
personally deliver his support.  Christie’s announcement followed his decision last week not
to enter the race, dashing the hopes of some Republican leaders
and donors seeking an alternative to Romney and others running
for the party’s nomination.  Seventh Debate  The gathering marked the seventh formal debate for the
Republican candidates since May 5. Their next meeting is
scheduled for Oct. 18 in  Las Vegas .  Romney, who has become a more frequent target for his
rivals, enjoys something of a home-field advantage for the
debate, given that he owns property in  New Hampshire  and his
service as governor of neighboring Massachusetts from 2003 to
2007. He also unsuccessfully sought the Republican presidential
nomination in 2008.  The dynamics of this year’s contest have shifted over the
last month as Perry fell from frontrunner status following
stumbles at previous debates, including his comment at a Sept.
22 face-off that those who oppose an in-state tuition program
for the children of undocumented immigrants that he favored as
Texas’ governor don’t “have a heart.” He has since retreated
from that phrasing, while standing by the program.  A pre-debate poll of Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents by Bloomberg News and The Washington Post, the
debate sponsors, found that Cain, a former chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza, has gained ground.  Romney Leads  Romney was picked by 24 percent of Republicans as the
person they want to win the nomination, followed by Cain at 16
percent and Perry at 13 percent.  Rounding out the field, 6 percent backed Paul, 4 percent
were for Bachmann, 3 percent supported Gingrich, 1 percent
picked Santorum and less than 1 percent backed Huntsman.  The poll surveyed 391 Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents with a margin of error of plus or minus 6
percentage points for that group.  Different Format  Tonight’s debate was the first time the candidates have
debated sitting down. They sat at an oval table based on poll
results, which means Romney and Cain are next to each other.
They also were allowed to ask questions of each other.  Christie, appearing today with Romney at a news conference
in Lebanon, New Hampshire, praised the former Massachusetts
governor as “an executive who has used executive power,” a
reference to Romney’s business experience.  “This is not someone who just decided to run for president
off the back of an envelope,” Christie said of Romney. “This
is somebody who has thought and listened and planned for a good
long period of time about what you would do if he was given the
honor of being president of the United States.”  He also said Romney, the onetime chief executive of the
investment firm Bain Capital LLC, has “laid out the most
detailed economic plan of anybody in the race.”  Romney on Sept. 6 released a 59-point plan that included
proposals to cut U.S. corporate taxes, reduce federal
regulations and pursue sanctions against China for currency
manipulation.  During the debate, Romney said his economic plan calls for
cutting capital gains tax rates for middle-class taxpayers
because they are the people “who are hurting the most.”  Christie told reporters in New Jersey that he was attracted
by Romney’s pledge that on his first day to as president he
would issue all U.S. states automatic waivers from implementing
Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Running Mate Question  Christie, 49, said he doesn’t anticipate being asked to
join a Romney ticket as a vice presidential candidate. He didn’t
say no when asked twice whether he would accept the position if
offered.  The New Jersey governor said he’s ready to travel the U.S.
in support of Romney, and has urged his backers and party
leaders in New Jersey and other states to follow his lead.  “I have no question in my mind that Governor Romney is our
party’s and our country’s best opportunity to defeat President
Obama,” he said.  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida congresswoman who is
chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, discounted the
significance of Christie’s endorsement.  “We’re talking about a governor with a failed record on
jobs endorsing a former governor with a failed record on jobs,”
she told reporters before the debate. “I would probably look
for someone with a little more track record for success.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Hanover at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Hanover at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  