-- 
Romney Calls on Perry to Repudiate Pastor’s Mormon ‘Cult’ Remark

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-11T22:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/romney-calls-on-perry-to-repudiate-pastor-s-mormon-cult-remark.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  called on rival  Rick Perry  to denounce comments made
by a supporter who likened his Mormon religion to a “cult.”  “I would call upon Governor Perry to repudiate the
sentiment and the remarks,” Romney said at a news conference in
Lebanon, New Hampshire.  The Reverend Robert Jeffress, a Baptist minister from
 Dallas , called Mormonism “a cult” and said Romney is “not a
Christian” in remarks to reporters after introducing  Texas 
Governor Perry to an Oct. 7 meeting of social conservatives.  “I just don’t believe that that kind of divisiveness based
on religion has a place in this country,” Romney told reporters
today.  The renewed attention to his Mormon faith has threatened to
throw Romney off his economic message as he has worked to win
over party leaders like New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who
appeared with Romney at today’s news conference to announce his
endorsement.  Some evangelical voters, a critical part of the Republican
base, don’t believe that Mormons are Christians because they use
the Book of Mormon as a holy text along with the King James
bible. Their opposition helped end Romney’s candidacy for the
Republican nomination in 2008.  Christie’s Rebuttal  Christie today dismissed those concerns as irrelevant to
Romney’s qualifications for president.  “These types of religious matters have nothing to do with
the quality of somebody’s ability to lead,” he said at the news
conference with Romney. “Any campaign that associates itself
with that type of conduct is beneath the office of president.”  Mark Miner, a Perry spokesman, brushed aside the question
of disavowing Jeffress and sought to link the health-care plan
Romney pushed as governor of  Massachusetts  with the federal law
that President  Barack Obama  backed and that Republicans want to
repeal.  “Governor Perry is going to focus his campaign on
improving the economy and creating jobs,” Miner said in an e-
mailed statement. “Mitt Romney’s comments are a distraction
from the fact that Romneycare served as a blueprint for
Obamacare.”  Romney put the responsibility on Perry for Jeffress’s
selection as a speaker at the Oct. 7 Values Voter Summit.  Family Research Council President Tony Perkins, whose group
was one of those organizing the gathering in  Washington , said in
a previously released statement that Jeffress “was suggested to
us as a possible introductory speaker because he serves as
pastor of one of the largest churches in Texas. We sent the
request to the Perry campaign which then signed off on the
request.”  Challenging Obama  Romney, embarking on his second presidential run, and his
Republican rivals are competing to persuade voters they are
best-suited to challenge Obama on the economy. The issue is the
focus of tonight’s debate at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , co-sponsored by Bloomberg News and The Washington
Post, which will be broadcast on Bloomberg Television, Bloomberg
Radio, WBIN-TV in New Hampshire and on Bloomberg.com and
WashingtonPost.com.  Christie’s announcement may add momentum to Romney’s effort
to clear the Republican field by positioning himself as the most
electable in the race against Obama.  “This is not someone who just decided to run for president
off the back of an envelope,” Christie said. “This is somebody
who has thought and listened and planned for a good long period
of time about what you would do if he was given the honor of
being president.”  Dashed Hopes  Christie’s announcement last week that he wouldn’t mount
his own presidential bid dashed the hopes of Republican leaders
and donors who had sought an alternative to Romney and the other
candidates seeking the nomination.  Christie told reporters on a conference call after today’s
endorsement that he decided to back Romney last week and the
details of the announcement were worked out when he and his
wife, Mary Pat, hosted Romney and his wife at their Mendham home
on Oct. 8.  The governor said he was attracted by Romney’s pledge on
his first day to issue all U.S. states automatic waivers from
implementing Obama’s health-care overhaul and also to rein in
the  National Labor Relations Board . He said Romney has a good
mix of executive experience in the private- and public-sectors.  Executive Experience  “We’ve seen what it’s like to have a legislator with no
executive experience,” Christie said. “Another four years with
President Obama is not what our party or our country needs.”  Christie said he doesn’t anticipate being asked to join the
Romney ticket as vice presidential candidate and intends to
remain in  New Jersey . He didn’t say no when asked twice whether
he would accept the position if asked.  The New Jersey governor said he’s ready to travel the U.S.
in support of Romney and has urged his backers and party leaders
in New Jersey and other states to follow his lead.  The tough-talking Christie has won praise from anti-tax Tea
Party activists for cutting the New Jersey state budget. His
support could help give Romney credibility among fiscal
conservatives who have yet to fully embrace his candidacy.  “He’s a man who has a following of a lot of folks across
this country, and so when he indicated a willingness to join my
team I could not be more pleased,” said Romney, who called
Christie “an American hero.”  Aides to Perry praised Christie, while playing down the
significance of his endorsement.  ‘Utmost Respect’  “Governor Perry has the utmost respect for Governor
Christie and looks forward to his help unseating President Obama
next year,” said Perry campaign spokesman Ray Sullivan.  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who staked his campaign
strategy on winning the New Hampshire primary, also dismissed
the importance of Christie’s choice.  “New Hampshire is always won and lost based upon votes,
not endorsements,” Huntsman told reporters after an appearance
at a senior center in Hanover. “I’m hoping for people’s vote in
this state. I’m not looking for endorsements. That’s the way
that races are won at the end of the day.”  Several of Christie’s richest backers switched their
allegiance to Romney last week, including Home Depot Inc. co-
founder Ken Langone, a Christie backer, billionaire supermarket
executive John Catsimatidis and hedge-fund giant  Paul Singer .  Roughly a dozen major Republican donors, who had been
uncommitted, are “revving up” to help Romney, said Georgette Mosbacher, a prominent Republican fundraiser who signed up to
back him after previously supporting Christie.  “He’s been running for eight years,” said Mosbacher. “We
know who Romney is; there’s not going to be any surprises.”  A shortened primary calendar has sped up the pace of the
2012 campaign. A decision by Florida Republicans to move up
their contest to Jan. 31 is likely to push the first round of
voting in  Iowa ’s caucuses into early January as well as New
Hampshire’s first-in-the-nation primary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Hanover, New Hampshire, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Hanover, New Hampshire at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  