-- 
Royal Bank of Canada in Talks to Buy Dexia Stake in Venture

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-10-11T14:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/royal-bank-of-canada-in-talks-to-buy-out-dexia-in-custody-joint-venture.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest bank, is in talks with  Dexia SA (DEXB)  to buy the 50 percent of
RBC Dexia Investor Services it doesn’t already own.  Royal Bank, which has right of first refusal to buy the
stake, is in “advanced” talks with Dexia, Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden told reporters yesterday.  “RBC said they will make use of this right of pre-emption
which means that before any solution can be envisaged, we have
to let the negotiations between RBC and Dexia continue,”
Frieden said.  Royal Bank spokeswoman Katherine Gay declined to comment.  Dexia’s board is meeting to review a plan under which the
lender would set up a “bad” bank for its troubled assets and
seek sellers for remaining units.  France and  Belgium  are coming to Dexia’s rescue three
months after it got a clean bill of health in European Union
regulators’ stress tests, and three years after they injected
capital to save the company during the 2008 credit crunch.  The global custody partnership was established by the
French-Belgian bank and Toronto-based Royal Bank in January 2006
and is based in  London , according to the RBC Dexia  website . The
company had about $3 trillion in client assets under
administration as of June 30.  Royal Bank may spend C$300 million ($292 million) to C$400
million for the stake in the business, Barclays Capital analyst
John Aiken wrote in an Oct. 4 note to investors.  Royal Bank rose 63 cents, or 1.3 percent, to C$47.93 at 10
a.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 