-- 
Russia May Tax Increasing Grain Exports to Tame Inflation

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-11T16:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/russia-may-restrict-grain-exports-using-duties-zubkov-says.html
Russia , set to become the second-
biggest wheat exporter a year after its worst drought in half a
century, may impose duties to restrict exports in an effort to
control inflation.  The government may tax shipments once they reach 23 million
to 24 million metric tons for the marketing year, Viktor Zubkov,
first deputy prime minister, said in Moscow today. Russia barred
all cereal exports last year, helping wheat to jump 47 percent
for 2011 in Chicago trading.  “That’s still near a record,” said Erin FitzPatrick, a
London-based analyst at Rabobank International. “I don’t think
the market is pricing in more than that, with or without the
government getting involved. Bigger crops are expected from
Canada, Australia and the U.S.”  Wheat for December delivery rose 5.6 percent to $6.46 a
bushel by 5:36 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices have slid 21 percent since May 27, the last close before
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Russia would let the export
ban expire as scheduled July 1.  Grain exports reached 10.7 million tons as of today and may
climb to 18 million to 19 million tons by January, Zubkov told
reporters. The national crop may reach 90 million to 92 million
tons in the year through June, with consumption at 72 million
tons, he said.  10 Days’ Notice  Imposing a duty would be a “wise” signal to traders, said
Andrei Sizov Sr., general director of Moscow-based researcher
SovEcon. Last year the government gave just 10 days’ notice of
the export ban, which took effect Aug. 15.  The possible restriction on outbound shipments is aimed at
controlling food inflation and ensuring domestic supply,
according to Zubkov. The government aims to maintain prices in
the country at a “comfortable range” of 5,600 rubles ($177) to
6,500 rubles a ton, he said.  Exports at the level targeted by Zubkov for levying the tax
would be a “historic record” for Russia, according to Sizov.
Russia shipped a record 23.2 million tons of grain in the 12
months through June 2009, Rabobank estimates.  Putin, 59, said Sept. 24 he’ll seek to return to the
presidency in March elections, pushing aside protege  Dmitry
Medvedev , who replaced him in the Kremlin for four years because
of a constitutional ban on three consecutive terms. Russia also
holds parliamentary elections in December.  Russia restricted grain exports via duties in the 2007-08
season to curb inflation, when it also held parliamentary
elections in December and a presidential vote in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  