-- 
Saab, Parmalat Charge, Max Bank, A-Tec Unit Bids: Bankruptcy

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-10-11T16:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/saab-parmalat-charge-max-bank-a-tec-unit-bids-bankruptcy.html
Saab Automobile’s court-
administered protection from creditors may end as soon as today,
reviving a threat of insolvency for the cash-starved Swedish
carmaker, a person familiar with the situation said.  Guy Lofalk, the court-appointed attorney overseeing the
reorganization, may end the creditor-protection process unless
the Trollhaettan, Sweden-based company receives a
70 million-euro ($95.6 million) bridge loan from  China ’s
Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile via  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said
the person, who declined to be identified as the plans aren’t
public.  Without that funding, which Saab had planned on receiving
last month, Lofalk is likely to take the view that the
reorganization won’t work as the manufacturer lacks cash to pay
for immediate expenses, the person said.  Saab staved off bankruptcy on Sept. 21, when a Swedish
appeals court overturned a lower court’s ruling and gave the
company a chance to reorganize. Saab, which  General Motors Co. (GM) 
sold last year, first halted production in March after suppliers
stopped delivering parts because they hadn’t been paid.  Geronzi Indicted on Charges Connected to Parmalat’s Collapse  Former Capitalia SpA Chairman Cesare Geronzi must stand
trial on charges of fraudulent bankruptcy and extortion in
connection with  Parmalat SpA (PLT) ’s collapse.  Ennio Amodio, Geronzi’s lawyer, said the indictment
violates the banker’s rights because he faced similar charges in
the bankruptcy case of foodmaker Cirio Finanziaria SpA. Amodio,
speaking in a telephone interview, said his client hadn’t
committed any wrongdoing.  Prosecutors are investigating the role played by Geronzi in
Parmalat’s purchase of dairy company Eurolat from Cirio. In July
a judge sentenced him to a four-year jail term for his role in
the bankruptcy of Cirio. Geronzi appealed the sentence.  Max Bank Tests Danish Consolidation Bill as Bail-In Shelved  Max Bank A/S became  Denmark ’s first insolvent lender to
test a bank package designed to sidestep the country’s bail-in
laws after the state was able to find a buyer and avert senior
creditor losses.  Sparekassen Sjaelland A/S will take over the healthy parts
of  Max Bank (MAX)  after it was declared insolvent by the Financial
Supervisory Authority, the government said Oct. 9. The state
will assume the bank’s bad loans. Under the consolidation bill,
the transaction will be subsidized by Denmark’s guarantee fund.
Senior creditors will be spared, while shareholders will lose
their investments.  The maneuver allows Max Bank to avoid  Europe ’s toughest
bank resolution laws, which had led to senior bondholder losses
twice since February. Those credit events left international
funding markets closed to most of Denmark’s banks. Lawmakers
last month passed the consolidation bill in an effort to avoid
triggering more senior creditor losses and to help banks return
to bond markets.  Penta Submits Offer for A-Tec’s ATB and Three Other Units  Penta Investments, a Czech private equity company, offered
to buy units of the bankrupt Austrian engineering company,  A-Tec
Industries AG. (ATEC)   Penta “submitted an indicative offer” for three A-Tec
units along with a separate offer for the insolvent company’s
ATB AG division, Penta said in an e-mail Oct. 7.  Arise Places German Solar Manufacturing Unit Into Insolvency  Arise Technologies Corp., a Canadian solar company, placed
its German manufacturing unit into structured insolvency.  The company’s Arise Technologies Deutschland GmbH unit
wasn’t able to arrange financing to expand and upgrade its
manufacturing process, and it’s “not considered feasible” for
the business to continue operations, Waterloo, Ontario-based
Arise said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 