-- 
Santander and BBVA Are Downgraded By S&P as No Turnaround Seen in 2012

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-11T19:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/santander-bbva-cut-by-s-p-as-no-turnaround-seen-in-2012-for-spanish-banks.html
Spanish banks including  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  had their
ratings cut by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited “dimming” growth
prospects and “heightened” market turbulence.  Santander and BBVA,  Spain ’s biggest banks, had their long-
term credit ratings cut to AA- from AA with a negative outlook.
Among other downgrades made by S&P, Banco Sabadell SA and
 Bankinter SA (BKT)  were lowered to A- from A.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) 
had its A- long-term rating put on a negative outlook.  “We no longer see 2012 as a turnaround year for Spanish
banks,” S&P said in a statement, adding that the outlook for
all the banks it covers in Spain is negative. “Their ratings
prior to today’s downgrades had little room to accommodate
another year of weak financial performance,” S&P said.  Spanish banks, pummeled by a real estate crash that has
forced them to take a combined 105 billion euros ($143 billion)
of provisions since 2008, now face surging financing costs while
a worsening economic outlook for the economy also delays
recovery in their loan quality. Banco Espanol de Credito SA, a
retail bank controlled by Santander, today reported an 83
percent year-on-year drop in third-quarter profit as lending
shrank and loan impairments jumped.  S&P said the finances of Spanish banks weakened as they
accumulated damaged assets and exhausted provisioning cushions.
Lenders in the country face mounting funding challenges and the
prospect that bad loans will continue accumulating during 2012
and potentially into the first part of 2013, S&P said.  Fitch Cuts Ratings  Fitch Ratings  also cut ratings today on Spanish banks
following its Oct. 7 downgrade of Spain’s sovereign debt to AA-
from AA+. The outlook for the rating is negative.  Santander had its long-term issuer default rating cut to
AA- from AA and BBVA was lowered to A+ from AA-, Fitch said.
CaixaBank SA was cut to A from A+ and Popular and Sabadell to
BBB+ from A-, the ratings company said.  “The weak economic environment in Spain, high unemployment
and the property sector’s problems will continue to affect the
volume and of activities in banks domestically as well as asset
quality,” Fitch said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  