-- 
Saudis Build Railway to Ease Oil Dependence

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-10-11T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/saudis-lay-2-400-miles-of-rail-to-ease-oil-dependence-freight.html
Saudi Arabia is laying 2,400 miles
of rail lines, almost enough to stretch across the continental
U.S., in a push to diversify from oil that will also benefit
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and Saudi Arabian Mining Co.  The construction in the kingdom, which relies on crude
exports for 86 percent of government revenue, aims at developing
mines of bauxite -- Saudi Arabia holds at least 11 percent of
the world’s estimated deposits -- phosphate and precious metals.
The first major  rail line  began running test shipments in May.  Phosphate from a mine in the north will be shipped to a
complex on the Persian Gulf coast run by Sabic, the world’s
largest petrochemical maker. Saudi Arabian Mining, known as
Ma’aden, will operate an aluminum complex with Alcoa Inc. that
Ma’aden says will generate sales of  $1.1 billion a year . It will
use the same line to move shipments of bauxite.  “These are very bulky commodities being extracted in
fairly remote regions of the country,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Jeddah-based National Commercial Bank, said in a
phone interview. “Their value won’t be realized unless they are
brought to market, and this has to be done in a relatively cost
effective way. The only option is by rail.”  The construction is part of a $384 billion plan to develop
transportation, housing and education that was announced by  King Abdullah ’s cabinet last August, targeting an  unemployment rate 
estimated at 10 percent. Generating more revenue from minerals
such as bauxite, which is used to produce aluminum, is part of
the kingdom’s plan to become less dependent on oil.  Making Aluminum  Middle Eastern countries such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and
 United Arab Emirates  will account for almost 10 percent of
global aluminum production by 2015, according to analysts at the
Royal Bank of  Scotland .  Saudi Arabia is “sitting on vast mineral wealth,”  David
Briginshaw , editor in chief of the International Railway
Journal, said in a telephone interview. “ China , for example,
has a huge appetite for these minerals. Doing these projects
will also give the country a huge boost in employment
opportunities.”  Saudi Arabia shipped 17.7 million tons of petrochemicals
worldwide in the seven months ending in July, compared with 16.8
million tons in the same period last year, according to data
published by the  Saudi Port Authority  in September.  Faster Growth  The Saudi economy will grow will grow 6.5 percent this
year, compared with 4.1 percent in 2010, the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  said in a review of the Saudi
economy in August.  Shares in Ma’aden have increased 13 percent this year,
outpacing the 8 percent decline in the benchmark Tadawul All-
Share Index as the Saudi economy expands. Sabic, which exports
most of its production, is down almost 13 percent for the year
amid concern over a global economic slowdown.  Saudis, residents of the kingdom and citizens of the other
Gulf Cooperation Council states --  Kuwait , Oman, the UAE, Qatar
and Bahrain -- may purchase shares on the Saudi exchange. The
shares can also be purchased overseas through exchange-traded
funds.  An 865-mile section of the  North-South Line , which was
completed in May, will move phosphate to a $3.5 billion Ma’aden
and Sabic petrochemical plant and create 1,400 jobs, according
to  Sabic’s website .  The plant will represent 10 percent of global demand for
diammonium phosphate, a fertilizer, and increase Sabic earnings
when full production starts in early 2012, said Faisal Potrik, a
research analyst at Riyad Capital. London-based construction
consultant EC Harris estimates the cost of the rail project at
$3.5 billion.  Bauxite Demand  Bauxite will be shipped to the aluminum complex along the
North-South Line as well. Located in  Ras al-Khair , the plant
will employ 3,000 people, according to a  report on Ma’aden’s 
website. It will include an alumina refinery with an initial
capacity of 1.8 million metric tons a year and a smelter with a
740,000 metric ton annual capacity. It is to begin operation in
2013, according to the website.  Still, the rail lines will only pay off if world aluminum
demand keeps rising, said Kotilaine of  National Commercial Bank .
Economic growth is slowing in  North America  and the European
Union, which Royal Bank of Scotland says account for 31 percent
of world aluminum consumption.  “The risk in building this infrastructure is that it is a
sunk cost,” he said. “If you can’t get the usage levels you
hoped for, then you have potential problems.”  Land Bridge  The rail lines, whose cost National Commercial Bank
estimates at $36 billion, will also benefit passenger and cargo
traffic. The 950-kilometer  Land Bridge Project , covering the
distance between  Los Angeles  and  Oklahoma City , will link the
 Red Sea  with a dry port in  Riyadh , the kingdom’s capital, and
continue to Jubail on the Persian Gulf coast. The Riyadh Dry
Port has a capacity of 200,000 standard containers per year,
according to the Saudi Rail Organization.  The $7 billion land bridge also will enable companies to
carry freight from coast to coast in about 18 hours, compared
with the five to seven days it can take to ship goods around the
Arabian Peninsula. It will cut passenger travel time in half.  Shipping-container capacity will double to 700,000 a year
by 2015, according to data on the website of the Saudi Railway
Organization.  Saudi Arabia  will represent as much as 25 percent
of the rail cargo shipped in the Gulf by 2020, according to data
from Jeddah-based National Commercial Bank.  More Shipping  Saudi Arabia must “create the means for companies to
receive their inputs and ship their outputs in a cost-effective
manner,” Kotilaine said. “Shipping capacity needs to be
increased and in many cases modernized.”  The government is spending $1 billion to add container
capacity at King Abdulaziz port and Ras al-Khair port, according
to National Commercial Bank.  Saudi revenue from oil exports jumped 29 percent in 2010 as
the commodity gained 15 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oil export revenue this year is forecast to be $289.5
billion, said Paul Gamble, head of research at Jadwa Investment
Co, based on a price of $90 a barrel. That’s a far cry from the
$10 a barrel registered in 1986.  “From the mid-1980s government finances weakened
dramatically and there was little investment spending for a long
period,” Gamble said. “There is an awareness that the bumper
oil revenues built in recent years are exceptional and that they
should be put to use on projects that will benefit the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  