-- 
Scorsese Shows Unfinished 3-D ‘Hugo’ at New York Film Festival

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-11T15:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/scorsese-runs-unfinished-kid-friendly-3-d-hugo-at-n-y-film-festival.html
Martin Scorsese , who once made a
television commercial poking fun at his perfectionist
reputation, screened an imperfect version of his new movie
“ Hugo ” for an adoring crowd at the  New York Film Festival .  The Oscar-winning director received a standing ovation last
night before showing an unfinished print of his first 3-D
production at  Avery Fisher Hall .  Scorsese said the special effects, soundtrack, credits and
other parts of the film must still be completed before it opens
in theaters on Nov. 23.  “This is a work in progress,” he told the packed
audience. “I hope that those of you who really do like it come
and see the final film.”  Richard Pena, the festival’s program director, said it was
the first unfinished work shown at the event since “Beauty and
the Beast” in 1991.  “We’re just as proud this evening to have this film,”
Pena said.  “Hugo,” based on Brian Selznick’s novel about an orphan
living in a Paris train station in the 1930s, marks a departure
for Scorsese, who’s best known for gangster movies like
“Goodfellas” and “The Departed.” It’s a family oriented film
with old-fashioned messages about friendship, independence and
childhood wonder.  Clock Fixer  Clocks and silent-film legends play a central role in the
movie, which starts slowly and could use some judicious cutting.  The orphan fixes clocks at the train station and tinkers
with a broken robot left behind by his late father. There’s also
a wonderful homage to the legendary silent-era scene in which
Harold Lloyd dangles from the hands of a skyscraper clock.  One of the main characters in “Hugo” is Georges Melies
(touchingly played by Ben Kingsley), a pioneering French
filmmaker in the early 1900s who went bankrupt and ended up
running a toy kiosk at a Paris train station. An enduring image
in Scorsese’s movie is Melies’s famous shot of The Man in the
Moon with a space capsule imbedded in his eye.  The film’s two young stars, Asa Butterfield and Chloe Grace
Moretz, came on stage following the screening. The cast also
includes  Emily Mortimer , Jude Law, Sacha Baron Cohen and Ray Winstone.  Rumors that co-producer  Johnny Depp  has a cameo are still
unresolved. A mustachioed painter who makes a brief appearance
looks a lot like him, but the latest word is that it’s another
actor.  The 17-day festival closes Oct. 16 with “The Descendants,”
starring  George Clooney  as a Hawaiian land baron who must care
for his two young daughters after his wife is seriously injured
in a boating accident.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 