-- 
U.S. Senate Shelves Obama’s $447 Billion Job Creation Program

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-12T16:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/senate-blocks-obama-s-447-billion-job-plan-funded-by-surtax-on-wealthy.html
President  Barack Obama ’s effort to
enact a $447 billion jobs plan was derailed by the  U.S. Senate ,
falling short of the 60 votes needed to advance what he has
proposed to revive a faltering economy.  Two Democrats joined the Republican minority to block the
plan in a test vote. Yesterday’s tally was 50-49, shelving the
measure in its current form.  “We will not take no for an answer,” Obama said today at
an American Latino Heritage Forum sponsored by the White House
and the Interior Department. The president said lawmakers will
hold separate votes on the stimulus portions of his proposal
including spending to hire more teachers and pay for road and
bridge improvements and middle-class tax cuts.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell today said they will start looking for specific
provisions that can get enough support to pass.  McConnell has called the measure that failed yesterday a
“lousy idea” that relies on proposals similar to 2009’s $825
billion stimulus, an effort he said failed to work.  “If voting against another stimulus is the only way we can
get Democrats in Washington to finally abandon this failed
approach to  job creation , then so be it,” said McConnell, a
Kentucky Republican.  Millionaires’ Tax  Senate Democratic leaders last week revised the president’s
initial proposal, partly to try to pick up more support within
their party. They replaced Obama’s method of paying for the jobs
plan, including higher taxes on families making more than
$250,000 a year, with a 5.6 percent surtax on people making at
least $1 million annually.  Even so, Democratic Senators Jon Tester of  Montana  and  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  opposed the plan. “I can’t support tax
gimmicks that do little to create jobs” and don’t address the
need for a bipartisan deficit-cutting plan, Tester said in a
statement.  Before the Senate voted, Reid accused Republicans -- who
are trying to take control of the Senate and White House in 2012
-- of attempting to hamper the economy for political benefit. He
said Republicans are opposing job-creation ideas they supported
in previous years.  Rooting to Fail  “Republicans oppose those ideas now because they have a
proven track record of creating jobs, and Republicans think if
the economy improves it might help President Obama,” said Reid,
a Nevada Democrat. “So they root for the economy to fail, and
oppose every effort to improve it.”  Obama said today, “A Republican minority got together as a
group and blocked this jobs bill from passing the Senate. They
said no to more jobs for teachers, no to more jobs for cops and
firefighters, no to more jobs for construction workers and
veterans, no to tax cuts for small business owners and middle-
class Americans.”  The vote leaves Obama’s economic agenda in limbo because
the political parties disagree about what should be done to
lower the nation’s 9.1 percent unemployment rate, said  Clint Stretch , managing principal of  tax policy  at  Deloitte Tax LLP  in
Washington. Republicans seek permanent tax cuts and
deregulation, while Obama and congressional Democrats want more
federal spending and short-term tax reductions.  End of its Life  “The president’s jobs initiative is at the end of its
legislative life -- not that it really had one,” Stretch said.
He said the focus likely will shift away from jobs to the work
of a congressional supercommittee that is charged with
recommending $1.5 trillion of cuts from the federal deficit over
10 years.  Obama proposes to create jobs by cutting payroll taxes for
workers and employers by half, extending jobless benefits,
providing aid to states for schools and emergency workers and
boosting spending on public works projects such as roads and
bridges. He also would provide tax breaks for employers to hire
the unemployed.  The plan would be financed by Senate Democratic leaders’
proposed surtax, which the  U.S. Congressional Budget Office  said
would raise $453 billion.  Itemized Deductions  Obama endorsed the leaders’ plan. He had proposed capping
itemized deductions for individuals earning more than $200,000 a
year and couples earning more than $250,000. He also proposed
raising taxes on private equity firm managers, real estate
investors and venture capitalists, and ending oil and gas
subsidies.  The new method of offsetting the bill’s costs still ran
into Democratic opposition. Senator  James Webb , a Virginia
Democrat, said he would vote to let debate start, but wouldn’t
support the Senate jobs legislation as it was drafted. He said a
tax on millionaires that is income-based fails to address real
issues of inequality in the  tax code  and that the best method to
spread the tax burden would be to boost taxes on  capital gains .  “The present proposal looks good at first glance; it
sounds good on a TV bite, but in all respect to the people who
put it forward, I do not believe it’s smart policy and it does
not go where the real economic division lies in our country,”
Webb said.  Hurdles in House  Obama’s plan also faces hurdles in the House. Republicans
who hold the majority oppose the tax increases, and party
leaders there have said it adds spending in many areas already
bolstered in 2009’s economic-stimulus measure.  House Republican leaders say some of Obama’s ideas, such as
payroll tax cuts, are worth considering.  McConnell said today that one vehicle for parts of the jobs
package might be the supercommittee’s legislation, if the 12-
member panel can agree to a deficit-cutting plan.  “I have some optimism we’ll be able to come together on
pieces of it we think make sense,” he said.  Reid said there has been past Republican support for the
payroll tax cut and other portions of what Obama proposed. He
also suggested he will advance some portions on the Senate floor
to put Republicans on record on Obama’s jobs agenda, saying it
will be “crystal clear” where they stand.  The Senate bill is S. 1660.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  