-- 
Singapore to Slow Currency Gains to Aid Growth, Survey Shows

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-10-11T08:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/singapore-central-bank-to-slow-currency-climb-to-aid-growth-survey-shows.html
The Monetary Authority of  Singapore 
will slow or end the appreciation of the city state’s currency,
joining other central banks in the region seeking to bolster
weakening growth without spurring further consumer-price gains,
analysts said.  Policy makers will reduce the degree of tightening at this
week’s twice-yearly meeting by adjusting the  exchange-rate  band
for the currency, according to 14 of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Seven forecast an easing of monetary conditions.
One said the central bank will maintain the currency’s
appreciation after re-centering the band upward at its  last
review  in April to cool inflation.  “The balance of risk has shifted clearly in favor of
growth now,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency strategy
at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore, who forecast the MAS
will move to a zero slope. “We think the government has sent
quite clear signals that they are quite concerned about the
global economy. If the economy slows, that should ease
inflationary pressures.”  Central banks from  New Zealand  to  Malaysia  refrained from
raising benchmark rates last month as Europe’s debt crisis and a
struggling U.S. economy dimmed the outlook for the region’s
export-reliant nations. The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  kept
borrowing costs unchanged on Oct. 4 and signaled it has scope to
lower them if inflation eases, while economists predict central
bankers in  South Korea  will also hold policy rates at this
week’s meeting.  Indonesia ’s central bank unexpectedly lowered
its reference rate today for the first time in more than two
years.  Flatter Slope  Singapore’s monetary authority uses the exchange rate
rather than borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy,
adjusting the pace of appreciation or depreciation against an
undisclosed trade-weighted band of currencies by changing the
slope, width and center of the band. A flatter slope allows
slower appreciation or depreciation over time.  Policy makers will reduce the band’s slope, said 14
analysts, two of whom also said the range will be re-centered. A
reduction of the slope may be seen as moderating monetary
policy. Six predicted zero slope, for a greater reduction in the
policy tightening of the MAS stance, including one who called
for a re-centering. One analyst said policy makers will re-
center the band to aid growth.  The MAS tightened monetary conditions at each of its last
three gatherings.  Inflation Quickens  Singapore’s inflation rate accelerated in August to the
fastest pace since October 2008 as the  consumer price index  rose
5.7 percent from a year earlier, according to the Department of
Statistics. Consumer prices will probably increase 4.5 percent
this year, a central bank survey of economists showed last
month, compared with the forecast from the MAS that inflation
will average as much as 5 percent.  Singapore’s dollar traded at S$1.2801 against its U.S.
counterpart as of 3:21 p.m. local time, after reaching a 2 1/2-
week high of $1.2744 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The currency touched S$1.3199 on Oct. 4, the weakest level this
year, and has advanced 0.3 percent since Dec. 31.  Gross domestic product probably increased 0.8 percent last
quarter from the previous three months, when it dropped an
annualized 6.5 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The trade ministry will
release its advanced estimates for growth at 8 a.m. on Oct. 14.  The government expects growth of as much as 6 percent this
year. The Southeast Asian island’s economy will probably expand
5.5 percent this quarter from a year earlier, the MAS survey
showed.  “We’ve got slowing signs in  Europe , slowing signs in the
U.S., even in  Asia  and Singapore’s economy itself,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a Westpac Banking Corp. strategist who said
the central bank will reduce the band’s slope. “Particularly
for an economy like Singapore, which still very much depends on
the fortunes of the global economy, we think it’s prudent that
the MAS will reduce the degree of tightening.”  The  Singapore dollar  will be little changed at S$1.28 as of
the end of the year, according to the analyst survey.  Below is a table summarizing predictions for the MAS policy
stance and forecasts for the Singapore dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  