-- 
Singapore Plans ‘Judicious’ Dollar Management as Growth Slows

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-10-11T12:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/singapore-plans-judicious-dollar-management-as-growth-slows.html
Singapore  said its economy will
probably expand at a slower pace in the next few years and the
central bank will continue “judicious management” of its
currency to curb inflation and support growth.  The island’s expansion will be affected by a “more
uncertain” global economy and the government will increase
spending in the next five years, Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, who is also deputy prime minister and chairman
of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, said in a statement
today. The government issued the statement to elaborate on plans
presented by President Tony Tan in parliament yesterday.  “The headwinds from slower global growth will mean slower
growth in Singapore in the next few years,” Shanmugaratnam said.
“In this environment of heightened risk and volatility, MAS
will continue to provide the basis for economic and financial
stability in Singapore.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery have
hurt demand for Asian goods, raising the threat to regional
growth and prompting some central banks to start cutting
 interest rates  or refrain from increasing borrowing costs.
Singapore’s central bank will remain “vigilant” against a
resurgence in inflationary pressures and price gains are
expected to moderate toward the end of 2011, Shanmugaratnam said.  Singapore’s monetary authority uses the  exchange rate 
rather than borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy and
manage inflation, adjusting the pace of appreciation or
depreciation against an undisclosed trade-weighted basket of
currencies by changing the slope, width and center of the band.  ‘Anchor of Stability’  “A stable Singapore dollar is an anchor of stability for
our small, open economy,” Shanmugaratnam said. “Continued
judicious management of the effective exchange rate of the
 Singapore dollar  against a trade-weighted basket of currencies
will help dampen inflationary pressures while supporting
economic growth.”  Singapore remains vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas
orders for manufactured goods even as the government boosts
financial services and tourism, making it the most volatile
Asian economy, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The island,
located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait, has the world’s second-busiest container port.  Singapore plans to “significantly enhance” its transport
networks, and improve education, health-care and housing
services, Shanmugaratnam said. The policies will increase
government expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product
in the next five years, he said.  Election Effect  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has vowed to be more
responsive to public criticism after support for his party fell
to a record low of 60 percent in the May general election as
citizens expressed discontent over rising costs and competition
with foreigners for jobs and housing. He has unveiled measures
to widen the social safety net for elderly and lower-income
Singaporeans as well as tighten curbs on foreign workers.  “We must maintain a sound and sustainable fiscal system,”
Shanmugaratnam said. “We have put in place a resilient revenue
structure to enable us to meet these higher spending needs.”  Europe’s sovereign-debt woes and the threat of a U.S.
recession have roiled global stock markets, erasing almost $10
trillion from equities last quarter.  Sovereign Wealth Management  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. and Temasek
Holdings Pte, the island’s state investment companies, spent
more than $25 billion buying stakes in U.S. and European banks
in the past four years as the collapse of the subprime mortgage
market led to more than $2 trillion in losses and writedowns
worldwide.  “In a more volatile and challenging investment environment,
we must hold to a framework that enables GIC and Temasek to
focus on the long term and pursue investment strategies that
generate sustainable portfolio returns,” the finance minister
said.  The central bank will boost surveillance and conduct
regular stress tests on its financial sector, the government
said today. There are also plans to introduce new liquidity
standards and improve the risk-based capital framework for
insurance companies, it said, without elaborating.  Singapore’s three banks are ranked among the world’s six
strongest banks, based on criteria such as Tier 1 capital ratio,
non-performing assets and a comparison of costs against revenue,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reported in its June issue. Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. topped the global list, with  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  at No. 5 and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  at sixth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  