-- 
Sinopec Turning Daylight Chinese Puts Talisman-Newfield in Play: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/sinopec-turning-daylight-chinese-puts-talisman-newfield-in-play-real-m-a.html
China Petrochemical Corp.’s takeover
of  Daylight Energy Ltd. (DAY)  shows how the oil industry’s biggest
selloff since 2008 is transforming companies from  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)  to  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX)  into potential targets.  The two were among 19 oil and gas explorers valued at a
discount to Daylight, which traded at 5.6 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization before agreeing
Oct. 9 to sell itself, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Including net debt, the state-owned refiner known as Sinopec
will buy Daylight in the industry’s cheapest purchase this year,
even as it pays the largest takeover premium since 2005.  Sinopec is taking advantage of the biggest slump in energy
stocks since the credit crisis as  China  and the developing world
compete to secure resources for economies forecast to grow three
times as fast as the U.S. or Europe next year. Talisman, which
operates in  Southeast Asia , North Africa and  Iraq , and Newfield,
which has fields in the Bakken oil formation in Montana as well
as in China, may attract interest from buyers after both fell at
least 35 percent last quarter, Hedgeye Risk Management said.  “If I’m China, I want to see ever-increasing oil,”
Timothy Parker, a portfolio manager who oversees about $4.3
billion in natural-resource stocks at T. Rowe Price Group Inc.,
said in a telephone interview from Baltimore. “This is a riper
time for consolidation given the price weakness.”  David Mann , a spokesman at Talisman, and Keith Schmidt of
The Woodlands, Texas-based Newfield said their companies don’t
comment on rumors or speculation.  Acquisition Detail  Talisman rose 4.3 percent to C$12.73 in Toronto, while
Newfield slipped 1.8 percent to $42.34 in  New York .  Sinopec agreed to buy Calgary-based Daylight for about
C$2.2 billion ($2.1 billion), or C$10.08 a share, according to a
statement. The agreement was more than twice the value of
Daylight’s price of C$4.59 a share last week and 72 percent
higher than its 20-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Daylight’s stock surged 110 percent to C$9.64 in Toronto.  While the premium was the highest for a billion-dollar
acquisition in six years, Sinopec was able to get the lowest
Ebitda multiple in an oil and gas takeover this year as
Daylight’s stock plummeted 43 percent last quarter.  Including about C$711 million in net debt, the deal valued
Daylight at 9.43 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Every other takeover in the industry this year was struck at
13.5 times or more. The per-share offer is still lower than
Daylight’s high this year of C$11.70 in April.  ‘Deep-Pocketed Buyer’  The share-price decline is “giving an opportunity for a
deep-pocketed buyer to say, ‘Hey, I’ll give you that premium and
make you whole from where you are, but that’s still a good deal
for me,’” said T. Rowe’s Parker.  Oil and gas producers were pummeled as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis and a deteriorating recovery in the U.S. heightened
concern the global economy will fall back into a recession,
curbing demand for fuel.  After reaching a 2 1/2 year-high in April, a gauge of
energy stocks in the MSCI All-Country World Index of developed
and emerging markets slid as much as 30 percent.  Last quarter, the 169 oil and gas companies in the index
slumped 22 percent, the biggest slide since the period following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drop from July through
September was more than double the decline in  Brent crude  during
the same period, the data show.  Relative Value  “There’s a lot of companies trading at significant
discounts just on fears of a double dip,” Jeremy McCrea, an
analyst at Alta Corp Capital Inc. in Calgary, said in a
telephone interview. After Sinopec’s Daylight takeover, “there
could be some other companies in play,” he said.  Asian companies may spend $150 billion on acquisitions in
the next five years to secure energy resources for their faster-
growing economies, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “They’re flush with cash and they’re short on energy,”
Louis Gagliardi, managing director of energy at investment-
research firm Hedgeye, said in a telephone interview from  New
Haven ,  Connecticut . “It’s going to motivate them to be buyers
at distressed prices like these.”  Led by China, nations in the developing world may grow by
6.1 percent next year, estimates from the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  showed. The U.S. and western Europe
may expand less than 2 percent.  Takeover Opportunities  There were 19 oil and gas exploration and production
companies with market values from $1 billion to $15 billion that
were cheaper than Daylight was before its agreement with Sinopec
was announced. On average, they were valued at 4.1 times Ebitda
after dropping more than 30 percent last quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Talisman, the largest among the group with an equity value
of C$12.6 billion, plunged 35 percent last quarter. The decline
accounted for most of this year’s drop.  The slide left the Calgary-based oil and gas producer worth
just 3.6 times its Ebitda for the last 12 months, about half
this year’s high of more than 7 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. While Talisman cut its annual production target
last week for the second time in about two months, analysts
project it will boost earnings by 80 percent in 2012.  It had 1.15 billion barrels of proven reserves of oil and
gas at the end of last year, the second-highest amount of any
company trading at a discount to Daylight.  ‘Better Execution’  “They have decent underlying assets that could attract a
higher valuation by the market if there’s better execution,”
 Lanny Pendill , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis ,
said in a telephone interview.   Newfield was valued at 5.1 times Ebitda yesterday after
slumping 42 percent last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The company’s proven reserves are worth about $58 a share
excluding debt, 34 percent higher than its price of $43.13
yesterday, according to Brian Lively, an analyst for  Tudor
Pickering  Holt & Co. in Houston.  It holds “leading positions” in the  Montana  portion of
the Bakken formation, which may hold 2.6 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, a report last week from Wood Mackenzie said.
Newfield also generated almost 25 percent of its revenue in
China and  Malaysia  last year and had 619 million barrels of
proven oil equivalent reserves, the most of any U.S. producer
from the list of companies compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s screaming cheap,” Tudor Pickering’s Lively said in
a telephone interview. “They have a good asset portfolio across
the U.S. and they’re operationally very good.”  Financing Exploration  Energy companies may find it more difficult to finance
exploration as investors shun all but the safest corporate bond
offerings in the face of Europe’s crisis and the U.S. slowdown,
which may lead to more acquisitions.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds globally instead of government debt grew last
week to the widest since July 2009, data compiled by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit show. Yields for issuers
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-
by S&P rose to 10.5 percent, the most since October 2009.  “A lot of these companies would prefer to grow faster, but
they can’t because there’s no access to capital,” Geoff Ready,
an analyst at Haywood Securities LLC in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview.  Unocal Deal  While energy companies may be more willing to sell to
foreign buyers, one of the biggest obstacles to cross-border oil
deals remains the regulatory scrutiny that acquirers face in
certain regions, Hedgeye’s Gagliardi said. That’s why some Asian
companies have formed joint ventures in  North America  and Europe
instead of buying companies outright, he said.  Political opposition derailed a $19.4 billion offer for El
Segundo, California-based Unocal Corp. in 2005 by  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
China’s largest offshore energy producer. That left  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California , as the winning bidder.  Still, the decline in shares of energy companies are now
making takeovers too compelling for strategic buyers to pass up,
according to Michael Breard, an energy analyst for Hodges
Capital Management Inc. in  Dallas .  “It’s just a good time” for takeovers, he said in a
telephone interview. “You’ve got stock prices that have dropped
considerably and people who are looking for acquisitions. The
stock market is looking at what’s happening in the next 20
minutes, but the major  oil companies  and the Chinese buyers are
looking at what’s happening in the next 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 