-- 
Slovak Parties Seek EFSF Vote Talks as Europe Watches

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-13T17:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/slovakia-parliament-to-vote-again-on-euro-zone-fund-after-government-falls.html
(Corrects spelling of Nicolas in 15th paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Slovakia’s political parties rushed
to find a way to approve Europe’s enhanced bailout fund after
lawmakers rejected it amid a dispute over the future of Prime
Minister  Iveta Radicova .  Radicova wants to start talks today with the opposition on
a second vote, according to spokesman Michal Lukac. The premier
said the only country in the 17-member euro area yet to approve
European Financial Stability Facility must find a solution to
the issue “as soon as possible.” No time for a new vote has
been set.  Slovakia “must sign up to the rescue fund,”  Robert Fico 
said late yesterday, adding that his party, which didn’t back
the measure yesterday because it couldn’t support Radicova’s
government, is awaiting a proposal from the ruling coalition.  Global stock and currency markets rebounded from earlier
declines on optimism the EFSF changes will be approved by
Parliament in the country of 5.4 million people. Slovak approval
of enhanced powers of the EFSF, the temporary bailout fund, is
crucial for adopting the key element in the strategy to prevent
contagion from the debt crisis that has spread from Greece to
other countries in the region.  ‘Little Choice’  “Political uncertainties, such as this one,” threaten to
prolong the euro-region debt crisis,  Fitch Ratings  said in a
statement from  London  today. While the nation “appears to be
heading toward an agreement,” a second rejection would leave
the  European Central Bank  with “little choice.”  The ECB would have to continue to buy the bonds of the
currency bloc’s most indebted nations or increase the risk of
systemic sovereign default, the ratings company said.  European stocks climbed to a five-week high and the euro
strengthened as European Union Commissioner Olli Rehn said the
debt crisis can be resolved. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 0.8 percent as of 1:06 p.m. in London, after having
dropped as much as 1.2 percent earlier. The euro rose 0.9
percent to $1.3767 from $1.3640 yesterday.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today she is
“certain” Slovakia will approve the package before European
Union leaders meet Oct. 23.  Likely ‘Yes’  “European officials are quite good at suggesting revotes
or different tactics if votes don’t come out in line with what
is required,”  Steven Saywell , head of foreign-exchange strategy
for Europe at BNP Paribas SA in London, said by phone.
“Assuming we do get a revote from Slovakia later in the week,
it’s likely to be a ‘yes’ vote. Certainly the market seems to
believe that.”  The Cabinet must resubmit the request for the approval of
the EFSF-related legislation to parliament to allow a repeated
vote on the matter.  Yesterday’s rejection cost Radicova her job as she tied the
vote to a no-confidence motion in her Cabinet. Now she must find
a way to rebuild a majority or face early elections. Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos yesterday said the revamped EFSF will
probably be passed this week.  “The government crisis in Slovakia illustrates one thing:
the political price Europe has to pay is extremely high,”
Commerzbank AG analysts led by Frankfurt-based Ulrich Leuchtmann
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Destined to Fail  A total of 55 lawmakers of the 124 present backed the
motion, short of the required majority of 76 deputies. Nine were
against it. The vote was destined to fail after the Freedom and
Solidarity party, one of four coalition members, said it
wouldn’t support the changes.  With average salaries still below those in  Greece , it’s
getting tougher to garner support among the poorest euro
citizens for further aid to their Mediterranean partners.  As the crisis continues to engulf the euro region and
threatens its lenders, German and French leaders at a meeting on
Oct. 9 pledged to devise a plan to recapitalize banks, help
Greece and strengthen Europe’s economic governance. Merkel,
after meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said Europe will
do “everything necessary” to ensure that banks have enough
capital.  The expanded powers of the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion)
EFSF would allow the fund to buy the debt of stressed euro-area
nations, aid troubled banks in the region and offer credit lines
to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to sell bonds to
finance rescue loans.  The vote “was used as a power tool amid the coalition
crisis and the whole of  Europe  was taken a hostage,” Petr Just,
a political scientist at Metropolitan University in Prague said
in a telephone interview before the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  