-- 
Solyndra Junior Creditors Oppose Naming Bankruptcy Trustee

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-11T21:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/solyndra-junior-creditors-oppose-u-s-request-to-name-bankruptcy-trustee.html
Solyndra LLC’s junior creditors
opposed U.S. officials’ request for a trustee to oversee the
bankruptcy of the defunct solar-panel maker, claiming it would
make the company harder to sell.  “The trustee motion adds to the already highly charged
negative atmosphere surrounding Solyndra at a critical stage in
these cases and actually may delay the sale process,” the
official committee of unsecured creditors said in a filing today
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The committee represents creditors who hold debt that ranks
behind loans guaranteed by the U.S. Energy Department. Solyndra,
based in Fremont,  California , faces probes by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  and Republicans in Congress over a $535 million
federal loan guarantee it used to build a $733 million factory.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy last month with a plan to
either sell the eight-month-old factory or liquidate the
specialized equipment used to manufacture its solar panels.  Last month, Roberta A. DeAngelis, U.S. Trustee for the Mid-
Atlantic region, asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to
appoint a trustee to oversee Solyndra while it is in bankruptcy.
The U.S. Trustee is an arm of the U.S. Justice Department that
monitors corporate bankruptcies.  ‘Fiduciary Duties’  Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison and Chief
Financial Officer W.G. Stover have asserted their constitutional
right not to answer questions related to a criminal matter,
preventing them from “properly exercising their fiduciary
duties” in the bankruptcy, DeAngelis said.  A trustee would interfere with Solyndra’s effort to sell
itself through a court-supervised auction, the unsecured
creditor’s committee said. The company received court approval
last month to hold an Oct. 27 auction to sell its assets,
including the Fremont factory.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 