-- 
Solyndra Rescue Attempt Probed by Republicans After New E-Mails

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-11T18:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/solyndra-rescue-attempt-probed-by-republicans-after-new-e-mails.html
Republicans led by Representative
 Darrell Issa  are turning their attention from the $535 million
in U.S. loan guarantees that went to Solyndra LLC to the Obama
administration’s failed effort to rescue the company.  A refinancing in February that put taxpayers behind new
investors providing $75 million attracted renewed attention with
the release on Oct. 7 of administration e-mails showing Treasury
Department officials expressed concern that the change violated
the law.  “Why did we do something that is strictly prohibited?”
Issa, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, said on Fox News Sunday on Oct. 9. Representative
 Cliff Stearns , who heads a panel investigating Solyndra, said he
wants to question Energy Secretary Steven Chu about the
decision.  Solyndra received its federal loan guarantee in September
2009. The Fremont, California-based company closed its doors on
Aug. 31 of this year, dismissing almost 1,100 workers. The
company filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  raided its headquarters two days
later as part of an effort to determine whether the company
provided false financial information.  The department’s “decision to subordinate existing
creditors, in other words taxpayers, to new investors is not
going to play well in Congress or the court of public opinion,
even if it might have made sense at the time,” Tim VandenBerg,
senior vice president at Washington Analysis LLC, a political
and economic advisory firm, said in an e-mail today.  ‘Public Interest’  Republicans say the 2005 law on U.S. loan guarantees for
clean-energy companies couldn’t be clearer: It says such a
taxpayer obligation “is not subordinate to other financing.”  The Energy Department says the law isn’t that clearcut once
a company gets in trouble. Department lawyers determined the
restructuring was legal “based on a careful analysis of the
statute,” department spokesman Damien LaVera said in an e-mail
Oct. 7.  In a provision under “default” concerning subrogation --
the substitution of one creditor for another -- the law says a
borrower can continue “to pursue the purposes of the project”
if the Energy secretary “determines this to be in the public
interest.”  “Clearly they put a lot of wiggle room in the law,” said
Steve Ellis, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a
Washington-based group that says on its website that it works to
increase transparency and eliminate wasteful subsidies.  Violated Terms  While the restructuring may be legal, Ellis said Energy
officials should be criticized for backing Solyndra as its
financial troubles grew.  In December 2010, the company violated the terms of its
loan by failing to set aside the first of six $5 million
installments for a  reserve fund . Solyndra had received $460
million in government loans by February. It would get another
$67 million before closing Aug. 31.  “They doubled down when they should have stepped away,”
Ellis said in an interview today.  Treasury Department doubts about the Solyndra financing
were disclosed in a stack of documents that the administration
sent to Congress on Oct. 7.  Mary J. Miller, assistant secretary for financial markets
at the Treasury, raised the matter in an Aug. 17 e-mail to
Office of Management and Budget Deputy Director Jeffrey Zients.  Federal Financing Bank  “Our legal counsel believes that the statute and the DoE
regulations both require that the guaranteed loan should not be
subordinate to any loan or other debt obligation,” Miller said.  In an earlier e-mail exchange obtained separately, Gary Burner, chief financial officer of the Treasury’s Federal
Financing Bank, wrote an e-mail to the Energy Department’s loan
program on February 10 indicating Justice Department officials
should be consulted on the Solyndra refinancing agreement. The
Federal Financing Bank provided $527 million in funds to
Solyndra under the federal guarantee.  Frances Nwachuki, an official in the Energy office, wrote
back saying there may be a “gross misunderstanding of the
outcome” of the restructuring negotiations.  The e-mails indicate the issue was discussed on a
subsequent phone call, without saying how the matter was
resolved. The Treasury Department’s inspector general is
investigating the Federal Financing Bank’s role in supporting
Solyndra.  ‘Terrible Decision’  The approval of the restructuring was a “terrible
decision,” Stearns, a Florida Republican who is chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigations panel, said
in an interview Oct 5.  Chu is “going to have to explain it, and he’s going to
have to name the counsel who signed the documents,” Stearns
said. “The long and short of it is there’s no explanation,
except that he got bad advice.”  Jonathan Silver, who was executive director of the loan
guarantee program when the Solyndra refinancing was approved,
told the Stearns panel on Sept. 14 that Energy Department
lawyers found the 2005 law required U.S. taxpayer debt to be
ahead of other financing when a guarantee was first awarded.  “We had the authority to figure out other solutions” if a
project struggled later, said Silver, who resigned last week to
join the Third Way, a Washington-based group that says it
advocates for moderate public policies.  “Absent the ability to do this, this company would have
closed then, with the 1,100 jobs lost then,” and prospects for
taxpayers to recover funds small because its new factory wasn’t
yet “fitted out,” Silver said.  $733 Million Factory  Solyndra built a $733 million glass-and-metal factory the
size of five American football fields with robots that whistled
Disney tunes to alert workers to their presence. It was designed
to increase the production of Solyndra’s cylindrical solar
collectors for demand that never materialized in the face of
cheaper flat panels from  China .  The loan-guarantee program for clean-energy companies
expired on Sept. 30. Issa wrote Chu, in a letter released
yesterday, requesting documents related to $4.75 billion in
awards made on the final day for four projects.  Three of the projects were immediately sold by their solar-
power developers to companies including  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,   General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  