-- 
Southwest Considers Stand-Alone AirTran If Pilot Vote Fails

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-10-11T21:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/southwest-weighs-stand-alone-airtran-option-if-pilot-vote-fails.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  told pilots
it would keep operating newly acquired  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI)  as
a stand-alone carrier if union members don’t agree to combine
seniority lists.  Southwest briefed pilots on a “Plan B” for “separate and
unintegrated” operations after that union declined to hold a
membership election on a seniority proposal, according to an
AirTran union summary obtained by Bloomberg News. Pilots at both
airlines are now voting until Nov. 7 on a new agreement.  Keeping AirTran flying on its own would run counter to the
goal of folding the discount carrier into Southwest, the biggest
low-fare airline. Dallas-based Southwest paid $1 billion in cash
and stock in May to buy AirTran, winning access to fly into
Atlanta, home of the world’s busiest airport.  “I’m sure that’s not what management planned when they
acquired AirTran,” said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co.
analyst in  New York  who recommends holding Southwest. “It
probably is to some degree a negotiating tactic.”  Pilots’ approval of one seniority list would give Southwest
a timeline to blend workforces and fleets, and set union
members’ rankings for pay, schedules and the types of jets they
fly. For AirTran pilots, ratification will mean “certainty of
integration,” Southwest said in a Sept. 22 letter to union
members.  Staying Flexible  Southwest has met with pilots to explain “what that vote
is and what it does,” Beth Harbin, an airline spokeswoman, said
in an interview today. “Absent approval, we have to think
about, ‘Where is the flexibility?’”  Harbin declined to discuss the AirTran union summary or
what options Southwest would consider if pilots don’t accept the
new seniority agreement.  “I’m certainly not going to go into any detail about what
that flexibility is,” Harbin said. “Our focus is going to be
on getting the deal with the pilots done quickly because that
really does set a good momentum for the rest of the
integration.”  Jim Morris , a spokesman for the  Air Line Pilots Association 
at AirTran, declined to comment, as did Jacob North, a spokesman
for the  Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association . AirTran has
about 1,700 pilots, while Southwest has more than 6,000.  Southwest rose 2.3 percent to $8.15 today in New York
trading. The stock has fallen 37 percent this year for the
third-worst decline among 10 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index.  Pilot Balloting  The seniority agreement now being voted on by pilots was
crafted after AirTran’s union decided against sending the
original version to rank-and-file members. Under the new plan,
current Southwest pilots’ seniority rights would be protected,
and AirTran pilots would get pay raises.  “The company believes this proposal strongly merits your
support,” Southwest said in the Sept. 22 letter.  If the ratification vote falls short, Southwest executives
have developed “Plan B” as a contingency, according to the
AirTran union summary. Details of that strategy were completed
on Sept. 20, the summary said.  “Plan B calls for AAI and SWA to remain separate and
unintegrated,” according to the summary, using abbreviations
for AirTran and Southwest.  Savings, Revenue  A stand-alone AirTran would provide the same savings and
revenue benefits because it would keep collecting $200 million a
year in fees for checked bags, and AirTran’s  Boeing Co. (BA)  717s
wouldn’t be blended into Southwest’s fleet, the summary said.
Southwest flies only Boeing 737s.  “It’s certainly a valid strategy,” Keay, the Wolfe Trahan
analyst, said in an interview.  Southwest has said it expects that full integration of the
airlines would take about two years after receiving regulatory
approval to operate as a single carrier in 2012’s first quarter.
Pilots’ failure to agree on an integration plan can scuttle
mergers or keep airlines from operating as a single carrier
after a tie-up.  Southwest’s 2009 bid for Frontier Airlines Holdings Inc.
faltered when the carriers’ pilots couldn’t agree on seniority.
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  pilots are still feuding over seniority
after the carrier’s creation in the 2005 merger of its namesake
predecessor and America West Holdings Corp., forcing management
to follow separate work agreements with two unions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  