-- 
South Korea, Colombia, Panama Trade Accords Head to Final Congress Votes

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-11T23:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/south-korea-colombia-panama-trade-accords-head-to-final-votes.html
U.S. free-trade agreements with  South
Korea ,  Colombia  and Panama are on course to get final
congressional passage as soon as today, more than four years
after they were negotiated.  The Senate Finance Committee voted 18-6 yesterday to send
the deal with Colombia to the floor, and advanced the South
Korea and Panama accords by voice vote. The House Ways and Means
Committee backed bills for the agreements on Oct. 5, and that
chamber may vote as early as today.  The accords, reached under President  George W. Bush  and
revised by the Obama administration, had been stymied in a
stalemate with Republicans over aid for workers who lose their
jobs to foreign competition. President  Barack Obama  submitted
legislation on Oct. 3 after House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said he would consider the worker assistance in
tandem with the trade deals.  “These agreements are fairly one-sided in our favor,”
said Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat. “They
actually open up markets that have been closed to us and even a
playing field that has been uneven against us for a long time.”  The House and Senate may vote on the trade agreement while
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  is to be in Washington. Lee
is scheduled to address a joint meeting of Congress tomorrow.  Senate Democrats  on the committee opposing the Colombia
accord included Ben Cardin of  Maryland  and Robert Menendez of
 New Jersey . Menendez said the pact fails to protect organized
labor leaders from assassination because labor-rights assurances
won from the South American nation, known as the Action Plan,
weren’t included in the bill.  Protesters Ejected  “If you’re a labor leader in Colombia, you’re likely to
die,” Menendez said. “I cannot in good conscience support the
Colombia agreement and I will be voting against it.”  The hearing was interrupted at least three times by
protesters shouting criticisms of the agreements, including
“free trade kills jobs” and Colombia “kills union leaders.”
At least four people were removed from the room and handcuffed
by police in the hallway.  Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions and a frequent Democratic
ally, has urged lawmakers to oppose the Colombia deal, saying
the nation remains the world’s most dangerous for workers.
Fifty-one Colombian union members were killed last year, up from
47 in 2009, according to the National Union School, a labor-
rights organization based in Medellin, Colombia.  The three trade pacts are “lousy” deals that will destroy
159,000 jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas,
Trumka said on Oct. 4 in a  Washington  speech. The U.S. Chamber
of Commerce says the trade agreements will prevent the loss of
380,000 jobs.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the North American
Free Trade Agreement, would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  