-- 
Soybean Slump Ending as Record Global Demand Overwhelms Farms: Commodities

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T19:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/soy-slump-ending-as-record-demand-overwhelms-farms-commodities.html
The biggest rout in soybean prices
in more than two years may be ending as farmers from Iowa to
 Brazil  fail to keep pace with record demand for cooking oil and
livestock feed.  The U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter, will
harvest 7.3 percent less this year, leading the first decline in
global output since 2009, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Morgan Stanley expects soybeans to average $14.25 a
bushel in the 12 months ending Aug. 31, the most ever and 21
percent more than yesterday’s closing price of $11.775.  The use of soybeans expanded at almost four times the pace
of the world population in the past decade, led by China,
government data show. While prices began tumbling last month on
investors’ mounting concern that slowing growth will weaken
demand for raw materials, global consumption of cooking oils
hasn’t fallen during a recession in the past three decades, USDA
data show.  “People still need food, even if they aren’t buying new
cars, refrigerators or other durable goods,” said Steven Nicholson, a commodity procurement specialist for International
Food Products Corp., a distributor and adviser on food
ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri . Prices may jump 19 percent by
April because “production is not keeping up with rapidly
expanding demand growth from developing nations,” he said.  World Index  Before today, soybeans had plunged 20 percent since
reaching a three-year high of $14.65 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade on Aug. 31, compared with an 8.9 percent decline
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities fell 5.6 percent, and a Bank
of America Corp. index shows Treasuries returned 1 percent.
Today, soybean futures for November delivery surged 4.9 percent
to settle at $12.355, the biggest gain in a year.  Grain companies, processors and meat producers are becoming
less bearish after cutting bets on lower prices by 62 percent in
the past month, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Their net-short position fell to 109,564 futures and options
contracts as of Oct. 4. The last time positions were that low
was in July 2010, before a rally that drove prices 62 percent
higher to a 30-month high of $14.5575 on Feb. 9.  U.S. production may drop 12 percent to a four-year low of
2.944 billion bushels, after dry weather and freezes reduced
yields, AgResource Co. said in a report Oct. 7. Inventories at
the end of the marketing year will fall 55 percent to 97 million
bushels, leaving them at a record-low of 3.1 percent of expected
consumption, the Chicago-based research company said. The USDA
is scheduled to update its crop forecasts tomorrow.  Major Crisis  “I’m still afraid we’re going to have a major economic
crisis,” which will erode demand for food, said  Bill Gary , the
president of Commodity Information Systems Inc. in  Oklahoma
City , who has worked in grain markets for a half century.  Processing of U.S. soybeans in the three months ended Aug.
31 was the lowest in seven years, Gary said. Importers shifted
to cheaper supplies of soybean oil and meal from Argentina and
Brazil and  palm oil  from  Malaysia , said Gary, who predicted
prices may fall as low as $10 a bushel.  The USDA in its report tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington 
may increase its estimates for soybean output and stockpiles,
according to Bloomberg surveys of 30 analysts and traders. The
prediction for U.S. production on average may be 0.6 percent
higher than last month at 3.102 billion bushels. Inventories at
the end of the marketing year may reach 186 million bushels,
compared with an earlier forecast of 165 million bushels.  That would still mean a 6.8 percent drop in the harvest,
the biggest decline since 2007, and a 13 percent contraction in
stockpiles, the most in three years, USDA data show.  Vegetable Oil  Global soybean consumption surged 47 percent in the past
decade, fueled by economic growth in  China ,  India  and Brazil
that boosted incomes and demand for vegetable oil used in fried
and baked foods, candy and breads. People also are eating more
meat, increasing the need for livestock feed.  Over the past five global recessions, demand for soybeans,
corn and wheat has grown by an average 2 percent a year, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by New York-based Hussein Allidina wrote in
a report Sept. 26. They reiterated their estimate for an average
price of $14.25 a bushel in a report Oct. 9.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecasts to 4 percent for this year and next on Sept. 20,
compared with earlier estimates of 4.3 percent for 2011 and 4.5
percent in 2012. Still, the economy is expanding, compared with
a contraction in gross domestic product that the  World Bank 
estimates was 5.2 percent in 2009.  ‘Commodity Fundamentals’  “Markets fret way too much about the impact of a potential
economic slowdown on food demand,” Mike Rahm, the chief market
strategist for Plymouth, Minnesota-based fertilizer manufacturer
 Mosaic Co. (MOS) , said Sept. 29 in a conference call with analysts.
“There is a tug of war taking place between powerful outside
market influences and strong agricultural commodity
fundamentals. Agricultural commodity fundamentals are just too
strong not to win this contest.”  Global soybean consumption will increase 3.8 percent to
262.24 million metric tons in the year ending Sept. 30, 2012,
the highest ever, USDA data show. Demand in China, the world’s
biggest user and importer, will rise 8.6 percent to 71.6 million
tons. Global reserves of cooking oils will shrink to 6.8 percent
of consumption, a record low, the data show.  Soybean production is declining in part because farmers are
choosing to plant more corn. A farmer in central  Illinois , the
largest U.S. grower after  Iowa , can earn $151 more per acre of
corn than on soybeans based on estimated costs and yields
calculated by the  University of Illinois  and the price of crops
on the CBOT during the harvest, Bloomberg data show.  Lower Yields  U.S. farmers may plant as much as 95 million acres of corn
next year, the most since 1944, Mosaic’s Rahm estimated on the
Sept. 29 conference call.  Soybean output in Brazil, the world’s second-largest grower
and exporter, will drop next year for the first time since 2009
because of lower yields, the  Agriculture Ministry  said Oct. 6.  “All the bad economic news is priced into the market, and
now the focus will switch to supply-side worries,” said  Michael Swanson , the Minneapolis-based senior agricultural economist at
 Wells Fargo & Co ., the fourth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets and a
major farm lender. “Supplies are tightening because growth in
consumption has not diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  