-- 
Spain’s ‘Blank Check’ May Offer Rajoy Room to Reduce Deficit: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-12T13:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/spain-s-blank-check-offers-rajoy-room-on-deficit-euro-credit.html
Spaniards will probably hand
opposition head  Mariano Rajoy  a record mandate in elections next
month. Unwilling to risk his lead in polls, the People’s Party
leader hasn’t told voters what he’d do with it.  Five weeks before the Nov. 20 election that polls suggest
he’ll win, Rajoy hasn’t said how he’ll cut spending or change
labor rules. He’s pledged tax breaks for small businesses, said
he “wouldn’t like” to cut pensions and vowed a “true” bank
restructuring, without saying what that means. Voters don’t know
who would be his finance minister.  That hasn’t stopped Spaniards from telling pollsters
they’ll hand the PP its largest-ever majority as the country
struggles with  Europe ’s highest jobless rate amid a three-year
economic slump. With an outright majority and few election
pledges to deliver on, Rajoy may be free to slash the  budget
deficit , overhaul labor rules and shield lenders from the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The extra yield on Spanish 10-year bonds over German
equivalents was at 291 basis points at 3:19 p.m. in Madrid, down
two basis points from yesterday. That compares with a euro-era
high of 418 basis points on Aug. 5 and an average of 15 basis
points in the first decade of monetary union.  “The PP isn’t going to make any proposals from now until
the elections -- it’s not worth making pledges that may scare
part of the electorate,” said Ismael Crespo, a political
scientist at the Fundacion Ortega-Maranon institute and former
head of the state polling unit. “He’s seeking a blank check.”  Spain  vs.  Italy   Rajoy would inherit a deficit that was the third-largest in
the region last year, a jobless rate of 21 percent and a banking
industry struggling with surging borrowing costs. Even with the
 European Central Bank  propping up the Spanish  bond market  since
Aug. 8, the nation pays around 5 percent to borrow for a decade,
more than twice what it costs  Germany .  Spanish borrowing costs have fared better than Italy’s as
both nations grapple with the debt crisis. The gap between what
investors charge Spain to borrow for 10 years compared with
Italy was less than 5 basis points on Aug. 8 when the ECB began
buying their bonds. It was at 60 basis points today, partly
reflecting potential political instability under Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Rajoy, a 56-year-old former deputy prime minister who has
lost two general elections since 2004, has pledged to send
markets “very strong signals” and erect “barriers against
contagion.” What that may entail wasn’t made any clearer in the
255-page autobiography he published last month or at last week’s
PP conference in Malaga. He’s vowed to cut “superfluous”
spending and said in Malaga “there’s no magic wand” to cure
the economy’s ills.  ‘Absolute Majority’  “The market would be reassured by any situation with a
clear absolute majority, and will react positively to that,”
said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in  London . “The risk for any party that comes up with a very
detailed adjustment program is it would come under fire and
could end up with a muddied result.”  A clear majority may also strengthen the new government’s
hand to clean up regional finances as most of the 17 semi-
autonomous regions are in PP control, Olaf Penninga, a  fund
manager  at Robeco Groep in Rotterdam, said in a telephone
interview. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero had to
woo regional parties from the Basque Country, Catalonia, and the
 Canary Islands  to pass his minority government’s legislation.  ‘Clear Outcome’  “If they don’t need support from the small regional
parties, it would make it easier to take a credible approach to
the regional governments’ finances,” said Penninga, who helps
manage 150 billion euros, including Spanish debt. “There might
be more investors coming in if there’s a clear election
outcome.”  PP-led regional governments are already slashing spending
as swollen budgets are limiting their access to capital markets,
giving an indication of what Rajoy may do. Castilla-La Mancha’s
administration aims to cut its deficit to 1.3 percent of output
from 6.5 percent over two years, without raising taxes, while
the region of  Madrid  has faced strikes by teachers protesting
staff cuts.  Citizens consider austerity a “virtue” and leaders who
are cutting spending aren’t being damaged by it politically,
said Juan Jose Guemes, a professor at the IE business school and
a former PP minister in the regional administration of Madrid.  Poll Predictions  The PP is set to win 193 of the 350 seats in Parliament,
its largest-ever majority, according to a Sigma Dos survey
published in El Mundo newspaper on Oct. 9. A separate poll in La
Vanguardia the same day showed the party would claim 186 to 192
seats, while the Socialists would drop to 115 seats from the 169
the party has had since 2008.  Rajoy won’t put that result in danger, and the Spanish
system traditionally holds prime ministers more to the pledges
made at their investiture -- due in mid-December -- than to
campaign promises, Crespo said.  “December 15 is when he will seek the backing of the
Parliament,” he said. “And that’s when he really will have to
commit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  