-- 
Sprint to Reveal IPhone Cost to Fix ‘Mistake,’ Chairman Says

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-12T20:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/sprint-will-reveal-iphone-cost-to-fix-mistake-as-shares-fall-hance-says.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chairman James Hance said the company made a mistake in failing to disclose the
future costs of selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and it will provide
the information this month.  The third-largest U.S. wireless operator fell two trading
days in a row after an Oct. 7 investor meeting in New York,
sliding 26 percent to the lowest level since February 2009. The
event grew “ugly,” according to  Walter Piecyk , an analyst with
BTIG LLC, as Sprint said it needs to raise capital and refused
to give detailed forecasts in response to repeated questions.  The iPhone, which Sprint began selling this month for the
first time, has upfront expenses because the company subsidizes
the cost to consumers in exchange for service revenue.  “Friday was tough on the stock, tough on everybody in
terms of the way it came across,” Hance said in an interview.
“It was a mistake not to disclose the impact of the iPhone -- a
mistake we will fix. We will talk about the impact when we talk
about the third-quarter earnings.”  The chairman also said Sprint’s board supports Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  and his management team. Sprint has
tumbled 81 percent since Hesse took over in December 2007,
through yesterday, compared with an 18 percent drop in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index. The decline, punctuated by the
analyst day drop, has put the CEO “on thin ice,” said Ed Snyder, an analyst with Charter Equity Research in  San
Francisco .  “There’s really no thought of doing anything with anyone
on the management team,” Hance said. “We are supportive of
management.”  ‘Blame Us All’  “What we should have done is a better job of disclosing
everything financially -- iPhone, Clearwire, all the questions
hanging out there,” Hance said.  “I blame us all, frankly,” he said, referring to the
company and board. “Collectively we missed it.”  Sprint rose 8 percent to $2.57 at the close in New York and
has dropped 39 percent this year.  At least seven analysts cut their ratings on the stock
after the investor meeting, citing concerns that rising spending
will hurt liquidity. Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas ,
said it will raise money to shift to long-term evolution, or
LTE, wireless technology, the standard used by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Wireless .  The latest upgrade strategy represents one of several
strategic shifts that are getting expensive for shareholders,
said Ben Abramowitz, an analyst with Kaufman Bros.  “Management credibility is lost with investors,”
Abramowitz wrote about Sprint, as he downgraded the stock to
“hold” from “buy.”  Network Vision  Sprint has been struggling to compete with AT&T and
Verizon, the country’s largest wireless operators. Sprint has
lost money for 15 consecutive quarters and in July missed
second-quarter estimates by enough that its stock dropped 16
percent, at the time the largest decline since 2008.  At the strategy summit last week that Sprint called Network
Vision, Hesse and his lieutenants explained how the company
would upgrade its wireless network for the higher-speed LTE
technology. Still, Hesse and Chief Financial Officer Joseph Euteneuer didn’t provide forecasts for profit or revenue, and
they said all the financial information provided excluded the
impact of the iPhone.  “They have a real credibility problem right now,” said
Scott Dinsdale, a high-yield bond analyst at Montpelier,
Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors. “We were really positive
on management beforehand because they’ve done a really good job
of navigating the company through a lot of pitfalls. Now I feel
like they’ve got an incomplete plan.”  ‘Seriously Important’  Hance said the meeting was designed to explain how Sprint
would simplify its wireless networks, shifting to new
technologies to save money in the long term.  “That was seriously important to Sprint,” he said.  Analysts and investors expressed frustration over the lack
of clarity about the relationship with partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) 
Though Sprint now uses Clearwire’s network to provide high-
speed, fourth-generation wireless services, Hesse said it would
only commit to using Clearwire’s network through 2012 and may
not continue after that. Clearwire plunged 32 percent that day.  When  Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., asked whether Clearwire will be able to survive on its own,
Hesse said analysts would have to ask Clearwire about its
financial position. He also said service for Sprint customers
would continue even if Clearwire files for bankruptcy.  Hance said the partnership is still important to Sprint.  “No question we want them to do well; it’s in our interest
that they do well,” he said. “Nothing good happens in a
restructuring and there’s nothing good in the outcome of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  