-- 
Sprint CEO Under Fire as ‘Ugly’ Analyst Day Adds to Stock Plunge

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-11T21:54:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/sprint-chief-hesse-under-fire-as-ugly-analyst-day-adds-to-stock-plunge.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s stock plunge
may be starting to endanger Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse ’s
position at the helm of the company as analysts weigh in.  The third-largest U.S. wireless operator fell two trading
days in a row after an investor meeting in New York on Oct. 7,
sliding 26 percent to the lowest level since February 2009. The
gathering grew “ugly,” according to  Walter Piecyk , an analyst
with BTIG LLC, as Sprint said it needs to raise more capital and
Hesse refused to provide detailed financial forecasts in
response to repeated questions.  Sprint has tumbled 83 percent since Hesse took over in
December 2007, compared with an 18 percent drop in the  Standard
& Poor’s  500 index. While the CEO has made progress in areas
such as  customer service , he has failed to stem subscriber
defections or report a single quarterly profit.  “Hesse is on thin ice now,” said Ed Snyder, an analyst
with Charter Equity Research, who is based in  San Francisco .
“One, perhaps two, more big mistakes and he’s probably gone.”  At least seven analysts cut their ratings on the stock
after the carrier’s investor meeting, citing concerns that
rising spending will hurt liquidity. Sprint, based in  Overland
Park ,  Kansas , said it will raise money to transition to long-
term evolution, or LTE, wireless technology, the standard used
by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless .  The latest upgrade strategy represents one of several
strategic shifts that are getting expensive for shareholders,
said Ben Abramowitz, an analyst with Kaufman Bros.  “Management credibility is lost with investors,”
Abramowitz wrote about Sprint, as he downgraded the stock to
“hold” from “buy.”  ‘Significant Progress’  Sprint’s directors support Hesse and his strategy, said
James Hance, the company’s chairman.  “The board is very comfortable with management,” said Hance
in an interview. “Dan and his team have done a very good job of
stabilizing the company.”  Sprint said that under Hesse’s leadership, it’s showing
improvement.  “The evidence is clear that the long-term turnaround plan
that Dan put in place is making significant progress,” said
 Scott Sloat , Sprint spokesman. “We aren’t there yet but clearly
we have made significant strides.”  Sprint rose 7.2 percent to close at $2.38 in  New York  and
has fallen 44 percent this year.  Sprint has been struggling to compete with AT&T and
Verizon, the country’s largest wireless operators. Sprint has
lost money for 15 consecutive quarters and in July missed
second-quarter estimates by enough that its stock dropped 16
percent, at the time the largest decline since 2008.  Network Vision  Last week, Sprint gathered analysts and investors for the
strategy summit it called Network Vision. Hesse and his
lieutenants explained how the company would upgrade its wireless
network for the higher-speed LTE technology and how rapidly it
would make the switch.  Still, Hesse and Chief Financial Officer Joseph Euteneuer
didn’t provide forecasts for profit or revenue, and they said
all the financial information provided excluded the impact of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which Sprint is starting to sell this month
for the first time.  After Sprint’s presentation, the floor was opened to
questions. The first analyst said he couldn’t grasp what the
previous two hours were designed to accomplish.  “I’d be lying to you if I said I understood what I saw
with those slides,” said Dave Barden, an analyst with Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Frustration  He then asked for some details on the impact of the iPhone,
which costs Sprint money upfront because the carrier subsidizes
the cost of the phone to consumers in exchange for service
revenue over two years. Euteneuer declined to provide specifics.  After, analysts and investors expressed frustration over
the lack of clarity about iPhone costs, financing needs and the
future relationship with partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  Though Sprint
now uses Clearwire’s network to provide high-speed, fourth-
generation wireless services, Hesse said it would only commit to
using Clearwire’s network through 2012 and may not continue
after that. Clearwire plunged 32 percent that day.  When  Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., asked whether Clearwire will be able to survive on its own,
Hesse said analysts would have to ask Clearwire about its
financial position.  One attendee then questioned Hesse’s assertion, since
Sprint owns about half of Clearwire.  “I don’t think it does you a service to suggest you’re not
aware of their financial condition,” said the person, who
wasn’t identified in a transcript of the meeting.  ‘Got Ugly’  Clearwire CEO Erik Prusch gave an interview to answer
questions about the company’s future, saying he’s confident the
company can raise the capital needed.  BTIG’s Piecyk said the investor meeting hurt Sprint because
the company had set high expectations for the event and then
failed to deliver.  “The Q&A session got ugly as the management team continued
to avoid providing any detailed answers,” he wrote in a
research note. “Sprint is un-investable until they can provide
better clarity.”  The company’s board members should understand how poorly
the presentation was received, Piecyk said.  “We also hope the board listens to the replay of the Q&A
to hear what investors thought of the plan they approved,” he
said. “How do you not know the iPhone impact?”  Hesse arrived at Sprint during a difficult time, as the
company struggled to integrate Nextel Communications Inc. His
experience as a telecommunications veteran won him credibility
with investors, said Abramowitz. Still, their patience is
wearing thin, he said.  “He stepped into a bad situation,” said Abramowitz. “The
question is, ‘Did he do enough to improve the situation?’ The
valuation of the stock talks for itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  