-- 
Strategas’s Clifton Is Optimistic on U.S. Deficit Reductions: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-11T16:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/strategas-s-clifton-is-optimistic-on-u-s-deficit-reductions-tom-keene.html
The congressional supercommittee
responsible for finding $1.5 trillion in U.S. deficit reductions
has the “ingredients” to begin making debt reforms, according
to Dan Clifton of Strategas Research Partners.  “The stakes are very, very high,” Clifton, head of policy
research at Strategas in  Washington , said on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “If
they don’t get something done, it just feeds what S&P said about
the U.S. credit in August, that Washington doesn’t have the
political will to get these big issues done. Does that lead to a
Moody’s downgrade? Does that lead to a second notch downgrade
from S&P?”  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top AAA credit
ranking on Aug. 5 after weeks of disagreement between the Obama
administration and Congress over raising the nation’s borrowing
limit to avoid a government default. The downgrade followed an
agreement to increase the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and put in
place a plan to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions
over the next 10 years, less than the $4 trillion S&P had said
was needed to keep the AAA ranking.  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its top U.S. ranking on
Aug. 8 and has a negative view of the debt.  Fitch Ratings  kept
its AAA credit rating on Aug. 16 and said the outlook is stable,
citing the nation’s central role in the global financial system
and the flexible, diverse economy.  ‘More Optimistic’  The law to increase the debt ceiling also created a so-
called supercommittee to find $1.5 trillion in reductions across
the government to help reduce the deficit. If Congress fails to
act on the committee’s recommendations by Dec. 23, the budget
law calls for automatic cuts, including an additional $500
billion from defense spending over a decade, not including
interest.  “I’m a little bit more optimistic that we could do
fundamental  tax reform  that comes out of the supercommittee,”
Clifton said. “We’ll start breaking some of this confidence
problem that we have, but it won’t fix all the structural
problems, particular with  Europe  and entitlement reforms.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell to 55.7 in August, the lowest level
since November 2008, from 63.7 in July. The gauge was projected
at 55.8 after a preliminary reading of 54.9, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Tax reform, a topic that’s being debated among Republican
presidential candidates, may become a “self-fulfilling
prophecy,” Clifton said.  Republican Debate  A poll of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents
by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post, the sponsors of
tonight’s Republican candidates’ debate in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , found that  Herman Cain , a former chief executive of
Godfather’s Pizza, has pulled almost even with  Mitt Romney , a
former governor of  Massachusetts , in appeal as an economic
leader.  Cain’s 9-9-9 tax plan would replace the current tax system
with 9 percent corporate and individual taxes and a 9 percent
sales tax.  “Now that it is becoming part of everybody’s plan, and you
have this supercommittee deliberating, I think it provides a
nice background for the actual existing policy environment that
we’re facing in Washington,” Clifton said. “There could be
some good that comes out of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  