-- 
Super-Downgraded Bonds Defying Default Attract Wells Capital: Muni Credit

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-10-11T21:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/super-downgraded-bonds-defying-default-attract-wells-capital-muni-credit.html
Wells Capital Management is among
investors buying bonds of localities whose credit ratings have
been cut more than two levels in so-called super-downgrades,
betting they’ll recover from the worst financial conditions in
26 years and avoid defaults.  Cities, counties and towns, whose tax income shriveled in
the deepest recession since World War II, make up 24 percent of
all multiple-level downgrades in 2011 compared with 9 percent in
2010, according to Municipal Market Advisors, a research firm
that started tallying the ratings changes last year.  To stay solvent, localities cut costs and raised revenue.
Three of five delayed or canceled capital projects in fiscal
2011 and 41 percent boosted fees, the  National League of Cities 
said in a survey, which called fiscal 2010 the worst financially
in 84 years. Local-bond defaults are only 1 percent of 2011 tax-
exempt failures, which, at $1.1 billion, are a quarter of
2010’s, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Lyle Fitterer, who helps oversee $26 billion of municipal
bonds for Wells Capital in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said he
purchased DeKalb County bonds after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its
rating for the Georgia county, part of metropolitan Atlanta, by
five levels to BBB from AA- in March. The company then withdrew
the grade, citing a lack of information.  Officials in DeKalb, which saw a 20 percent decline in
taxable property values since 2008, reacted to the S&P actions
by passing a 26 percent property-tax increase in July.  ‘Immediate Feedback’  “They got an immediate feedback,” County Commissioner
Jeff Rader said of the response to S&P’s move. He said he would
be “very vigorous” in boosting budget reserves.  “Often, there’s action taken to mitigate the situation,”
 John Dillon , chief municipal-bond strategist at Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney in Purchase, New York, said about responses to
multiple downgrades. “Usually management snaps to attention.”  Wells bought DeKalb parks and greenspace tax-district
general-obligation bonds due in 2014 in May. That month, the
yield traded as high as 3.4 percent, exceeding that of an index
of BBB rated tax-exempts due in three years by as much as 1.27
percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The debt traded at a 2 percent yield on Sept. 20, 26 basis
points more than the index at the time. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The outlook is tainted by what they see in the rear-view
mirror,” Fitterer said in a telephone interview. “Unless
you’re forecasting a double dip in the  U.S. economy , you may see
some improvement in these credits on an ongoing basis.”  Muni Yields  Ten-year tax-exempt bonds yielded 2.53 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York today, according to Bloomberg BVAL Index data, the
highest since Aug. 2. The yield rose by the most last week since
November as municipalities increased borrowing and Treasuries
declined.  Municipal securities have risen 3.9 percent in price this
year, compared with 5.9 percent for Treasuries, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  It’s rare for municipal governments to be downgraded more
than one or two levels. Moody’s Investors Service had none
exceeding that in 2007, a year before the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed credit markets.  Super-downgrades of three levels or more are driven by bond
raters catching up to a municipality’s fiscal condition and are
often “telegraphed” in financial statements, said Matt Fabian,
a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors.  Profit in Research  An investment firm with a large research staff can profit
by knowing when to sell before such downgrades, Fabian said.  “You can read the financials and you can get ahead of
potential ratings changes,” Fabian said in a telephone
interview.  Anne Van Praagh, managing director at Moody’s in  New York ,
said fiscal conditions of some local governments can deteriorate
more quickly now than in previous recessions. So far this year,
out of 10,000 local-government bonds, Moody’s has cut seven by
three grades or more.  “The credits that fall into speculative grade are the ones
where you have a confluence of factors,” Praagh said in a
telephone interview.  That includes lack of political will, she said. Scranton,
 Pennsylvania , may be an example. Its rating was cut three levels
by S&P to non-investment-grade BB- from BBB- on Sept. 30 and
withdrawn on Oct. 3.  The council had reduced various taxes proposed by Mayor
 Christopher Doherty  in the city’s $70 million budget by $3
million, resulting in “a huge hit to our financials,” said
Ryan McGowan, Scranton’s business administrator. The community
is now facing a $6.7 million projected  budget deficit , he said.  Still, Scranton’s likelihood of default stands at 0.81
percent compared with an average 2.4 percent for BB- rated
corporate bonds, according to S&P data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  