-- 
Sweden Inflation Slows More Than Estimated as Growth Wanes

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-10-11T08:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/swedish-inflation-slows-more-than-estimated-as-growth-wanes.html
Swedish inflation slowed more than
estimated in September, damping pressure on the central bank to
resume raising  interest rates .  Headline inflation slowed to 3.2 percent from 3.4 percent
the previous month,  Statistics Sweden  said today. The rate was
expected at 3.3 percent, according to the median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.7 percent from
the previous month. Inflation adjusted for mortgage costs, or
CPIF, slowed to an annual 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent.  Sweden ’s central bank, the Riksbank, kept its benchmark
lending rate unchanged at 2 percent last month and scaled back
tightening plans as weakening growth prospects abroad hurt
Swedish output, of which half is sold abroad. The bank targets
an inflation rate of 2 percent.  “We keep our view of unchanged policy rates during the
coming year based on our view that the current situation in the
world economy is not as severe as the one we had in 2008,” said
Anna Raman, a senior analyst at Nykredit Bank A/S in Copenhagen,
in a note. “The muted outlook for inflation gives the Riksbank
room to loosen the monetary stance further if necessary.”  The krona weakened 0.2 percent to 9.1094 per euro as of
10:11 a.m. in  Stockholm . It fell 0.3 percent against the dollar.  “We expect year-on-year CPI to start decelerating in the
coming months as the year-on-year rises in energy prices abate
and the lagged effects of previous Riksbank interest rate hikes
start to diminish,” said Raman.  Sweden’s economy slowed for a second consecutive quarter in
the three months through June to an annual 4.9 percent, after
growing the most in the European Union at 5.7 percent last year.
Industrial production in August grew at the slowest annual pace
since February last year.  Consumer confidence  fell to its lowest
level in more than two years in September.  Sweden’s central bank last month lowered its forecast for
future rate rises, while signaling it may raise the benchmark
this quarter. It now sees the rate averaging 2.4 percent in the
third quarter next year, versus 2.9 percent previously, and 3
percent in the same quarter of 2013, the bank said.  Inflation will slow to 2.1 percent in 2012 from 3 percent
this year, as deteriorating global recovery prospects hurt
demand for Swedish export, the central bank estimates.  “Inflation has passed its peak this time around and the
annual pace for both CPI and CPIF will slow quickly in the next
few months,” said Knut Hallberg, an analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in
Stockholm, in a note before the report. Annual inflation will
slow to 2.3 percent in December, he predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 