-- 
Swisscom Chief Says Phone Company Isn’t Planning on Selling FastWeb Unit

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-10-12T08:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/swiss-franc-needs-to-decline-to-avoid-serious-harm-swisscom-chief-says.html
The Swiss franc is still overvalued
and needs to weaken further in order to prevent “serious”
damage to  Switzerland ’s economy, the chief executive officer of
 Swisscom AG (SCMN)  said.  The company, Switzerland’s largest phone operator, lowered
its full-year targets in August because of the franc’s strength,
which is sapping the value of euro-denominated sales from its
Italian  Fastweb SpA  unit.  “It’s unimaginable that the Swiss franc stays at these
levels over the next couple of years.” Carsten Schloter, CEO of
Bern-based Swisscom, said in an interview yesterday. “It cannot
be as it would seriously hurt the Swiss economy.”  Swisscom spent more than $5.5 billion to buy Milan-based
broadband operator Fastweb in 2007 to offset slowing growth at
home and now the weak euro is cutting revenue from that unit.
The Swiss central bank last month imposed a ceiling of 1.20
francs versus the euro to aid exporters. The currency had
reached a record high of 1.0075 versus the euro on Aug. 9 as
investors sought a safe haven from the euro-area crisis.  Swisscom’s new sales forecast of 11.5 billion francs ($12.7
billion) assumes a franc exchange rate of 1.20 against the euro,
compared with a previous prediction of at least 11.8 billion
francs, based on an exchange rate of 1.30.  The franc weakened 0.1 percent to 1.2402 per euro as of
10:40 a.m. Zurich time. Swisscom rose 0.4 percent to 373 francs
in Zurich, giving it a market value of 19.3 billion francs.  Asked about a potential sale of Fastweb, Schloter said that
the company is “open to look at all the options available,”
although the company has “no plan to step out of  Italy ” and
wants to be a “long-term, committed investor.”  Crowded Market  Fastweb, the  first company in the world to offer films and
television-on-demand over the Web in 2001 , may be attractive for
competitors in a market crowded by at least five fixed-line and
Internet operators including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA, said Berenberg Bank analyst Usman Ghazi.  “Swisscom’s main problem with Fastweb is that it bought it
at the peak of the market and the investment hasn’t stood up to
expectations,” Ghazi said. “If they sold a stake to another
operator like Wind or Vodafone it would be good for Swisscom
investors and better for Fastweb.”  Swisscom bought out a remaining stake in Fastweb this year
and delisted the business, saying it wants to have greater
flexibility. Founded in 1999, Fastweb built from scratch a fast
fiber optics network, which is  Europe ’s widest reaching with
about 2 million households.  Fastweb, which had 1.74 million broadband clients at the
end of June, reported its only full-year profit for 2008 with
net income of 1.1 million euros ($1.5 million).  Full-Year Loss  Fastweb should “be profitable in terms of net income” in
some quarters this year “but not in the full year,” Schloter
said. Its corporate client business has been “very good, with
double-digit revenue growth” this year, he said, adding that
the company still needs to improve its business with residential
customers.  Schloter said Fastweb plans to invest about 1.5 billion
euros in the next five years and that the company may be willing
to spend more depending on necessary changes to the regulations.  The Italian authorities need to lower so-called termination
fees for fixed-line operators as these companies pay 10 times
more per minute than mobile companies for calls between fixed
and mobile phones, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  