-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise for a Fifth Day as Transocean, Actelion Rally

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-11T15:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/swiss-stocks-slide-snapping-four-day-gain-credit-suisse-falls.html
Swiss stocks climbed for a fifth
day, their longest winning streak in five weeks.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company,
jumped 5.1 percent.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the maker of the fragrances for
 Marc Jacobs ’s Lola and Paco Rabanne’s 1 Million, rose 2.6
percent after reiterating its outlook.  Zurich Financial Services
AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest insurer, dropped 1.8 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, added 0.2 percent to 5,732.19 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The SMI has tumbled 11 percent this
year as disappointing European and U.S. economic reports fueled
concern that the global recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also gained 0.2 percent today.  “I believe the Slovakian government will be put under much
pressure,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment
advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg,  Switzerland . “There is
some uncertainty on the markets and investors are still
cautious.”  Slovakia may approve the euro area’s new bailout fund even
as a political storm threatens to topple Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s governing coalition.  Slovakia’s largest opposition party, which pledged to
reject today’s motion, will back the European Financial
Stability Facility in a second vote, if lawmakers reject it
today,  Robert Fico , the group’s leader, told reporters in the
capital Bratislava. That would give the measure a majority.
Parliament has yet to set a date for a second vote.  ‘Proactive Approach’  “If approved, the can will be kicked a bit further down
the road,” Giantiroglou said. “It will be the first step to
take a more proactive approach and it clearly buys some time.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the sovereign-debt crisis threatened the financial system as
officials raced to put together a bank recapitalization plan.  “The crisis has reached a systemic dimension,” Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels today in his capacity as head of the
European Systemic Risk Board. “Sovereign stress has moved from
the smaller economies to some of the larger countries. The
crisis is systemic and must be tackled decisively.”  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said late yesterday on Austrian
television that Greek haircuts may exceed the 21 percent euro-
area leaders agreed upon in July.  Bank Capital Levels  European governments have discussed setting a deadline for
banks to boost their capital, the  German newspaper  Die Welt
said, citing an unidentified person involved in the talks.  Under the plan, governments would force banks to accept
public funds to increase their capital once the deadline had
passed, the newspaper said. European Union countries would have
to act jointly for the plan to work, the newspaper reported.  Actelion jumped 5.1 percent to 32.46 Swiss francs after
Jefferies Group Inc. raised the stock to “buy” from “hold.”  Givaudan gained 2.6 percent to 764 francs. The company said
nine-month sales rose to 2.97 billion francs ($3.3 billion), a
4.7 percent gain in local currencies. Givaudan repeated its mid-
term forecast to expand at about double the pace of the 2
percent to 3 percent growth predicted for the wider market.  Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the world’s biggest maker of drug
ingredients, rose 1.2 percent to 57.40 francs as it announced a
partnership with Lipogen for phosphatidylserine.  Zurich Financial Services dropped 1.8 percent to 194.70
francs as a gauge of insurers was among the worst performers in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Swiss Reinsurance Co. sank 2.1
percent to 45.56 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  