-- 
U.K. Should Cut Lawyer Fees to Control Motor Claims, Straw Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-11T15:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-k-should-cut-lawyer-fees-to-control-motor-claims-straw-says.html
The U.K. government should halve the
amount lawyers receive for administering motor insurance claims
for personal injury to control rising claims expenses, according
to former Home Secretary Jack Straw.  “What we’ve got is unnecessary costs riding in the
system,” Straw told Parliament’s  Transport Committee  today.
Removing 600 pounds ($938) from the 1,200 pounds lawyers receive
for processing claims would reduce “fat” in the industry,
which has caused premiums to rise to record levels, he said.  Car insurers, claims management firms and brokers have been
blamed by members of Parliament including Straw, for selling
information about customers to no-win no-fee lawyers and car-
rental firms, who then pursue claims from rival insurance
companies. While the number of accidents has dropped, claims
have risen, driving premiums up.  Justice Minister Jonathan Djanogly said last month he
intends to ban referral fees as part of an overhaul of the legal
system. Straw, who has campaigned for the changes since June,
wants the government to go further and reduce lawyers’ profits.  Insurers, lawyers and claims-management firms introduced a
database last year to process personal injury claims known as
the Road Traffic Accident Portal system. Straw said the system,
which entitles lawyers to 1,200 pounds in administration fees,
also helps fuel spurious claims. In  Germany , lawyers are paid
300 euros ($409), according to the  Association of British
Insurers , the industry lobby group.  Dysfunctional System  U.K. insurers and brokers make about 800 pounds for
referring each customer, meaning the practice made them about
320 million pounds in the past year, according to personal
injury law firm Spencers Solicitors Ltd.  The ABI in November called the claims system
“dysfunctional” because insurers help fuel a compensation
culture that has forced the industry into an underwriting loss
on motor insurance each year since 1996.  The amount paid in claims by insurance companies rose 28
percent to 10.3 billion pounds in 2010, according to data
compiled by the ABI. The number of accidents on British roads
fell 18 percent to 154,414 from 2006 to 2010, according to the
 Department for Transport .  That prompted the price of comprehensive motor insurance to
soar 40 percent to about 900 pounds in the 12 months to March,
according to the  Automobile Association Ltd. ’s Shoparound Index,
which tracks the cheapest quotes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 