-- 
U.K. Economic Growth Accelerated in Third Quarter, National Institute Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-11T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-k-economic-growth-accelerated-in-third-quarter-national-institute-says.html
U.K. economic growth accelerated in
the third quarter, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said, adding that the recovery over the past year has
been “anemic.”  Gross domestic product probably grew 0.5 percent in the
three months through September compared with 0.4 percent in the
quarter through August, the group, whose clients include the
 Bank of England  and the U.K. Treasury, said in an e-mailed
statement in  London  today. It said GDP remains 4 percent below
its pre-recession peak, “suggesting the recovery will be the
weakest of any since the end of the First World War.”  Data last week showed the economy barely grew in the second
quarter, partly due to disruptions from the earthquake in  Japan 
and an additional public holiday for the royal wedding in April.
The Bank of England restarted asset purchases last week as
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatened the recovery and financial
stability.  Niesr’s estimate follows the publication today of data
showing industrial production rose 0.2 percent in August from
the previous month. Reports from the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  last week showed measures of U.K. services
and manufacturing output unexpectedly rose in September.  The Bank of England raised the ceiling of its bond-purchase
program to 275 billion pounds ($430 billion) from 200 billion
pounds on Oct. 6, the biggest expansion since the first round of
stimulus in March 2009. The British Chambers of Commerce said
today the move may not be enough to prevent the economy slipping
back into recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  