-- 
Regulators in U.S. Propose Criteria for Risky Financial Firms

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-s-panel-proposes-criteria-for-systemically-risky-companies.html
A team of U.S. regulators will
scrutinize asset size, leverage and debt levels of non-bank
financial firms to determine which ones need extra supervision
because they pose a potential threat to the economy.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council voted yesterday
to evaluate companies that have more than $50 billion in assets
and meet any of five other criteria, including a 15-to-1
 leverage ratio , $3.5 billion in derivatives liabilities or $20
billion of outstanding loans borrowed and bonds issued.  Firms such as insurance companies that meet the tests might
be subject to additional supervision by the Federal Reserve.
Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets are
automatically considered systemically risky under the terms of
the Dodd-Frank act, passed last year in a bid to avoid a repeat
of the financial crisis that was deepened by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “We’re going through a very careful process to make sure
we define, provide guidance, on the types of risk that would
justify putting in place the kind of safeguards we have over
banks,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who chairs the
council, said in a Bloomberg Television interview last night.  The proposal is open to a 60-day public comment period and
can be changed. Geithner declined to specify what types of non-
bank financial firms, such as  hedge funds  or asset management
companies, might be designated systemically risky.  ‘Living Wills’  Firms deemed financially risky by the council could then be
ordered by the Fed to raise capital and reduce risky practices.
The companies also would have to file “living wills” that
spell out how they could be unwound in an orderly way to avoid
rocking the wider financial system.  The council also will look closely at firms with $50
billion or more in assets that also have $30 billion in gross
notional credit-default swaps outstanding or a 10 percent ratio
of short-term debt to assets.  “This is a step forward,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , a
council member, said at yesterday’s meeting. “It provides more
clarity, more quantitative, and in fact, it’s based on data in
the public domain. I just do want to note that this is a first-
stage process.”  Under a three-step process, the council will use additional
data, including on size, interconnectedness and  liquidity risk ,
to identify non-bank financial companies that might qualify as
systemically risky. The council will analyze the companies, and
then regulators will contact the firm in question to collect
more information.  Based on the review, the council may vote by a two-thirds
majority to designate a company as risky. The firm may request a
hearing to contest the designation.  Increased Transparency  “We appreciate the increased transparency in the process
and the flexibility in the rule that recognizes the individual
characteristics of market participants,” Scott Talbott, chief
lobbyist for the Financial Services Roundtable, said in an
interview yesterday. At the same time, he said, he’s “concerned
the thresholds are over-inclusive.”  Ernest Patrikis, a partner at law firm White & Case LLC and
a former general counsel at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York ,
said the initial $50 billion threshold for assets and the
“specific thresholds make sense.”  “One issue will be to ensure that the specific thresholds
will be consistently applied,” he said. “Another is whether a
holding company will be able to shift business to ensure that no
subsidiary trips over a threshold.”  The council said it would further analyze what information
it can use to assess whether asset managers are systemically
important.  ‘Hugely Important’  “Asset managers are an area where qualitative and business
measures are hugely important because just relying on
quantitative doesn’t tell the whole story,” Ken Bentsen,
executive vice president for public policy and advocacy at the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said in
an interview yesterday.  Among the bank-holding companies with more than $50 billion
in assets that are automatically subject to heightened Fed
supervision are  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Insurance companies have said they are fighting the legacy
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  as they try to avoid being
subjected to Fed supervision.  Lobbyists representing  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,  Allstate
Corp. (ALL)  and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico Corp. say the business
model for insurers has little in common with the high-risk
derivatives and securities-lending operations that might have
destroyed AIG if it weren’t for a $182 billion taxpayer-funded
bailout.  ‘Enhanced Standards’  Insurer  MetLife Inc. (MET) , which is also a bank-holding company,
has said “enhanced standards” will be applied to its risk-
based capital, liquidity, leverage, wind-down plan and
concentration limits.  The financial stability council, which also includes the
chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
was created by Dodd-Frank. The law, the most sweeping overhaul
of financial regulations since the Great Depression, was named
for former Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd  and
Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank , both Democrats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  