-- 
U.S. September Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-10-11T14:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-s-september-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index decreased in September to 100.95,
down from the revised figure of 101.37 in August. The September figure is up 4.4
percent from the same month a year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Director of Macroeconomic Research at The Conference Board:
“Despite the somewhat better than expected employment numbers released on Friday,
the decline in the Employment Trends Index in September suggests that weak job
growth is likely to continue for the rest of 2011. Even as the economy remains slow
going into the next year, we do not expect a major acceleration in layoffs, because
employers have kept their workforce quite lean since the 2008/09 recession.”  This month’s weakness in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from six
out of the eight components. The weakening indicators include The Conference Board
Consumer Confidence Survey “Jobs Hard to Get,” Initial Claims for  Unemployment
Insurance , Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now, Part-Time
Workers for Economic Reasons,  Industrial Production , and Real Manufacturing and
Trade Sales.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out so-called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)  Industrial Production (Federal Reserve Board)  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  Employment Trends Index 2011 Publication Schedule  Index Release Date (10 AM ET)          Data for the Month
Monday, November 7                     October
Monday, December 5                     November  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
