-- 
Senate Triggers China Backlash as Bill Targets Yuan’s Value

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-12T16:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-s-senate-passes-bill-allowing-duties-to-offset-china-s-undervalued-yuan.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed a bill aimed
at punishing China for keeping the yuan undervalued, triggering
a backlash from Chinese officials who said the measure risks
damaging trade relations and undermining the global recovery.  The Senate voted 63-35 for the legislation, which would let
U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for “misaligned”
currencies. House Speaker  John Boehner  said today he has “grave
concerns” with the bill, casting doubt on whether it will
become law. China protested in government statements.  Failure to allow faster gains in the yuan against the
dollar has impeded a shift in demand toward emerging markets
that would bolster the global economy, according to Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The yuan has appreciated 10
percent, adjusted for inflation, since mid-2010, a pace that’s
too slow, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday.  Facing a weak economic recovery, “the U.S. and China need
to work together” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. who has worked for the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .
“Raising the currency bill at this point is inappropriate.”  Boehner, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other Washington
opponents have said the bill could be counterproductive.  ‘Trade War’ Risk  The action “poses a very severe risk of a trade war and
unintended consequences that could come as a result,” Boehner
said today at a news conference in Washington.  The House Ways and Means Committee plans a hearing this
month on  U.S.-China relations , such as the currency issue,
Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and committee
chairman, said today in Washington.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, who proposed
similar measures on China’s currency over the past six years,
said today that the House may yet take up a currency bill.  “I don’t think they’ll pass our bill,” Schumer said at an
event in Washington. “I think they’re going to pass something.
They’re going to have to, over the next several months.”  China’s central bank and commerce and foreign ministries
issued statements today restating the nation’s opposition.  “This proposal in the name of so-called currency
misalignment is protectionism and a serious violation of  World
Trade Organization  rules, and won’t be able to resolve America’s
own economic and employment problems,”  Ma Zhaoxu , a spokesman
for  China ’s foreign ministry, said in a statement. The central
bank cited risks to bilateral trade and the global recovery in a
separate statement.  Republican Debate  The issue flared at a debate by Republican presidential
candidates in New Hampshire yesterday. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney said “when people have pursued unfair
trade practices, you have to have a president that will take
action.” He added that he would label China as a currency
manipulator on “day one” as president.  The yuan rose 0.26 percent to close at 6.3585 per dollar in
Shanghai today, after falling as much as 0.3 percent, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The legislation would let U.S. companies seek duties on
Chinese goods to offset an undervalued yuan. It mandates that
the Treasury Department identify misaligned currencies, instead
of deciding whether an  exchange rate  was manipulated, as is now
required. Governments that undervalue their currencies and don’t
take corrective action would face penalties, including increased
dumping duties, a ban on federal procurement in the U.S. and
ineligibility to receive financing from the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation.  Weak Currencies  “We are very supportive of the objectives of that bill,
which is to try to make sure there’s a level playing field
around the world, that countries can’t keep their currencies
weak at the expense of American exporters,” Geithner said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television. “We have been pushing very,
very hard to get China to move.”  Opponents say they worry that protectionism and trade
conflicts may stall a global economic recovery already weighed
down by the slumping U.S. housing market and  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis. The legislation is opposed by business groups, such
as the Chamber of Commerce, that say it may cause a trade
dispute.  The policy “may be good for this company or that company,
but it is not good for America,” Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama said on the floor before the vote. “It’s
got to stop.”  ‘Complex Relationship’  The Ways and Means Committee, which controls trade
legislation in the House, scheduled a hearing to discuss “a
number of issues” with China, Camp said.  “We have a complex
relationship, an important relationship with China and more than
just the China currency issue,” he said today.  Camp voted for a similar measure last year backed by
Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
committee. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia voted against Levin’s bill.  “I understand that people are concerned about the value of
China’s currency,” Boehner said today. “Frankly I’m concerned
about it as well.”  Boenher called on President  Barack Obama  to make his
position clear on whether he supports the bill.  Obama said at a news conference last week that while
“China has been very aggressive in gaming the trading system to
its advantage and to the disadvantage of other countries,
particularly the United States,” he wants to avoid laws that
“are symbolic, knowing that they’re probably not going to be
upheld by the World Trade Organization.”  Momentum ‘Increasing’  Levin has said that the House version of the legislation
had 225 supporters and urged Boehner to let members vote.  “It’s clear to me momentum is very much increasing,” he
told reporters yesterday before the vote. “The pressure will
mount here in the House to act.”  Representative Mark Critz, a Pennsylvania Democrat who
backs Levin’s bill, sought in July to force a vote against the
wishes of Republican leaders. He rounded up more than 173 House
members, mostly Democrats, to sign a petition that would bring
the measure to the floor. It needs at least 218 signatures, a
majority, to succeed.  The yuan has appreciated about 4.9 percent against the
dollar in the past year and 24 percent in the past five, the
steepest advance after Colombia’s peso among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. China limits currency
conversions for investment purposes and buys dollars to slow the
yuan’s advance and preserve the competitiveness of the country’s
exports.  Even if the bill becomes a law, it could take years for it
to have a substantive effect in the U.S., said  Nicholas Lardy ,
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington . Between filing complaints and
investigations, companies wouldn’t get any immediate relief, he
said.  “I would think it would take years before you saw any sort
of microeconomic effect,” he said.  The bill is S. 1619.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  