-- 
Iran Is Accused by U.S. of Sponsoring Plot to Assassinate Saudi Ambassador

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-12T12:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/u-s-justice-department-charges-two-men-in-plot-to-kill-saudi-official.html
Iran was accused by the Justice
Department of sponsoring a plot to assassinate  Saudi Arabia ’s
ambassador to the U.S. in a conspiracy involving a secret
Iranian military unit and a citizen of the Islamic Republic with
a U.S. passport.  Manssor Arbabsiar, 56, and Gholam Shakuri were charged with
conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction, in this case C-4
plastic explosives, to murder Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir and
attack Saudi installations in the U.S. in a plan hatched earlier
this year. Targets included “foreign government facilities
associated with Saudi Arabia and with another country,” the
U.S. said in a complaint filed in Manhattan federal court.  The plotters, one of whom is in U.S. custody, also targeted
Israel’s embassy in Washington, as well as the embassies of
 Israel  and Saudi Arabia in  Argentina , according to a federal law
enforcement official familiar with the matter.  The alleged plot was “directed and approved by elements of
the Iranian government,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said
yesterday. “High-up officials in those agencies, which is an
integral part of the Iranian government, were responsible.”  Iran said it “categorically” rejected the claim, which it
described as an “evil plot.”  ‘Ridiculous Show’  “These attitudes, which are based on the age-old and
hostile policies of the American-Zionist axis, are a ridiculous
show in line with a scenario that aims to divide and that
emanates from enemies of the region,” Iranian Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in comments reported late
yesterday by the state-run  Press TV  news channel.  Iran ’s ambassador to the  United Nations , Mohammad Khazaee,
said the allegations were a U.S. effort “to divert attention
from the current economic and social problems at home” and
uprisings against U.S.-backed dictatorial regimes abroad. His
comments were made in a letter sent yesterday to Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the presidents of the United Nations’
General Assembly and Security Council.  Vice President Joe Biden today described the alleged plot
as “an outrageous act” that violates “the sanctity and
safety” of diplomats.  “The Iranians are going to have to be held accountable,”
he said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” Asked about the
possibility of additional sanctions against Iran, he said,
“Nothing has been taken off the table.”  Travel Warning  The U.S. will hold Iran responsible for any terrorist
actions tied to the plot, Holder said. The State Department
issued a worldwide  travel alert  warning Americans of the
potential for “anti-U.S. actions” following the plot’s
disruption.  President  Barack Obama  called the Saudi ambassador
yesterday to express solidarity with Saudi Arabia, the White
House said in a statement. Obama also attended a meeting of his
national security team to thank them for their work, the White
House said.  “To devise a plot to assassinate a representative of a
country in a third country and to use drug barons and other such
characters in order to achieve that aim is beyond description,”
said Saudi Arabia’s Prince Turki Al-Faisal at the Oil & Money
conference in  London  when asked about the alleged plot. “The
burden of proof and the amount of evidence on the case is
overwhelming and clearly shows official Iranian responsibility
for it. This is unacceptable and something that, in the
authorities in Iran, somebody will have to pay a price.”  Like Holder, Obama called the plot “a flagrant violation
of U.S. and international law,” and the president “reiterated
our commitment to meet our responsibilities to ensure the
security of diplomats serving in our country. He also
underscored the close partnership between the  United States  and
Saudi Arabia,” according to the White House statement.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that foiling the
plot was “a terrific achievement by our law enforcement and
intelligence communities.”  ‘Very Strong Message’  “We will be consulting with our friends and partners
around the world about how we can send a very strong message
that this kind of action, which violates international norms,
must be ended, and other areas where we can cooperate more
closely in order to send a strong message to Iran and further
isolate it from the international community will also be
considered,” she said.  Obama was briefed on the alleged plot in June, said Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the National Security Council.  Arbabsiar, who has dual U.S. and Iranian citizenship,
conspired for several months in the murder-for-hire plot with
Shakuri,  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
criminal complaint unsealed yesterday.  Shakuri was an Iran-based member of that country’s “Qods
Force,” the U.S. said in the complaint. Others from the Qods
Force in Iran were also involved and helped bankroll the plot,
which was to have cost $1.5 million, prosecutors said.  ‘Covert Operations Abroad’  The U.S. State Department has described the group as an arm
of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, which conducts
“covert operations abroad” and has sponsored attacks against
U.S. coalition forces in  Iraq .  The U.S. Treasury Department in October 2007 designated the
Qods Force as “having provided material support to the Taliban
and other terrorist organizations.”  While Shakuri remains at large, Arbabsiar was arrested
about 8 p.m. on Sept. 29 as he departed a flight from  Mexico  at
 New York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, prosecutors
said. He was brought yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Michael Dolinger, who ordered him held without bail.  His court-appointed lawyer, Sabrina Shroff, said he would
plead not guilty and consented to detention.  Arbabsiar met on several occasions in Mexico with a
confidential informant of the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration posing as an associate of the Zetas, a violent
Mexican drug cartel, according to the federal law enforcement
official, who declined to be identified because the official
wasn’t authorized to publicly comment.  ‘Big General’  Arbabsiar told the informant that his cousin was a “big
general” in Iran who focused his attention on matters “outside
Iran,” prosecutors said in the complaint.  The two men also discussed killing the ambassador in a
restaurant that the diplomat frequented, prosecutors said.  When the informant expressed concern that 100 to 150 people
could be injured in a bombing of the restaurant, including
“senators who dine there,” Arbabsiar said “no big deal,” the
U.S. said in the complaint.  While the informant had been charged with a narcotics
offense, the charges were dismissed in exchange for his
cooperation on other unrelated drug cases, according to the
complaint.  The informant pretended to have access through the Mexico
drug cartel to military-grade weaponry and explosives, the U.S.
said. Arbabsiar arranged to pay the informant and others to
murder the Saudi ambassador, prosecutors said in the complaint.  $1.5 Million  Arbabsiar wired them $100,000 as a down payment, to be
followed by installments of $10,000, prosecutors said. The DEA
informant said it would cost $1.5 million to carry out the
attack.  At a May 24 meeting, Arbabsiar asked about the informant’s
knowledge of explosives and said he was “interested in
attacking an embassy of Saudi Arabia,” according to
prosecutors. The informant said he was familiar with plastic
explosives.  That month, the informant told agents in the DEA Houston
field office about requests being made by Arbabsiar to assist in
terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other countries, according to
the law enforcement official.  During a July 14 meeting, Arbabsiar told the informant that
his cousin in Iran had asked him to “find someone to carry out
the ambassador’s assassination.”  Recorded Meetings  The two men met repeatedly in June and July, according to
the government. The informant said he would need four men to
carry out the murder, and some of the calls and meetings were
recorded by the informant, prosecutors said.  Arbabsiar had befriended the informant’s aunt while living
in the area of Corpus Christi,  Texas , where Arbabsiar worked as
a used car salesman, the federal law enforcement official said.  He later told the informant that the primary target for the
attack was the Saudi ambassador and that targets for subsequent
attacks were the Israeli embassy in  Washington  and the Saudi and
Israeli embassies in Argentina, according to the federal law
enforcement official.  Arbabsiar also told the informant that the same Iranian
sponsors behind the assassination plot also controlled drug
smuggling and could provide tons of opium, the federal law
enforcement official said.  Federal agents became aware on Sept. 28 that Arbabsiar had
left Iran and had already departed on a commercial flight from
 Frankfurt  to Mexico. Mexican authorities, working with the DEA
and the FBI, denied Arbabsiar entry to Mexico. He was then
placed on a commercial flight routed to New York and was
arrested when the plane landed.  ‘Hollywood Script’  “Though it reads like the pages of a Hollywood script, the
impact would have been very real and many lives would have been
lost,” Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert Mueller
said of the alleged plot at a  Justice Department  press
conference.  In a related action yesterday, the Treasury Department
sanctioned Arbabsiar and four other Qods force officials who the
U.S. said coordinated and planned the operation. Those four
individuals haven’t been publicly charged with crimes by federal
prosecutors in New York.  One of those sanctioned was Abdul Reza Shahlai, identified
by the Treasury Department as Arbabsiar’s cousin. The Treasury
Department said Shahlai also approved $5 million as payment to
help recruit others for the plot and for “all operations
discussed.”  After Arbabsiar was arrested and advised of his rights, he
confessed to his participation in the plot, prosecutors said. He
told authorities that his cousin approached him “in the early
spring of 2011” while he was in Iran, and asked him to work
with him on the plot.  Code Word ‘ Chevrolet ’  Arbabsiar used code words during the plan, and called the
assassination plot “Chevrolet,” according to prosecutors.  After he was arrested, Arbabsiar agreed to phone Shakuri in
Iran in calls that were monitored, the U.S. said in the criminal
complaint. During the calls, Shakuri told Arbabsiar to move
forward with the plot “as quickly as possible.”  Shakuri also told Arbabsiar during the call that he would
consult with his superiors about whether they would be willing
to pay additional money for the hit men.  Arbabsiar faces as much as life in prison if convicted of
all charges against him, prosecutors said.  ‘Dangerous New Territory’  “This is dangerous new territory for Iran,” said
Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and chairman
of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “It is
the latest in a series of aggressive actions -- from their
nuclear program to state sponsorship of terrorism, from
complicity in killing our soldiers in Iraq to now plotting
hostile acts on U.S. soil. This episode underscores the need for
concerted international unity to confront Iran.”  The alleged plot illustrates a trend since 2009 of “a more
aggressive, more anti-American, more risk-tolerant Iranian
government,” said Ken Pollack, director of the Saban Center for
Middle East Policy at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  At the press conference yesterday, Holder said there is no
“basis to believe” any other co-conspirators are still present
in the U.S.  Bharara said the ambassador’s killing wasn’t the only
scheme the men intended to carry out.  “The Saudi ambassador’s assassination was allegedly
intended to be merely the opening act in a series of lethal
attacks cooked up by the defendants and their cohorts in Iran,”
Bharara said.  The charges were brought in New York because the wiring of
the $100,000 payment was made through an unidentified bank in
New York, Bharara’s office said. In a statement, U.S. Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat from New York, said of the
alleged plot that “Iran has shown the world once again it poses
an existential threat to the world community.”  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-mag-2617, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net :
Seth Stern in Washington at   sstern14@bloomberg.net :
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington
at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  