-- 
UBS Says Worst of China Loans ‘Panic’ May Be Over as Wenzhou Takes Action

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T05:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ubs-says-worst-of-china-lending-panic-hysteria-may-be-over-1-.html
The worst of the “panic and
hysteria” over informal lending in  China  may be over as the
city of Wenzhou works with businesses and the central government
to stabilize credit, UBS AG said.  “The size of informal lending is relatively small and the
concerns about the direct impact on the formal banking sector
and the economy are exaggerated,” Hong Kong-based economist
 Wang Tao  said in a note today. The “bigger risks are credit
withdrawal in both the formal and informal lending market and
contagion,” she said.  Media “hype” surrounding reports of Wenzhou factory
owners fleeing after failing to pay their debts have unnerved
investors concerned about Chinese banks’ asset quality and a
slowdown in the  property market , according to Wang. Lenders
rallied today after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd.
began buying shares of the biggest four banks to boost
valuations that have fallen below levels reached during the
global financial crisis.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  climbed 15 percent as of
the noon break in trading in  Hong Kong .  “Restructuring of businesses and debts will likely occur
in the next few months in Wenzhou, with the help of bank
liquidity and government involvement,” Wang said.  Wen’s Visit  Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited Wenzhou in Zhejiang province
during a public holiday this month, urging greater support for
small and medium-sized companies. The city is known for a
“vibrant private sector,” non-bank lending, and speculative
investment in property, Wang said.  Chinese media published conflicting reports today on recent
developments.  China’s banking regulator has increased a loan quota for
the city by 100 billion yuan ($15.7 billion), the 21st Century
Business Herald reported, citing an unidentified person. It
didn’t specify the time period concerned. The same person said
that amount did not include 60 billion yuan in one-year bailout
loans that the Zhejiang provincial government is seeking from
the People’s Bank of China, the business newspaper said.  Separately, Guangzhou Daily said “rumors” of a 60 billion
yuan facility were untrue, citing Zhang Yourong, director of the
Wenzhou branch of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. No
comment was immediately available from central bank press
officials in Beijing.  Problems with non-bank lending may surface in other parts
of Zhejiang and in Shanxi,  Inner Mongolia , Fujian, and
Guangdong, Wang said.  Wenzhou set an upper limit on the interest rates that
private non-bank lenders can charge, the local government said
Sept. 28. Those institutions can only lend at an  interest rate 
that doesn’t exceed four times the country’s benchmark,
according to the statement. The official one-year rate is 6.56
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  