-- 
Ugandan Opposition Group Plans More Protests Over Inflation

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T14:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ugandan-opposition-group-plans-to-resume-protests-over-inflation.html
A Ugandan opposition group said it
plans to resume so-called walk-to-work protests this month over
the rising cost of living after inflation in the East African
nation surged to an 18-year high.  The demonstrations will be organized to highlight the
increase in food and fuel prices and the “wastage of public
resources,” the Activists for Change group known as A4C said in
a  statement  on its website today.  “The economy is in crisis, with rising inflation,
escalating unemployment, and soaring fuel and food prices,” it
said. “It is becoming harder and harder for Ugandans to feed
their children and provide for their good health and
education.”  At least 11 people died and more than 480 were injured
during protests in April and May over rising costs, according to
the  Uganda  Red Cross. Last week, Uganda’s central bank raised
its benchmark  interest rate  by 4 percentage points to curb
inflation that surged to 28.3 percent in September.  Uganda’s police chief announced last month the authorities
would step up security to deal with the planned “disruptive
activities.” The state has labelled A4C a “sinister project
that must be shunned, because if allowed to be implemented, it
will undermine the current efforts to solve the problems of the
country and plunge the country into chaos.”  A4C said its next campaign will begin on Oct. 13, where it
will announce a calendar of its planned activities.  Uganda,  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy and the
continent’s second-largest coffee producer, is scheduled to
become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  begins
pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 