-- 
Ukraine Criticized Over Tymoshenko Sentencing

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-10-11T23:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/ukrainian-court-says-tymoshenko-abused-power-tensions-rise.html
Ukraine’s effort to win closer ties
with the European Union was set back by a judge’s decision
yesterday to sentence former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  to
seven years in prison for abuse of power.  Tymoshenko must also pay a 1.5 billion hryvnia ($187.3
million) fine to NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy for damages that she
caused by signing 10-year gas supply and transit agreements with
 Russia , Judge Rodion Kiryeev said in reading his verdict.  Thousands of supporters of the 50 year-old ex-premier
gathered amid a heavy police presence outside the court.  The EU is “deeply disappointed” by the verdict, which may
have “profound implications” for the bloc’s relationship with
Ukraine, European Commission spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. The U.S. criticized the
“politically motivated prosecution” in a statement issued by
White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  President  Viktor Yanukovych , the former premier’s rival,
wants to sign an Association Agreement this year with the EU in
an effort to steer the former Soviet state toward deeper
economic integration with the bloc. Ukraine’s economy, dependent
on steel and chemicals exports, is recovering after shrinking 15
percent in 2009, forcing the country to turn to the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $15.6 billion bailout loan.  ‘Threatens’ Efforts  “This is disappointing from a market perspective, as this
threatens Ukraine’s efforts to integrate Westwards, and in
particular the trade agreement currently being negotiated with
the EU,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in an e-mail.
“Ukraine faces a difficult balance of payments position and
debt financing outlook and this decision hardly helps the tone
from an investor perspective.”  Tymoshenko signed the gas supply and transit agreements
with her Russian counterpart,  Vladimir Putin , in January 2009
after a price dispute between the two countries disrupted
deliveries to at least 20 nations for two weeks amid freezing
temperatures.  She has been in police detention since being arrested on
Aug. 5 and claims Yanukovych, 61, engineered the case to silence
the opposition before parliamentary elections next year.
Yanukovych has denied any involvement in the trial, saying it
was up to the court to decide what happened.  “Tymoshenko used the power she had for criminal acts,”
Kiryeev said in the court ruling. “The decision she took
herself violated laws and were damaging for Ukraine.”  ‘False’ Charges  Tymoshenko told reporters at the court that “everything
that Kiryeev said is false, and it will be disproved, though not
in Ukrainian courts.”  The two political leaders have been at odds since 2004,
when she helped lead the Orange Revolution that led to  Viktor Yushchenko ’s victory over Yanukovych in presidential elections.  Yanukovych beat Tymoshenko in a 2010 presidential vote
while promising to balance the influence of Russia with the
weight of integrating Ukraine more closely with  Europe .  The conviction appears politically motivated and has an
“anti-Russian” flavor, the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said in
a statement on its website. The gas contracts at the center of
the case against Tymoshenko are valid and must be honored,
according to the statement.  The charges against Mrs. Tymoshenko and the conduct of her
trial, as well as the prosecution of other opposition leaders
and members of the preceding government, have raised serious
concerns about the Government of Ukraine’s commitment to
democracy and rule of law,’’ Carney said the White House
statement.  Domestic Fallout  “The  United States  urges the release of Mrs. Tymoshenko
and the other political leaders and former government officials,
and believes that they should have an unrestricted ability to
participate fully in political life, including next year’s
parliamentary elections,” he said in the e-mailed statement.  Yanukovych “understands very well that the main risks for
him are in domestic policy and not in relations with the
European Union and not even in relations with Russia,” said
Andrey Ryabov, an analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Moscow.  “People have kept quiet, people have been waiting, but
Ukrainians, as Catherine the Second once said, are unstoppable
when they are really angry,” Shvets Vasyl, a 61-year-old
retired police colonel, said outside the courthouse yesterday.
“For now, there is patience, but patience may run out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Moscow at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  