-- 
Goldberg: UN Hypocrisy Exposed in Case of Killed Kurd

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-10-11T12:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/un-hypocrisy-exposed-in-case-of-murdered-kurd-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Remind me, again, why we care about
what the  United Nations  thinks?  That question isn’t prompted by the recent exertions of the
Palestinians to achieve the facsimile of independence by asking
the UN to tell them they are independent. Palestinians deserve
actual independence, as opposed to symbolic independence and
actual misery, which is what the UN is selling.  Other stateless peoples deserve independence as well, even
those who don’t have Jewish adversaries, without whom the
Palestinians would be just another unhappy group of Muslims in
search of a token measure of political satisfaction. In other
words, they would be Kurds, except less numerous and less
subjugated. Oh, if the Kurds only had  Israel  as an enemy, the UN
might acknowledge their existence!  It is the murder of a specific Kurd, in fact, that prompts
me to ask why we should care about what the UN thinks. A Kurdish
leader named Mishaal al-Tammo was killed Oct. 7 by masked gunmen
in the Syrian city of Qamishli, which, in a world of truth and
justice, would be part of an independent  Kurdistan  (along with
the large Kurdish stretches of  Iran ,  Iraq  and  Turkey ). Tammo was
a significant opposition figure in  Syria , whose government’s
main achievement of late is murdering opposition figures, as
well as murdering people who attend the funerals of murdered
opposition figures. Syrian security forces reportedly fired into
the crowd at Tammo’s funeral, killing at least six people.  One of 2,900  A Syrian propagandist might note that six killings at a
ceremony attended by 50,000 mourners is a very small number
proportionally, and is therefore a testament to the restraint of
Syrian security forces. A Syrian democracy activist might note
that Tammo is one of  at least 2,900  Syrians murdered since the
beginning of the uprising.  It was this very large number of people murdered by the
regime of President Bashar al-Assad that spurred European
countries to push for a condemnatory resolution at the UN
 Security Council  shortly before Tammo’s murder. The resolution
was worded rather mildly. References to sanctions had been
watered down to make it more tolerable to China and Russia --
which still found it intolerable, and vetoed it.  That was the first time Beijing and Moscow joined together
to veto a Security Council resolution since 2008, when they were
similarly offended by a resolution calling for sanctions against
the government of  Zimbabwe  for its atrocious human-rights
record.  Right and Wrong  Which brings us to the utter worthlessness of the UN as an
arbiter of right and wrong. A distressingly large number of
governments  represented  at the UN rule without the consent of
their people.  China  and Russia, each with veto power at the
Security Council, are committed to protecting anti-democratic
regimes around the globe for reasons of basic self-preservation.
Just as the 22 states that comprise the  Arab League  look after
Palestinian interests at the UN, China and Russia look after the
interests of autocrats and fascists. (There is significant
overlap, of course, between the  Arab League  and the more
informally organized but still potent League of Autocrats.)  What’s most maddening about the UN is that even its
democratic members sometimes crumple before the diktats of
autocrats. South Africa -- home of  Nelson Mandela ! -- abstained
on the Syria vote. South Africa, in fact, is becoming an expert
at caving to China, its largest trading partner. On Oct.4, the
 Dalai Lama  said that he had  canceled  a trip to  South Africa ,
which he had hoped to visit to celebrate Archbishop Desmond Tutu’s 80th birthday, because its government “seems to find it
inconvenient to issue a visa.” China’s influence was clear.  In a talk a few days later, the Dalai Lama noted that “for
the communist totalitarian system,” hypocrisy and “telling
lies has unfortunately become part of their lives.”  Hypocrisy and Lies  The totalitarian reliance on hypocrisy and lies infected
the UN a long time ago. The American ambassador to the UN,  Susan Rice , who represents an administration that tends to give the UN
the benefit of the doubt, was so appalled by the double veto
that she stormed out of the Security Council meeting and
 denounced  China and  Russia  in the most refreshingly undiplomatic
way. She called them out as countries that “would rather sell
arms to the Syrian regime than stand with the Syrian people.”
She also said: “The  United States  is outraged that this council
has utterly failed to address an urgent moral challenge and a
growing threat to regional peace and security.”  Outraged, yes. Surprised? At this late stage, I hope not.  Congress is now considering reducing the U.S. foreign aid
budget. Before it cuts worthy programs serving the poor,
dispossessed and disenfranchised, perhaps it should consider
scaling back funding to an organization that protects dictators
who make dispossession and disenfranchisement the cornerstones
of their rule.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 