-- 
Forint Slumps on Inflation After Biggest 4-Day Gain in 10 Months

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-11T08:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/hungarian-forint-slumps-breaking-four-days-of-gains-versus-euro.html
The forint weakened after posting
the biggest four-day gain in 10 months as slower-than-expected
inflation led investors to cut bets the central bank will raise
borrowing costs.  The Hungarian currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 294.7 by
9:52 a.m. Budapest time, after rallying 2.5 percent in the four
days through yesterday. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a
year earlier, the same annual rate as in August, the statistics
office in Budapest said today. The median estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a rate of 3.8 percent.  “The  Hungarian forint  is slightly weaker after the
release, as the data highlights the central bank’s dilemma, i.e.
difficult to cut  interest rates  as long as risk perception of
 Hungary  is highly negative,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a Copenhagen-
based strategist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a research report.  Hungarian policy makers last month kept the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 6 percent as the majority of policy
makers considered that the deteriorating global risk environment
is preventing policy makers from cutting the interest rate even
as the inflation outlook may justify such a move, according to
minutes of the meeting published last week.  Forward-rate agreements fixing three-month interest in one
month rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.33
percent, bringing the spread against the three-month Budapest
interbank offered rate to 21 basis points, compared with 39
basis points a week ago. FRA’s are used to hedge against or bet
on future funding-cost changes.  The benchmark BUX index of stocks rose 1 percent to
16,982.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  