-- 
Turkey’s Lira Falls Most in Week After Central Bank Offers Fewer Dollars

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-11T14:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/turkey-s-lira-falls-most-in-week-after-central-bank-offers-fewer-dollars.html
The lira fell the most in a week
against the dollar after  Turkey ’s central bank sold $140 million
for liras in a daily auction, the smallest sale since the
currency fell to a record low last week.  The lira dropped 0.8 percent to 1.8435 per dollar at 5:43
p.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds rose 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.45 percent,
according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index, in their first
advance in five days.  The Ankara-based bank got $610 million of bids at the daily
auction today. The bank earlier announced it would sell as much
as $350 million.  “The central bank’s decision is a one-way ticket decision,
meaning that the bank should go to the end of the road and be
aggressive,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report to clients.  The bank has sold $4.8 billion since it embarked on dollar
sales auctions on Aug. 5 to shore up the lira after it cut
benchmark  interest rates  at an emergency meeting. Turkey’s
foreign currency reserves were $87.5 billion in the week ending
Sept. 30.  ‘Test’  “If the central bank quits before achieving stability in
the foreign-currency market, markets would prefer to test the
central bank’s ammunition,” said Altug.  The bank sold a record $750 million on Oct. 5, after the
lira slid to an historic low of 1.9096 the previous day. It has
slumped 16 percent this year, the second-worst performer among
25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
South African rand.  “It seems that the central bank will not make much effort
to drive the lira higher from here, even if it wants a stronger
lira,” Baris Karaayvaz, a currency trader at Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS, said in an e-mailed response to questions before the
auction result was announced. “It does not make sense for the
bank to offer $1 billion when the lira trades at 1.83 against
dollar.”  Traders paid 5.4 percentage points more for the right to
sell the lira in three months than to buy, according to so-
called risk reversal rates compiled by Bloomberg. The premium to
insure against further depreciation in the lira rose for the
first day in five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  