-- 
Hurricane Jova Moves Inland Near Mexico Resort of Manzanillo

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-12T12:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/hurricane-jova-nearing-landfall-on-mexico-with-category-2-force.html
Hurricane Jova came ashore near
 Mexico ’s Pacific resort of Manzanillo today, lashing coastal
communities with 75 miles (120 kilometers) per hour winds and
heavy rainfall, the National Hurricane Center said.  The storm, which pummeled the region with high surf as
well, was moving north at 9 mph and was now about 30 miles
south-southeast of Puerto Vallarta, the center said today in a 5
a.m. PDT  advisory .  A “dangerous  storm surge ” will bring life-threatening
waves and coastal flooding to the area while weakening over
land, the Miami-based center said. Rainfall totals may reach as
much as 20 inches in Michoacan, Colima and Jalisco states.  The state government of Jalisco suspended classes until
tomorrow in 1,030 schools and evacuated 500 people from "high-
risk areas," according to a statement on its website. The storm
isn’t likely to affect the opening ceremony of the Pan American
Games, scheduled for Oct. 14 in Guadalajara, it said.  In neighboring Nayarit state, Governor Roberto Sandoval
yesterday canceled all classes in coastal municipalities and
opened 331 shelters, according to the state government website.  West of Jova and at sea,  Tropical Storm Irwin  regained
strength with winds of 40 mph. Irwin is about 555 miles from the
southern tip of  Baja California . It is forecast to weaken again
to a tropical depression and dissipate over the Pacific.  The NHC is also monitoring a tropical depression bearing 35
mph winds that formed just south of Mexico’s Gulf of Tehuantepec
near the Guatemala border that may become a tropical storm today
and move inland with heavy rains tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  