-- 
Venezuela to Sell $3 Billion of Bonds to Meet Demand for Foreign Currency

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-10-11T21:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/venezuela-to-sell-3-billion-of-bonds-to-meet-demand-for-foreign-currency.html
Venezuela  will offer $3 billion of
bonds in the local market, swelling dollar debt sales this year
to $7.2 billion, as the country seeks to finance spending and
meet investor demand for foreign currency.  The government will sell the 11.75 percent bonds due in
2026 to local investors, who will pay with bolivars at the
official foreign-exchange rate of 4.3 bolivars per dollar,
according to a  statement  posted on the Public Credit Office’s
website.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Evrofinance Mosnarbank SA
will manage the sale, the statement said.  “This has taken the market by surprise,”  Jeff Williams ,
an emerging-market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New
York , said in a phone interview. “People weren’t expecting a
new Venezuela issue this year, so in that sense it’s negative
for the market.”  The $7.2 billion of debt to be sold by the government this
year is the most on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Venezuela, which has the highest borrowing costs of
major emerging-market economies after Belarus, sells the bonds
to provide foreign currency to local investors who are unable to
buy dollars under President  Hugo Chavez ’s eight-year-old
controls. Investors can re-sell them in overseas markets at a
discount to obtain dollars. The securities will have a sale
price of 95 cents on the dollar, the government said.  The sale will bring the total issuance between Venezuela
and state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA to about $15.2
billion this year, a figure that surpasses the total amount sold
by the rest of Latin American governments in the international
market combined,  Barclays Capital  said today in a note.  ‘Deteriorated’  “It is hard to explain why Venezuela has issued these
bonds at a time when conditions in the international market have
deteriorated,” analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti said in the note. The government seems “willing to
issue as much as possible” ahead of the 2012 elections, they
wrote.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 15.01 percent at 4:24 p.m. Caracas time, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.18 cents on the
dollar to 65.45 cents.  Importers, Banks  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis
points to 1,296, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  The  Finance Ministry  will begin receiving orders for the
bonds on Oct. 13 and will announce the results of the sale on
Oct. 17, the statement said. Venezuela will offer 40 percent of
the bonds to import companies registered with the  Foreign
Exchange Board , known as Cadivi, while the remaining securities
will be sold to individuals, banks, non-Cadivi companies and
pension funds, the statement said.  The government is tapping credit markets for a second time
this year as Chavez seeks to win a third consecutive six-year
term next October. The sale also comes amid a surge in the
central bank’s scarcity index and an inflation rate that rose
for a fourth consecutive month in September to 26.5 percent, the
highest of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Petroleos de Venezuela Bonds  State oil company PDVSA has sold $7.93 billion of bonds
this year including new issuance and the reopening of previous
bonds.  “This sale will create more pressure on the debt curve,”
said Alberto Cardenas, head of strategy at Caracas-based
investment bank BancTrust & Co. “It’s likely that PDVSA will
come to market again at the end of this quarter.”  Venezuela’s average government dollar bond yields have
fallen 61 basis points since Oct. 4 to 15.21 percent yesterday,
according to JPMorgan. The average yield was 12.98 percent on
Aug. 2.  The central bank may receive a portion of the bonds to sell
through its Sitme  currency market , where banks trade dollar
bonds on behalf of clients to finance imports at an exchange
rate of 5.3 bolivars per dollar, said  Asdrubal Oliveros ,
director of Caracas-based consulting firm Ecoanalitica.  “The government picked a poor moment to sell bonds,”
Oliveros said. “Venezuelan bond prices are low right now due to
risk aversion and the government didn’t do any work leading up
to the sale to reduce borrowing costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  