-- 
Vietnam Says Inflation May Surge; Officials Weaken Exchange Rate

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-11T06:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/vietnam-to-prioritize-inflation-fight-aims-at-suitable-growth-.html
Vietnamese inflation may jump and
the priority is to curb it, the Communist Party said as  Asia ’s
fastest consumer-price growth adds pressure on the dong.  Inflation is “at risk of surging,” Communist Party
General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong said in the text of a speech
posted on the government’s website yesterday.  Vietnam  will
prioritize fighting price gains while targeting “suitable
growth” in the first few years of the 2011-2015 period, the
party’s Central Committee said separately yesterday.  Vietnam’s central bank raised a key  interest rate  last week
for the first time since May as it struggles to quell inflation
of more than 22 percent and steady the dong. The nation has
found it difficult to follow through on commitments to tighten
monetary policy and has historically prioritized economic growth
over inflation, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The rate hike last week was an attempt to try to contain
pressure on the local currency more than a strong commitment to
fight inflation,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, an economist at
Credit Suisse AG in  Singapore . “If the pressure on the currency
eases, they may still reverse course.”  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
exchange rate today for the fourth time this month, fixing it at
20,668 per dollar from 20,653 yesterday.  The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 20,870 per dollar as
of 11:02 a.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was devalued for the fourth time in 15 months on
Feb. 11, by about 7 percent. The benchmark VN Index of stocks
fell 0.5 percent.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices climbed 22.42 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with 23.02 percent in August. That’s the
fastest pace in a basket of 17 Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Elevated inflation has fanned demand for gold and
dollars as a store of value.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam raised its refinancing rate to 15
percent from 14 percent last week. The move took effect
yesterday.  Vietnam’s foreign-exchange reserves are still “thin” and
there remains considerable pressure on the nation’s currency,
Trong also said. The country is forecasting economic growth of
5.8 percent to 6 percent this year, he said.  The main tasks over the next five years are restructurings
of public investments, the financial markets and state-owned
enterprises, Trong said. Vietnam will merge or consolidate
smaller commercial banks and financial institutions to ensure
liquidity and strengthen the banking system, he said.  Vietnam will aim for faster economic growth in the final
years of the 2011-2015 period if conditions are favorable, the
 Central Committee  also said in its statement yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  