-- 
Virgin Atlantic Looking at Combining With BMI, Ridgway Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-10-11T14:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/virgin-atlantic-looking-at-combining-with-bmi-ridgway-says.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. said
it’s considering an approach for the U.K.-based BMI unit of
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  that would combine the two operations.  “BMI is very much up for sale and we are part of that
process,” Virgin Atlantic Chief Executive Officer Steve Ridgway
said today in an interview in London. “We would like to see if
there is a way of putting these two businesses together.”  Richard Branson , Virgin’s billionaire owner, is renewing
his interest in a purchase he’s been pursuing for more than a
decade after Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz indicated BMI might
be sold. Virgin is playing catch-up after six of BMI’s daily
takeoff and landing slots at London Heathrow airport were
snapped up last month by British Airways, its chief rival.  A deal would meld Virgin’s long-haul operations with a
short-haul network that makes BMI the second-biggest carrier at
Heathrow after BA. Ridgway said in 2005 a tie-up was “the great
undone deal in aviation,” given the “logic” of the combination.  “We are interested in the future of BMI,” Ridgway said
today. “We are complementary businesses. Now, whether that
could be done or whether that works for our shareholders, that’s
what we need to see. Nothing is decided at the moment.”  Appetite for Slots  British Airways remains “interested” in BMI, said Laura Goodes, a spokeswoman at parent International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, adding: “We’re always looking to increase our
Heathrow slot portfolio. That’s always been the case.”  Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa said last month it had
hired a bank to help determine whether to sell BMI or persist
with a turnaround plan for a company acquired under duress in
2009 after then-owner Michael Bishop exercised a  put option  as
airline values fell during the global slump.  “There is still a process of evaluating possible options
underway,” spokeswoman Claudia Lange said today by phone. “We
cannot comment on any possible buyers or the timescale.”  Exposure to markets in the  Middle East  and North Africa,
where traffic has been crimped by political unrest, is limiting
the impact of BMI’s recovery strategy. The unit posted a profit
in the third quarter of 2010 but had a 120 million-euro ($163
million) operating loss in the first half of this year.  Passenger Feed  Having first restructured BMI, then handed residual slots
to its partners and sold some to British Airways, Lufthansa now
seems intent on selling the unit via a “relatively short-term
process” that’s likely to be completed this year, according to
 Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin.  Virgin may be particularly attracted to BMI because it
lacks a short-haul network of its own from which passengers can
transfer to its long-distance flights, Furling said.  “Some people are interested in BMI for its slots, like BA
and perhaps also the Middle Eastern carriers, but Virgin can
also look it from a feed perspective,” the analyst said. “BMI
would provide some feed but whether it would be significant is
another thing, so they’ll need to look at it very closely.”  Branson previously considered buying a stake in BMI that
was later acquired by Lufthansa in 1999. More recently, in
December 2008, Virgin said it was in talks over BMI in the run
up to Lufthansa being compelled to take control, while in August
2009 it hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to examine a combination
as the German company explored options for offloading the unit.  Bigger Picture  Davy’s Furlong says he expects any deal involving BMI to be
“part of a bigger solution” to reposition Virgin Atlantic
within the global  airline industry .  Virgin is still reviewing plans to find a global alliance
partner and potential investor, Ridgway said today. Branson
ordered a review of its independence when antitrust regulators
allowed BA and  Spain ’s Iberia, which merged in January to form
IAG, to create a joint North Atlantic business with AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines .  “There are some interesting options for us, but we haven’t
made any decision,” said the CEO, who spoke after Virgin
announced plans to use waste gases from steel production to
power flights to China and  India  within three years.  Virgin Atlantic remains concerned about the purchase of BMI
slots by British Airways, Ridgway said in the interview.  “We’ll be fighting our corner very strongly to make sure
we don’t get any diminution of competition and that those key
resources, those key slots, are used in a way that keeps the
U.K. competitive and protects choice for consumers,” he said.  Didn’t Bid  Virgin said Sept. 26 it would write to the U.K. Office of
Fair Trading and the European Commission asking them to vet the
BA purchase, adding that it didn’t bid for the slots because
they were advertized as available only for lease.  Virgin Atlantic, which is closely held with Branson owning
a 51 percent stake and Singapore Airlines Ltd. the rest, has 3
percent of  take-off and landing positions  at Heathrow. BA and
Iberia hold almost 45 percent and BMI controls 8.5 percent.  Lufthansa was trading 2.1 percent lower at 9.79 euros as of
4:31 p.m. in  Frankfurt . London-based IAG was priced down 0.8
percent at 162.1 pence in the U.K. capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  