-- 
Vitamin E Supplements Boost Men’s Prostate Cancer Risk, Research Finds

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/vitamin-e-supplements-boost-prostate-cancer-risk-study.html
Daily use of vitamin E increased the
risk of prostate cancer in healthy men, according to the latest
study to find potential harm associated with regular use of some
dietary supplements.  Men who took vitamin E over a seven-year period were 17
percent more likely to get prostate cancer than those who took a
placebo, according to the research published in the Journal of
the  American Medical Association . The study, a follow-up to a
2008 trial of 35,000 men designed to see if the supplements
helped prevent prostate cancer, was halted at the time when
results showed no benefit.  The findings add to a growing body of research that suggests
some vitamins and supplements, used regularly by an estimated
234 million U.S. adults, may do more harm than good. A study
published yesterday in Archives of  Internal Medicine  concluded
that the use of multivitamins and supplements including folic
acid, iron, magnesium and copper were associated with higher
death rates among older women.  “There is no reason for men in the general population to
take the dose of vitamin E,” said Eric Klein, a co-chair on the
study and a physician at the  Cleveland Clinic , in a  statement .
“The supplements have shown no benefit and some very real
risks.”  The study, dubbed SELECT for Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer
Prevention Trial, was designed to see if one or both of the
substances prevent prostate cancer. Last May, the data and
safety monitoring committee reviewed the trial data and
recommended reporting the finding of the prostate cancer risk,
researchers said in the study.  Cancer Cases  The latest data, which continue to track the men in the
study, showed those who took 400 international units of vitamin
E daily had a cancer rate of 76 cases per 1,000 participants,
compared with 65 cases in the placebo group.  The 17 percent increased risk was found in the group of
study participants that took vitamin E alone. Those who took a
combination of vitamin E and selenium did not have a significant
increase in risk, according to the study.  The study “is the largest, the most definitive, and the
first one to show that there could potentially be harm,” from
regular use of vitamin E, said Leslie Ford, associate director
for clinical research at the  National Cancer Institute ’s cancer
prevention division, in an interview.  The study was funded by the National Cancer Institute and
the  National Institutes of Health .  Vitamin E Function  Claims about vitamin E’s health benefits stem from its
function as an antioxidant that prevents the  breakdown  of other
molecules in the body and, if unchecked, could lead to cancer.
It also strengthens the immune system, according to the National
Institutes of Health. It’s naturally found in wheat germ oil,
sunflower seeds, spinach and broccoli.  Earlier studies in the 1990s looking at other types of
cancer showed men who took the vitamin were less likely to be
affected by prostate cancer. More recently, a 2005 study
published in the Journal of the American Medical Association
concluded that the supplement failed to prevent cancer or heart
disease.  Prostate cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer death
in men, according to the  American Cancer Society . More than
240,000 men will be diagnosed with the disease this year, and it
will lead to about 33,730 deaths, the organization said.  “The observed 17 percent increase in prostate cancer
incidence demonstrates the potential for seemingly innocuous yet
biologically active substances such as vitamins to cause harm,”
the researchers said in the study. The findings “underscore the
need for consumers to be skeptical of health claims for
unregulated over-the-counter products in the absence of strong
evidence of benefit demonstrated in clinical trials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  