-- 
Dodd-Frank’s Volcker Rule Released by Regulators for Comment

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-10-11T15:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/volcker-restrictions-on-banks-trading-set-for-release-by-fdic.html
U.S. regulators requested public
comment on Dodd-Frank Act restrictions that would ban banks from
making short-term trades for their own accounts and prevent them
from owning or sponsoring  hedge funds  and private-equity funds.  The so-called Volcker rule, released today by the  Federal
Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, is aimed at heading off risk-taking
that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The language of the rule is little changed from drafts that
have been leaking in recent weeks. It would ban banks from
taking positions held for 60 days or less, exempt certain
market-making activities, change the way traders involved in
market-making are compensated and make senior bank executives
responsible for compliance.  The board of the FDIC voted 3-0 today to seek comments on
the proposal through January 13. The Federal Reserve also said
it would accept feedback by that date.  Analysts say the rule, as proposed, could cut revenue and
reduce market liquidity in the name of limiting risk. Banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have
been winding down their proprietary trading desks in
anticipation.  Banks’ fixed-income desks could see revenue fall as much as
25 percent under provisions included in a draft circulated last
week, brokerage analyst Brad Hintz said in a note yesterday.
Moody’s Investors Service said the rule would be “credit
negative” for bondholders of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , “all of which
have substantial market-making operations.”  Risky Trades  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in last year’s regulatory overhaul to rein
in risky trading by firms whose customer deposits are federally
insured. The Fed, FDIC and OCC worked jointly on the draft rule
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A final version is
slated to take effect on July 21, 2012. The Commodity Futures
Trading Commission is also due to vote on the regulation.  Regulators are grappling with a difficult task, said Kim
Olson, a principal at Deloitte and Touche LLP in  New York .  “The thing that has always been tricky about Volcker is
how do you distinguish between what is permitted and potential
proprietary trading that is not permitted?” she said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Exemptions  The proposal includes a series of exemptions for trades
designed to hedge credit,  interest rate  or other specific risks.
A bank could be free of the Volcker restrictions if it is
hedging a specific position or a portfolio of risks across
multiple trading desks.  Hedging trades would need to have a “reasonable,” not a
full, correlation with the underlying risk. Banks could also win
exemptions if they are hedging a risk they are “highly likely”
to face in the future.  Traders involved in the transactions would have to be paid
from fees and the spread of their transactions rather than the
appreciation or profit from their positions.  Foreign banks would be covered by the rule if they have
U.S.-based staff involved in the restricted trades, according to
the proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  