-- 
Volcker Rule Gaps May Leave Banks Uncertain About Trading Bans

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n ,   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-10-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/volcker-rule-s-unanswered-questions-may-leave-banks-uncertain-about-bans.html
More than a year after they began
crafting the Dodd-Frank Act’s ban on proprietary trading by U.S.
banks, regulators published the so-called Volcker rule while
acknowledging that hundreds of questions remain unanswered.  The proposed rule, written by four regulatory agencies and
issued for public comment yesterday, would ban banks from
trading for their own accounts. Banks would be allowed to make
short-term trades for hedging or market-making while facing
limits on investments in  hedge funds  and private equity funds.  Within the rule’s 298 pages, regulators seek feedback
instead of offering precise definitions for many of the banned
activities, which may leave financial firms unsure about how to
prepare for the final adoption of the rule next year.  “There aren’t bright lines on many questions and that will
make it difficult for banks to put in place their compliance
regime,” said Kim Olson, a principal at  Deloitte & Touche LLP ,
who formerly worked at the bank supervision department in the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in last year’s regulatory overhaul to rein
in risky trading that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
 Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency worked with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which is to vote on the rule today. The
Commodity Futures Trading Commission is also due to vote on the
regulation.  In their proposal, regulators said it was difficult to
define permitted activities because that “often involves subtle
distinctions that are difficult both to describe comprehensively
within regulation and to evaluate in practice.”  ‘More Clarity’  Still, regulators will have to make the language more
precise before a final rule goes into effect July 21, 2012,
because the proposal includes substantial compliance
requirements for banks, said Thomas Pax, head of the bank
regulatory practice at the Clifford Chance law firm in  New York .  “There’s got to be a lot more clarity put around the
exceptions for the permissible activities in order for the
compliance programs to make any sense at all,” Pax said in an
interview.  At the same time, the rule should not be defined too
narrowly, said Rob Toomey, managing director of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  “Our concern is that the narrowness then translates into
an overall loss of liquidity in the market, which then leads
into harming capital formation and general credit
availability,” he said.  ‘Close the Loop’  David Konrad, a bank analyst at KBW Inc., said it “feels
like there’s enough maneuverability here” to allow banks to
continue providing liquidity and executing trades for clients.  For their part, consumer advocates said they were wary of
flexibility and want a final regulation that spells out exactly
what banks can and cannot do.  “What you see over and over in this rule is a good
principle in concept, and a step toward executing that
principle,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans
for Financial Reform, a coalition of consumer groups. “And then
they won’t close the loop by being clear about, ‘You cannot do
this.’”  The board of the FDIC voted 3-0 yesterday to seek comments
on the proposal through January 13. The Fed also said it would
accept feedback through that date.  Banks’ fixed-income desks could see revenue fall as much as
25 percent under provisions included in a draft circulated last
week, brokerage analyst Brad Hintz said in an Oct. 10 note.
Moody’s Investors Service said the rule would be “credit
negative” for bondholders of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , “all of which
have substantial market-making operations.”  Foreign Banks  The impact on U.S. banks could be magnified because they
will lose business to their foreign competitors, analysts said.  Foreign banks would be covered by the rule if they have
U.S.-based staff involved in the restricted trades, according to
the proposal. Foreign firms will be able to continue to engage
in proprietary trading overseas.  “My greatest concern is the lack of competitive equality
for U.S. banks competing abroad,” Ernest Patrikas, a partner at
law firm White & Case LLC and a former general counsel at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in an interview.  Anticipation of the rule has already had an impact.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , among others,
have been winding down their proprietary trading desks.  Since regulators will eventually provide more guidance,
financial firms should be cautious about moving too quickly,
said Joseph Vitale, a partner at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  ‘Too Far’  “My advice to banks has been, ‘Don’t do anything you can’t
undo because you don’t want to go too far in cuts if you don’t
have to,’” Vitale said.  Stanley, of Americans for Financial Reform, said the
proposal could have helped mitigate the financial system’s
meltdown if it had been in place prior to 2008.  “Certainly there are parts of this rule that would have
given regulators the power to crack down on things that were
happening before the crisis,” Stanley said. “But they’re also
so vague that they wouldn’t have forced the regulators to
act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  