-- 
Two Wal-Mart Workers Arrested, 25 People Detained as China Probes Labeling

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T09:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/wal-mart-shuts-6-more-china-stores-temporarily-over-pork-label.html
Chinese police arrested two  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  workers in Chongqing and detained 25 others in a
pork mislabeling investigation that has temporarily closed 13 of
the retailer’s stores in the southwestern city.  In addition, seven people are confined to their homes and
three have been released on bail in the case, the official
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday evening, citing unidentified
police in the municipality of 32 million people. The retailer
has confirmed that some of its employees were detained and said
it’s cooperating with the investigation.  Wal-Mart was fined earlier this week after authorities said
it mislabeled ordinary pork as organic, adding to 21 cases of
false advertising and sales of expired or uninspected food by
the company since opening in in the city in 2006.  China  has
increased scrutiny of food retailers after cases including the
sale of melamine-tainted milk and reprocessed cooking oil.  “Wal-Mart has a record of other incidents related to its
credibility in China and not in Chongqing alone,” Jason Yuan,
an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in  Shanghai , said by
phone. “The latest incidents added even more pressure on Wal-
Mart and drive consumers to its competitors.”  Some Employees Detained  Wal-Mart China has no comment on the cause of the alleged
labeling problems, Anthony Rose, a spokesman in  Hong Kong  for
the world’s largest retailer, said in an e-mail. Rose confirmed
earlier this week that some Wal-Mart employees had been
detained.  Wal-Mart’s Asian Chief Executive Officer  Scott Price  told
investors yesterday that the store closures would not have a
“material impact” on earnings in China. Wal-Mart had $7.5
billion annual revenue in China, where it has 329 stores and
107,000 employees, Price said March 30.  “This issue is restricted to Chongqing and does not have a
bearing on any of our other stores in China,” Wal-Mart
spokesman Rose said in an e-mail today.  The two arrested in the pork mislabeling investigation are
the vice general manager and the director of the fresh produce
department at Wal-Mart’s Jiulong Square branch, according to a
report by the  Chongqing Daily  newspaper that was posted to the
website of the Chongqing Administration of Industry & Commerce.  An anti-counterfeiting  task force  is seeking arrest
warrants for the 25 detained employees, the newspaper said,
citing an unidentified official from the force.  Wal-Mart Fined  In the pork-labeling incident, Chongqing fined Wal-Mart
3.65 million yuan ($574,000), five times the 730,000 yuan that
the company’s stores in the city made from selling the meat over
20 months, according to a  statement  on the city’s website. The
government will also seize the 730,000 yuan, it said.  Tainted milk powder, banned additives in pork and buns dyed
with chemicals have fueled food-safety concerns in China and
spurred the government to pledge greater protection for
consumers.  Six children were killed and thousands were sickened by
melamine-tainted dairy products in 2008, prompting the
government to execute two people involved in the scandal and
form a food-safety commission led by Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  “Foreign supermarkets get targeted more for this,” said
Paul French, founder of Shanghai-based market research company
Access Asia. “I am sure Chinese supermarkets do it too but they
have a level of protection at the moment from the government
that does not want too many scandals among local food-related
companies after the bad formula, tainted milk and endless
scandals.”  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, with sales of $421.8
billion last year, entered China in 1996.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  