-- 
WaMu Judge Names New Jersey Bankruptcy Judge as Mediator

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-11T22:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/wamu-judge-names-new-jersey-bankruptcy-judge-to-mediate-creditor-disputes.html
Washington Mutual Inc.’s bankruptcy
judge appointed a fellow judge to try to settle differences
among shareholders,  hedge funds  and other creditors of the
former owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Raymond T. Lyons will lead mediation
sessions aimed at resolving disputes that have helped to prevent
WaMu from ending its bankruptcy and distributing $7 billion to
creditors. Lyons, who is based in Trenton,  New Jersey , will file
a report by Nov. 4 on whether mediation succeeded, failed or
needs more time.  WaMu, based in Seattle, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and
$188 billion in deposits.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath has twice rejected
WaMu’s reorganization proposal, which is built on a settlement
splitting billions of dollars in cash and tax refunds among the
company’s creditors, JPMorgan and the Federal Insurance Deposit
Corp. Walrath approved the settlement and rejected the
reorganization plan.  The parties in the mediation will include four hedge funds
that helped negotiate the plan and shareholders who oppose it.
Shareholders accuse the hedge funds of using non-public
information that they gained while helping to negotiate the plan
to trade WaMu securities.  The hedge funds deny the allegations. Walrath gave
shareholders permission to sue the funds. How to resolve the
insider-trading allegations is the main issue that will be
covered by the mediation.  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  