-- 
Waterfront Ruin Morphs Into $350 Million Park: James S. Russell

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-10-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/waterfront-ruin-morphs-into-350-million-park-james-s-russell.html
Passing through a woolly hedge, I
found dozens of children romping through fountains and sliding
down a gurgling watercourse. Here was a great playground created
within  Brooklyn Bridge Park , now making a spectacular setting
accessible to the public.  The Manhattan skyline looms over the  East River  as it
widens into New York Bay. Romantically crenellated  Brooklyn
Heights  rises behind, above the din of the Brooklyn-Queens
Expressway.  The first stages of the park are barely older than a year,
and yet you can already get lost in greenery that has replaced
flat, crumbling-concrete warehouse docks along the river.  Brooklyn landscape architect Michael Van Valkenburgh, 59,
has been turning 85 acres of industrial desolation into a riot
of planting and whimsically looping paths.  Reluctantly leaving the water fun zone, I met up with Van
Valkenburgh and Regina Myer, the park’s president, who were
showing design aficionados around.  We wandered across the broad, empty acres of Pier 5. They
will soon host sports fields and a picnic area. Right now, there
is just a line of naked steel warehouse supports standing out
against the Manhattan skyline. The slap of river waves replaced
the receding racket of the highway. Tour boats and oil barges
thrummed peacefully by.  Acres of Activity  That calm may not survive the hunger for recreation.
Brooklyn’s 2.5 million residents are very short on park space,
and Van Valkenburgh is trying to please everyone by cramming
every inch of the acreage with activity, from baseball to boat
launching.  Phasing has followed funding from city and state sources.
Myer said she expects two-thirds of the park to be built by
2012. A vintage carousel in a pavilion designed by Paris
architect Jean Nouvel opened last month.  Current and future real-estate development around the site
is supposed to support park operations, but some neighbors have
resisted, worrying about walling off the waterfront.  Van Valkenburg does not curate every square inch, as
designers of the  High Line  or  Central Park  did. Instead shrubs
explode shaggily out of their beds. Using mostly native plants,
he invites nesting birds.  Trees are arranged to shade in summer and cut frigid winds
in winter. “I’ve planted new site ecologies that can thrive in
a heavily used urban setting,” he said.  Avoiding maintenance-intense gardens and elaborate park
furniture stretched the park’s $350 million budget. It sounds
like a lot of money, but cleaning up after industry does not
come cheap. That’s why stunning waterfronts all over America go
underutilized.  Kayak Launch  A massive ridge built up of salvaged boulders spirals out
of the water, wrapping a kayak launch. It snakes along the
shoreline in soft curves, alternating stands of low native trees
with shrubs that spill into the river.  The ridge is one of Van Valkenburgh’s big, willful
gestures: artificial nature that does not pretend to be
“natural,” but which can evolve in a genuinely ecological way.
The boulders confront what he calls “the post-industrial nature
of the place.”  He also created a tiny salt marsh. A pair of ducks nosed in
to check the handiwork, and seemed satisfied. It drains the
parkland through a naturally-acting yet artificial stream criss-
crossed by footbridges: civil engineering usefully prettified.  On Pier 1, the most spectacular bit of the park now
completed, tree-topped ridges rise in graceful curves to frame
long meadows, then slope down toward the Oz-like skyline. The
Brooklyn Bridge looms theatrically overhead.  When our group arrived at the Fulton Ferry landing, a
popular spot for tourists and locals alike, the sun had just
gone down, and swarms of people were pouring into the park. They
come to watch the lights of the skyline wink on as night falls.  The more unruly Brooklyn Bridge Park becomes, the better, I
now think. It’s a lush, invigorating riposte to the forests of
glass and steel and the great bridges leaping the river.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 