-- 
Postrel: Web Bone-Marrow Bounty Takes on Paid-Donor Ban

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-10-11T00:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/web-bone-marrow-bounty-takes-on-paid-donor-ban-virginia-postrel.html
When Amit Gupta told his friends a
few weeks ago that he had acute leukemia and needed a bone-
marrow transplant, the word spread quickly.  Gupta, the 32-year-old founder of the do-it-yourself
photography site  Photojojo  and the collaborative-working
community  Jelly , is not only beloved by his friends. (“One of
the nicest, most genuine, most creative people you could ever
meet,” is a  typical encomium .) He’s something of an Internet
sensation, with more than 14,000 Twitter  followers . And he’s a
former intern for Seth Godin, the  best-selling author  and
marketing guru.  Gupta now has his own high-stakes marketing problem: how to
persuade enough people to swab their cheeks and send in a
genetic test kit to the national  bone-marrow registry  in hopes
of finding a match for him.  Unlike blood or even kidney donations, the blood stem cells
taken from marrow (“bone-marrow donation” is technically a
misnomer) require an extremely close genetic match. Otherwise
when some of the transplanted cells develop into white blood
cells they will react to the rest of the patient’s body as if it
were foreign tissue, triggering a serious, and potentially
fatal, immune reaction. Gupta’s supporters say that because he
is of South Asian descent, the odds of a match from the 9.5
million records on file at the U.S. registry is just 1 in
20,000.  When they heard his plight, Gupta’s tech-community friends
immediately rallied to encourage more people to take the swab
test. “We’re going to destroy those odds,”  blogged  his friend
Tony Bacigalupo, who helped organize a New York  swab party  on
Oct. 14. ( India  doesn’t have a registry, but people there can
fill out a form at  amitguptaneedsyou.com .) Twitter filled up
with posts about how @superamit needed help.  Godin, however, wasn’t impressed. What he saw, he told me
in an e-mail, was “a lot of digital handshaking” that amounted
to “a feel-good waste.” Tweets alone wouldn’t get Gupta a
transplant. Godin wanted to create a sense of urgency.  So he wrote a post on  his own blog  offering to pay $10,000
to anyone who became a match for Gupta and made the stem-cell
donation, or to give the money to that person’s favorite
charity. The offer, he says, was “a chance to say to my
readers, ‘Hey, I care about this. A lot. Money where my mouth
is.’”  He picked $10,000 because, he says, it’s “enough money to
matter to both the giver and the recipient, without being enough
money to sue over, cheat over or corrupt.”  Gupta’s friend Michael Galpert, one of the co-founders
of the photo-editing site Aviary.com,  quickly matched  Godin’s
offer. “I would do anything that could contribute to helping
save his life,” he says.  With $20,000 at stake, the cause did indeed take on new
urgency. Instead of just passing on news that Gupta needed help,
people started bragging #IswabbedforAmit on Twitter. The money
also made for a sexier news story. The website TechCrunch drove
new waves of interest with an  article headlined ,
“#IswabbedforAmit Offers Up 20K To Find A Bone Marrow Donor For
Startup Founder Amit Gupta.”  There was only one problem. The offer was illegal.  Under the National Organ Transplant Act of 1984, better
known as NOTA, it’s a federal crime to give or receive
“valuable consideration” for any transplantable organ or
tissue, specifically including bone marrow. (Expenses incurred
in making a donation, including not only medical costs but also
travel and lost wages, are exempt.)  The valuable consideration doesn’t have to be cash. A
scholarship, a charitable contribution or even a free movie pass
is enough to subject both parties to up to five years in prison
and $50,000 in fines. Good intentions -- or fatal consequences -
- be damned.  The law subscribes to what Viviana Zelizer, an economic
sociologist at  Princeton University , calls the  “hostile
worlds”  view. This is the assumption that, as Zelizer puts it,
“money and intimacy represent contradictory principles whose
intersection generates conflict, confusion and corruption.”  As Gupta’s story illustrates, however, that’s not
necessarily the case. Money can be an expression of commitment
and a powerful spur to get people to act on their compassionate
instincts. Financial incentives can overcome inertia and
procrastination. They can steer people toward socially
beneficial behavior. Nobel Prizes come with money, and we don’t,
after all, expect every firefighter, nanny or transplant surgeon
to work for free.  As someone with a  long-standing interest  in reducing the
shortage of kidneys, I e-mailed the bad news to Godin as soon as
I read his blog post. Although he calls the law “absurd on its
face,” Godin revised his offer. He now promises the money to
the first person who matches Gupta, regardless of whether that
person goes through with the transplant: no quid pro quo.  Galpert, for his part, says he’d be willing to pay the fine
to save his friend, but he, too, changed his offer to reward a
match rather than a transplant. Nobody wants to face jail time.
(On Monday a third friend,  Jake Lodwick , added yet another
$10,000 to the pot.)  “I’m confident that I’m within the letter of the law,”
Godin says, “and have no desire to be a cause celebre.”  Fortunately, others are willing to take on that mantle. As
a result, by the time Gupta finds a match, the law just might be
overturned, at least as it applies to bone-marrow transplants.  In February, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals heard
arguments in a  lawsuit  challenging the constitutionality of the
ban on valuable consideration for bone-marrow donations. The
suit was brought by the  Institute for Justice , a libertarian
public-interest  law firm , on behalf of plaintiffs who include
patients, parents of sick children, a doctor who does bone-
marrow transplants and a charity that would like to offer
incentives, such as scholarships, to encourage more donations.  The lawsuit argues that since marrow cell transplants
aren’t significantly different from blood transfusions, the
federal government has no “rational basis” for outlawing the
kind of compensation that is perfectly legal not only for blood
but also for other regenerating tissues, such as hair and sperm,
not to mention eggs, which don’t regenerate. This disparate
treatment of essentially similar processes, it maintains,
violates the Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection. A
decision could come down any day.  Regardless of what you think of the ban on compensation for
kidneys or other organs, argues  Jeff Rowes , the lawyer handling
the case, bone marrow is different. Not only do blood stem cells
regenerate, but the most common donation process no longer
involves anesthesia or a big scary needle to the hip bone.  About 70 percent of today’s bone-marrow donations use a
process in which the donor receives injections of a drug that
makes the body produce far more than the usual number of blood
stem cells. The excess cells enter the bloodstream, where they
can be extracted through the arm, just like normal blood
donations, and then separated for transplant. The drug
injections may cause aches in the days before the donation, but
the process isn’t particularly painful or traumatic. It’s
certainly easier than donating eggs.  Rowes also notes that the very difficulty of finding a
bone-marrow match makes incentives all the more powerful. If a
rich person could get thousands of people to register by
offering a big reward to anyone who gives him a transplant, he
would not only help himself but also anyone else who got cells
from one of the people who registered in response.  Sure, some people would only give if they knew they were
getting paid. But, once registered, many others would be happy
to help someone else. Because a prize can overcome apathy and
inertia, Rowes suggests, “there are huge positive externalities
in the bone marrow context to allowing rich people to post big
bounties.”  Amit Gupta is in a terrible situation, but he’s also lucky.
He’s got lots of friends who not only want to help him but also
have the connections and financial resources to change the odds
of a match -- potentially saving not only him but other, less
fortunate patients as well. Too bad the law only hinders such
efforts.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. In 2006, she donated
a kidney to a friend. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 