-- 
Wheat Jumps Most in a Year on Bets U.S. Exports Will Rebound

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-10-11T20:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/wheat-jumps-most-in-a-year-on-bets-u-s-exports-will-rebound.html
Wheat surged the most in a year on
speculation that demand for grain from the U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter, will increase after futures touched a three-
month low.  Prices on the Chicago Board of Trade tumbled 23 percent in
September as concern mounted that the world economy will falter
as global wheat output gains.  Russia  said today it may impose
export duties on grain if shipments top 23 million metric tons.
The country, which lifted a 10-month ban on exports in July
following last year’s drought, has shipped 10.7 million tons.  “When you look at all the prices across the world, the
U.S. is reasonably competitive,” Darrell Holaday, the president
of Advanced Market Concepts in Wamego,  Kansas , said in a
telephone interview. Russia is “in the back of everyone’s
mind,” he said. “The minute they stop selling wheat, if that
were to happen, it would certainly change the marketplace.”  Wheat futures for December delivery jumped 8.1 percent to
settle at $6.6075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The gain was the biggest for a most-active contract since
Oct. 8, 2010, when the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut supply
forecasts. The agency releases its monthly report tomorrow.  On Oct. 3, wheat touched $5.9675, the lowest since July 1.
The price has dropped 17 percent this year.  Russia’s possible restriction on exports is aimed at
controlling food inflation and ensuring domestic supplies,
Viktor Zubkov, the first deputy prime minister, said.  Egypt , the world’s biggest importer, has favored supplies
from Russia over the U.S. since July. The USDA expects  Russia 
will produce 56 million tons of this year, 35 percent more than
a year earlier.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  