-- 
Julius Baer Bankers Charged in U.S. Tax Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-12T08:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/two-swiss-bankers-accused-of-helping-u-s-clients-evade-taxes.html
Two  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  client
advisers were charged with helping U.S. customers of the Zurich-
based bank evade taxes, according to an indictment and a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Daniela Casadei and Fabio Frazzetto conspired with more
than 180 U.S. clients and others at the bank to hide at least
$600 million in assets from the  Internal Revenue Service ,
according to the indictment in federal court in New York and the
person, who wasn’t authorized to speak about the matter. The
indictment refers to the bank as Swiss Bank No. 1.  “The bank is one of a number of Swiss financial
institutions supporting the ongoing tax negotiations between the
U.S. and  Switzerland  and is cooperating with the U.S. government
investigation,” Baer said in an e-mailed statement today.  Baer, the Alpine country’s fifth-biggest wealth manager,
said it can’t comment on the indictments or the U.S. government
investigation.     Casadei and Frazzetto weren’t available for
comment through a call to the bank, and Martin Somogyi, a Baer
spokesman, declined to put Bloomberg in touch with either.  “This has generally been expected,” said  Dirk Becker , an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt with a “hold”
rating on the stock. “ Julius Baer  needs to find a way out of
this.”  U.S. Crackdown  The charges come amid a U.S. crackdown that includes grand
jury investigations of eight foreign banks. Prosecutors have
filed tax charges against three dozen former U.S. clients of  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s two biggest banks,
and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank. At
least 21 bankers, advisers and attorneys also have been charged.  “First we saw UBS, then we saw Credit Suisse, then we saw
HSBC, now we have Julius Baer,” said Jeffrey Neiman, a former
federal prosecutor who practices law in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida.  The new indictment cites 15 clients, without identifying
them, who allegedly used Casadei or Frazzetto to hide their
accounts. About 30,000 U.S. taxpayers have avoided prosecution
since 2009 by voluntarily disclosing offshore accounts to the
IRS. The  Justice Department  has interviewed many of them in
building new criminal cases.  ‘Breadth of Information’  “This is another example of the breadth of information
obtained by the IRS and the  Department of Justice  through the
voluntary disclosure program,” Neiman said.  Switzerland hopes to submit the results of talks with the
U.S. to lawmakers in the “foreseeable future,” Swiss Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in an interview in the
Swiss capital Bern last week.  That would follow accords with Germany and the U.K. signed
this month that will impose new levies beginning in 2013 on
Germans and Britons with Swiss offshore bank accounts.  Baer agreed with German authorities in April to a one-time
payment of 50 million euros ($68 million) to end investigations
against the bank and its employees over undeclared client
assets. That was “cheap to settle” compared with the possible
outcomes of “harsher” U.S. investigations, Becker said.  Baer’s Casadei worked at the bank from the early 1990s
through last year, and Frazzetto worked there from 2005 until
last year, according to the new indictment. Both men, who live
in Switzerland, are charged with conspiracy and face as long as
five years in prison.  ‘Red Rubin’  They opened undeclared accounts for taxpayers under
fictional names such as “Hydrangea” and “Red Rubin,”
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Casadei, Frazzetto and others told U.S. clients that their
accounts “would not be disclosed to the IRS because Swiss Bank
No. 1 had a long tradition of bank secrecy and no longer had
offices in the United States, making Swiss Bank No. 1 less
vulnerable to pressure from U.S. law enforcement authorities
than other Swiss banks with a presence in the U.S.,” Bharara
said.  Tax attorney  Lawrence Horn  said the Justice Department is
increasing its pressure on Julius Baer. Horn, of Sills Cummis &
Gross PC in  Newark ,  New Jersey , said he expects the U.S.
government to hold the bank liable for the actions referred to
in the indictment.  Julius Baer and other banks, he said, “are being boxed in
right now. They really have nowhere to go.”  The case is U.S. v. Casadei, 11-cr-866, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 