-- 
News Corp. Denies Report Journal’s Europe Edition Inflated Circulation

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T12:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/wsj-europe-publisher-quits-over-possible-perceived-business-conflict.html
News Corp. denied allegations that
the Wall Street Journal Europe inflated circulation and the
resignation of the newspaper’s publisher was related.  Andrew Langhoff resigned this week as publisher of the
Journal’s European edition because of a perceived breach of
editorial integrity, said Kate Dobbin, a spokeswoman for New
York-based News Corp.’s Dow Jones & Co. She said his departure
wasn’t linked to allegations about inflated circulation reported
in  London ’s Guardian newspaper.  The Guardian’s story is “replete with untruths and malign
interpretations,” Dobbin said. “We stand by our story
completely,” the Guardian said in an e-mailed statement
responding to the WSJ’s denial.  The Guardian  reported yesterday  that the European Journal’s
relationship with a sponsor, Executive Learning Partnership, or
ELP, was part of a broader effort to inflate circulation
figures. Langhoff stepped down on Oct. 11, citing an editorial
arrangement with ELP that could be viewed as undermining
editorial independence. His e-mail to employees didn’t reference
any circulation issues.  Langhoff arranged to funnel money to third parties to
reimburse Netherlands-based ELP for buying copies of the Wall
Street Journal Europe, the Guardian said, citing internal e-
mails. ELP was responsible for 16 percent of the Journal’s
European circulation, about 12,000 copies a day, and was paying
just 1 euro cent per copy, the Guardian said.  Promotional Program  News Corp. (NWSA)  started with a promotional program, through
which sponsors including ELP paid a discounted rate for
newspapers and distributed them to students. In return the
sponsors’ names were published in the Journal, the Guardian
said. The Audit Bureau of Circulation in the U.K. ruled that the
program, which accounted for 41 percent of the European
Journal’s daily sales, was legitimate, the Guardian reported.  “If at any time a complaint is made about a member, we
have strict, industry-agreed procedures in place to investigate
such claims,” Richard Foan, ABC’s group executive director,
said in an e-mailed statement. “These complaints are strictly
confidential until a decision has been reached and upheld.”  Archived and current complaints are available on the ABC
 website , the group said in the e-mail. The Wall Street Journal
is not listed in any of the complaints currently online.  ELP did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Side Deals  The Guardian reported yesterday that after ELP became
unhappy with the arrangement, Langhoff helped keep it going by
setting up side deals that channeled cash to the Dutch company
through third parties.  The Wall Street Journal, citing people familiar with the
matter, said a circulation employee, Gert Van Mol, helped
Langhoff set up the side deals and was fired after an
investigation.  In a statement, Dow Jones called the payments “admittedly
complex but nevertheless legitimate,” and said the publisher
terminated the arrangement, the Journal reported.  ELP disputed Dow Jones’ account, calling it “contrary to
the facts,” the Journal reported. “ELP stopped and ELP is not
pleased that our name appears in this context,” the newspaper
said, citing the company.  ‘Zero Tolerance’  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Dow Jones ended its business arrangement with ELP “because
Dow Jones has zero tolerance for even the appearance of a breach
of ethical standards,” Dobbin said in an earlier statement.  Langhoff, 49, cited a possible perception of impropriety
involving two articles that originated with ELP, according to
his e-mail to employees, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News this week and confirmed by Dobbin.  “Because the agreement could leave the impression that
news coverage can be influenced by commercial relationships, as
publisher with executive oversight, I believe that my
resignation is now the most honorable course,” Langhoff wrote.  The business deal that Langhoff cited was handled by
another employee who is no longer with the company, according to
his e-mail.  The Wall Street Journal  Europe  printed a clarification at
the top of the two  articles , both of which mentioned  Executive
Learning Partnership , on its  website . The explanations say the
stories were written in connection with a deal between the
circulation department and the partnership, or ELP, that wasn’t
disclosed to readers.  Parliamentary Probe  “The impetus for writing the article was the agreement,
but the reporting and writing were solely the responsibility of
the News Department with no input or review prior to publication
by the Circulation Department or ELP,” the clarification reads.  Langhoff, who joined the Dow Jones in 2003 as general
counsel for its Ottaway newspapers division, said he had already
planned to leave his position at the end of the fiscal year and
return to the U.S. from London.  News Corp. faces a U.K. parliamentary probe of phone
hacking at one of its London newspapers. After closing the News
of the World tabloid following the hacking scandal, News Corp.
formed a Management and Standards Committee to investigate the
company’s three other British newspapers, it said in a filing.  New Corp. Probes  Les Hinton , former executive chairman of News International
and former chief executive officer of Dow Jones, will be
questioned by the U.K. House of Commons Culture, Media and Sport
Committee on Oct. 24 as part of its investigation into the
scandal.  The company will begin a search for Langhoff’s successor.
Kelly Leach, senior vice president and head of strategy for Dow
Jones, will manage EMEA operations in the meantime, the company
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  