-- 
Myanmar Opposition ‘Optimistic’ After Amnesty

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-10-11T19:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/myanmar-opposition-optimistic-after-prisoner-amnesty-declared.html
Myanmar granted amnesty to more than
6,300 prisoners in a move that may signal even more significant
policy changes ahead, said Nyan Win, a spokesman for the
opposition National League for Democracy.  The announcement yesterday came a day after  Kurt Campbell ,
assistant U.S. secretary of state for Asia, said that Myanmar is
experiencing “dramatic developments” and the U.S. is ready to
revamp ties with the Southeast Asian nation.  It was unclear how many of the country’s 2,100 political
prisoners would be freed, Nyan Win said.  “We are optimistic,” he said by phone from Yangon, the
former capital. “We hope real changes will be coming soon.”  The amnesty builds on steps taken by Myanmar President
Thein Sein to loosen state controls on public discourse since
taking power in an election last year that ended five decades of
military rule. Western governments are hoping for the release of
about 500 political prisoners, said Jim Della-Giacoma, Southeast
Asia director for the  International Crisis Group , a Brussels-
based policy research organization.  Freeing dissidents is “a key benchmark that many in the
West have been insisting on,” he said by phone. “If it’s
reached, it will put pressure on Western governments who impose
sanctions to reconsider those policies and acknowledge that
there has been internal progress on political, human rights and
economic reforms in Myanmar.”  Sanctions  The U.S. maintains trade and financial  sanctions  against
Myanmar that are reviewed annually.  Europe  has less stringent
restrictions in place.  The release of 6,359 prisoners is scheduled to start today,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing a statement on state
television and  radio stations .  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
responded to the reports by saying that the U.S. wants all
political prisoners in Myanmar released.  “We’re obviously looking to see who these folks are and,
hopefully, it is a full and complete release of all political
prisoners,” she said.  Opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  said Sept. 21 she was
“cautiously optimistic” of progress in her native land, where
she has spent 15 of the past 22 years under house arrest.  “We are beginning to see the beginning of change,” she
said via satellite during a seminar in  New York  organized by
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton .  ‘Prisoners of Conscience’  Thein Sein held talks in August with Suu Kyi, who was
released from detention 11 months ago, and in September
suspended the construction of a $3.6 billion dam being built
with  China . The government has also stopped censoring news
websites and dissident publications, Crisis Group said.  The state-run  New Light of Myanmar  on Oct. 10 printed an
open letter from the Myanmar National Human Rights Commission
urging the release of “prisoners of conscience” who pose no
threat to “public tranquility.”  The U.S. has concerns about Myanmar’s detention of
political prisoners, a lack of dialogue with ethnic groups and
past relations with  North Korea , said Campbell, who spoke in
Bangkok on Oct. 10. Still, recent developments “demand greater
attention and focus,” he said.  “We are prepared for a new chapter in our relations,”
Campbell said. “We are watching carefully developments on the
ground and I think it would be fair to say that we will match
their steps with comparable steps.”  Reforms Promised  Myanmar’s 60 million people are the poorest in  Asia ,
earning about $1.15 per day on average, about a tenth of per
capita income in neighboring Thailand, according to Association
of Southeast Asian Nations  statistics . In recent years, China,
 India  and Thailand have invested in Myanmar’s ports, railways
and oil and gas pipelines to gain access to natural resources.  Myanmar recently sought advice from the  International
Monetary Fund  to end its multiple exchange rate system and is
modernizing its banking system, U Hla Tun, governor of the Bank
for Myanmar, said in a Sept. 23  speech  at the annual meetings of
the World Bank and IMF in Washington D.C.  “The government aims at achieving sustainable developments
on all fronts through a number of reform measures,” he said.
“The major thrust of these measures is to establish
transparency and accountability at all levels of government.”  The military retains a quarter of seats in the two houses
of Parliament, according to the constitution. Thein Sein’s Union
Solidarity and Development Party, backed by the former ruling
junta, won about 80 percent of seats in last year’s election,
which was boycotted by Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  