-- 
Yuan Retreats From 17-Year High on Importers’ Demand for Dollar

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-10-11T04:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/yuan-rises-to-17-year-high-on-optimism-europe-s-crisis-will-ease.html
China ’s yuan retreated from a 17-
year high on speculation importers boosted dollar buying to take
advantage of the local currency’s recent gains.  Companies due to make overseas payments probably stepped up
purchases of the greenback after the yuan gained 1.2 percent
last quarter, the best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded
currencies. A stronger local currency reduces the cost of
imports. China’s financial markets were shut during the first
week of this month for the National Day holidays. The yuan also
dropped today as the nation’s shares pared an advance.  “Importers are buying the dollar and that puts some
pressure on the yuan,” said Carlos Cheung, a foreign-exchange
dealer at Bank of Communications Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The
financial market is still volatile at the moment and there’s a
lack of liquidity as investors are cautious.”  The yuan dropped 0.11 percent to 6.3553 per dollar as of
11:52 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.3375 earlier, its strongest
level since the country unified the official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993. The Shanghai Composite Index of shares
pared gains to 0.7 percent from 2.88 percent earlier.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.12 percent
to 6.3975, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards were little changed at 6.3480, a 0.1
percent premium to the onshore spot rate.  Record Fixing  The People Bank’s of China set the daily  reference rate 
0.16 percent higher at 6.3483 per dollar, the strongest level
since July 2005. The yuan is allowed to fluctuate 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  The nation seeks to steer clear of “systemic shocks” that
rapid yuan gains may cause and will likely take “considerable
time” to further liberalize the exchange-rate regime, Wall
Street Journal reported on its  website  today, citing former
central bank adviser Fan Gang.  China’s economy  may expand 9.4 percent this year, the
Economic Information Daily reported today, citing Wang Wenbo, a
deputy director at the National Bureau of Statistics. The
world’s second-biggest economy grew 10.4 percent last year. The
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares rose after Germany and  France 
set an end-of-month deadline for a breakthrough in handling the
European sovereign-debt crisis.  “As concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis ease, investors are
again looking for non-dollar assets,” said Banny Lam, a Hong
Kong-based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a
unit of China’s second-largest lender. “The yuan could be one
of the best choices, given its appreciation prospects and the
nation’s strong growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  