-- 
Polish Zloty Slips From Three-Week High, Bonds Drop on Deficit

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-11T14:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/zloty-retreats-from-three-week-high-on-polish-deficit-concern.html
Poland ’s zloty retreated from the
strongest in three weeks and  government bonds  fell amid concern
the government will miss its target to cut the  budget deficit .  The zloty weakened 0.6 percent to 4.3293 per euro as of
4:27 p.m. in Warsaw, paring this month’s gain to 2.1 percent.
Bond declines lifted five-year yields by eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 5.134 percent, according to government
bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg.  The Polish currency surged the most worldwide yesterday and
bond yields fell after Donald Tusk looked set to become the
first re-elected prime minister since communism ended in 1989.
Under his stewardship, Poland was the only European Union
economy to keep growing through the credit crisis, helped by tax
cuts and construction projects funded in part by EU aid.  “The market will soon have to start wondering about what
the government has to do,” strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by
Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a report to clients.
“Public finances require immediate attention and budget
assumptions for the next year are not realistic. This in turn
will make the fiscal consolidation even more severe and could
result in an even more significant slowdown.”  Poland may fail to make “significant” cuts in the budget
deficit next year as economic growth may slow to as low as 1.5
percent,  Dariusz Filar , an economic adviser to Tusk, said in an
interview yesterday. The government’s plan to cut the gap to 2.9
percent of gross domestic product next year is “practically
impossible” and the euro-region’s economy slowing could limit
Polish growth to between 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent, he said.  The 2.9 percent deficit target “might be out of reach,”
Jaime Reusche, an assistant vice president for sovereign risk at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  