-- 
Zynga Plots Freedom From Facebook With New ‘Direct’ Gaming Service

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-10-11T19:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-11/zynga-plots-freedom-from-facebook-with-new-direct-gaming-service.html
Zynga Inc., the online game
developer that is planning an initial public offering, announced
a new service geared toward reducing its dependence on users of
Facebook Inc.’s social network.  The site, called Project Z, will include social networking,
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said today during an event
at the company’s San Francisco headquarters. It’s part of a
larger corporate strategy, dubbed Zynga Direct, that is aimed at
building “a direct relationship with consumers whether they are
on the Web or mobile,” Pincus said.  Founded by Pincus in 2007, Zynga has made “substantially
all” of its $1.25 billion in sales from Facebook, the company
said in its prospectus to investors. As it nears an IPO, the
game maker has expanded to new platforms including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s social network, Google+.  “It does make sense for Zynga to explore opportunities
outside of Facebook in order to grow their revenue base,” said
Rich Tullo, director of research at Albert Fried & Co. in  New
York . “How much of their success is the actual games, how much
of the success is because they distribute on Facebook? We don’t
know.”  Zynga didn’t say when Project Z would become available.
Customers can sign up to have a unique name, or “zTag,” on the
service by visiting Zynga’s site.  ‘Most Connected’  “It will be the most connected social gaming site in the
world,” David Ko, chief mobile officer, said at the event.
“You can start a game on Facebook, you can continue it on
Project Z, and vice versa.”  The company also announced new games, including “Zynga
Bingo,” “CastleVille” and “Hidden Chronicles.” CastleVille
will be the first social game to include an original orchestral
score, the company said.  Zynga games are free to play, with the company making money
from selling virtual items within applications, such as a
townhouse in “CityVille” or a shipyard in “Empires &
Allies.” The worldwide virtual-goods market will more than
double to $20.3 billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year,
according to ThinkEquity LLC, a San Francisco-based research
firm.  Facebook currently gets 30 percent of all virtual-goods
purchases made within games, through a payment system called
Facebook Credits, which was rolled out across the social network
last year. Facebook and Zynga forged a five-year agreement to
use Credits exclusively in most games.  ‘Deterioration’  “Any deterioration in our relationship with Facebook would
harm our business,” as well as stockholders, Zynga said in a
regulatory filing. The company said specific risks include
Facebook limiting the access of game developers, modification of
terms of service, favorable treatment toward Zynga’s rivals and
the possibility of Facebook building its own games.  Zynga said in July it would seek to raise $1 billion in an
IPO. The company reported net income of $90.6 million last year,
its first profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 