-- Hamilton Loses Spanish Grand Prix Pole for Fuel Irregularity
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-12T20:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/hamilton-loses-spanish-grand-prix-pole-for-fuel-irregularity.html
McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  was stripped
of the pole position for tomorrow’s  Spanish Grand Prix  for a
fuel irregularity, moving Williams’s  Pastor Maldonado  to the
front of the grid.  Hamilton claimed McLaren’s 150th Formula One pole by
beating Maldonado by 0.6 seconds in today’s qualifying in
Barcelona. After his final run, Hamilton was told by his team to
stop on the track as there wasn’t enough fuel to allow the car
to return to the pits under its own power and provide the
required one-liter sample for post-qualifying testing, auto
racing’s ruling body  Federation Internationale de l’Automobile 
said on its website.  The McLaren team blamed the car’s need to stop on
conditions that were out of its control, so-called force
majeure. After a lengthy discussion with stewards, Hamilton was
assessed the penalty.  “A team member had put an insufficient quantity of fuel
into the car, thereby resulting in the car having to be stopped
on the circuit in order to be able to provide the required
amount for sampling purposes,” the FIA said. “As the amount of
fuel put into the car is under the complete control of the
competitor, the stewards cannot accept this as a case of force
majeure.”  Formula One rules require a car to return to the pits after
qualifying and to have a liter of fuel remaining for a sample to
be taken. Agence France Presse quoted McLaren boss Martin Whitmarsh as saying there were 1.3 liters left in the car’s
tank.  Back of the Field  The penalty drops Hamilton to last in the 24-driver grid.
It would have been the third pole position of the season, and
22nd of his career, for the 2008 world champion.  Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  moves up to the first row next to
Maldonado in front of Lotus teammates Romain Grosjean and Kimi Raikkonen. Sauber’s Sergio Perez, Mercedes’s Nico Rosberg, two-
time defending world champion and current series leader
 Sebastian Vettel  of Red Bull, Mercedes’s Michael Schumacher,
Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi and Hamilton’s teammate Jenson Button
round out the top 10 starters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 