-- American Airlines Pilots Oppose Company Request to Void Contract
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/amr-pilots-object-to-company-s-request-to-void-contract-1-.html
The union representing pilots of  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  objected to the carrier’s request to
throw out a collective bargaining agreement as part of its
reorganization.  The Allied Pilots Association, which represents about
10,000 American Airlines pilots, said in a filing yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan that AMR’s restructuring plan
“seeks unprecedented, unnecessary profit margins on the backs
of labor.”  “The issue in this case is not whether American needs some
contract modifications and some reductions in labor costs to be
more competitive and emerge from bankruptcy,” the union said.
“The real issue before this court is the particular set of
contract modifications demanded by the company.”  The union said the $370 million in annual concessions that
American seeks from its pilots to restructure is more than seven
times the $50 million the airline said it needed in concessions
before it filed for court protection.  American, which filed for bankruptcy in November, is
seeking $1.25 billion in annual labor savings as part of its
restructuring. It seeks court permission to void labor contracts
with unions for pilots, flight attendants and the Transport
Workers Union, which includes mechanics and baggage handlers.  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR,
said in a telephone interview that the airline seeks to reach
consensual agreements with all its unions. The pilots’ arguments
will be discussed at a hearing May 14 in bankruptcy court, Hicks
said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 