-- Manchester Rivals Seek Title on Premier League Season’s Last Day
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-05-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/manchester-rivals-seek-title-on-premier-league-season-s-last-day.html
Manchester City  looks to end 44 years
of frustration at the expense of its biggest rival today when
the title race goes down to the final game of the season in
English soccer’s Premier League.  City tops the standings on a superior goal difference over
defending champion  Manchester United . The Blues host Queens Park
Rangers needing only to match United’s result at Sunderland to
win their first league championship since 1968. To add to the
drama, QPR will be playing to avoid possible relegation.  “As a team, I think it’s going to be without a doubt the
most important game we’ve ever played in,” defender Pablo
Zabaleta said on City’s website. “We’re only 90 minutes away
from making history for this club.”  United, which has won a record 19 English titles, led City
by eight points with six games remaining. The Blues have since
won five straight, including 1-0 over United April 30, to take
the lead.  “I still believe we can win this title,” United defender
 Patrice Evra  said on the club’s website. “We have no choice but
to believe.”  QPR, led by former Manchester City manager and Manchester
United player Mark Hughes, are two points ahead of Bolton, which
play at Stoke, in the race to avoid the three relegation places.
Wolverhampton and Blackburn have already been assured of
dropping to the second-tier Championship next season.  Also being decided are the Premier League’s final two
places in the  Champions League . The top three teams in the
standings automatically qualify for  Europe ’s elite club
competition, while the fourth-place finisher enters a playoff.  Third-place Arsenal leads Tottenham by one point and
Newcastle by two. The Gunners visit West Bromwich Albion,
Tottenham hosts Fulham and Newcastle is at Everton.  In the day’s other games, Chelsea hosts Blackburn,  Aston
Villa  is at Norwich, Liverpool visits Swansea and Wigan meets
Wolves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  