-- BlackRock CEO Fink Says He Supports Obama’s Re-Election
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-05-13T18:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/blackrock-ceo-fink-says-he-supports-obama-s-re-election.html
BlackRock Inc.’s Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink said he supports the re-election of
 Barack Obama  because the president needs more than four years to
help the country recover from the global financial crisis.  Obama became president at the time of “the worst financial
crisis in our lifetimes,” Fink said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS,” broadcast today. “And the fix is not four years. The fix
is going to be longer than that, and so I support President
Obama and I believe he is the right man for the next four
years.”  Fink’s comments mirror the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll,
which this week showed global investors increasingly prefer
Obama to presumed Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Asked who
would be the better leader for the global economy, 49 percent
favor Obama against 38 percent for Romney, according to the
poll. In January, the two candidates tied on the question.  “On the other hand, I would say very clearly, you need to
create that engine of growth,” Fink said. “We need to make
sure that those CEOs feel comfortable, not to buy back their
shares, but to invest in that factory and create those jobs and
those jobs create other jobs and we have the multiplier effect
for new jobs.’”  Fink, the CEO of the world’s biggest asset manager,
contributed to Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics. Still, he has been critical
of some of Obama’s views. In 2009, he expressed concerns about
the unintended consequences of Obama’s health care proposals.  Job Destruction  “I do believe we are going to have job destructions if the
health care bill happens. That is because once again it
aggravates the state and local governments’ financing because a
lot of the burden on health care is going to fall onto the
states and they already have deficits,” Fink said at a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch banking and financial services conference
in  New York  in November 2009.  In September 2009, he said Obama’s programs to help
homeowners stave off foreclosure might hinder the recovery of
the mortgage market while benefiting banks that own second loans
on the properties. Last year he urged Obama to commit to
reducing the U.S. deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years, calling
 Standard & Poor’s  decision to cut its outlook on U.S. debt part
of “a bad trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  