-- Canada Dollar Beats Most Peers Amid Job Gains, Rate Bets
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-12T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/canada-dollar-beats-most-peers-amid-job-gains-rate-bets.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against all of
its 16 most-traded peers except the yen and the  U.S. dollar 
after employment climbed, fueling bets the central bank will be
the first in the Group of Seven nations to raise interest rates.  The currency pared a weekly loss against its U.S.
counterpart after Statistics Canada reported the nation’s
biggest two-month job gain in more than 30 years, adding to
evidence the nation’s economy is accelerating. Interest-rate
speculation may be tempered next week by a report forecast to
show the pace of  inflation  held below the Bank of Canada’s 2
percent target for a second month.  “The Canadian dollar outperformed on the back of the
surprising beat on the labor-force survey,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National  Bank of
Canada , said by phone from Toronto. “Everybody was leaning left
on this thing. To print 58,000 with the vast majority being
private-sector, full-time jobs was a massive beat.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.8 percent this week
to C$1.2925 per euro yesterday in Toronto and strengthened 1.2
percent to C$1.0026 to the Australian dollar. It weakened 0.4
percent to C$1.0005  per U.S. dollar, ending the week below
parity for the first time since February. One Canadian dollar
purchases 99.95 U.S. cents.  The currency has traded within a three-cent range versus
the greenback since the end of January, sliding to C$1.0063 on
May 9 and strengthening to 98 cents on April 27. It will trade
at 98 cents at year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.  Bonds Rise  Ten-year government  bonds  rose for a second week, pushing
the yield down five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
1.97 percent. It touched 1.93 percent on May 9, the lowest level
since Feb. 3. The price of the 2.75 percent securities due in
June 2022 increased 46 cents to C$107.11.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, declined for a second
week. June futures dropped 2.4 percent to $96.13 per barrel in
 New York  and touched $95.17, the lowest since Dec. 20.  Raw
materials  including oil account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue.  The loonie gained as much as 0.7 percent yesterday after
the statistics agency said employers added a net  58,200 jobs  to
payrolls in April, almost six times the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, after an increase of 82,300 in March. It was
the currency’s biggest intraday gain since April 17, when Bank
of Canada policy makers said raising interest rates might be
necessary as growth and inflation quicken.  Rate Wagers  Private companies added 85,800 workers in April, while
public-sector employment fell by 19,200, Statistics Canada said.
Full-time employment increased 43,900.  Odds increased after the jobs data that the central bank
will boost its 1 percent benchmark  interest rate  later this
year. Bloomberg calculations on trading in overnight index swaps
showed about a 42 percent chance the rate will be increased to
1.25 percent after the bank’s Sept. 5 meeting, up from 36
percent yesterday, and a 14 percent chance of a bigger jump. The
likelihood was 19 percent on April 16, the day before the
central-bank statement.  “It’s a natural progression to think that rate
expectations are going to be driven higher” on the jobs
numbers, National Bank’s Spitz said. “I don’t know if rate
hikes are inevitable. The currency’s valuation will play into
it,” he said, meaning a stronger currency may act as a cap on
inflation by making the nation’s exports less competitive in
international markets.  Inflation Report  Consumer prices  in Canada held steady at 1.9 percent in
April from a year earlier, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast before  Statistics Canada  reports the data on May 18.
The inflation rate fell in March below the central bank’s 2
percent target for the first time in 18 months.  Futures traders decreased wagers last week that the
Canadian dollar will gain against the U.S. currency.  Net long 
positions, or bets the currency will strengthen, declined to
60,095 contracts in the week ended May 8, after reaching 70,223
the previous week, the highest since March 2011, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data showed.  The loonie’s advance yesterday trimmed its weekly loss
versus the greenback, which gained on demand for safety amid
resurgent concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening.  The Canadian dollar reached C$1.2881 per euro yesterday,
the strongest level since Jan. 17, on bets  Greece  is closer than
ever to exiting the euro. A political impasse in the nation
where the region’s debt crisis began followed an inconclusive
May 6 election and threatened the implementation of austerity
pledges required for its two global bailouts since May 2010.  Loonie Versus Aussie  The loonie’s gain against  Australia ’s dollar, the currency
of a fellow commodities exporter, brought it almost to parity
yesterday. It touched C$1.0002, the strongest since October.  Canada’s dollar may strengthen 7 percent against its
Australian counterpart over the next three to six months, said
 Shaun Osborne , currency strategist in Toronto at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  “There’s a policy divergence starting to open up between
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which is in the early stages of
an easing cycle, and everyone seems to be looking at the Bank of
Canada to tighten,” Osborne said at the May 8 Bloomberg Canada
Economic Summit in Toronto. “There’s an opportunity for the
Aussie-Canada cross to catch up with interest-rate
differentials.”  The RBA has cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 3.75 percent
from 4.75 percent over the past seven months and this month
lowered its growth and inflation forecasts.  Osborne said he entered the trade at C$1.03, with a target
for 94 cents over the next three to six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  