-- Chavez Ends Radiation ‘Successfully,’ Optimistic About Results
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-05-12T03:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/chavez-ends-radiation-successfully-optimistic-about-results.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
walked without assistance down the stairs from his plane to
announce that his radiation therapy in Cuba ended
“successfully” and he is optimistic about the results.  Chavez spoke last night on state television from Caracas
airport, saying he expects to gradually re-join the
“revolution,” as he refers to his political agenda. Chavez
arrived home after spending 11 days in Cuba receiving treatment
for his undisclosed cancer.  Chavez, 57, arrived at around 10 p.m. in Caracas and was
greeted when he left the plane by Vice President Elias Jaua and
officials including Defense Minister Henry Rangel Silva and
Interior and Justice Minister Tarek El Aissami. The one-time
tank commander wore a blue and white tracksuit.  “We come with great optimism that this treatment will have
the effects we aspire to, asking Christ to help us continue
alongside all of you,” Chavez said.  The self-declared socialist, who has undergone three
operations and several rounds of chemotherapy and radiation
treatment since June, has insisted he can continue as his
party’s candidate in an Oct. 7 election. His refusal to reveal
what type of cancer he has, where it is located or its prognosis,
has fueled speculation his health is worse than he’s letting on.  Widens Lead  Chavez, who seeks to extend his 13-year rule with another
six-year term, has widened his lead over the opposition ahead of
 Venezuela ’s October election, even as his battle with cancer
forces him to spend more time receiving treatment in Cuba than
campaigning at home.  Chavez had 43 percent of voter preferences compared with 26
percent for opponent Henrique Capriles Radonski, according to a
 Datanalisis  poll taken between April 9 and 18. While support for
Chavez was little changed from its March survey, backing for
Capriles fell from 33 percent, Datanalisis said.  Since announcing Feb. 21 that he would require a third
operation to remove a second malignant tumor, Chavez has spent
about 56 days in Cuba.  “Long live Venezuela, long live the mother,” Chavez said
after singing to the country’s mothers ahead of this weekend’s
Mother’s Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  