-- China Lowers Banks’ Reserve Requirements to Support Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-12T15:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/china-cuts-banks-reserve-requirements-to-sustain-growth-1-.html
China  cut the amount of cash that
banks must set aside as  reserves  for the third time in six
months, pumping money into the financial system to support
lending after data showed a slowdown in growth is deepening.  Reserve ratios will fall 50 basis points, effective May 18,
the  People’s Bank of China  said on its  website  yesterday. The
level for the nation’s largest lenders will decline to 20
percent based on previous statements.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is increasingly shifting to supporting
the nation’s expansion from fighting inflation and containing
property prices. China’s import gains stalled in April while
 industrial output  rose at the slowest pace since 2009 and new
yuan loans were the lowest this year, adding to global growth
concerns just as  Europe ’s debt crisis reignites.  “Growth momentum is still weak and external risk has risen
sharply,” Liu Li-Gang, chief China economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group (ANZ)  Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by e-mail
yesterday. “We think another cut could be in mid-June.”  The slowdown in China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
underscores risks to the global recovery as job growth in the
U.S. slumps. Central bankers across Europe have started
discussing the possibility of a Greek exit from the euro area
and how to handle the fallout, Swedish Riksbank Deputy Governor
Per Jansson said May 11.  Extra Cash  A 50 basis-point cut in the reserve requirement in February
probably added 400 billion  yuan  ($63.4 billion) to the financial
system, according to ANZ estimates. UBS AG put the figure at 350
billion yuan.  “A more assertive monetary policy is needed and the
government should step up stimulus efforts even as concerns
remain about the real possibility of over-stimulating,”
Alistair Thornton, an economist in Beijing at IHS  Global
Insight , said before the announcement.  Europe’s more than two-year-old debt crisis flared again
this month after voters in Greece and  France  backed candidates
opposed to austerity measures. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation region is set to drop 0.3 percent this year, according to
the European Commission.  China’s economic performance is facing downward pressure
and the domestic and external situations are still “grim,” the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  said April 25.
Exports rose by less than estimated in April, a customs bureau
report showed on May 10.  Decline in New Loans  Bank of China Ltd. , the country’s third-biggest lender by
assets, said April 26 that new loans dropped 17 percent to 247
billion yuan in the first quarter from a year earlier. Profit
growth decelerated to 10 percent from 10.8 percent in the
previous period.  The pace of China’s expansion has moderated for the past
five quarters as Europe’s debt crisis crimped exports and
government curbs on lending and home purchases damped domestic
demand.  GDP increased 8.1 percent  in the first three months of
2012 from a year earlier, down from an 8.9 percent pace in the
fourth quarter.  Bank of America Corp. on May 11 cut its estimate for
China’s second-quarter expansion to 7.6 percent from 8.5 percent
and reduced its full-year growth forecast to 8 percent from 8.6
percent.  Wang Tao , China economist at UBS, also lowered her GDP
estimates and cut her export growth projection for this year to
7 percent from 10 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  