-- China Plans Talks With Japan, Korea on Free-Trade Area
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/china-japan-korea-to-start-free-trade-talks-this-year.html
The leaders of  China , Japan and South
Korea agreed to start negotiations this year on a free-trade
accord between three of  Asia ’s four biggest economies.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao , Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak  met in
Beijing yesterday as their trade ministers signed an investment
agreement described as the “first legal document on trilateral
cooperation in the economic field.”  The establishment of a free-trade pact will unleash the
economic vitality of the region and give a strong boost to
economic integration in East Asia, Wen said yesterday, according
to a pool report. China has proposed coastal Shandong province
as its base for a regional economic cooperation zone, Wen said,
with Japan and  South Korea  to nominate appropriate locations of
their own.  Cooperation among the three nations is “very important”
to ensure that the Asia-Pacific region is the growth center of
the world, Japan’s Noda said, according to the pool report.
South Korea’s Lee, referring to economic problems facing the U.S.
and Europe, added: “In times of crisis, if countries, for their
own survival, carry out protectionist ideas, then the recovery
of the economy will take a long time.”  A free-trade accord would bring together a market of more
than 1.5 billion people. Closer economic and trade ties may also
help defuse political mistrust in the region, a legacy of
Japan’s invasion of China and the Korean peninsula in the early
20th century.  ‘Comprehensive Framework’  The agreement would expand trilateral and bilateral trade
and investment and provide “a comprehensive and institutional
framework in which a wide range of trilateral cooperation would
evolve,” the trade ministers of the three countries said in a
joint  statement  May 12.  The global financial crisis isn’t over and the prospects
for  Europe ’s debt issues aren’t clear, Wen said at the summit,
according to the pool report. The Northeast and East Asian
regions are faced with a lot of unstable elements that are
difficult to predict, he said.  China welcomes Japan and South Korea expanding their
investment in China and hopes they will be the primary
destination for China’s investment, Wen said, according to the
pool report.  North Korea  One pressing task for the region is to prevent tensions on
the Korean Peninsula from escalating, Wen said. The three
countries won’t accept further provocations or more nuclear
tests from  North Korea , South Korea’s Lee and Japan’s Noda said,
according to the report.  Trade between the three countries rose to $690 billion in
2011 from $130 billion in 1999, according to a research report
released by China’s Foreign Ministry on May 9.  “Closer cooperation between the three nations will not
only be conducive to the development of each country itself, it
will also boost the East Asian integration process and add
drivers to world economic growth,” the report said.  China is the largest trading partner of  Japan  and South
Korea, the report said. Japan and South Korea are China’s
fourth- and sixth-largest trading partners respectively,
according to China’s Ministry of Commerce.  No ‘Smooth Sailing’  “It will boost regional economic integration, industrial
cooperation and technology advancement,” Wang Shenshen, an
economist at Okasan Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said before the
announcement. “It won’t be smooth sailing to reach a final deal
as it will encounter domestic opposition in each country.”  Chinese manufacturers may face challenges from imports of
goods from South Korea and Japan, and South Korea’s agriculture
industry may put up a fight, Wang said. Political turmoil in
Japan is another uncertainty, she said.  China and South Korea announced on May 2 that they are
starting negotiations on a bilateral free-trade agreement, a
deal that South Korea’s finance ministry estimates would boost
the nation’s economic growth by as much as 3 percentage points
and create as many as 330,000 jobs over a decade.  China has free-trade agreements with 10 economies including
 New Zealand  and  Singapore , according to the Commerce Ministry’s
website. The nation, the world’s biggest exporter, is
negotiating deals with countries including Iceland and  Norway ,
the ministry said.  China and  Colombia  have started to research the feasibility
of setting up a free-trade zone, the ministry said this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  