-- Drone Strikes Kill Al-Qaeda Suspects Amid Yemen Offensive
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-05-12T20:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/drone-strikes-kill-al-qaeda-suspects-amid-yemen-offensive.html
A U.S. drone strike killed as many as
seven suspected al-Qaeda militants Saturday as Yemen army troops
backed by the air force started an offensive on cities held by
the terrorists in southern and eastern provinces.  Al-Masdar, an independent, local news website, said the
strikes targeted vehicles carrying militants in a region between
Marib and Shabwa provinces. The  Associated Press  put the death
toll at six, while  China ’s Xinhua news agency reported seven
killed.  Yemeni army forces moved against cities in the southern
province of Abyan where al-Qaeda claims control, said a military
official involved in the action speaking anonymously because he
isn’t authorized to speak to the media. Eight army soldiers,
including an officer, along with 20 al-Qaeda militants were
killed in clashes there, Al Masdar reported.  The army is trying to recapture the province’s capital,
Zinjibar, from militants who it seized in May 2011. The official
said by phone that army troops have made some progress on their
attack on the city, which he said was also shelled from the sea.
The army has also launched an assault the neighboring city of
Jaar, he said.  Esam Mohammed, a resident of Jaar, said by telephone that
three militants and a civilian were killed Saturday in an air
strike on the city.  Air force  fighters dropped leaflets urging
civilians to vacate the militants’ gathering places.  Brigadier General Mohammed Naser Ahmed, the Yemeni defense
minister, had been visiting army troops on the front line and
said yesterday the army was preparing a plan to “clean Abyan”
of terrorist elements, according to the state Saba news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem at  mohammedhatem2010@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  