-- ECB’s Demetriades Says Growth Needed More Than Austerity
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-05-12T08:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/ecb-s-demetriades-says-growth-needed-more-than-austerity.html
European Central Bank council member
Panicos Demetriades criticized austerity and called for growth-
oriented policies in his inaugural speech as the new central
bank governor of Cyprus.  “Both in Cyprus and in the euro area, it is now becoming
understood that an austerity policy alone is not enough to put
countries’ budgets back on a sound footing,” Demetriades said,
according to a text of his speech in Nicosia today. “Growth is
needed above all else.”  Voters in  Greece  and France in May 6 elections challenged
austerity as  Europe ’s sole prescription for the debt crisis,
adding pressure on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to broaden
her focus from debt reduction. Demetriades has inherited an
economy in turmoil, with banks reeling from losses on their
exposure to Greece and the government unable to borrow on
financial markets. The Cypriot economy, the euro area’s third-
smallest, will shrink 0.8 percent this year, the European
Commission said yesterday.  Demetriades said he welcomed comments by ECB President
 Mario Draghi  that a growth compact is needed in Europe to
complement the fiscal compact.  “The fiscal compact agreed by the euro-area leaders is of
course a significant step toward achieving balanced budgets, but
the recession created by the austerity measures unfortunately
strengthens the vicious circle of decreased economic activity
and widening budget gaps,” Demetriades said.  He quoted Draghi as saying “we must place growth in the
center of the agenda” and added, “This idea appears to be
gaining ground among European leaders.”  Demetriades, who succeeded  Athanasios Orphanides  and the
end of April, made no mention in the speech of maintaining  price
stability , which is the ECB’s primary mandate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  