-- ECB’s Honohan Says Greece Euro Exit Can Be Managed
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-12T12:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/ecb-s-honohan-says-greece-euro-exit-can-be-managed.html
A Greek exit from the euro could be
“technically” managed yet would damage confidence in the
monetary union, said European Central Bank Governing Council
member  Patrick Honohan .  A departure by Greece would be “a rather destabilizing
kind of event” for the rest of the euro area and all sides are
working to try to avoid it, Honohan told a conference in the
Estonian capital, Tallinn, today. “It is not necessarily fatal,
but it is not attractive.”  The euro fell to a more than three-month low against the
dollar yesterday as Greek politicians struggled to form a
government following an inconclusive election on May 6 that saw
a surge in support for anti-austerity parties. President Karolos Papoulias will meet tomorrow at 12:00 Athens time with the
leaders of all parties in an attempt to form a unity government
and avoid another vote as soon as next month.  Central bankers across  Europe  have started discussing the
possibility of a Greek exit from the euro area and how to handle
the fallout, Swedish Riksbank Deputy Governor Per Jansson said
yesterday. ECB officials decided earlier this year to deal with
any Greek exit on an ad-hoc basis rather than devising a
templated set of responses because the fallout would be so
unpredictable, said three euro region central bank officials.  Europe ‘More Resilient’  Europe is “certainly more resilient” to a possible Greek
exit than it was two years ago, when the bloc would have been
“massively underprepared,” European Union Economic and
Monetary commissioner Olli Rehn said at the same conference.  “I still believe that  Greece  can stay in the euro and find
the way to make sure that it respects its commitments,” Rehn
said. “It would be much worse for Greece and Greek citizens,
especially for the less well-off Greek citizens, if Greece did
leave the euro than for Europe as such. Europe also would
suffer, but Greece would suffer more.”  The Greek President will first have discussions with the
leaders of  New Democracy , Syriza and the Pasok parties, who each
have had mandates to form governments in the past week. He will
then meet the leaders of the four other parties elected to
parliament, Papoulias’s office said in an e-mailed statement
today.  ‘Democratic Decision’  Europe’s more than two-year-old debt crisis was reignited
this month after voters in Greece and  France  backed candidates
opposed to austerity measures masterminded in  Germany  by
 Chancellor Angela Merkel . In France, President-elect Francois Hollande has pledged to raise taxes and increase spending to
support economic growth.  Alexis Tsipras, leader of Syriza, the biggest anti-bailout
party in Greece, refused to join a unity government, claiming
the people have rejected a bailout, the second since May 2010.  ECB council member Panicos Demetriades today criticized
austerity and called for growth-oriented policies in his
inaugural speech as the new central bank governor of Cyprus.  “Both in Cyprus and in the euro area, it is now becoming
understood that an austerity policy alone is not enough to put
countries’ budgets back on a sound footing,” Demetriades said,
according to a text of his speech in Nicosia today. “Growth is
needed above all else.”  Cypriot banks are reeling from losses on their holdings of
Greek debt and the government is unable to borrow on financial
markets. Its economy, the euro area’s third-smallest, will
shrink 0.8 percent this year, the European Commission said
yesterday.  Further financial support for Greece can be considered if
the country sticks to its promises, ECB council member Jens Weidmann said, according to  Sueddeutsche Zeitung .  “If Greece isn’t keeping its word then it is a democratic
decision,” Weidmann, who also heads Germany’s Bundesbank, is
quoted as saying in an interview. “Consequently, it misses the
basis for further financial support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  