-- Merkel’s Party Bids to Recapture Germany’s Most Populous State
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-12T22:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/merkel-s-party-bids-to-recapture-germany-s-most-populous-state.html
Voters go the polls in North Rhine-
Westphalia today as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic Union party tries to capitalize on her personal
popularity to regain  Germany ’s most populous state.  With almost a quarter of Germany’s 82 million people, North
Rhine-Westphalia is Merkel’s biggest electoral test this year
before national elections in the fall of 2013. It’s also the
first state her CDU lost in 2010 as the debt crisis erupted and
voters rebelled against bailing out  Greece .  While Merkel headlined nine campaign rallies in 27 days,
polls suggest her party will struggle to unseat the Social
Democrats and Greens from the state government in Dusseldorf.
That may embolden domestic opposition to her austerity policy
just as its opponents build momentum across Europe.  “There’s clearly a more fractious political landscape,
also in Germany, which is making it harder for  Chancellor Merkel 
and her coalition,” Thomas Harjes, senior European economist at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Maryam Nemazee  on May 11.  In North Rhine-Westphalia, the former coal-and-industry
powerhouse on the Dutch and Belgian borders, polls suggested
Merkel’s CDU was closing the Social Democratic lead in the final
days of the campaign. The CDU had 33 percent to 38 percent for
the Social Democrats, an Info poll for Handelsblatt newspaper
showed May 11. That compared with a 30-37 percent gap two days
previously.  Kraft Alliance  Even so, the Greens had 11 percent in the latest poll,
giving the Social Democrat-Greens coalition led by SPD Prime
Minister Hannelore Kraft a combined 49 percent, enough to retain
power. The Pirate Party had 8 percent and Merkel’s Free Democrat
coalition partner 5 percent, the threshold to win parliamentary
seats, according to the Info poll of 1,007 voters conducted May
3-5. No margin of error was provided.  Merkel began her campaign in April by attacking the state
government for running up debt, contrasting that with her push
to curb deficits in Germany and across  Europe . Yet she resisted
turning the vote into a referendum on her austerity drive, which
polls indicate a majority of Germans support.  “Sunday’s election is an important state election for
North Rhine-Westphalia, no more and no less,” she told Ruhr
Nachrichten newspaper in comments published May 10.  Merkel is Germany’s most popular politician with a 61
percent approval rating, according to an Infratest Dimap poll
for ARD television published May 3. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Merkel’s point man on the debt crisis, is second-most
popular at 60 percent, according to the survey of 1,504 people.  Plans Blocked  That didn’t stop the opposition exercising its clout last
week when Social Democrat and Green-run states used their
majority in the upper house to block her plans to cut income tax
and solar-power subsidies. Her Christian Democrats suffered
their worst showing in more than 50 years in elections in the
northern state of Schleswig-Holstein on May 6 that put the
 Social Democrats  within reach of forming a coalition.  A renewed defeat for Merkel would further hearten the
Social Democrats as they align with French President-elect
Francois Hollande in an anti-austerity front pressing for
measures to spur economic growth across Europe to counter the
crisis. Merkel needs SPD support to pass Europe’s debt-reducing
fiscal pact in parliament.  Hollande is due in Berlin for the first meeting with Merkel
hours after his inauguration on May 15. Two days later, the
German chancellor who has dominated Europe’s response to the
debt crisis heads to the U.S. for talks on the global economy
with other Group of Eight leaders, including Hollande.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  