-- Essar Oil Reports Quarterly Loss as Refining Margins Shrink
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-12T11:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/essar-oil-reports-quarterly-loss-as-refining-margins-shrink.html
Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the operator of
 India ’s second-biggest non-state refinery, posted a loss for the
third straight quarter after earnings from turning crude into
fuels declined.  The  loss  was 5.15 billion rupees ($96 million) in the three
months ended March 31, compared with a 3.2 billion rupee profit
a year earlier, the company said in a regulatory filing today.
The median of seven analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was
a loss of 1 billion rupees.  The company, controlled by billionaire brothers Shashi and
Ravi Ruia, increased the capacity and complexity of its
refinery, betting the investment will help lift margins because
it will be able to process heavier crude that’s typically
cheaper than lighter oils. Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, reported the sharpest
decline in quarterly profit in more than three years after
margins narrowed as global economic growth slowed.  Essar Oil gained 2.7 percent to 51.85 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday. The stock has climbed 3.1 percent this year, compared
with a 5.4 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The company’s refining margin in the quarter was $4.60 a
barrel, compared with $5.29 a barrel a year earlier, according
to the statement.  Share Sale  Essar Oil plans to sell shares and borrow from banks to
raise about $1.4 billion to refinance loans and comply with a
court verdict to pay tax on fuel sales, Chief Executive Officer
Lalit Kumar Gupta said in an interview on April 16. The refiner
set aside 40.2 billion rupees in the quarter ended Dec. 31 as a
“prudent measure” for the  sales tax  payment.  The  Supreme Court  on Jan. 17 said the company isn’t
entitled to defer payment of sales tax, an incentive offered by
the Gujarat state government for the refinery at Vadinar to
start production by Aug. 15, 2003. The deadline was missed.  The company completed an 83 billion rupee expansion of the
Vadinar refinery in March and plans to increase its annual
capacity to 20 million metric tons by September from 18 million
tons currently. The refiner may buy as much as 10 million tons
of crude from countries including  Venezuela , Colombia,  Mexico ,
 Brazil  and Ecuador, Gupta said in the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 