-- Euro Falls to 3-Month Low Against Dollar on Greek Debt Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/euro-falls-to-3-month-low-against-dollar-on-greek-debt-concern.html
The euro fell against the dollar for
a second week, reaching a three-month low, as concern mounted
that politicians in Greece won’t be able to form a coalition
government and the nation may exit the monetary union.  The 17-nation currency slumped after an inconclusive May 6
election and the subsequent struggle by leaders to form a
government. The dollar gained against all its major peers, and
the yen rose versus all but the greenback, amid increased demand
for havens. The  Federal Reserve  on May 16 will release minutes
from its April 25 meeting.  “The main theme we’ve seen throughout the week is the
risk-off trade,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at  Western Union Co. (WU)  unit Western Union Business
Solutions. “Whether it’s concerns about the outlook for the
Greek political impasse or  Europe  steadily marching toward
recession, investors have moved toward safer assets.”  The euro fell 1.3 percent on the week to $1.2917 and
reached $1.2905, the weakest level since Jan. 23. It declined
1.2 percent to 103.26 yen. The dollar rose 0.1 percent to 79.93
yen.  South Africa’s rand and Mexico’s peso were the biggest
losers among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
rand fell 3.3 percent to 8.0970 per dollar and the peso weakened
3 percent against the greenback to 13.5745.  Elections in France and Greece on May 6 left uncertainty
about the future of austerity measures in the nations.  ‘Case of Caution’  France’s  Francois Hollande , who will become the first
Socialist in 17 years to control Europe’s second-biggest
economy, pledged to push for less austerity and more growth in
the region. Hollande’s platform calls for policies German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes, including increased spending
and delayed deficit cuts.  Greek elections left the two biggest parties short of the
clear majority to keep bailout efforts on track, and raised the
possibility that another election will have to be held as early
as next month, threatening the implementation of austerity
pledges. The standoff has reignited European concern over
Greece’s ability to hold to the terms of its two bailouts
negotiated since May 2010 and stoked speculation it will have to
leave the currency union.  Greek Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos  failed to form
a unity government yesterday when Alexis Tsipras, the leader of
 Greece ’s biggest anti-bailout party Syriza, turned down an
appeal by political leaders to join the coalition. Venizelos
will hand back the three-day mandate to President Karolos
Papoulias today.  “This is a case of caution, particularly amongst the
existing euro shorts, into a weekend where we still have no
resolution where the next Greek government is concerned,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said of bets for the currency to
decline.  Bank of England  The European Financial Stability Facility’s board of
directors confirmed the release of 5.2 billion euros ($6.7
billion) from a first installment of 39.4 billion euros by the
end of June, the EFSF said in an e-mailed statement this week.  The British pound rose against the euro after the  Bank of
England ’s Monetary Policy Committee held its quantitative easing
target at 325 billion pounds ($522 billion), ending a second
round of stimulus.  The decision was forecast by 43 out of 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Officials also left their benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  The pound gained 0.8 percent to 80.39 pence per euro. It
lost 0.5 percent to $1.6069.  ‘Room to Move’  Australia ’s dollar weakened for a second week as concern
increased the central bank will further lower interest rates and
as reports showed a slowdown in  China ’s economy. It declined
versus its U.S. counterpart after Prime Minister Julia Gillard
on May 9 said returning the budget to surplus will give the
central bank “maximum room to move” in setting interest rates.
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut  interest rates  by 0.5 percent
to 3.75 percent May 1.  The Aussie dropped 1.6 percent to $1.0020 and reached
$1.0018, the lowest level since December.  China’s industrial production rose 9.3 percent in April
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday, compared with the 12.2 percent gain projected by
economists. Retail sales last month increased 14.1 percent from
a year earlier, while economists had forecast a 15.1 percent
increase. China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Loonie Gains  Canada’s dollar advanced against most of its major
counterparts after a report showed employment rose by 58,000 in
April following a March jump of 82,300 that was the biggest
since September 2008. The  labor force  grew by 72,500, lifting
the jobless rate to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent. The two-month
gain in employment was the biggest in more than 30 years.  “The Canadian economy is doing pretty good and the
contrast is stark between Canada and Europe,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “ North America  in general is
doing OK but, in contrast to the  euro zone , that’s the one that
really stands out.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose 0.9 percent
to C$1.2925 per euro. It fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0005 against
the greenback.  Gross domestic product in the euro area will drop 0.3
percent this year, the European Commission said, reiterating a
February forecast. Greece will have the deepest contraction,
with GDP shrinking 4.7 percent, while the economies of Spain and
Italy are seen falling 1.8 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively.  Fed Minutes  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of U.S.  consumer sentiment  for May rose to 77.8 from 76.4
the prior month. It was projected to drop to 76, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed will release the minutes from its April 25 meeting
on May 16. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the meeting that
he’s prepared to “do more” to boost the economic recovery and
ensure that inflation remains close to target.  Fed policy makers upgraded their forecasts for growth and
unemployment this year in a statement following the meeting.
They  repeated their view that borrowing costs are likely to
remain “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  