-- Ex-Goldman Director Gupta Seeks to Bar Rajaratnam Calls
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-05-12T14:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/ex-goldman-director-gupta-seeks-to-bar-rajaratnam-calls.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta  asked a federal judge to exclude statements
by Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam from his trial
this month in Manhattan federal court, according to a filing
yesterday in New York.  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s defense lawyer, sought to bar
conversations between Rajaratnam and Galleon trader  Ian Horowitz 
on September 24, 2008, during which Rajaratnam claimed to have
received a call in which an unidentified caller said “something
good might happen to Goldman,” Naftalis wrote. He also sought
to exclude a recording of Rajaratnam and Galleon employee David
Lau in which Rajaratnam recounts a tip received from an
unidentified person “on the board of Goldman Sachs” about the
company’s earnings and revenues, the defense lawyer stated.  “The government’s application is an act of desperation,
breathtaking in its procedural audacity, seeking to rescue a
weak case by asking the court to do something that is both
unprecedented and unwarranted,” Naftalis said in court filings.  Gupta is scheduled to go on trial May 21 for  securities
fraud  and conspiracy for allegedly leaking tips to Rajaratnam.
He has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on yesterday’s filing.  Six Counts  Gupta is charged with six counts, including securities
fraud and conspiracy, and faces as much as 20 years in prison on
the most serious count.  Gupta’s lawyers have previously asked the judge to exclude
from the trial more than 26 wiretapped telephone conversations
made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of Rajaratnam
speaking to others.  The defense argued that a July 29, 2008, wiretapped
telephone conversation between Gupta and Rajaratnam -- in which
the two discuss Goldman Sachs acquiring a commercial bank --
should be excluded because the information conveyed wasn’t
confidential and that the wiretap “is more prejudicial than
probative.”  Gupta’s lawyers argue that the government is attempting to
“reprise” the evidence it presented against Rajaratnam, “to
shore up its weak circumstantial case against Mr. Gupta,
resorting to evidence about other companies and other alleged
conspiracies.”  Rajaratnam, who the government alleges is Gupta’s co-
conspirator in the scheme, is serving an 11-year federal prison
sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net  