-- Facebook Co-Founder May Gain Choosing Singapore Over U.S.
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-05-12T01:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/facebook-co-founder-may-gain-choosing-singapore-over-u-s-.html
Eduardo Saverin, the billionaire co-
founder of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , renounced his U.S. citizenship before
an initial public offering that values the social network at as
much as $96 billion, a move that may reduce his tax bill.  Facebook plans to raise as much as $11.8 billion through
the IPO, the biggest in history for an  Internet company .
Saverin’s stake is about 4 percent, according to the website
 whoownsfacebook.com . At the high end of the proposed IPO market
capitalization, that would be worth about $3.84 billion. His
holdings aren’t listed in Facebook’s regulatory filings.  Saverin, 30, joins a growing number of people giving up
U.S. citizenship ahead of a possible increase in tax rates for
top earners. The Brazilian-born resident of Singapore is one of
several people who helped  Mark Zuckerberg  start Facebook in a
Harvard University dormitory and stand to reap billions of
dollars after the world’s largest social network holds its IPO.  “It’s plainly lawful and at the same time profoundly
ungrateful to the country that provided these opportunities for
him,” said Edward Kleinbard, a  tax law professor  at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles . “He benefited
from his U.S. education, the contacts he made at Harvard, and
most important the extraordinary openness and flexibility of our
economy that encourages startup ventures to flourish.”  Saverin’s name is on a  list of  people who chose to renounce
citizenship as of April 30, published by the  Internal Revenue
Service . Saverin made the move “around September” of 2011, Tom Goodman, a spokesman for Saverin, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Practical’ Residence  “Eduardo recently found it more practical to become a
resident of  Singapore  since he plans to live there for an
indefinite period of time,” Goodman said. Saverin still does
hold Brazilian citizenship, Goodman said.  Americans who give up their citizenship owe what is
effectively an exit tax on the estimated  capital gains  from
their stock holdings at the time of the renunciation, even if
they don’t sell the shares, said Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, director
of the international tax program at the University of Michigan’s
law school. In other words, for tax purposes, the IRS treats the
stock as if it has been sold.  In Saverin’s case, the gain and subsequent tax bill would
be based on the estimated fair market value as calculated by his
tax advisers, not an actual open market sale. They could value
his Facebook stake at less than it will be worth once shares
trade publicly.  Saverin and his advisers could say that the value of his
stake should be reduced for tax purposes because of the
potential difficulty of selling the shares while the company was
private.  ‘Smart Idea’  Renouncing citizenship well in advance of an IPO is “a
very smart idea,” from a tax standpoint, Avi-Yonah said. “Once
it’s public you can’t fool around with the value.”  And even the tax bill triggered by Saverin dropping his
U.S. citizenship can be deferred indefinitely until he actually
sells the shares. In that case, Saverin would have to pay
interest during the deferral period -- currently at an annual
rate of 3.28 percent per year, Kleinbard said.  Gains from any future appreciation of the stock will be
earned free of any capital gains tax both in the U.S. and in
Singapore. Singapore does not impose a capital gains tax.  While Saverin helped start Facebook, he hasn’t always had a
harmonious relationship with Zuckerberg. He scuffled with his
Harvard University classmate over his ownership in Facebook.
Saverin sued him and settled for an undisclosed amount.  Brazilian Investment  The 2010 movie “The  Social Network ” portrayed Saverin as
a scorned friend who provided the company’s early financing and
then got squeezed out. In the film, written by  Aaron Sorkin ,
Saverin was portrayed by  Andrew Garfield , who will play Spider-
Man in “The Amazing Spider-Man,” due to be released in July.  Saverin moved to the U.S. in 1992, and became a citizen in
1998, his spokesman said. He has invested in Asian, U.S. and
European companies.  He plans to invest in Brazilian and in other global
companies that have strong interests in entering the Asian
markets, Goodman said.  Saverin’s U.S. holdings include Jumio Inc., an online
payments company, and ShopSavvy Inc., a price-comparison
service.  Renouncing citizenship is an option chosen by increasing
numbers of Americans. A record 1,780 gave up their U.S.
passports last year compared with 235 in 2008, according to
government records.  Income-tax rates for top U.S. earners will rise to 39.6
percent from 35 percent next year and rates on capital gains and
dividends also are due to rise, unless Congress intervenes.  U.S. Loss  “It’s a loss for the U.S. to have many well-educated
people who actually have a great deal of affection for America
make that choice,” said Richard Weisman, head of the global tax
practice at Baker & McKenzie LLP in  Hong Kong . “The tax cost,
complexity and the traps for the unwary are among the
considerations.”  Some of the world’s largest wealth-management firms have
ramped up efforts to fight  tax evasion  ahead of  Washington ’s
implementation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, known
as Fatca, which seeks to prevent tax evasion by Americans with
offshore accounts.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of
Singapore Ltd. and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  all say they have
turned away business.  The 2010 law, to be phased in starting Jan. 1, 2013,
requires financial institutions based outside the U.S. to obtain
and report information about income and interest payments
accrued to the accounts of American clients. That means
additional compliance costs for banks and fewer investment
options and advisers for all U.S. citizens living abroad, which
may depress banks’ returns.  Facebook plans to price its IPO on May 17, offering 337.4
million shares at $28 to $35 each. The shares will be listed on
the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FB. Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading
the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net 
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  