-- Indonesian Search Team Prepares to Airlift Crash Bodies
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-05-12T07:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/indonesian-search-team-prepares-to-airlift-crash-bodies.html
Indonesian rescuers are seeking the
so-called black box flight recorder as they search for victims
from the Russian Sukhoi SuperJet 100 plane that crashed into a
mountainside three days ago with 45 people on board.  Bad weather is hampering efforts to airlift victims from a
makeshift helipad about 2,000 meters (6,600 feet) above  sea
level  on Mount Salak in West Java. Rescuers may have to continue
by ground, said Sunarbowo Sandi, operational director at
Indonesia’s National Search & Rescue Agency. Five body bags have
been flown to Jakarta.  “The black box is one of our targets,” Sandi said by
telephone today. “Much of what we found so far is part of the
plane’s vertical stabilizer at the back of the fuselage, while
the black box is inside the cabin.”  Information stored in the recorder may help investigators
determine why the plane slammed into Mount Salak during a
demonstration flight on May 9. The crash of  Russia ’s first new
passenger jet in more than two decades threatens President
 Vladimir Putin ’s plan to revive his nation’s  aerospace industry .  The 90-seat Sukhoi SuperJet was designed with Western
partners and equipped with cutting-edge systems to compete with
aircraft built by  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)  It was on an
Asian promotional tour and had already ferried potential
customers and media on flights in Myanmar, Pakistan and
 Kazakhstan . It was scheduled to move on to Laos and  Vietnam .  Recorders Spotted  The data and voice recorders were spotted and photographed,
Russia’s Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Yuri Slyusar said in
a statement earlier today. Sandi said rescuers haven’t retrieved
the black box yet.  About 600 military, police and other personnel have been
deployed in the search and as many as nine helicopters are on
standby, said Gagah Prakoso, a spokesman at the rescue agency.  Femi Adi, a Bloomberg News reporter, is believed to have
been among the passengers on the plane.  The search’s main focus remains on finding the victims and
returning them to Jakarta, Bambang Ervan, a spokesman at the
Indonesian transport ministry said.  “After that we can start with the ground investigation at
the crash site,” Ervan said by telephone today. “For now,
investigators have begun collecting facts and information at the
airport.”  Descend to 6,000  The crash came after the crew asked air-traffic control for
permission to descend to 6,000 feet from 10,000 feet, according
to Daryatmo, head of the Indonesian rescue agency. The pilots
didn’t explain the change of course. The weather was slightly
rainy and there were no obvious signs of trouble, Daryatmo said.
Mount Salak rises to a height of 7,254 feet.  The plane was allowed to descend to 6,000 feet as it was at
a safe distance from the mountain, Ervan said today. He declined
to provide more details on the flight’s chronology.  Indonesia  will lead the investigation with help from the
Russian transport safety agency, Tatang Kurniadi, who heads the
National Transportation Safety Committee, said May 10.  The plane had no technical defects before the crash,
Mikhail Pogosyan, head of Moscow-based Sukhoi owner United
Aircraft Corp., said yesterday at Halim Perdanakusuma airport,
from where the aircraft took off.  The crash was probably caused by human error, Russia’s
acting Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Rogozin  told reporters in
Nizhny Tagil, a Ural Mountains city, on May 10. Sukhoi has said
the jet was commanded by a “very experienced crew.”  The SuperJet has a “great future,” Rogozin said. Russia’s
Industry and Trade Ministry sees no need to suspend flights,
Interfax said May 10, citing a ministry statement.  The twin-engine aircraft is spearheading attempts to revive
an aerospace industry that has languished since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991. The plane, which can carry about 100 people,
was developed with  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s Alenia Aeronautica SpA. It
has a maximum operating range of 4,578 kilometers (2,845 miles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  