-- Loyola, Duke, Colgate, Denver Advance in NCAA Lacrosse Matches
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/third-seed-duke-colgate-win-ncaa-lacrosse-championship-openers.html
Mike Sawyer scored five goals to lead
top-seeded Loyola University  Maryland  to a 17-5 win over
Canisius College on the opening day of the men’s college
lacrosse tournament.  Third-seeded  Duke University  defeated Syracuse 12-9;
Colgate University upset No. 6 seed Massachusetts 13-11; and
Denver topped eighth-seeded North Carolina 16-14 yesterday in
the National Collegiate Athletic Association championships.  In today’s matches, fifth-seeded Virginia meets Princeton;
fourth-seeded  Notre Dame  plays Yale; No. 7 seed Lehigh takes on
Maryland; and second-seeded Johns Hopkins challenges Stony Brook.  Sawyer, who was 0-5 in the first half, scored his five
goals in Loyola’s 13-goal second half at Ridley Athletic Complex
in Baltimore. Eric Lusby added three for the Greyhounds, who
play Denver on May 19 in the quarterfinals.  Justin Turri, Robert Rotanz and Christian Walsh each scored
three goals to lead Duke to its win over Syracuse in Durham,
 North Carolina .  The Blue Devils next face Colgate on May 20 in the second
round. Matt Baker, Peter Baum, Brendon McCann, Ryan Walsh and
Chris Zielinski each scored twice in Colgate’s away victory.  In the first day of the women’s NCAA lacrosse tournament
yesterday, it was top-seeded Florida 6, Albany 4; Penn State 15,
eighth-seeded Towson 8; No. 5 North Carolina 14, Navy 7; third-
seeded Maryland 15, Massachusetts 12; and second-seeded
Northwestern 9, Notre Dame 5.  Florida will play Penn State in the second round on May 19.  In women’s action today, it is Dartmouth vs. No. 4 seed
Syracuse; Pennsylvania vs. No. 6 seed Loyola (Md); and seventh-
seeded Duke vs.  Virginia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  