-- JPMorgan’s Trading Loss May Call for More Fed Supervision
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-05-12T16:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/jpmorgan-s-trading-loss-may-call-for-more-fed-supervision.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading
position that led to a $2 billion loss may call for increased
Federal Reserve scrutiny of risk management as the central bank
steps up its post-crisis supervision of lenders.  Fed officials are gathering more information about the
trading position, which they have known about for several weeks,
according to a person familiar with the matter. They don’t view
it as their role to approve or reject individual trades, the
person said. Rather, their job is to ensure firms have enough
capital to withstand losses, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter and asked not to be identified.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon announced the
“egregious” trading loss on May 10, saying there were “many
errors, sloppiness and bad judgment.” Dimon said on a
conference call with analysts that while the firm kept its
regulators “up to date,” he “didn’t have great information”
to share with them.  “The fact that Jamie Dimon could come out and make some of
those statements” raises “lots of questions about who was
watching the store,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary
economist at Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors and a
former Atlanta Fed research director. The Fed should be “going
in and looking at the internal controls and monitoring
procedures that the institution is taking, and stress those.”  Dimon announced the trading loss two months after the
biggest U.S. bank by assets passed a Fed stress test that put
its loans and securities through a scenario of deep recession
and a simulated global financial market shock.  ‘Small Loss’  “It’s a relatively small loss in a bank of that size,”
said William Isaac, a chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in the 1980s and now a senior managing director at FTI
Consulting Inc. “The thing that’s rattling people is JPMorgan
Chase is widely considered one of the strongest and best banks
in the world.”  JPMorgan shares fell 9.3 percent, the most in nine months,
to $36.96 at the close of trading yesterday in  New York. The KBW
Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 financial stocks was down 1.2 percent.  Krishna Guha, a spokesman for  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , JPMorgan’s regulator, declined to comment. JPMorgan
spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  also declined to comment.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, has been reviewing JPMorgan’s derivatives
trading activities since last month, according to a person who
was briefed on the matter and spoke on condition of anonymity
because the review is private. The CFTC hasn’t opened an
enforcement action against the bank, the person said.  SEC Probe  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a
preliminary investigation into JPMorgan’s disclosures related to
the trades, according to another person briefed on the probe who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Dimon, in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press” to air
tomorrow, said he didn’t know whether the bank had broken any
law or accounting rules.  “We’ve had audit, legal, risk, compliance, some of our
best people looking at all of that,” he said. “We don’t know
if any of that is true yet.”  Fed Analysis  Fed officials need to examine their own analysis of the
bank’s risk management procedures and its governance, said Dino Kos, a former executive vice president at the  New York  Fed. He
said Fed supervisors should ask questions about how information
on risk is collected and reported, and what is done with it once
it reaches the executive level.  “What information is the board of directors being given?
What is being sent to the CEO and the senior managers on the
risk committee?” said Kos, now a managing director at
Hamiltonian Associates, a New York economic research and
consulting firm. “There is a separate question about judgment”
if Dimon understood the risks the bank was taking, he said.  Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor in charge of supervision,
has emphasized that boards need to serve as independent monitors
of risk. The stress-tests were focused on whether a bank’s staff
and boards can put together a plan to manage capital through
times of economic turmoil.  Checks and Balances  “It’s exceedingly important for boards to be involved, not
in micromanaging, but providing checks and balances on a
company,” said Timothy Smith, a senior vice president at
Boston-based Walden Asset Management, which manages $2.2
billion. “It’s a fair question to ask if  Jamie Dimon  says this
was just sloppy, where was the board as the $2 billion was being
lost?”  Tarullo has piloted one of the biggest overhauls of
financial supervision in the central bank’s history. In addition
to annual stress tests, the Fed routinely looks at risks across
all large banks in a new group formed from economists,
examiners, and computer modelers.  The Fed has also boosted its surveillance of financial
markets and bank lending to spot asset bubbles that may lead to
financial turmoil. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  established a new
Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, which was
instrumental in shaping tougher guidelines earlier this year on
high-yield, high-risk bank loans.  Fed Letters  At the end of April, the Fed sent letters critiquing banks
on their stress-test performance. Among the red flags Fed
officials spotted: the amount of capital that risk managers said
one bank might lose in stress test scenarios was at odds with
the payouts that the board wanted to make in the form of
dividends or share buybacks.  Peter Wallison , a former member of the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, said boards are “neither equipped to
understand the scope of a bank’s risks or engaged full-time in
the bank’s business.”  Instead, “What boards can do is appoint a risk committee,
to which the bank’s risk manager will report, independently of
the CEO. The risk committee can then keep the board apprised of
the risks communicated by the risk manager. However, this
requires very deft management,” said Wallison, a fellow in
financial policy studies at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
 Washington .  Ratings Reduction  Fitch Ratings , which yesterday lowered JPMorgan’s credit
grade by one level to A+ from AA-, said the $2 billion loss
“raises questions regarding JPM’s risk appetite, risk
management framework, practices and oversight.”  JPMorgan’s losses weren’t large enough to pose a risk to
the bank or the broader financial system, said Robert Engle,  a
winner of the 2003  Nobel Prize  in economics and a professor at
New York University’s Stern School of Business.  JPMorgan’s tier 1 common capital ratio, a measure of
capital strength tracked by the Fed, never dipped below 5
percent in the 2012 stress scenario despite a hypothetical $28
billion in trading and counterparty losses and $56 billion in
loan losses, according to results of the stress tests released
on March 13.  “I don’t think this particular number is big enough to get
in the way of the capital buffers that JPMorgan has,” Engle
said of the $2 billion loss.  Systemic Institution  “We think of JPMorgan as being one of the more systemic
institutions because it is so big,” said Engle, who helped
develop a model of systemic risk at the Stern school’s
Volatility Institute. “But because it is big, a loss like this
is not going to bring it to its knees.”  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a financial crisis, wasn’t
convened to discuss the JPMorgan loss and has no plans to meet,
said a Treasury Department official who declined to be
identified. The council’s chairman is Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , and it includes Bernanke.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage at 
 Csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  