-- Planned Parenthood Funding Violates Texas Policy, State Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-05-12T18:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/planned-parenthood-funding-violates-texas-policy-state-says-1-.html
Planned Parenthood  clinics that
“promote” abortion violate  Texas  policy and have no right to
public funding, Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said in a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans.  Texas is appealing a court order that temporarily requires
the state to keep subsidizing the clinics. The state had planned
to stop the funding this month.  “Texas has adopted a strong public policy preventing
taxpayer funds from subsidizing the provision or promotion of
elective abortion,” Abbott said in the appellate filing. “The
Constitution permits the government to convey its chosen message
without funding those who would undermine that message.”  Planned Parenthood-affiliated groups sued Texas last month
to block a regulation that would prevent the state from
contracting with entities affiliated with abortion providers. It
was designed to exclude operators of 49 health centers from a
state-funded program that provides health care to thousands of
low-income women.  A federal judge in Austin issued an injunction preventing
Texas from cutting off public funds while the court challenge is
pending. The  New Orleans  appellate court will hear arguments on
the preliminary injunction on June 7.  State Ban  The case pits Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat. Perry pledged
earlier this year to replace almost $30 million in federal funds
for a women’s health program that the Obama administration cut
off because of the state ban on abortion providers. Obama has
said Texas can’t block federally approved organizations such as
Planned Parenthood from participating in programs underwritten
by Medicaid, which pays for health services for the poor.  Abbott asked the appeals court to require Planned
Parenthood to post a “sufficient” bond against the almost
$1 million-per-month in taxpayer funds the clinics will receive
if the injunction is upheld.  The district court case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo
County Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned
Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  