-- Probe of SEC Watchdog Office Could Revisit Madoff Report
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-12T03:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/probe-of-sec-watchdog-office-could-revisit-madoff-report.html
Investigations criticizing the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s failure to catch the
 Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford frauds may be thrown into
question by allegations of misconduct and conflicts of interest
inside the office of the agency’s internal watchdog.  The commission is seeking temporary leadership for the
inspector general’s office as the allegations have put the unit
into turmoil and sparked inquiries from Congress, people with
knowledge of the discussions said.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and Commissioner Daniel Gallagher briefed House and Senate staff members from both
parties May 10 about the allegations. The complaint may lead to
an inquiry into whether Inspector General H.  David Kotz  engaged
in conduct that could have compromised the integrity and
independence of the investigations, according to the people.  The employee who first raised the allegations about Kotz’s
conduct, David Weber, has been placed on leave after some of his
co-workers said they were bothered by his suggestion that he and
others should be able to carry guns on the job, according to the
people. Weber, chief investigator in the inspector’s office, has
also talked to congressional staff.  Weber’s lawyer, Chris Mead, told Reuters, which reported on
his suspension yesterday, that the agency was retaliating
against his client for raising the concerns.  Kotz, now a managing director in the Washington office of
investigation firm Gryphon Strategies, didn’t respond to an e-
mail and phone call seeking comment. Kotz denied Weber’s
allegations, Reuters reported May 10.  Denver Candidate  Earlier this week Schapiro brought Donald Hoerl, the head
of the SEC’s Denver office, to  Washington  with the intention of
installing him as acting inspector general while the commission
sorted out what to do with the watchdog unit. The SEC backed
away from the decision after pressure from some Capitol Hill
staff members concerned that Hoerl wouldn’t be independent
enough of the commission, the people said.  The commission is now trying to find a retired inspector
general or other person who didn’t work at the agency to
temporarily run the office, the people said.  Noelle Maloney, the deputy inspector general, has been the
acting head of the unit since Kotz’s departure.  The inspector general, while given much leeway to run his
office and select his own investigations, ultimately reports to
the five-member commission.  The commission is also looking for an outside investigator
to review the allegations about Kotz, the people said. One
candidate is Washington attorney  Michael Bromwich , who is
himself a former inspector general and has done similar reviews
in the past, the people said.  Pushback  Some congressional staff members suggested Bromwich could
be a problematic choice because he once worked at the same  law
firm  as former SEC Chairman  Harvey Pitt , who has emerged as
Kotz’s most outspoken critic and once said Kotz led “a reign of
terror” at the SEC. Pitt said in an e-mail that he overlapped
with Bromwich at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP in
Washington but they didn’t work together.  The five commissioners have decided that they must have an
outside review of the allegations, two of the people said. While
Weber first complained in late March to the Council of
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, the group took
no action, in part because Kotz is no longer at the SEC, the
people said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment. Weber’s
attorney didn’t return calls seeking comment. Hoerl also
declined to comment.  Praise from Congress  Kotz left the SEC in January after a contentious four years
in the post. He was lauded by lawmakers for his thorough
investigations and willingness to hold the SEC accountable for
missteps overseeing  Wall Street  and failing to catch massive
Ponzi schemes like those conducted by Madoff and Stanford.  The watchdog was publicly criticized by SEC employees and
alumni who said his investigations often lacked evidence of
wrongdoing and unfairly damaged some workers’ reputations.  He also drew criticism for an interview he gave
Philadelphia-area financial adviser Phillip Cannella III for a
paid radio program. Cannella uses Kotz’s remarks to market a
“crash proof retirement” to senior citizens and has refused
requests by the SEC to take video clips from the interview off
his website.  After his meeting with Kotz, Cannella procured three club-
level tickets to a sold-out Philadelphia Eagles football game
for the watchdog and his children. Kotz reimbursed Cannella $95
apiece, even though the tickets had a value of $240 each.  Kotz has said his investigations helped turn around an
ineffective agency that had fallen down on the job. He also said
he followed ethics advice in his interactions with Cannella.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 