-- Romney Reaffirms Opposition to Gay Marriage in Speech
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-05-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/romney-reaffirms-opposition-to-gay-marriage-in-speech.html
Mitt Romney  reaffirmed his opposition
to same-sex marriage yesterday in a commencement address at an
evangelical Christian university aimed at energizing core
 Republican Party  activists.  “Marriage is a relationship between one man and one
woman,” he told cheering, standing graduates of Lynchburg,
Virginia-based Liberty University, a regular campaign stop for
Republican presidential candidates since President  Ronald Reagan 
visited it a month before Election Day in 1980.  The topic has dominated the political conversation
following President  Barack Obama ’s endorsement of gay marriage
during a May 9 ABC News interview. Romney, the presumptive
Republican nominee, is working to reconcile with evangelical
voters, who backed his opponents during his party’s four-month
primary contest and remain skeptical of his Mormon faith and his
record on such issues as abortion and same-sex marriage.  At least one Liberty class -- Theology 678 -- Western and
New Religions -- describes Mormonism as a “major cult” in the
course catalog, and some students protested Romney’s selection
as the commencement speaker on Facebook pages and on blogs.  Romney made only oblique reference to his religion.  Calling for Unity  “People of different faiths, like yours and mine,
sometimes wonder where we can meet in common purpose, when there
are so many differences in creed and theology,” the former
Massachusetts governor told a stadium packed with 35,000
faculty, graduates and their families. “Surely the answer is
that we can meet in service, in shared moral convictions about
our nation stemming from a common world view.”  In his most expansive campaign remarks on the issues on
faith and personal values, Romney, 65, played down differences
in speaking at the school founded by the late televangelist, the
Reverend  Jerry Falwell . He cited the lives and sayings of a
diverse collection of Christian leaders, including evangelical
pastor Billy Graham, civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr .,
Roman Catholic leader Pope  John Paul II , and former primary
opponent  Rick Santorum , a favorite of born-again Christian
Republicans who endorsed Romney in a May 7 e-mail to supporters.  “Central to America’s rise to global leadership is our
Judeo-Christian tradition, with its vision of the goodness and
possibilities of every life,” he said. “Culture -- what you
believe, what you value, how you live -- matters,” he said.  Those values, he warned, can spark “the censure of the
world” and become topics of political debate. “So it is today
with the enduring institution of marriage.”  Family and Faith  Romney senior strategist  Eric Fehrnstrom  said the speech
was “not a policy speech” and was meant to focus on the
universal themes of family and faith.  Romney supports a constitutional amendment banning gay
marriage and says benefits for same-sex couples should be
determined by individual states.  Aides and supporters are divided over how strongly to
highlight that position. Senior adviser  Ed Gillespie  has said
the campaign should make the issue of gay rights “a bright-line
difference in this campaign,” as a way to energize grassroots
Republicans and independent voters in swing states -- such as
Virginia and  North Carolina  -- who oppose gay marriage.  Talking Points Memo  Republican strategist Jan van Lohuizen on May 11
distributed a talking points memo to elected officials urging a
less strident position given the growing public support for
same-sex marriage  “Support for same-sex marriage has been growing and in the
last few years support has grown at an accelerated rate with no
sign of slowing down,” van Lohuizen wrote. He recommended
candidates couch the issue one of individual liberty and equal
rights.  Other party strategists prefer that Romney stick to an
economic message, which voters rank as their top concern and
senior aides say gives the former businessman a natural
advantage.  “The reason that the governor got into the race for
president is because of the dismal state of the economy,”
Fehrnstrom told reporters on a conference call yesterday. “Jobs
and the economy is the message that carried him through the
primaries. It’s what he takes with him into the general
election, and it is why he’s going to win in November.”  Voter Turn-out  Still, turnout among evangelical voters will be crucial for
Romney to gain an advantage at the polls in November.  “I guess I’ll vote for Romney,” said Regina Silva, a
mother of a graduate from Rural Retreat,  Virginia . “He’s the
only one left but I’m just afraid he’s not conservative enough
on social issues.”  Mark DeMoss, a Liberty graduate and campaign aide,
introduced Romney’s address with a speech recounting a lunch the
former Massachusetts governor hosted at his Boston home when he
was preparing his first bid for president in 2006.  After the meal, Romney sent each leader a wood chair
inscribed with the state logo. On the back was a plaque that
read: “There’s always room for you at my table.”  “I trust him,” said DeMoss, the son of a successful
evangelical businessman whose name adorns a columned building on
the campus. “I trust his values for I am convinced they mirror
my own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Lynchburg, Virginia at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  