-- Russia Stocks Drop 2nd Day on Oil at 2012 Low; Lukoil Retreats
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-12T15:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/russia-stocks-drop-2nd-day-on-oil-at-2012-low-lukoil-retreats.html
Russian stocks fell for a second day
after oil prices slid to the lowest level this year. OAO Lukoil,
the country’s biggest non-state crude producer, led declines on
the benchmark stock gauge.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.4 percent to 1,385.81
by the close in Moscow, paring an earlier slide of 1.4 percent.
Lukoil, which has the largest weighting in the index, lost 2.8
percent after the register for shareholders to receive a 75
ruble dividend closed yesterday. OAO Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s
fourth-largest oil producer, lost 1.5 percent. OAO Gazprom Neft,
the oil arm of the country’s natural gas export monopoly, rose
1.3 percent.  Russia-focused equity funds recorded this year’s biggest
outflows in the week ended May 9, posting redemptions of $188
million, according to EPFR Global. Oil, Russia’s main export
earner, fell 1 percent to $96.13 a barrel in New York yesterday,
the lowest settlement since Dec. 19. Stocks pared declines after
China reduced the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the third time in about five months.  “The Russian market is pressured by the decline in  oil
prices ,”  Mark Rubinstein , head of research at IFC Metropol,
said by phone from Moscow. “Investors are leaving the  emerging
markets . It’s unlikely that the Russian market will rise next
week, most likely will be flat.”  The markets are open today to substitute for a public
holiday earlier this week. A total 8.5 billion shares changed
hands on the Micex, according to data on the exchange’s website,
down from the 47.3 billion traded yesterday.  China Easing  Chinese policymakers are seeking to buoy growth amid signs
the country’s economic expansion is losing steam. Reserve ratios
will fall 50 basis points, effective May 18, the People’s Bank
of China said on its  website  today. The level for the nation’s
largest lenders will decline to 20 percent based on previous
statements.  “ China  remains one of the most risky factors for the
emerging markets, so any positive signal offers support,”
Alexei Yazikov, an analyst at Aton Capital, said by phone.  China’s industrial output rose 9.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau reported yesterday. That
missed a 12.2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 32 economists.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
slid for an eighth day yesterday, dropping to 642.58, the lowest
since Dec. 21.  Low Volumes  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, received
almost 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last
year, according to government estimates. Brent oil for June
settlement slipped 47 cents, or 0.4 percent, to end the session
at $112.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Trading volumes on the Micex slumped 30 percent in April
from the month before compared with a 22 percent drop in the
same period a year earlier.  Russian stocks trade at 5.2  times  estimated earnings,
having lost 1.2 percent this year. That compares with a 6
percent gain for the MSCI Emerging-Market Index which trades at
9.8 times projected earnings.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Torrey Clark  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  