-- Saudi Arabian Shares Rebound on Bets Slump Was Overdone
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-05-12T14:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/saudi-shares-fall-to-two-month-low-on-oil-europe-concern.html
Saudi Arabia ’s shares rose,
rebounding from a two-month low, on bets a decline prompted by
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen was overdone given
growth prospects in the Arab world’s largest economy.  Almarai Co. (ALMARAI) , the kingdom’s biggest food producer, led the
gain with an advance of 2.6 percent.  Nama Chemicals Co. (NAMA) , a
petrochemicals company, gained the most in almost a month. The
Tadawul All Share Index rose 0.2 percent to 7,233.20 at the 3:30
p.m. close in Riyadh, following a 2 percent decline on May 9,
the last working day. The gauge earlier slumped as much as 2.6
percent.  “Investors looked at some buying opportunities as some
stocks have been oversold,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity
analyst at Riyad Capital. “Fundamentals are still strong.
Earlier in the session there was some overreaction to the Europe
factor.”  The Tadawul has jumped 13 percent in 2012, making it the
best-performing stock market in the Persian Gulf, boosted by
higher  oil prices  and speculation that the world’s biggest crude
exporter will remove restrictions on foreign investors.  Saudi stocks slumped 4.3 percent last week as an
inconclusive election in  Greece  left political parties
struggling to form a government, reigniting concern over the
European debt crisis. The weekly drop was the worst since
August. The measure’s 14-day  relative strength index  dropped to
31 on May 9 and reached 32 today. A reading below 30 indicates
to some investors that the shares are poised to advance.  Saudi Arabia, home to 28 million people, is the Gulf
Cooperation Council’s biggest country by population and economic
output. The economy may expand more than 6 percent this year,
Finance Minister Ibrahim Al-Assaf said in January. It grew 6.8
percent in 2011.  Almarai gained the most since April 28 to 68.5 riyals. Nama
surged 9.8 percent, the most since April 17, to 20.2 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s (SASEIDX)  stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
that is open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  