-- Serb Opposition to Hold Protests Against Alleged Election Fraud
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-12T12:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/serb-opposition-to-hold-protests-against-alleged-election-fraud.html
The Serbian Progressive Party, the
country’s biggest opposition group, said it will organize
protests against alleged vote-rigging in May 6 parliamentary and
presidential elections.  The Progressives, whose leader  Tomislav Nikolic  faces
incumbent  Boris Tadic  in a presidential runoff election on May
20, don’t recognize official results, which also gave it 73 of
parliament’s 250 seats, spokesman Vuk Fatic said by phone today
in Belgrade. Tadic’s ruling Democrats and their ally the
Socialists won a combined 111 mandates and have started talks on
forming a coalition Cabinet.  The outcome of the vote may determine whether Serbia keeps
striving for European Union membership or turns east for
political and economic ties under Nikolic’s leadership.  “The protests will start tomorrow and will be held daily,
across the country,” against the alleged tampering with ballots
and voting lists that hurt the Progressives, Fatic said. Tadic
has rejected claims that it rigged voting lists and stuffed
ballot boxes.  Prosecutor Investigating  The Prosecutor’s  Office  has asked the police to investigate
the alleged irregularities claimed by four parties, including
the  Democratic Party  of Serbia, led by former prime ministerVojislav Kostunica.  “At some polling stations there weren’t enough ballots,
while at others there were too many,” said Jene Maglai of the
 Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians , which represents Serbia’s
ethnic Hungarian minority.  Serbia’s  Election Commission  said it will look into the
claims and re-check the count, the Tanjug news service reported.
The printing and counting of the ballots was monitored by
representatives of all parties involved in the elections, it
said.  Nikolic, who favors economic and political support from
 Russia , won 25.05 percent in the first round of the presidential
vote, which took place on May 6 at the same time as the
parliamentary balloting. Tadic, who oversaw  Serbia ’s successful
candidacy for EU entry, won 25.32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  