-- Stanchart’s Li Says China Is ‘Gearing Up’ Pro-Growth Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-12T13:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/stanchart-s-li-says-china-is-gearing-up-pro-growth-policy.html
Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist
with Standard Chartered Plc comments on  China ’s central bank
announcement today that it would cut banks’ reserve requirement
ratio by 50 basis points. Li commented by e-mail.  On reasons behind the cut:  “This is a strong signal that Beijing has geared up its
pro-growth policy stance. As stated in the People’s Bank of
China’s first quarter monetary policy report, reserve repos
(rather than reserve requirement ratio adjustments) will be used
for short-term liquidity fine-tuning purposes. Hence, reserve
requirement ratio adjustment has now become a stronger signal of
a change in the policy stance than it was previously.  On China’s growth outlook:  ‘‘The direct trigger of the RRR cut was the weak growth
data for April released on 11 May. The slowdown is in line with
our long-held, non-consensus view that China will face rising
headwinds in the second quarter, and that GDP growth will slow
to about 7.8 percent year-on-year in the quarter. Weaker-than-
expected new loan growth in April also warrants more measures
from Beijing to boost capital growth.  ‘‘We remain optimistic about the growth outlook for the
second half, barring a lasting, significant external shock.
China’s economic fundamentals remain solid, reflected in the
still-robust  labour market  and continued fast growth in wage
income.  ‘‘As a result, we expect a rather rapid growth recovery
after enhanced policy easing by Beijing. Indeed, portfolio
investors are likely to react positively to the reserve
requirement cut when the market reopens.’’  On future moves by the Chinese central bank:  ‘‘We forecast that the People’s Bank of China will reduce
the reserve requirement ratio three more times in 2012, by a
total of 150bps. The cut is likely to be supplemented by a
relaxation of loan-to-deposit ratio regulations to boost loan
growth.  On China’s  yuan :  ‘‘The RRR cut echoes our call for slower Chinese yuan (CNY)
appreciation; we look for USD-CNY to reach 6.21 by end-2012.
Export growth is moderating and the current account surplus is
on a narrowing path.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  