-- U.S. 10-Year Notes Add to Longest Gain Since ’98
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-12T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-12/u-s-10-year-notes-add-to-longest-gain-since-88.html
Treasuries had the longest streak of
weekly gains in more than 13 years after elections in  France  and
Greece added to concern governments may struggle with deficit-
cutting plans used to combat the region’s debt crisis.  Ten-year yields  reached the lowest level since January as a
$2 billion trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  boosted demand
for the safest assets. Thirty-year bonds gained for a sixth week
as wholesale inflation declined last month before a report on
May 15 that may show that consumer prices were unchanged.  “Problems in  Europe , the U.S story is still one of low
growth and the JPMorgan story all helped provide a good
atmosphere for Treasuries,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about
$3 billion of bonds at Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee .
“The market doesn’t have a lot of experience in dealing with
cycles that are so policy dominated, so until something clearly
changes investors will stay risk-averse.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell four basis points this
week, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.84 percent in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 traded at 99 6/32.  The 10-year yield dropped to 1.79 percent on May 9, the
lowest since Jan. 31. Thirty-year bond yields declined six basis
points to 3.01 percent.  Long Run  The last time 10-year notes rallied for so long was a nine-
week advance that ended in October 1998, driven by demand for
safety after Russia said in August of that year it would allow
its currency to depreciate and delay some debt payments.  Treasuries have gained 0.7 percent during the past month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The Treasury market is telling us that there’s a lot of
uncertainty,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in
New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “Most of it is centered around
Europe.”  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment Management Co. and Jan
Hatzius at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said investors should
prepare for additional bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve  to
combat a slowing economy.  A Fed decision to buy more bonds is “getting closer,”
Pimco’s Gross, who runs the world’s largest mutual fund in
 Newport Beach ,  California , wrote on Twitter on May 8.  Debt Sales  The  U.S. Treasury  sold $72 billion in three-, 10- and 30-
year debt, as demand for a refuge from Europe’s turmoil helped
the U.S. sell $24 billion of 10-year notes at 1.855 percent on
May 9, a record low for an auction. Ten-year yields dropped to
1.67 percent on Sept. 23, the least ever.  The government will auction $13 billion of 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on May 17.  Talks on forming a Greek government entered a fifth day,
adding to speculation the nation will abandon the euro as its
currency amid a worsening recession.  “The risks of contagion for other countries of the  euro
zone  have been reduced,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  told the Rheinische Post newspaper in an interview
published yesterday when asked whether the euro-region is
prepared for a  Greece  exit.  France’s  Francois Hollande , who will become the first
Socialist in 17 years to control Europe’s second-biggest
economy, pledged to push for less austerity and more growth in
the region. Hollande’s platform calls for policies German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes, including increased spending
and delayed deficit cuts.  European Economy  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area will drop
0.3 percent this year, the European Commission said. Greece’s
economy will contract 4.7 percent, the deepest slump in the
region, the commission said.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said May 10
the company suffered a $2 billion trading loss after an
“egregious” failure in a unit managing risks, jeopardizing
Wall Street banks’ efforts to loosen a federal ban on bets with
their own money.  “JPMorgan have put banks into the spotlight again and that
is bad for risk sentiment and supportive for Treasuries,” said
 Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  Treasury 10-year note yields may fall to a record low 1.5
percent as global economic-growth concern persists, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s Dominic Konstam. “The lack of impetus to
growth in the U.S., as well as abroad, is fast unraveling
prospects for sustainable fiscal tightening,” analysts led by
Konstam wrote in a note to clients.  Futures Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending May 8, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices
will fall, outnumbered long positions by 132,728 contracts on
the Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 12,028
contracts, or 8 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-
based commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell in April for the first
time in four months, led by a decline in fuel costs that signals
inflation may cool. The 1.9 percent increase during the past 12
months was the smallest since October 2009. The  producer price
index  dropped 0.2 percent after no change in March, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in Washington.  The CPI was unchanged last month, compared with a 0.3
percent gain in March, according to the median of a Bloomberg
News survey of 65 economists before the Labor report May 15.  The difference between the yields on the 10-year note and
10-year TIPS, known as the break-even rate, dropped to as low as
2.13 percentage points, the least since Feb. 2. The rate has
averaged 2.15 percentage points for the past 10 years.  The 10-year note yield will rise to 2.48 by the end of the
year, according to the weighted average in a Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  