-- 
‘Hangover II’ Is No. 1 Movie With $86.5 Million in Ticket Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-30T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/-hangover-ii-top-film-for-memorial-day-weekend.html
“The Hangover Part II” was the top
film in the U.S. and  Canada  this weekend, generating $86.5
million in receipts for  Warner Bros ., and making it the best
debut ever for a comedy.  The 3-D feature “Kung Fu Panda 2,” a follow-up to
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s 2008 film, opened in second
place with $48 million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  “The Hangover Part II” bested the comedy-debut record set
by “The Simpsons Movie” ($74 million) in 2007. The U.S.
celebrates the Memorial Day holiday this weekend, which is also
one of the summer film season’s biggest for moviegoers. Total
receipts for the weekend were up 49 percent from the year-ago
period. That boosted sales for the year to date, though they
remain down 8.82 percent.  “‘Hangover’s’ opening is sensational; it’s doing more than
doubling the first movie’s opening and that’s way more than you
can ask for,” said  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo,
an audience-reporting service. “Typically, comedy sequels
struggle.”  Gray had forecast the movie would make $70 million in three
days. The original film in 2009 cost $35 million to make and had
sales of $45 million its opening weekend before generating
$467.5 million overall for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “The Hangover Part II” drew audiences even as poor
reviews led to a 65 percent “rotten” rating on
Rottentomatoes.com.  ‘Kung Fu Panda 2’  The raunchy comedy has a similar plot to the original. The
main characters wake up in a hotel room after wild partying with
little memory of what transpired the night before. As in the
previous film, the friends are played by  Bradley Cooper , Zach
Galifianakis and Ed Helms.  In “Kung Fu Panda 2,” primary character Dragon Warrior Po
battles a new villain while discovering secrets about his past.
The movie features the voices of Jack Black as Po and Angelina Jolie as his ally, Tigress. Gary Oldman plays Shen, Po’s
antagonist.  The original “Kung Fu Panda” opened with $60.2 million in
sales and took in $631.7 million worldwide, according to Box
Office Mojo, based in  Sherman Oaks ,  California .  “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” the fourth
film in the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  series, dropped to third place from
first with sales of $39.3 million. The movie has taken in $152.9
million in the U.S. and Canada since it opened on May 20.  ‘Bridesmaids’  In “On Stranger Tides,”  Johnny Depp ’s Captain Jack
Sparrow is enlisted in a search for the Fountain of Youth.
Penelope Cruz co-stars as Angelica, a pirate determined to save
the soul of Blackbeard from damnation.  Geoffrey Rush  returns as
Sparrow’s rival, Barbossa, and Ian McShane plays Blackbeard.  “Bridesmaids,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures ,
dropped to fourth from second with $16.4 million. The film,
produced by Judd Apatow, features  Kristen Wiig  as the maid of
honor who must cope with financial woes and personality
conflicts among members of the bridal party. The movie has had
sales of $84.9 million in three weeks of release.  The superhero saga “Thor,” from Disney’s Marvel unit and
 Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount Pictures, was fifth with sales of $9.37
million. In “Thor,” the arrogant, hammer-wielding god of Norse
mythology is banished by his father Odin to Earth to live among
humans. He learns to accept the responsibility when evil forces
invade Earth. Chris Hemsworth stars as Thor and  Anthony Hopkins 
plays Odin.  Revenue for the top 12 films for the three-day period rose
to $216.4 million from the year ago, Hollywood.com said. The
box-office tracker said the weekend’s receipts for Friday
through today are likely to surpass the record $255 million set
in 2007.  Year to date, attendance is down 10.2 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
27 and May 28 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 Abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  