-- 
A2A, Eni, Fiat, Parmalat, Terna, UniCredit: Italy Equity Preview

-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-05-30T06:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/a2a-eni-fiat-parmalat-terna-txt-italy-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be active
in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and share
prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  added 162.52, or 0.8
percent, to 20,830.87.  A2A SpA (A2A)  (A2A IM): The utility is scheduled to hold a board
meeting today to discuss the sale of Metroweb SpA. The shares
gained 0.4 percent to 1.17 euros.  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  : The jeweler being acquired by LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA will benefit from “significant
revenue synergies” with the world’s largest luxury-goods maker,
Borsa & Finanza reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Francesco Trapani. The shares added 0.3 percent to 12.19 euros.  Enel SpA (ENEL)  : Morgan Stanley, which reiterated a
cautious view on European utilities, kept Enel and  Snam Rete Gas
SpA (SRG)   among its preferred stocks in the industry. Enel
shares added 0.5 percent to 4.72 euros. Snam shares slid 0.3
percent to 4.04 euros.  Eni SpA (ENI)  : Extractions at the Kashagan field will
start at the end of 2012 or in the following months at the
latest, Claudio Descalzi, head of exploration and production for
Eni, told Il Sole 24 Ore in an interview.  Italy’s biggest energy company “won’t do an about-face,”
he told the newspaper, adding that Eni’s expectations about
profitability of the field “are more than positive.” The
shares rose 0.6 percent to 16.34 euros.  Fiat SpA (F)  : Turin, Italy-based carmaker plans to buy
the U.S. government’s remaining stake in Chrysler Group LLC by
the end of 2011, boosting its holding to 57 percent. The shares
rose 1.6 percent to 7.2 euros.  Lottomatica SpA (LTO)  : Chief financial officer Stefano Bortoli will leave the lottery company at the end of May. The
shares declined 0.2 percent to 13.68 euros.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : Groupe Lactalis, France’s biggest
cheesemaker, is syndicating 7.5 billion euros ($10.7 billion) of
loans to fund a bid for the Italian dairy company and refinance
its existing debt, according to two people with knowledge of the
deal. Parmalat shares increased 0.2 percent to 2.59 euros.  Terna SpA (TRN IM): The owner of Italy’s national power
grid may consider legal action to defend its plans for the
construction of pumping plants and electric-energy storage
systems, Il Sole 24 Ore reported, without saying where it got
the information. The shares ended unchanged at 3.39 euros.  TXT e-Solutions SpA (TXT)  : The software maker may
consider acquisitions in the U.S., East Europe and North Europe,
Borsa & Finanza reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Marco Guida. The shares advanced 1.6 percent to 9 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  :  Barclays Capital  kept UniCredit as
its preferred name among Italian banks. The brokerage, which
sees “significant re-rating” for the stock, trimmed its price
estimate on  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  ,  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA (BMPS)  ,  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  .
UniCredit shares added 2 percent to 1.55 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 