-- 
Mladic May Be Extradited Early in Week

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-05-29T20:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/mladic-may-be-extradited-early-in-week.html
Former Bosnian Serb commander Ratko Mladic may be extradited to The Hague within days to stand trial
on war-crimes and genocide charges, the press office of a
Serbian legal agency said today without providing a specific
date.  The extradition “should take place at the start of the
week,” the press office for the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor’s
Office said in a statement to Bloomberg News. The authorities
had said details of the expected handover would not be disclosed
for security reasons.  Today, more than 5,000 people rallied in front of the
Serbian parliament protesting against Mladic’s arrest. The
organizers of the rally, the Serbian Radical Party, called
 Serbia ’s pro-Western President  Boris Tadic  a “traitor” for his
support of Mladic’s arrest. They called for his resignation as
well as that of the government led by Tadic’s  Democratic Party .  A group of protesters threw rocks at police, triggering a
brief clash in central Belgrade. The vice president of the
Radical Party called for calm as police in riot gear attempted
to disperse the crowd.  “Ratko Mladic is not a criminal. He did not order the
killing of civilians. He did not order the killing of prisoners
of war,” Darko Mladic, Ratko’s son, said at the rally. He also
said his father was in “no physical or mental health to stand
trial” after suffering three strokes since 1995.  The extradition date will depend on how soon Mladic’s
lawyers lodge an appeal, the prosecutor’s press office said. His
lawyer Milos Saljic said on May 27 it was possible the
extradition order could be signed as early as May 31, even as
the defense appeals against it.  Evaded Capture  Mladic, 69, indicted for the siege of Sarajevo and the
Srebrenica massacre by the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal
for the former  Yugoslavia , was arrested after evading capture
for 16 years.  He faces charges that include crimes against humanity and
genocide during the 1992-95 war in Bosnia-Herzegovina, the
bloodiest chapter of Yugoslavia’s collapse.  Chief United Nations War Crimes Prosecutor Serge Brammertz
told Dutch television program “Buitenhof” today that Mladic
will probably come to The Hague this week.  Mladic’s arrest and extradition were on the list of
conditions for Belgrade to convince the European Union that
Serbia is ready to become an EU candidate and get a date for the
start of membership talks by the end of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in London at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  