-- 
Afghan Bomb Attack Kills Police Chiefs; ISAF Condemns ‘Senseless Murder’

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-05-29T04:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/afghan-bomb-attack-kills-police-chiefs-isaf-condemns-senseless-murder-.html
A suicide bomber killed two police
chiefs at a meeting of Afghan and coalition officials in the
northern province of Takhar, an incident the  International
Security Assistance Force  called “senseless murder.”  General Mohammad Daud Daud and the Takhar provincial police
chief were among seven people killed in yesterday’s attack, ISAF
 said  in a statement on its website. General Daud was the police
commander for Afghanistan’s northern region, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing the provincial health director. German
General Markus Kneip, the ISAF force commander in the north, was
injured, AP said.  “ISAF strongly condemns the senseless murder of these
Afghan and coalition members who have fought so hard for the
people of Afghanistan,” Rear Admiral Vic Beck, ISAF director of
public affairs, said in the statement.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization increased security
after the Taliban said earlier this month it would attack
government offices and military bases in a new spring offensive.
Afghan and coalition forces three weeks ago repelled an assault
by Taliban fighters, including five  suicide bombers , on
government and military buildings in the southern city of
Kandahar.  Governor Hurt  The suicide bomber went into the governor’s office during a
security briefing and “succeeded in gaining entry to the
meeting room” and exploding the device at 4:50 p.m. local time,
Faiz Mohammed Tawhidi, a spokesman for the Takhar provincial
government, said by phone yesterday.  Abdul Jabar Taqwa, the Takhar provincial governor of Takhar,
was among eight people hurt, Tawhidi said. General Shah Jahan
Noori, Takhar’s police chief, was among those killed, he added.  Kneip was slightly wounded, the Deutsche Presse-Agentur
news agency cited German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere as
saying yesterday in Berlin.  Germany  has 5,000 soldiers in  Afghanistan , the largest
group in NATO’s 50,000-strong ISAF contingent that is drawn from
47 nations.  The U.S. has about 97,000 soldiers in the country after
last year adding 30,000 to its force. President Barack Obama’s
administration is deciding how many troops will leave when a
withdrawal program begins in July.  The Taliban, which gave shelter to Osama  bin Laden ’s al-
Qaeda movement, were ousted from power by the U.S.-led coalition
that invaded Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on
the World Trade Center in  New York  and the Pentagon in
 Washington . Bin Laden was killed by U.S. Navy SEAL commandos in
Pakistan on May 2.  Western militaries are preparing to hand over security to
Afghan forces in all the country’s provinces by 2014, a target
date set by NATO leaders at a summit meeting in Lisbon last
November. By July, Afghanistan’s national army will take over
security in three provinces and four cities, President  Hamid Karzai  said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  