-- 
Alberto Contador Wins Giro d’Italia as He Awaits Appeal in Doping Case

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-29T18:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/alberto-contador-wins-giro-d-italia-as-he-awaits-appeal-in-doping-case.html
Alberto Contador  won his second Giro
d’Italia cycling race after defending his lead in today’s final
stage, a time trial in Milan.  The Spaniard’s winning margin over Michele Scarponi of
 Italy  was 6 minutes, 10 seconds. Contador has led since taking
the race-leading pink jersey on the ninth stage on Mount Etna.  He’s waiting on an appeal hearing after being cleared of
doping at last year’s Tour de  France .  Contador, who rides for the Saxo Bank team, dominated the
three-week Giro. He slowed to allow his friend Paolo Tiralongo
of the Astana team to win the 19th stage two days ago.  The race was marred by the death of Belgian cyclist Wouter
Weylandt, who was killed on a descent on stage three when his
bike clipped a wall and he hit the road.  It’s the biggest winning margin since Ivan Basso won the
race by 9 minutes, 18 seconds in 2006. Contador, who also won
the Giro in 2008, now has six wins in cycling’s top three stages
races in five years.  He was third on today’s time trial, which was won by
Britain’s David Millar.  Contador, 28, blames eating contaminated beef for testing
positive for the stimulant clenbuterol on the way to winning
last year’s  Tour de France , his third victory in the event.  He was cleared of doping by the Spanish cycling federation
earlier this year, although the sport’s ruling body  Union
Cycliste Internationale  is appealing the decision to the Court
of Arbitration for Sport.  The Lausanne, Switzerland-based court said on May 26 it was
postponing a June 6-8 hearing, without setting a new date. The
delay is to allow witnesses and experts to take part, according
to the court website.  The Tour de France starts on July 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  