-- 
Australia First-Quarter GDP Suffered ‘Dramatic Hit’ From Floods, Swan Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-05-29T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/australia-gdp-suffered-dramatic-hit-swan-says.html
Natural disasters in Australia
probably cut more than 1 percentage point from economic growth
in the first quarter, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said ahead of a
government report this week on gross domestic product.  The June 1 report from the Bureau of Statistics likely will
show a “dramatic hit” from floods and a cyclone in Queensland
state, and an earthquake and tsunami March 11 in  Japan , Swan
said yesterday in a  weekly  economic note. Japan is Australia’s
second-biggest trading partner after  China .  Swan’s latest estimate was higher than one he made in April
that put damage to GDP in the first quarter at 0.75 percentage
point. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23
economists is for a 0.3 percent first-quarter contraction from
the final three months of 2010.  “No matter the outcome on Wednesday, the encouraging
medium-term picture for our economy doesn’t change our task
ahead,” Swan said. “Our fundamentals are strong and our
prospects are bright.”  The total economic cost of the disasters is likely to be
about A$9 billion ($9.6 billion), with more than half the
estimated A$6 billion impact to coal production showing up in
the March quarter, Swan said.  Australia ’s central bank has held the nation’s benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent since November to allow
Queensland, which produces 80 percent of the coking coal
exported from the country, to recover from the flooding.  Production Losses  “The size of that loss isn’t surprising when you consider
that 85 percent of Queensland’s 57 coal mines suffered
production losses in the early part of the year,” Swan said.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi tore through sugar- and banana-
producing areas in Queensland in February, following two months
of floods that shut mines and wiped out crops. The state
produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports from Australia,
the world’s biggest supplier, and grows more than 30 percent of
the nation’s fruit and vegetables.  As rebuilding gets under way and exports accelerate,
Australia’s economy will expand next year at the fastest pace
among nations in the Group of 10 bloc of currencies, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said last
week. The economy will advance 2.9 percent this year, even after
the disasters, and accelerate in 2012 by 4.5 percent, its
fastest pace since 2007, the Paris-based OECD said.  The  Reserve Bank ’s next meeting on  interest rates  is
scheduled for June 7. Earlier this month, it said GDP “is
likely to have declined in the March quarter” and that it will
“look through” the disasters’ impact on production and prices
and focus on the medium-term outlook in setting rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  