-- 
BOE Will Raise Benchmark Interest Rate to 0.75% in August, BCC Forecasts

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/bcc-pushes-back-boe-rate-increase-forecast-after-cutting-growth-projection.html
The British Chambers of Commerce
pushed back its forecast for when the Bank of England will raise
the key interest rate after cutting its growth outlook.  The central bank will raise the rate to 0.75 percent in
August from 0.5 percent, BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in
an e-mailed statement. The London-based lobby group said in
March that the bank would increase the benchmark in May. A
separate report showed U.K.  house prices  fell this month.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee is holding
off raising  interest rates  to support the economic recovery,
even after inflation accelerated to the more than double its 2
percent target. The BCC sees gross domestic product rising 1.3
percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2012. It previously
forecast growth of 1.4 percent and 2.3 percent respectively.  “Although we would prefer to see interest rates held until
the fourth quarter, we believe British businesses will be able
to absorb small increases,” Kern said in the statement. “But
the MPC must act with great caution and must not be too
aggressive in its tightening.”  The group sees the  Bank of England  increasing its key rate
to 1 percent this year and 2.75 percent by the end of 2012.  Growth will be slower this year after GDP rose less than
forecast in the first quarter, while a higher inflation rate and
a faster pace of rate increases will curtail expansion in 2012,
the BCC said. It sees growth of 0.3 percent in the current and
third quarters and forecasts an acceleration to 0.6 percent at
the end of the year.  House Prices  A report from Hometrack Ltd. today showed U.K. house prices
fell 0.1 percent in May after demand dropped for the first time
in three months. Demand as measured by prospective buyers
registering with realtors declined 0.5 percent as “weaker”
 consumer confidence  and two consecutive four-day weekends at the
end of last month curtailed activity.  “With concern over household finances and the wider
economic outlook, demand for housing is likely to continue to
post further modest declines,”  Richard Donnell , research
director at London-based Hometrack, said in an e-mailed report.
“This will result in small single-digit price falls over the
coming months and is consistent with our forecast that house
prices will end the year down by around 1 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  