-- 
Mohamed Bin Hammam Withdraws From Contest to Head World Soccer’s FIFA

-- B y   J a k e   L l o y d - S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-29T02:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/bin-hammam-of-qatar-withdraws-from-contest-to-head-fifa-world-soccer-body.html
Mohamed  Bin Hammam , the sole
challenger against Sepp Blatter for the presidency of FIFA, has
withdrawn from the contest amid accusations of corruption at
soccer’s ruling body.  “Recent events have left me hurt and disappointed,” Bin
Hammam, a FIFA board member from Qatar, said in a  statement on
his website . “The game itself and the people who love it around
the world must come first. It is for this reason that I announce
my withdrawal from the presidential election.”  The election is scheduled for June 1, and at stake is
responsibility for leading the body that oversees the  global
game , including the World Cup, the sport’s most-watched
tournament. Blatter has headed FIFA since 1998, taking the top
job after working at the group for more than two decades.  Bin Hammam and fellow board member Jack Warner are facing
an ethics-panel hearing today into a meeting where Bin Hammam is
accused of handing out about $2 million in cash to Caribbean
officials for “development” of the sport. Bin Hammam and
Warner deny any wrongdoing. The ethics panel has also invited
Blatter to attend the hearing to be held in Zurich.  “I pray that my withdrawal will not be tied to the
investigation,” Bin Hammam wrote in the statement. Bin Hammam
said that he planned to attend today’s hearing “to clear my
name from the baseless allegations that have been made against
me.”  Blatter, in a May 26 column on the Inside World Football
website, said that the charges against Bin Hammam and Warner,
who oversees the sport in the Caribbean, “brought him no joy.”
He also said that claims that the matter was masterminded by him
were “ludicrous and completely reprehensible.”  FIFA, or the Fédération Internationale de Football
Association, was founded in 1904 and has 208 member associations.
The  World Cup , held every four years, generates $4 billion in
revenue to the organization. A call to FIFA’s headquarters after
normal office hours was answered by a recorded message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith in Singapore at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  