-- 
FIFA Suspends Bin Hammam, Warner in Bribes Inquiry; Sepp Blatter Cleared

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-05-30T04:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/bin-hammam-warner-suspended-temporarily-after-fifa-ethics-panel-meeting.html
Two of soccer’s most powerful men
were suspended by the sport’s governing body pending an
independent investigation into allegations they paid bribes to
solicit votes for FIFA’s presidency.  Mohamed  Bin Hammam , who’s responsible for the sport in
 Asia , is accused of colluding with North and Central
American soccer head Jack Warner to arrange a meeting where
bribes of $40,000 were offered to soccer officials in the
Caribbean. Bin Hammam stood down today as a candidate in the
June 1 election against incumbent Sepp Blatter. Blatter won’t
face an inquiry over claims he knew about the meeting and didn’t
report it, FIFA’s ethics committee decided yesterday.  “We are satisfied that there is a case to be answered, a
full inquiry is going to be held in due course,” Petrus
Damaseb, the Namibian chairman of the ethics panel, told
reporters at a press conference in Zurich.  Bin Hammam said he was confused by the suspensions, and
said the punishment was disproportionate to the ethics
committee’s comments.  The ethics committee “did not find this evidence
sufficient to convict me,” the Qatari said in a statement.
“Consequently, I should have been given the benefit
of doubt but instead, I have been banned from all football
activities.”  The scandal has roiled the sport, and increased pressure on
governing body FIFA, which generates $4 billion from its World
Cup, to reform.  World Cups  The organization had already been trying to fend off
allegations of improper conduct by its decision-making body
during the bidding process for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups that
ended with sport’s most-watched event being handed to  Russia  and
desert-state Qatar. Nine of the executive’s 24 members have now
either faced investigations or have been sanctioned for
wrongdoing in the past year.  “FIFA’s reputation is not at the highest, that’s clear,
and it’s sad. Definitely there needs to be a change,” said FIFA
General Secretary  Jerome Valcke , who was also present at the
press conference. “I want to make sure that FIFA will make the
necessary changes to make sure that institution has all the
systems in place to avoid this happening again.”  Valcke brandished a sheet of paper saying it was an e-mail
he’d received at 5.49 p.m. yesterday from the Puerto Rican
soccer federation’s president saying he’d taken the money at the
May 10-11 meeting and now wanted to return it.  Deny Allegations  Warner and Bin Hammam deny the allegations that were
brought to FIFA by Chuck Blazer, the U.S. member on its
executive panel and a long-time ally of Warner. Debbie Minguell
and Jason Sylvester, from the Caribbean Football Union, were
also suspended for allegedly breaching FIFA’s code of ethics and
its disciplinary code, according to a  statement  from FIFA.  Warner, in a statement to the British Broadcasting Corp.,
said he was surprised by his suspension.  “I will vigorously defend my reputation as well as the
reputation of the rest of the Caribbean members,” he told the
 BBC .  Blatter, 75, has been FIFA president since 1998. While he’s
received credit for taking the World Cup to  Africa  for the first
time when it was hosted by  South Africa  last year, he’s also
faced criticism that he’s not been tough on improper practices
within the organization. Warner was sanctioned for illegally
selling World Cup tickets but retained his place on FIFA’s
executive committee. Blatter in a meeting earlier this month
vowed to deal with the corruption allegations “once and for
all.”  Blatter’s Regrets  Blatter said in a statement he regretted what has happened
in recent days and weeks.  “I do not wish to comment in detail,” he said. “FIFA’s
image has suffered a great deal as a result, much to the
disappointment of FIFA itself and all football fans.”  Damaseb, who’s a judge, said Blatter was cleared because
the evidence presented wasn’t enough to clear the “low”
threshold needed to conduct a further investigation. He said
Blatter claimed he was advised by Warner about the plan to make
the payments and told him not to go through with it. He
didn’t report that matter because he feared accusations of
sabotaging Bin Hammam’s campaign, Damaseb said.  Valcke said the election would still go ahead in three days
unless 75 percent of FIFA’s 208 member associations voted to
scrap it on the day of the ballot. The Frenchman, FIFA’s highest
non-elected official, also gave his backing to Blatter.  England  Abstains  England’s Football Association said it would abstain from
the elections. It said it couldn’t vote for Blatter or Bin
Hammam, who lobbied for his native Qatar before his country’s
surprise World Cup vote win ahead of the U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan 
and  Korea .  The F.A. submitted a 200-page report written by a senior
U.K. lawyer to FIFA after its former chairman alleged four
officials had sought favors to vote for England’s failed 2018
bid. Valcke said the report cleared the officials of wrongdoing.  Meanwhile Blazer, who’s been close to Warner since helping
the official claim the presidency of the Concacaf region in 1990
said, he “did what he had to do.” Blazer is also Concacaf’s
general secretary.  “On a personal level it’s a matter that I’ll have
nightmares about for years,” Blazer said in an interview.
“Over 21 years building something together, unfortunately, I’ve
also seen this situation break down now and it’s really
unfortunate but I still had to do what I needed to do.”  Warner alleged in a written submission that Blazer mounted
a campaign to undermine Bin Hammam because of the U.S.’s defeat
to Qatar in the World Cup bidding race.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
4104 or  cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 