-- 
BTA Bank’s Bad Loans May Top Original Estimate, Adviser Says

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-30T15:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/bta-bank-s-bad-loans-may-exceed-estimate-by-20-adviser-says.html
BTA Bank,  Kazakhstan ’s biggest lender
before its nationalization and default two years ago, may have
underestimated its bad-loan total and may require more
government aid or risks being broken up.  Negotiations with creditors were based on projected losses
of about $14.2 billion on bad loans, according to BTA’s
accounts. The bank is currently off that estimate by 5 percent
to 10 percent, said Nick Dove, director at London-based
consulting firm  John Howell and Co. Ltd. , BTA’s adviser on its
asset recovery strategy. The eventual figure may be as low as
zero percent or as high as 20 percent, he also said.  Creditors “negotiated quite hard, leaving BTA with less
wiggle room for potential further deterioration than it would
have liked,” Dove said in a telephone interview in London.
“The options are a split of the bank, further support, a sale
of the bank or continuation of existing management.”  BTA, which was taken over by a state-run fund in February
2009, defaulted on $12 billion of debt before winning 92 percent
creditor approval of a restructuring plan in May 2010. The bank
is still finding new evidence of bad loans stemming from an
alleged fraud by ousted Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov and former
Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko, Dove said.  ‘Overly Optimistic’  Restructuring negotiators “with the benefit of hindsight”
used “overly optimistic” estimates and clearly creditors
including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and other lenders that financed BTA’s rapid growth before the
global credit crisis sought to avoid bigger write-offs during
debt negotiations, Dove said.  The Almaty-based  lender  declined to comment on the size of
its bad loans or a possible reason for the discrepancy,
according to a statement released by its press service May 26.
Eric Lalo, a Paris-based representative of Lazard Freres & Co.,
which advised BTA on its debt restructuring, didn’t respond to a
message left on his phone or an e-mailed request for comment.  BTA set aside 1.7 trillion tenge ($11.7 billion) against
bad loans as of May 1, 2010, less than a month before it reached
a deal with creditors.  Its loan holdings were at 2.2 trillion tenge at the time,
based on unconsolidated data published by the nation’s financial
regulator in accordance with Kazakh accounting standards.  BTA’s restructuring allowed it to reduce $16.7 billion of
debt to $4.2 billion after paying cash and distributing shares.
The bank’s growing pool of delinquent loans stems from an
international portfolio and its “good” domestic loans would
perform much better, Dove said.  Moody’s Upgrade  Moody’s Investors Service on May 24 upgraded BTA’s debt
rating three notches from Caa3 to B3, six levels below
investment grade. The revision was prompted by an $11 billion
recapitalization that followed BTA’s restructuring and a
“moderate probability that systemic support would be extended
to the bank’s depositors in case of need” by the government,
the rating company said in a statement.  BTA won’t seek money from the state-owned National
Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna, which now holds about 81 percent
in the bank, Chief Executive Officer Anvar Saidenov said in
Astana on May 20. The lender plans instead to use profit from
operations to bolster its capital, he said.  The deviation from the earlier bad-loan estimate is the
result of new evidence of fraud, Dove said. The lender has sued
Ablyazov and Solodchenko in a U.K. court, seeking the return of
more than $4 billion the men allegedly siphoned from the bank
through fake loans and share sales before fleeing from
Kazakhstan to  London .  Worse Than Expected  “The information we’re finding continues to be worse than
was originally expected,” Dove said. The margin of error “is
not yet fixed in stone, and could move either way from here.”  Locksley Ryan, the London-based spokesman for Ablyazov and
Solodchenko, said the men are innocent of the claims and cannot
be blamed for the bank’s current financial problems.  “The previous management maintains the damage done to the
bank is the result of nationalization and the mismanagement of
the loan portfolio -- post-restructuring,” Ryan said in a phone
interview in London.  Ablyazov and Solodchenko say the case is politically
motivated due to Ablyazov’s attempt to start a political
challenge to Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has been
in power for two decades in the former  Soviet Union ’s second-
biggest energy producer.  Commerzbank, Barclays  BTA, whose creditors include  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , last year issued 10-year “recovery notes” to creditors
for about $5 billion of bad loans as part of its restructuring.
The lender will share with creditors, on a 50-50 basis,
recoveries from impaired assets, including damages from the U.K.
lawsuits.  BTA’s shares, traded in Luxemburg, dropped to $11.9 on May
26, the lowest price since they started trading in March at
$20.90 under the restructuring plan.  The yield on BTA’s dollar-denominated notes due in 2018
reached a record high of 14.142 percent on May 27.  Other creditors that stand to benefit from BTA’s asset
recovery include Wells Fargo & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Standard Chartered Plc,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which in July 2009 quit as BTA’s
restructuring adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  