-- 
Champion Rafael Nadal May Have Lost Invincibility Factor at French Open

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-29T22:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/champion-rafael-nadal-may-have-lost-invincibility-factor-at-french-open.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal , the most
successful clay-court player of his generation, may have lost
some of the aura that helped him win five French Open trophies.  The Spaniard today plays unseeded Croat Ivan Ljubicic, the
oldest man left in the draw aged 32, in the fourth round at
Roland Garros in Paris.  Although Nadal won his 31st clay-court title last month in
Barcelona, the most of any player on the  ATP World Tour , he lost
the finals of  Madrid  and  Rome  to Novak Djokovic, the second-
seeded Serb who is on a 41-0 win streak this season and has a
shot at taking the No. 1 ranking away from the Spanish
lefthander.  “A few of the guys believe they can beat him now,”
Leander Paes, a three-time  French Open  doubles champion from
 India , said in an interview at Roland Garros. “Some feel like
they can take shots at him because of what Djokovic did to him
in Madrid, and again in Rome.”  Ljubicic, who has beaten Nadal twice in eight meetings,
agreed.  “There is no question that his confidence is shaken,” the
37th-ranked Croat told a news conference after he upset Fernando Verdasco, the No. 16 seed from  Spain , in the previous round.  “You see him in the locker room. He’s saying it. He’s not
hiding it. He’s just not feeling as comfortable as he was
feeling last year. And even the matches he’s winning, he’s not
dominating as much as he used to be.”  Murray’s Ankle  No. 4 seed  Andy Murray , who may play Nadal in the
semifinals, plays his fourth-round today against Victor Troicki
of Serbia. Murray rolled his ankle in his previous round and
underwent a scan yesterday.  France ’s  Gilles Simon  faces two-time
finalist  Robin Soderling . The Swede is the only man to have
beaten Nadal at Roland Garros, in the fourth round in 2009.  Russia’s Maria Sharapova continues her quest for the only
major title that has eluded her against Agnieszka Radwanska of
Poland.  In his opening round, nine-time major champion Nadal had
to play his first five-set match at the French Open against  John Isner  of the U.S. He also struggled in the second round against
fellow Spaniard Pablo Andujar, telling reporters afterwards he
had yet to find the form that had helped him collect five titles
in Paris.  “He has a lot of pressure,” Jean-Christophe Verborg, who
strings Nadal’s rackets at  Roland Garros  and has known the
Spaniard since he was 13 years old, said in an interview at
Roland Garros.  ‘Great Champion’  “For sure, he had a tough first match, but John Isner
played amazingly good,” said Verborg, who is international tour
manager for Lyon, France-based  Babolat , the official supplier of
balls and strings at Roland Garros. “He has a very good serve,
very good backhand, but Rafa won. The first rounds here for Rafa
are not easy, but he is OK. He’s only 24, he won many Grand
Slams, he’s No. 1. He’s a great champion.”  Nadal improved in the third round, beating 228th-ranked
qualifier Antonio Veic from Croatia in straight sets. That win
increased his confidence.  “I feel I’m more in control on the court,” he said. “I
have to continue for this way.”  Nadal may have has lost some of his aura in the locker
room, he’s still the man to beat in Paris, according to Paes.  “Nadal on clay is phenomenal,” said Paes, who is ranked
seventh in doubles. “It’s still going to take Djokovic win it a
few times to show that he’s a master on clay also.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  