-- 
Chateau Latour, Chinese Art Snapped Up in $106 Million Auction

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-29T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/chateau-latour-chinese-art-snapped-up-in-106-million-christie-s-auction.html
Chinese buyers spent HK$821.2 million
($106 million) on vintage bottles of  Chateau Latour  and modern
paintings at the start of a week-long Hong Kong auction.  The three-day total was an increase of about 40 percent on
equivalent auctions last autumn. The weekend event raises the
chance that the series -- including gems, watches, Chinese
ceramics and classical paintings -- will beat an estimate of
HK$2.4 billion, which would be a record for Christie’s
International for a series of sales in Hong Kong.  “The art market tends to follow wealth and the greatest
wealth is being created in  Asia ,” said Magnus Renfrew, director
of the Hong Kong International Art Fair, which ended last night.  Dealers are watching the auction after a HK$3.49 billion
marathon by  Sotheby’s (BID)  last month, where some lots achieved
prices many times their estimates and others failed to sell. The
Chinese antiques trade has an annual value of more than $10
billion.  China  overtook the U.S. as the biggest auction market
for fine art last year, research company  Artprice  said.  The two top lots at the May 28 Christie’s evening sale were
painted by 20th century artist  Zao Wou-ki . They were sold to
private Asian collectors for $5.27 million and $4.98 million
including buyer’s premiums -- more than twice estimates.  Works by contemporary Chinese painter Zeng Fanzhi also
fetched high prices in the packed auction room, with three works
among the 10 most expensive, including a self portrait bought by
a European buyer for $4.83 million.  Zhao’s Leopard  Chinese entrepreneur Zhao Zhijun paid HK$36 million, more
than four times the high estimate, for “The Leopard,” a new
work by Zeng. Zhao will display in his private Beijing museum.
Proceeds from that sale, on which Christie’s waived the usual
commission, go to support Nature Conservancy.  The sales began with an eight-hour marathon on May 27 in
which all 392 lots direct from Chateau Latour sold. Wine earned
$7.76 million, with 95 percent of the lots exceeding their high
estimate.  A much anticipated item is a Qianlong-era vase, similar to
one that last year attracted the highest bid ever for a Chinese
artwork, with aggressive bidding expected from mainland
collectors keen to purchase their heritage.  The 15 inch (38.1 cm) vase being offered on June 1 is
lantern shaped, with scrolling hibiscus flowers on a yellow
background. The Qianlong vase is estimated at HK$200 million and
has the same pierced decoration as the 18th-century Imperial
vase that was bid to 51.6 million pounds ($83.2 million) at
 Bainbridges , west  London , last November.  Deposit Rule  Bainbridges said in February that it hadn’t received
payment. It has since refused to comment. Mindful of such
reports, Christie’s has introduced for the first time the
requirement that bidders pay a deposit of HK$1 million on any
items valued at HK$8 million or more.  The number of Chinese millionaires reached 670,000 in 2009
according to the  Boston Consulting Group , up from 190,000 five
years earlier.  Last year’s equivalent Christie’s sale raised HK$2.29
billion ($294 million), then the second-highest tally for an art
sale in the city and beating an estimate of HK$1.5 billion.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 