-- 
Combet Sees Progress in Talks on Setting Australian Carbon Tax

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-05-29T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/combet-sees-progress-in-talks-on-setting-australian-carbon-tax.html
Australian Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  said he expected to bridge differences and complete
details of a plan for a pollution tax after a weekend of talks
with lawmakers.  The Multiparty Climate Change Committee, which includes the
minister and lawmakers, met in Canberra yesterday and the day
before to formulate the country’s carbon policy. Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s government wants the levy to begin in July 2012
in preparation for a trading system that could be operating as
early as 2015 in  Australia , a country that burns coal to
generate more than 80 percent of its electricity.  “There is quite a lot of issues that are on the table and
we’ve certainly made progress with a number of them,” Combet
told Channel 10 television’s “Meet The Press” program
yesterday, adding that he anticipates agreement “on all the
elements” at the end of the two-day meeting.  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of the nation’s energy from
renewable sources such as wind and solar by 2020. Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  said yesterday the carbon tax plan is “a
big reform” and “a pretty tough sell” to businesses.  The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry reiterated
its opposition to the carbon tax plan yesterday. It also
rejected the Business Council of Australia’s proposal last week
for an introductory tax of A$10 ($10.70) per metric ton.  Full Compensation  The council, a group that consists of chief executive
officers of Australia’s top 100 companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) , made its proposals in a  submission  to
the government on May 27. It also suggested that businesses
should initially receive full compensation for the tax to ensure
Australia’s policy to price greenhouse gas emissions doesn’t
affect trade and investment.  Details of the government’s carbon tax plan include
compensation to households and businesses and funding for clean
energy projects. Combet said yesterday that more than half of
the carbon tax revenue will be used to compensate households.  The annual impact on households of an A$30-per-ton carbon
price, excluding petrol price concessions, would be A$863.20,
according to preliminary Treasury estimates released on April 1
under an Australian Freedom of Information Act request. At A$20
a ton the cost would be A$577.20.  “It’s a real pity in this country that we’ve been
discussing this for so many years,” Wong said in an interview
with the Sky News television yesterday. “Remember, the Business
Council of Australia, I think it was in 2006, pushed the former
Prime Minister  John Howard  toward a carbon price. We’re in 2011
and we’re still having an argument about whether it’s a good
thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  