-- 
David Einhorn May Get Option to Buy Majority Stake in Mets in Three Years

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-29T05:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/david-einhorn-may-get-option-to-buy-majority-stake-in-mets-in-three-years.html
David Einhorn, the hedge-fund manager
who offered $200 million for a minority stake in the  New York
Mets , may have a chance to become majority owner in three years.  Einhorn, president of Greenlight Capital Inc. who is buying
a one-third stake in the team, has an option to own 60 percent
in three years, ESPN.com reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the terms.  The Mets’ owners are attempting to pay off debts and
resolve a $1 billion suit by the trustee representing people who
lost money in the  Ponzi scheme  run by Bernard L. Madoff. The
Mets are carrying $427 million in debt and could lose as much as
$70 million this year, owner  Fred Wilpon  told Sports Illustrated
in a story this month. The team needed an emergency loan of $25
million from MLB last November.  “This shows us the true brilliance of  David Einhorn ,”
said Wayne McDonnell, associate professor of Sports Management
at  New York University , in a telephone interview. “It also
tells us the Wilpons are deeper in financial distress than we
thought.”  As part of the agreement with Einhorn, Wilpon and his
family can block the investor from gaining the majority stake by
returning Einhorn’s $200 million investment, though Einhorn
would keep his 33 percent ownership, ESPN said, citing the
unidentified person.  ‘Strictly Confidential’  “While we have entered into an exclusive negotiating
agreement with Mr. Einhorn, there is uninformed speculation
regarding terms of a potential deal,” the Mets said in a
statement. “The details of the actual negotiations are strictly
confidential.”  Stephen Greenberg of Allen & Co. LLC, who was hired by the
Mets to handle the sale, declined to discuss the deal.  “I never comment on aspects of any transaction that are
covered by binding Non-Disclosure Agreements,” he said in an e-
mail.  New York businessman Mike Repole, who co-founded Glaceau
Vitaminwater before it was sold to Coca-Cola Co. for $4.1
billion in 2007, inquired about buying the Mets stake until he
discovered he would have no say in operations.  “If there is a path to majority ownership or repayment of
the $200 million, the deal makes more sense,” said Repole in an
e-mail. “David obviously seems and is a sharp businessman. He
wouldn’t get to where he was at such a young age.”  The Mets are worth $858 million, placing them third in
baseball after the Yankees ($1.6 billion) and  Boston Red Sox 
($870 million), Forbes magazine said in April. On that basis, a
33 percent stake would be worth about $283 million.  Einhorn has reached a point in his career where he is
looking for a new challenge, McDonnell said.  No Greater Challenge  “There is no greater challenge than the Mets,” McDonnell
said. “He has the business acumen and passion to right the ship.
For anyone but David Einhorn, $200 million would be a lot of
money, but for him, it’s not going to break the bank and it
would be worth the risk. In three to five years, the Mets could
be an attractive asset.”  McDonnell doubts that the Wilpons’ financial situation will
change enough during the next three years so that they can buy
out Einhorn.  “The stars are aligning perfectly for Mets’ fans,”
McDonnell said.  Repole, whose thoroughbred horseracing stable colors are
the Mets’ orange and blue, is cheering for a better team.  “I hope as a diehard Mets fan they plan on putting a
better product on the field, improve the organization on all
levels and begin to finally make some smart business moves and
be less critical of superstars like  David Wright  and take more
accountability and ownership in their numerous and consistent
mistakes,” he said.  Einhorn didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  