-- 
German Stocks Are Little Changed; BASF, Bayer Advance as Utilities Decline

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-30T16:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/demag-deutsche-telekom-saf-holland-siemens-equity-preview-for-germany.html
German stocks closed little changed
after the nation’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  posted four straight
weeks of losses, as declines in utilities offset gains by
chemicals shares.  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  led rising shares, both adding 1
percent. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s biggest utilities, fell
more than 1.5 percent as the government said it will keep a tax
on atomic plants as it phases out nuclear power by 2022.  The DAX fell less than 0.1 percent to 7,160.3 at the 5:30
p.m. close in  Frankfurt , reversing an earlier advance of as much
as 0.6 percent. The gauge has fallen 4.9 percent since May 2 as
speculation grew that  Greece  will restructure its debt and the
outlook for other economies in the region deteriorated. The
broader HDAX Index gained 0.1 percent today.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he’ll press
ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win backing
from the main opposition parties. An international panel of
inspectors has concluded that the debt-laden country has missed
all the fiscal targets agreed in its rescue plan,  Der Spiegel 
reported May 29, without saying how it obtained the information.  The International Monetary Fund’s talks with Greek
officials are progressing and should end soon, Reuters said,
citing an IMF spokeswoman. A debt restructuring would be a
“death sentence” and have a dramatic destabilizing impact on
the euro region, European Central Bank executive board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told the Financial Times.  ‘Good Solution’  “A good solution should come out for Greece and the whole
euro region,” said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity
strategist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, climbed 1 percent
to 61.92 euros, while Bayer increased 1 percent to 55.82 euros.
Chemicals makers posted the biggest gain among 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600 today.  SAF-Holland SA (SFQ)  surged 2.7 percent to 9.09 euros, the
highest price in three months. The supplier of parts for truck
trailers said it expects a sales increase of as much as 25
percent this year, WirtschaftsWoche reported.  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, slid 2.3 percent to 19.56
euros, while RWE fell 1.7 percent to 40.31 euros.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition resolved their
differences over the timing of an exit from nuclear power,
setting a final date of 2022 for the country’s remaining
reactors to close. A tax on spent fuel rods will remain as the
shutdown proceeds, Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said.  Alternative-energy companies rose, with  Phoenix Solar AG (PS4) 
jumping 9.4 percent to 15.79 euros and  Solarworld AG (SWV)  soaring 8.8
percent to 9.62 euros.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  surged 13 percent to 6.80
euros, the highest price in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  