-- 
ADCB, Bank Muscat, Emirates NBD, Zain: Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-05-29T05:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/medgulf-saudi-steel-emirates-nbd-zain-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or fall
in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.5 percent, while  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.1 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.4 percent.        Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  : The  United Arab
Emirates ’ third-largest bank by assets is expected to hold a
board meeting May 31 to assess the shortlisted bidders for its
25 percent stake in Malaysia lender RHB Capital Bhd., the Star
reported, citing people it didn’t identify. The shares were
unchanged at 2.72 dirhams.  Bank Muscat SAOG (BKMB OM): Oman’s biggest bank by assets
reduced a syndicated term loan by 32 percent to $250 million
after a review of its funding needs. The shares fell 0.1 percent
to 0.699 rial.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  : The U.A.E.’s biggest bank
by assets said it exchanged notes valued at $332.5 million in an
offer to holders of its subordinated step-up floating rate notes
due in 2016. The shares rose 0.3 percent to 3.80 dirhams.  Mediterranean & Gulf Insurance & Reinsurance Co. (MEDGULF)  : The Saudi Arabian insurer known as MedGulf won a three-year
contract to provide cooperative insurance services to  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) ’s employees and their families. The
shares rose 0.3 percent to 29.70 riyals. Saudi Basic shares
increased 0.5 percent to 107.75 riyals.       Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN KK) and National
Investments Co. (NINV KK): Kuwait’s Kharafi Group sees potential
for expansion in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates, Vice President Marzouk Nasser Al-Kharafi said. The
Kharafi Group is the second-largest shareholder in Zain,
Kuwait’s biggest mobile-phone company, while National
Investments is controlled by the group. Zain shares were
unchanged at 1,020 fils and National Investment shares advanced
0.9 percent to 238 fils.  Saudi Steel Pipe Co. (SSP)  : The manufacturer of welded
pipes got a loan valued at 15.8 million riyals ($4 million) from
the Saudi Industrial Development Fund for a plant to bend pipes
in the Second Industrial City in Dammam. The shares rose 0.8
percent to 26.40 riyals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  