-- 
Employers Probably Hired Fewer Workers in Latest Sign U.S. Economy Slowing

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-29T04:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/employers-probably-hired-fewer-workers-in-latest-sign-u-s-economy-slowing.html
Employers probably hired fewer
workers in May and manufacturing cooled as the jump in fuel
costs and the effects of  Japan ’s earthquake rippled through the
U.S., economists said before reports this week.  The projected 185,000 gain in payrolls would follow a
244,000 April increase, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department figures June 3.
Another report may show factories grew at the slowest pace in
seven months.  Faster progress in the job market is needed to help
consumers weather the increase in energy prices and lift
spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy. At the
same time, supply disruptions from Japan are restraining
manufacturing, which led the U.S. out of the recession.  “High gasoline prices are damping the pace of hiring a
bit,”  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Manufacturing will
expand at a more moderate pace. We’re talking about a slow patch
in the economy.”  The Labor Department employment report will also show the
jobless rate dropped to 8.9 percent in May, according to the
survey median. The rate unexpectedly climbed in April for the
first time in five months, rising to 9 percent from 8.8 percent.  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, grew
by 210,000 after advancing by 268,000 the prior month, according
to the survey median.  ‘Stubbornly High’  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer,
posted first-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ projections
as rising fuel prices curbed shopping.  “While the  U.S. economy  is showing some signs of
improvement, we expect the recovery will continue to be slow and
uneven, particularly for more moderate income households,”
Gregg Steinhafel, Minneapolis-based Target’s chief executive
officer and president, said on a May 18 conference call.
“Unemployment remains stubbornly high.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, will probably cool following its strongest showing in
seven years. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
fell to 57.6 this month, the lowest level since October,
according to the survey median. Readings above 50 signal
expansion and the measure exceeded 60 for four consecutive
months through April, the best performance since 2004.  The data, due June 1, will reflect disruptions to the
automobile industry due to a scarcity of parts after the
earthquake in Japan. Economists predict the constraint will be
short-lived as Japanese manufacturers make up for lost ground in
the second half of the year.  Temporary Lull  General Motors Co. (GM)  is among manufacturers looking beyond
the temporary lull. The Detroit-based automakers said on May 10
that it will spend $2 billion and add or preserve 4,000 jobs at
eight U.S. plants as it boosts production. Since then, GM has
announced it’ll take on 2,500 workers in  Detroit  and add 110
jobs in  Texas  as part of the plan.  Economists project the Labor Department’s employment report
will show factory payrolls increased by 13,000 in May after
rising by 29,000 the prior month, temporarily restrained by the
effects of the earthquake, according the survey median.  Service industries , which account for almost 90 percent of
the economy as tracked by the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM, picked
up last month, economists said. The group’s non-manufacturing
gauge, due June 3, rose to 54 from 52.8 in April, according to
the survey median. The index lost almost 7 points in March and
April combined as fuel prices rose.  Housing Slump  Housing data this week may show the industry is struggling,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities, due May 31,
likely fell in March from February, the ninth straight monthly
drop on a seasonally adjusted basis. The Commerce Department may
report on June 1 that construction spending rose at a slower
pace in April, weighed down by homebuilding.  The news is being reflected in housing stocks. The Standard
& Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has climbed 3.3
percent this year, compared with a 5.8 percent advance in the
broader  S&P 500 Index .  Among other reports this week, the Conference Board’s index
of  consumer confidence  rose in May to the highest level in three
months, economists surveyed predicted. A retreat in gasoline
costs from a three-year high, together with job gains, is
helping lift Americans’ moods. The figures are due May 31.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  