-- 
Lenzing, Fiber Maker, to Raise $1.06 Billion in Sale of New, Old Shares

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-05-30T15:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/lenzing-fiber-maker-to-raise-1-06-billion-in-sale-of-new-old-shares.html
Lenzing AG (LNZ) , the Austrian maker of
textile fibers, plans to raise as much as 741 million euros
($1.06 billion) in a sale of new and existing shares.  Shareholders will be offered one new share for every 31
held, the company said in a statement yesterday. The company is
selling 825,000 new shares, and set its share price at 92 euros
to 108 euros.  Additionally, Lenzing’s majority shareholder B&C
Industrieholding GmbH will sell as many as 6 million shares, or
23.5 percent of shares issued, with 548,621 shares of that being
an overallotment option if demand is high enough. B&C, which
currently owns 90.5 percent, “will sell such amount of existing
shares to ensure a minimum free float of approximately 33
percent and a maximum free float of 35 percent,” it said.  The fiber maker, based in the town of the same name, had
initially planned to sell the shares by late April, two people
with knowledge of the sale said in February. That plan was
scrapped in March because of market conditions, two other people
said.  Lenzing rose 0.9 percent to 100 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Vienna, increasing the shares’ gain this
year to 15 percent.  ATX Index  The share sale will raise Lenzing’s “free float” to more
than 700 million euros, qualifying it for membership on the
Vienna bourse’s main ATX index, a goal identified by Chief
Executive Officer Peter Untersperger. The deal will help fund
1.5 billion-euros of new plants and expansion in  Austria ,  China ,
 India  and  Indonesia  over four years, Lenzing said in the sale
 prospectus .  Investors can order the stock from tomorrow through June
15, with new shares starting to trade in Vienna on June 17.
Shares not subscribed will be placed in a public offering in
Austria and a private placement to institutional investors.
Rights to purchase the new shares won’t be traded.  Oberbank AG (OBS) , a regional lender which holds a stake just
under 3 percent in Lenzing, will fully participate in the rights
offer, Frank Helmkamp, a spokesman for the company, said by
phone from Linz today.  B&C and Lenzing hired Morgan Stanley as sole global
coordinator for the sale, according to the prospectus. Morgan
Stanley, Deutsche Bank and UniCredit are acting as joint
bookrunners, and Raiffeisen Centrobank and Raiffeisenlandesbank
Oberoesterreich as co-lead managers. The underwriting
commissions and estimated expenses will be about 6.4 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  