-- 
Euro Weakens Versus Dollar on Sovereign-Debt Concern; Kiwi Touches Record

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-30T21:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/euro-falls-from-2-week-high-on-debt-concerns.html
The euro fell for the first time in
three days against the dollar on concern the currency region
will struggle to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  The currency slid versus most of its major counterparts
after Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said last week
in  Athens  that he will press ahead with additional austerity
measures after failing to win backing from opposition parties.
New Zealand’s dollar dropped after surging today to its highest
level since exchange-rate controls ended in 1985 as the nation’s
trade surplus widened to a record in April.  “Until we get resolution, some clarity on what’s going on,
the market is not going to have the confidence to take the euro
higher,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto.  The euro depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.4282 at 5:06 p.m. in
 New York , from $1.4319 on May 27. The shared currency traded at
115.60 yen, compared with 115.67. The dollar was at 80.94 yen,
compared with 80.80, after touching 80.70 on May 27, the lowest
level since May 16. The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.6475.  Markets were closed today in the U.S. for the Memorial Day
holiday and in the U.K. for the Spring Bank Holiday.  The euro declined after  Greece ’s Antonis Samaras, leader of
the biggest opposition party,  New Democracy , rejected last week
Papandreou’s plan for austerity measures, saying his party
wouldn’t be blackmailed.  Call for Consensus  European Union officials have called for consensus on the
package, which includes an extra 6 billion euros ($8.6 billion)
of budget cuts and a plan to speed 50 billion euros of state-
asset sales.  France ’s consumer spending decreased 0.3 percent in April
after a 0.7 percent drop in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
report from the national statistics agency is due tomorrow.  The euro has fallen 2.1 percent in the past month for the
worst performance of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The Swiss franc
has strengthened 3.6 percent, and the yen has added 2.3 percent.  New Zealand ’s dollar slid 0.4 percent to 81.63 U.S. cents
after touching 82.19, the highest since the end of exchange-rate
controls more than 25 years ago.  Exports outpaced imports by NZ$1.11 billion ($910 million)
in April, compared with a revised NZ$578 million surplus in the
prior month. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for a NZ$600 million surplus.  Kiwi’s Resilience  “Resilience of the kiwi has been very impressive,” said
 Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at
Credit Agricole SA in  Hong Kong . “The figures today from New
Zealand are obviously helping out as the trade data was far
stronger than the market had expected.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was little changed before reports this week forecast
to show employers hired fewer workers in May and manufacturing
cooled this month.  “The data has, on the whole, disappointed,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank
Ltd. in Wellington, New Zealand. “The market will just continue
to push further out expectations for Federal Reserve tightening.
The dollar will probably continue to weaken.”  A projected 185,000 gain in payrolls in May will follow a
244,000 April increase, according to the median forecast of 68
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the June 3 report
from the Labor Department.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 57.6 this month, the lowest level since October,
according to the median forecast before a report June 1.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Interest-rate futures show an 11 percent chance the Fed
will raise its target rate for overnight lending between banks
by December, down from 22 percent odds a month earlier. The
central bank has held its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  