-- 
Texas Legislators Pass Two-Year Budget That Shorts Schools by $4 Billion

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-29T02:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/texas-legislators-pass-two-year-budget-that-shorts-schools-by-4-billion.html
Texas  lawmakers passed a two-year
spending plan today that cuts spending on health care, hospitals
and higher education in the second most-populous U.S. state, and
provides $4 billion less to schools than mandated by law.  Members of the House of Representatives and Senate voted
mostly along party lines for the budget, which has been debated
since February. The Senate voted 20-11 and the House 97-53.  The budget calls for $86.9 billion in general-fund spending
in the two years that start in September, down 1.9 percent from
the current period, state documents show. Including U.S. funds
and money dedicated to specific uses, the state would spend
$172.3 billion, or 8.1 percent less than the current period.  “It may not be the budget some would like but it
meets the needs of our state with the resources we have
available,” Representative Jim Pitts, a Waxahachie Republican
and the House’s main budget writer, said today during
floor debate. Yesterday, lawmakers agreed to change the school-
funding law to jibe with the spending plan.  Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, and the members of his
party who dominate the House and Senate rejected raising taxes
or tightening business loopholes to boost revenue, and Perry
refused to use reserve funds to curb cuts. During the budget
debate, they cited the need for schools, hospitals and state
agencies to operate more efficiently. The main elements of the
proposal were agreed to by the Republicans on May 26.  ‘A Betrayal’  “This budget is a betrayal of Texas families, especially
women and children,” said Representative Mike Villarreal, a San
Antonio Democrat. “Because of this budget, Texas will lose jobs
today and worst of all will have a less-educated, less-skilled
workforce to compete for quality jobs in the future.”  Lawmakers still must pass enabling legislation to change
legal funding requirements for the more than 1,100 school
districts in the state. They have until May 30, when the
legislative session ends, to accomplish that goal. The plan,
which Perry has indicated he will sign, covers the biennium that
begins in September.  While the budget boosts general-fund spending on schools by
9 percent, U.S. aid cuts offset the gain, and the total would be
little changed from the current biennium at $53.8 billion, the
documents show. That doesn’t meet increases in students or costs,
said Linda Bridges, an American Federation of Teachers union
leader. She said it may trigger thousands of job cuts.  Under an agreement reached by budget negotiators yesterday,
all districts would be shorted by 6 percent in fiscal 2012, said
Senator Florence Shapiro, a Plano Republican who participated in
the talks. She said a new allocation formula would start in 2013.  Changing Formula  “This is a way to get to where we want to be,” and gives
schools an ability to plan their budgets for several years,
Shapiro said yesterday. Both chambers still must vote on the
formula change, and may take it up as soon as tomorrow.  The proposal doesn’t cover projected additions of 80,000
grade-school students a year, Pitts said.  While general-fund spending on health care and human
services would rise 3 percent, the increase won’t be enough to
offset an $11.8 billion, or 28 percent, drop in federal aid. As
a result, total spending in that category falls 17 percent to
$54.2 billion, the budget documents show.  Payments to hospitals treating Medicaid patients would drop
8 percent, according to Amanda Engler, a Texas Hospital
Association spokeswoman in Austin, referring to the state-
federal health program for the poor. The cut will be hardest on
smaller and more rural hospitals that have fewer patients with
private insurance, she said.  Federal Aid Cut  “Congress isn’t going to be spending the same amount of
money in coming years, so state governments have to be
structured to be ready for that change,” Representative John Otto, a Dayton Republican, said May 26 in an interview. “We
reduced general-revenue spending by 2 percent, just like we did
in our last budget two years ago, but this time we don’t have
$12 billion in federal stimulus money.”  The budget plan also assumes a $4.8 billion Medicaid
deficit through August 2013, Pitts said.  The proposal also cuts about $1.2 billion from higher
education including community colleges and universities.
General-fund spending for the institutions drops 7.8 percent to
$14.4 billion, although additions from other sources shrink the
reduction to 4.3 percent from the current period, documents show.  “The universities can raise tuition and they have a wider
variety of ways to cover their costs,” Representative Larry
Gonzalez, a Round Rock Republican, said May 26.  General-fund cuts also would affect public safety and the
judiciary as well as the Legislature’s own operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  