-- 
Federer, Djokovic Win at French Open Tennis; No. 3 Woman Zvonareva Loses

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-29T16:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/federer-beats-wawrinka-at-french-open-tennis-no-3-zvonareva-upset.html
Roger Federer  and Novak Djokovic
stayed on course for a French Open semifinal showdown as both
won easily today. Women’s third seed  Vera Zvonareva  lost, while
defending champion Francesca Schiavone advanced.  Federer moved to a record 28th consecutive major
quarterfinal by beating fellow Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka, 6-3, 6-
2, 7-5 on a sunny day on the main Court Philippe Chatrier at
Roland Garros in Paris. His ninth defeat of Wawrinka in 10
meetings means he breaks the record for most consecutive Grand
Slam quarterfinals previously held with  Jimmy Connors .  “I thought I played well,” Federer, who came back from 4-
1 down in the third set to win the match with his 8th ace, told
a news conference. “The first two sets were great.”  The second-seeded Djokovic extended his perfect start to
the season to 41-0 as he beat  France ’s Richard Gasquet 6-4, 6-4,
6-2 in the fourth round.  The upsets continued in the women’s draw, where Zvonareva,
the highest-ranked player left in the last sixteen, lost to
fellow Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, 7-6 (7-4), 2-6, 6-2.
It’s the first time since tennis turned professional in 1968
that none of the top three women’s seeds have advanced to the
quarterfinals at Roland Garros.  ‘More Aggressive’  “She played a little bit more aggressive, she took more
risk, and she was able to dictate the points,” Zvonareva told a
news conference. “Every time I was taking the risk, I wasn’t so
consistent. That’s why I was playing a little bit too passive.
It’s not acceptable at this stage of the Grand Slam.”  Djokovic of  Serbia  can tie John McEnroe’s 27-year-old
record of 42 straight victories at the start of a season if he
wins his next match.  “I am very happy with my play today,” Djokovic told the
Chatrier crowd in French after his win. “I knew that Richard is
a great player and he’s been playing really well. I am
definitely playing the best tennis of my life. I am staying
focused each match and will see how far I can go.”  Australian Open champion Djokovic, who will take the No. 1
ranking on the ATP World Tour away from defending French Open
champion  Rafael Nadal  if he makes the final, plays  Fabio Fognini 
in the quarterfinals.  The unseeded Italian overcame cramp in his leg and five
match points to beat  Spain ’s Albert Montanes, 4-6, 6-4, 3-6, 6-
3, 11-9 in a match that lasted 4 hours, 22 minutes.  Grand Slam Record  Although he has yet to drop a set this year at Roland
Garros, the third-seeded Federer has been overshadowed by five-
time champion Nadal of Spain and Djokovic. Federer, who claimed
his lone French Open title in 2009, last won a major at the 2010
Australian Open. That victory extended his title haul to a men’s
record 16 Grand Slam trophies.  David Ferrer , the No. 5 seed from Spain, faces France’s
Gael Monfils later today. The winner of that match plays Federer
in the quarterfinals.  No. 4 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus is now as the highest
seed left in the women’s draw after top-ranked  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark lost in the third round and No. 2 Kim Clijsters of  Belgium  exited the clay-court Grand Slam event in
the second round.  Zvonareva, a finalist at Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open , had
led 5-3 in the first set against the 14th-seeded Pavlyuchenkova,
who is the youngest woman left in the draw at age 19. The
teenager, in the first Grand Slam quarterfinal of her career,
will play Schiavone of  Italy , who beat three-time semifinalist
Jelena Jankovic of Serbia 6-3, 2-6, 6-4. It was Schiavone’s
first victory against Jankovic since 2004.  Also today, Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2009 champion and one
of six Russian women in the last 16, plays Daniela Hantuchova,
the No. 28 seed from Slovakia who knocked Wozniacki out of the
tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 