-- 
Frutarom Seeks Mexico, Brazil Purchases in Emerging-Market Plan

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-29T07:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/frutarom-seeks-mexico-brazil-purchases-in-emerging-market-plan.html
Frutarom Industries Ltd. (FRUT) , an Israeli
maker of flavors and fragrances, plans acquisitions in Mexico
and Brazil as well as expansion in Asia to boost sales in
emerging markets, Chief Executive Officer Ori Yehudai said.  “ Europe  accounts for more than 50 percent of our sales,”
Yehudai said in a phone interview. “Emerging markets are about
one-third of our business. We would like to see emerging markets
grow to 45 percent.”  Frutarom, said May 26 it agreed to buy the savory
ingredients business and assets of Christian Hansen Italy,
including a production plant in the country, for 25 million
euros ($35 million), the third acquisition this year. Haifa,
Israel-based Frutarom has been focussing on the savory flavors
market this year and also has plans to expand in Asia beyond its
current foothold in  China , Yehudai said in the interview.  “The intention is to implement acquisition strategy in
additional markets like  Latin America  with a focus on Mexico and
Brazil,” Yehudai said.  Competitors include Firmenich International SA,  Symrise AG (SY1) 
and  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , a maker of fragrances for Marc Jacob’s “Lola”
and Paco Rabanne’s “1 Million” perfumes. Symrise Chief
Financial Officer Bernd Hirsch said on May 20 that the German
fragrance maker also intends to make acquisitions to increase
sales.  All the companies face increased raw-material expenses this
year. Frutarom said on May 24 that it will adjust prices so the
cost increases won’t affect its results.  Frutarom, whose flavors are used in products including
toothpaste and soft drinks, reported first-quarter revenue rose
6.7 percent from a year earlier to $121 million.  The company has almost $150 million dollars in cash, and
had net debt at the end of March of $33 million on equity of
$380 million, so it “has no problem financing” the Italy deal
“and more deals to come,” Yehudai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  