-- 
Google Vies With Microsoft for Runner-Up to Apple’s iPad

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-05-30T04:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/google-vies-with-microsoft-to-undermine-apple-s-tablet-dominance.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
attempts to loosen  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s grip on the booming tablet-
computer market will be put to the test this week as PC makers
unveil new models at the Computex trade show in Taipei.  Investors and analysts will be looking to see if Google’s
Android operating system can match the popularity of the iPad,
while Microsoft may preview its next Windows platform for
tablets a year after Apple’s first offering hit store shelves.  “Investors want to know which tablet is better, which has
the best price-performance, and when the non-iPad camp is going
to get going,” said Angela Hsiang, an analyst at KGI Securities
Co. in Taipei. “Previously, people couldn’t actually see the
products. At Computex, we’ll be able to touch and use them.”  Acer Inc. (2353)  and  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) , which upended the
computer market when they showed low-cost netbooks at Computex
in 2007 and 2008, will demonstrate new tablets featuring
Google’s Android this week. The operator of the world’s most
popular search engine and Microsoft will both send executives to
the event to meet with reporters and update companies on their
plans.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, and  ARM
Holdings Plc. (ARM) , whose chip designs are used by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  to run tablets, will also try to convince
manufacturers that their products are the best as the desktop
and notebook markets slow.  Tablet Shipments  Global shipments of tablets will climb to 215 million units
in 2015 from 17 million last year,  Toni Sacconaghi , a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a May 26
report. Fifteen percent of all tablets will cannibalize the sale
of consumer PCs, reducing computer-sales growth by 2 percent
annually between 2010 and 2015, Sacconaghi wrote.  Competition from new entrants will cut Apple’s share of the
tablet market to 50 percent next year,  iSuppli Corp.  said on
April 21, from almost 100 percent when the Cupertino,
California-based company began selling the iPad in June.  Microsoft will preview its operating system designed for
tablets this week, using hardware with ARM-based chips, three
people with knowledge of the plans said this month. Windows 7,
the current version of Microsoft’s computer platform, isn’t
compatible with ARM chips, which are used in tablets from
Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Microsoft’s Operating System  Machines using Microsoft’s new operating system will be
released next year, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said
this month, referring to it as Windows 8. Microsoft, based in
Redmond,  Washington , later retracted the comments, saying they
were a misstatement.  “ARM plus Microsoft will be a big development in the
future, and if that’s a success then it’ll be big for the
market,” said KGI’s Hsiang. “Windows 8 will also impact the
market because many people can’t get used to Android while
they’re familiar with Windows.”  ARM, whose technology is used in the iPad and iPhone,
expects to grab at least 50 percent of the market for chips used
in tablets, notebooks and netbooks by 2015, Tudor Brown,
president of the Cambridge, U.K.-based company said today. ARM
currently has 10 percent of the market. That will climb to 15
percent by the end of this year, he said.  Google’s early lead in the non-iPad tablet market and
strong mobile-phone position has helped it expand its
applications store. That success is offset by the company’s
relative lack of experience in software development, said Helen
Chiang, an analyst at IDC Corp. in Taipei.  “Most vendors still worry about quality and stability,”
Chiang said. “At this moment, they choose Google because its
cost is lower as the operating system is free, while Windows
adds to the price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  