-- 
Minister Combet Sees Progress in Talks on Setting Australia’s Carbon Tax

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-05-29T03:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/minister-combet-sees-progress-in-talks-on-setting-australia-s-carbon-tax.html
Australian Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  said he expects to conclude details of a plan for a
carbon tax today after making progress in talks with lawmakers.  The Multiparty Climate Change Committee, which includes the
minister and lawmakers, met in Canberra yesterday and today to
try to formulate the country’s first carbon policy. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government wants the levy to begin in
July 2012 in preparation for a trading system that could be
operating as early as 2015 in  Australia , a country that burns
coal to generate more than 80 percent of its electricity.  “There are issues we’ve made progress on, others that
we’ve got a fair way to go but it’s been approached in good
faith and at the end of the day we’ll make an announcement,”
Combet told Channel 10 television’s “Meet The Press” program
today, adding that he anticipates agreement “on all the
elements.”  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of the nation’s energy from
renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020. Finance Minister
 Penny Wong  said today the carbon tax plan is “a big reform”
and “a pretty tough sell” to businesses.  The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry today
reiterated its opposition to the carbon tax plan. It also
rejected the Business Council of Australia’s proposal this week
for an introductory tax of A$10 per metric ton.  Full Compensation  The council, a group that consists of chief executive
officers of Australia’s top 100 companies including  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) , made its proposals in a  submission  to
the government on May 27. It also suggested that businesses
should initially receive full compensation for the tax to ensure
Australia’s policy to price greenhouse gas emissions doesn’t
affect trade and investment.  Details of the government’s carbon tax plan will be
released by early July, including compensation to households and
businesses and funding for clean energy projects. Combet said
today that more than half of the carbon tax revenue will be used
to compensate households.  The annual impact on households of an A$30 per ton carbon
price, excluding petrol price concessions, would be A$863.20,
according to preliminary Treasury estimates released on April 1
under an Australian Freedom of Information Act request. At A$20
a ton the cost would be A$577.20.  “It’s a real pity in this country that we’ve been
discussing this for so many years,” Wong said today in an
interview with the Sky News television. “Remember, the Business
Council of Australia, I think it was in 2006, pushed the former
Prime Minister  John Howard  toward a carbon price. We’re in 2011
and we’re still having an argument about whether it’s a good
thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  