-- 
Iraqi Airways to Appeal Assets Freeze Court Order in Jordan

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-29T14:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/iraqi-airways-to-appeal-assets-freeze-in-jordan-on-court-order.html
Iraqi Airways  will appeal a court
order to freeze its bank accounts in  Jordan  following a lawsuit
by  Kuwait  Airways Corp., Karim al-Nuri, a spokesman for the
Iraqi Minister of Transport, said.  “We are preparing to appeal the Jordanian court order,”
he said in a phone interview from  Baghdad  today. “Our appeal is
based on the fact that  Iraqi Airways  is a state company and thus
enjoys immunity and cannot have its offices seized.”  The Iraqi national carrier’s offices in Amman were seized
three day ago and assets of $1.5 million were frozen after the
May 10 order by a Jordanian court, he said.  State-run Kuwait Airways is seeking $1.2 billion in
compensation for 10 aircraft taken when Iraq, under the rule of
former President  Saddam Hussein , invaded Kuwait in August 1990.
Kuwait Airways won a U.K. court order to freeze the Baghdad-
based airline’s global assets on April 25 last year, the same
day as an Iraqi Airways flight landed in  London  for the first
time in 20 years.  The Iraqi government decided in May 2010 to dissolve Iraqi
Airways within three years because of the legal battle with
Kuwait. The airline has cancelled flights to  Europe  since last
year and continues to fly to destinations in the Middle East.  Iraqi Airways is planning to pursue negotiations with
Kuwaiti officials in order to find a solution to the conflict
that would benefit both parties, al-Nuri said.  New Company  The Iraqi airliner is also still considering government
plans to operate under a new company to avoid the legal dispute
and compensation claims raised by Kuwait, he said. “We are
considering some contracts with local and foreign companies,
although there is nothing final for now,” he said.  Kuwait Airways “seized multi-million dollar funds in
various Iraqi Airways bank accounts in Amman,” following the
May 10 Jordanian court order, Kuwait Airways lawyer Christopher
Gooding of law firm  Fasken Martineau  said in an e-mailed
statement on May 24.  The claim is in addition to $40 billion in debt amassed by
 Iraq  under the regime of Saddam Hussein. The country, holder of
the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, is struggling to
rebuild its damaged infrastructure and continues to allocate 5
percent of its annual oil revenue to repay the debt, roughly
half of which it owes to Kuwait.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  