-- 
Jordanian King Accepts Resignations Over Corruption Case

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-29T18:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/jordanian-king-accepts-resignations-over-corruption-case.html
Jordanian  King Abdullah  accepted the
resignations of the ministers of health and justice following a
controversy over the travel of a businessman accused of
corruption,  Petra  said.  Health Minister Yassine al-Hasban and Justice Minister
Hussein al-Majali resigned May 26 “over a controversy involving
the travel of a business tycoon accused in a corruption
scandal,” the official  news agency  said, citing a royal decree.  Ministers of Higher Education and Scientific Research Wajih Owais was named acting health minister and Minister of State for
Cabinet Affairs Mohamed Adinat as acting justice minister, Petra
said, citing another royal decree.  Islamist-led opposition groups staged protests earlier this
year to demand more freedoms and democratic reforms. The
protests were inspired by pro-democracy revolts that ousted the
longstanding rulers of Tunisia and  Egypt , and spread across
several other countries in the Middle East and North Africa.  The protestors in  Jordan  did not demand regime change. The
Jordanian monarch responded by changing the government in
February and asking the new Cabinet to bring in political and
economic reforms.  The regime’s promises for reform in the kingdom “are a
waste of time for the people,” the Islamic Action Front, the
largest opposition group in Jordan, said in a  statement  on its
website today. A government of national salvation, early
elections and constitutional reforms are the solution to the
current “deep political, economic and social crisis,” it said.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to finance its budget and current-account
deficit. The  International Monetary Fund  expects Jordan’s
economy to grow 3.3 percent in 2011, Petra said May 26, citing
Paul Cashin, head of the IMF mission in the kingdom. Before the
outbreak of unrest, the government had forecast annual growth to
double to as much as 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 