-- 
New Zealand’s Trade Surplus in April Widens to Record on Dairy Shipments

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-30T01:22:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/new-zealand-s-trade-surplus-in-april-widens-to-record-on-dairy-shipments.html
New Zealand ’s trade surplus widened
in April to more than twice economists’ forecasts as surging
commodity prices and Asian demand boosted dairy exports,
strengthening the local currency to a record.  Exports exceeded imports by NZ$1.11 billion ($910 million),
the biggest ever, from a revised NZ$578 million surplus in
March,  Statistics New Zealand  said today in Wellington. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was
for a NZ$600 million surplus. Sales to  China  were up 40 percent
from a year earlier.  Rising shipments abroad, which make up 30 percent of gross
domestic product, may help New Zealand’s economy recover this
year from an earthquake in Christchurch that likely subtracted
from first-quarter growth. Finance Minister Bill English last
week said the South Pacific island nation is “hooked to the
China-Australia train,” which is bolstering commodity prices
and export returns.  “The strength in the data, particularly in commodities,
highlights the export-led nature of the economic recovery,”
said  Jane Turner , an economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. The
key issue “is when increased rural incomes and confidence
translate to increased spending and investment,” she said.  The  New Zealand dollar  gained after the report, trading at
82.19 U.S. cents, the highest level since it was freely floated
in 1985, from 81.71 before the data were released. It bought
81.97 cents at 1:05 p.m. in Wellington.  Interest Rates  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard, after an April 28
policy meeting, cited rising commodity prices and favorable
climate conditions as reasons for an increase in on-farm
investment that may stoke growth. Still, the currency’s strength
was “unwelcome” and was slowing the economic recovery, he
said.  Bollard kept the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5
percent at that meeting. Twelve of 17 economists surveyed last
month by Bloomberg News predict he will keep the benchmark
unchanged until next year. Five expect an increase in the fourth
quarter.  Low  interest rates  and rising farm incomes are bolstering
confidence as Prime Minister John Key faces a general election
on Nov. 26. The number of consumers expecting the economy to
improve over the next year rose to 48 percent this month from 38
percent in April,  Television New Zealand  reported yesterday,
citing a Colmar poll of 1,018 people. Key’s  National Party  had
52 percent support to 34 percent for the main opposition  Labour
Party , the same poll showed.  Export Boost  Exports rose 17 percent from the year-earlier month to a
record NZ$4.65 billion, exceeding economists’ forecast of NZ$4.3
billion, today’s report showed. March exports were revised
higher to NZ$4.61 billion.  Milk powder, butter, meat, lumber and wool led the rise as
commodity prices increased 1.6 percent in April from March to a
record, according to an index released earlier this month and
calculated by ANZ  National Bank Ltd. (NBL)  From a year earlier, the
index jumped 25 percent.  Dairy exports, which make up a fifth of overseas sales,
surged 32 percent from a year earlier to NZ$1.19 billion,
today’s report showed. The value was the second-largest on
record after March.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said May 17 that milk production was likely to rise 4
percent in the year ending May 31. Last month, the Auckland-
based company said export volumes reached a new high in March
because of surging demand in China,  Southeast Asia  and the
 Middle East .  China’s Appetite  In the year ended April, total exports to China, New
Zealand’s second-largest market after  Australia , surged 40
percent, today’s report showed.  Imports rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier to NZ$3.54
billion, the slowest increase since August last year. The year-
earlier figure was bolstered by the purchase of a navy vessel.  Imports were led higher by fuel, reflecting a 26 percent
jump in crude-oil prices from April last year. Portable
computers, telecommunications equipment and aluminum oxide
imports also increased, the statistics agency said.  New Zealand posted a trade surplus of NZ$1.19 billion in
the 12 months ended April 30. The gap widened from a revised
NZ$734 million in the year through March and was the largest
since November. Economists expected a 12-month surplus of NZ$571
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  