-- 
New Zealand House Prices to Rise 3% Over Next Year, ASB Survey Indicates

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-29T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/new-zealand-housing-recovery-will-be-slow-asb-survey-shows.html
New Zealand ’s housing market will
recover slowly this year as record-low interest rates bolster
consumers’ views that prices will keep rising, ASB Bank Ltd.
said, citing the results of a quarterly survey.  The proportion of respondents expecting higher  home prices 
rose to 36 percent from 32 percent in the previous survey in
January, Auckland-based ASB said in an e-mailed report today.
Forty-one percent said now is a good time to buy a house, up
from 39 percent in the previous survey.  “We expect  house prices  to grow modestly at a rate of
around 3 percent over the coming year,” ASB Chief Economist
 Nick Tuffley  said in the report. “A combination of a contained
level of housing inventory, positive  population growth  and the
recent drop in interest rates will underpin a gradual recovery
in housing demand.”  House prices rose to a 12-month high in April and further
gains may prompt central bank Governor Alan Bollard to raise
interest rates later this year. Bollard last month left the
official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent and said it was
appropriate borrowing costs should stay at that level “for some
time” as the economy recovers from an Feb. 22 earthquake in the
nation’s second-biggest city, Christchurch.  There is a 78 percent chance of a quarter-point rate rise
by December, according to swaps trading.  Still, variable home-loan interest rates are at 46-year
lows, according to central bank figures, and Tuffley said low
borrowing costs have increased the appeal of housing as an
investment, bolstering demand.  The percentage of respondents in ASB’s survey expecting
higher home-loan  interest rates  over the next 12 months fell to
46 percent from 59 percent, the bank said. Twelve of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month expect Bollard
will leave the cash rate unchanged until next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  