-- 
Goodluck Jonathan Seeks to Ease Nigerian Tensions as He Starts Second Term

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-05-29T15:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/nigerian-president-jonathan-takes-oath-for-new-four-year-term-after-vote.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
took the oath of office today for his first full four-year term
to lead  Africa ’s top oil-producing country following his victory
in elections held in April.  Chief Justice Ignatius Katsina-Alu administered the oath
that was watched by more than a dozen African leaders including
South African President  Jacob Zuma . Jonathan promised to defend
Nigeria’s constitution and work for progress.  “My urgent task is to create a suitable environment for
productive activities to flourish,” he said. “The Nigeria of
our dreams must be built on hard work and not shortcuts.”  Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River
delta region, defeated his nearest rival,  Muhammadu Buhari , a
northern Muslim, in the April 16 vote by a 57 percent to 31
percent margin, the electoral commission said. He had succeeded
Muslim northerner, Umaru Yar’Adua, who died in May last year and
defied a party rule that made it the north’s turn to produce a
presidential candidate.  At least 800 people were killed as protests by supporters
of the opposition candidate, a former military ruler, triggered
violence between Muslim and Christian ethnic groups, according
to New York-based  Human Rights Watch .  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with 150 million
residents, is roughly split between a mostly Muslim north and a
largely Christian south, a divide reflected in the election
results. Jonathan won overwhelmingly in the country’s mainly
Christian center and south, while Buhari won in the
predominantly Muslim areas of the north.  International and local election monitors described the
elections as Nigeria’s fairest in decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  