-- 
Obama Offers Comfort, Condolences While Visiting Victims of Joplin Tornado

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-30T20:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/obama-to-offer-comfort-condolences-in-visit-to-victims-of-joplin-tornado.html
President  Barack Obama  traveled
yesterday to Joplin, Missouri, where he inspected the damage,
comforted the grieving and honored the first responders who
aided the victims of a deadly  tornado  that left a path of
destruction across the city a week ago.  “I can promise you, your country will be there with you
every step of the way,” the president told area residents at a
memorial service on the campus of Missouri Southern State
University. “We will be with you every step of the way until
Joplin is restored and this community is back on its feet. We’re
not going anywhere.”  Obama said that during his six-day, four-nation trip last
week to  Europe , where he attended the Group of Eight summit, “I
had world leaders coming up to me and saying ‘Let the people of
Joplin know we are with them; we’re thinking about them; we love
them.’”  He acknowledged the “heroes all around us, all the time,”
describing individuals who helped others during the storm, the
deadliest tornado since 1950, at great risk to themselves. Among
those, he said, were “ordinary people, swiftly tested, who
said, ‘I’m willing to die right now so that someone else might
live.’”  Missouri  Governor  Jay Nixon  declared yesterday a day of
prayer and remembrance and ordered state and national flags
flown at half-staff.  Area of Devastation  Before the memorial service, as he toured Joplin
accompanied by Nixon, federal officials and first responders,
Obama stepped through wood splinters, cement shards, glass,
bricks and other debris along Kentucky Street.  “Hello, everybody,” he said to one family, giving a hug
to a woman in a pink blouse. In the next block, he encountered
Misty Slagle, 43, of Garland,  Texas , who with friends and
families brought hygiene products, gasoline and other supplies
to the needy.  “We appreciate what you guys are doing,” Obama said.  In brief remarks to reporters, Obama described his visit to
a similarly destroyed area in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , on April 29.
He said that on that trip he had not seen wreckage “like that
in my lifetime. You come here to Joplin and it is just as
heartbreaking and, in some ways, even more devastating.”  Obama met yesterday with  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  Administrator W. Craig Fugate and local and state
officials on coordination of federal aid and recovery efforts in
the city of almost 50,000. “This is going to take years to
build back,” the president said, calling the process a “tough,
long slog.”  29 Still Missing  The twister ripped a six-mile path a quarter-mile wide
across southwest Missouri shortly before 6 p.m. on May 22,
killing more than 130, according to the  Associated Press . More
than 900 were injured. The number of people unaccounted for fell
to 29 from 44 yesterday, Mike McConnell, a spokesman for the
Missouri Department of Public Safety, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The tornado slammed into  St. John’s Regional Medical
Center , crushed cars and converted neighborhoods into a prairie
of splinters. About a quarter of the city was damaged. Winds in
the  EF-5  storm exceeded 200 miles per hour, the  National Weather
Service  said.  Damaged or Destroyed  About 8,000 building units, including apartments, were
damaged or destroyed, Joplin’s city manager, Mark Rohr, said May
24. The  Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce  estimates that 300
businesses with about 4,000 employees were affected. Insurers’
losses may reach $3 billion, according to an estimate from
catastrophe risk-modeler Eqecat Inc.  There have been 1,314 tornadoes reported in the U.S. in
2011 through May 24, compared with 1,282 in all of 2010,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  NOAA has listed the  Joplin tornado  as the  eighth deadliest 
in U.S. history. The 132 deaths surpass the 116 people killed
June 8, 1953, when a twister hit Flint,  Michigan , in what had
been the largest toll since modern record-keeping began in 1950.  The deadliest tornado in U.S. history was a tornado that
swept a 291-mile path across Missouri, Illinois and  Indiana  on
March 18, 1925, killing 695, NOAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Joplin, Missouri, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  