-- 
Obama Said to Select McFaul as Russia Ambassador

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-29T16:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/obama-said-to-select-mcfaul-as-russia-ambassador.html
President  Barack Obama  will nominate
Michael McFaul, the director of Russian and Eurasian affairs at
the National Security Council, as the next U.S. ambassador to
Russia, said an administration official who requested anonymity
because the nomination hasn’t been formally announced.  If confirmed by the Senate, McFaul would succeed John Beyrle, a career Foreign Service officer who has been in Moscow
since 2008. The decision to nominate McFaul was earlier reported
by the New York Times.  The author of seven books on Russian politics, McFaul is
co-head of a bilateral working group on civil society with the
Kremlin’s chief political strategist,  Vladislav Surkov . Before
coming to  Washington , he was a  political science professor  and
the deputy director for the Freeman Spogli Institute for
International Studies at  Stanford University .  McFaul previously was a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington, where he was
the director of the Russian Domestic Politics Program from 1998
to 2001. He served in the same position in the Moscow Carnegie
Center in 1994 and 1995.  Relations between the U.S. and Russia have improved since
the George W. Bush administration, when ties were strained over
an August 2008 war between Russia and Georgia and a planned
missile shield in eastern  Europe .  In February 2009 U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  announced
plans to “reset” relations with Russia at the Munich Security
Conference. Later that year, Obama and Medvedev brokered a new
strategic arms reduction treaty, which took effect in February
2011. Biden said during a visit to Moscow in March that the
countries would expand cooperation to economic issues, including
U.S. support for Russia’s accession to the  World Trade
Organization .  McFaul wasn’t discussed during the official part of talks
between Medvedev and Obama in France, Russian state news agency
RIA Novosti reported, citing an unidentified Kremlin official.
The Russian presidential administration has a “positive”
opinion of McFaul, the news agency reported, citing the
unidentified official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  