-- 
U.S. Offers Lockheed Help After ‘Tenacious’ Cyber Attack

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-05-29T18:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/lockheed-offered-help-after-cyber-incident-u-s-government-says.html
U.S. agencies offered assistance to
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense contractor,
which suffered what it called a “tenacious” cyber attack on
its computer networks on May 21.  The Department of  Homeland Security  “is aware of a cyber
incident impacting” Lockheed and, together with the Department
of Defense, has offered help in “determining the extent of the
incident, performing analysis of available data in order to
provide recommendations to mitigate further risk,” Chris
Ortman, a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The impact on the military “is minimal and we don’t expect
any adverse effect,” Lieutenant Colonel April Cunningham, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, said it detected a
“significant and tenacious attack” on its  computer networks  on
May 21. It was found “almost immediately” and no employee,
program or customer data was lost, the company said in a
statement.  President Barack Obama was briefed on the attacks, White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  “Based on what I’ve seen, they feel it’s fairly minimal in
terms of the damage,” Carney said.  Mobile Security System  Lockheed uses a mobile security system produced by EMC
Corp.’s RSA unit. RSA bolstered security for clients, including
Lockheed, after a network breach in March resulted in the theft
of RSA data, a person familiar with the process said yesterday.  The remediation involves replacing the SecurID tokens
issued by RSA that often expire in three years, said the person,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
company’s defense-contractor clients, which make missiles,
aircraft and other weapons, also include  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Dave Farmer, a spokesman for EMC, declined to
comment.  EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , reported that the
cyber attack in March resulted in information being taken from
its systems, including data related to RSA’s SecurID
authentication products.  Users who need access their employer’s secure network from
remote locations may use a SecurID type device, a memory stick-
like unit that generates random numbers that must be used in
combination with a personal identification number to gain entry.  “If intruders get the key, the seed that enables one-time
passwords to be generated,” then they may have the capability
to break into networks that depend on such systems to
authenticate users, Alan Paller, director of research at the
SANS Institute, a computer security training institution in
Bethesda,  Maryland , said in an interview. Paller said he
couldn’t say if Lockheed’s networks were breached.  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Northrop
Grumman and Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Raytheon of Waltham,
Massachusetts, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  