-- 
Total Purchases 25% of Qatari Hydrocarbon Exploration License From Cnooc

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-30T04:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/total-acquires-25-of-qatar-license-from-cnooc-to-explore-for-hydrocarbons.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
oil producer, sold a 25 percent stake in a license to explore
for hydrocarbons in Qatar to France’s  Total SA (FP)  as the Chinese
company seeks to reduce risk.  The Beijing-based producer, which secured rights to the
offshore concession two years ago, will retain a 75 percent
stake and operate the area called Block BC, according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of LNG, has awarded
three exploration and production licenses in the past two years
as it seeks to raise output outside the North Field, the world’s
biggest gas reservoir. The Persian Gulf sheikhdom ordered a halt
in new development at the field until at least 2014.  “Total has been a strong partner of Cnooc and has rich
experience in oil and gas exploration,” Cnooc said in an e-
mailed response to a Bloomberg request for comment. “Through
this transaction, both companies will share exploration risks
and further strengthen cooperation.”  Cnooc’s shares rose 1.4 percent to HK$19.32 in Hong Kong
trading at the midday break while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
climbed 0.5 percent. The stock is up 4.8 percent this year.  The company signed a 25-year agreement for Block BC, its
first exploration venture in the  Middle East , with  Qatar
Petroleum  in August 2009. It said at the time it would invest at
least $100 million and drill three wells in five years.  JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corp. signed a 30-year
contract with Qatar Petroleum earlier this month to explore for
gas off the emirate’s northeastern coast, in an area called
Block A. China National Petroleum Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell
Plc reached a 30-year agreement in May 2010 to explore Block D.  Total has stakes in four Qatari gas-liquefaction plants,
called trains, and a linear low-density polyethylene plant owned
by  Qatar Petrochemical Co.  and Qatofin Co, which also has part
of a 1.3 million ton-a-year ethane cracker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net 
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Stanley  at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 