-- 
Pawlenty Says He Would Sign Ryan Medicare Plan

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-05-29T18:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/pawlenty-says-he-would-sign-ryan-medicare-plan.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination,
said that if he were in the Oval Office, he would sign the
House-passed plan backed by Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, to privatize Medicare.  “If the only choices were doing nothing like President
Obama is doing and Paul Ryan’s plan, I’d sign it,” Pawlenty
said today on ABC’s “This Week” program. He also said he would
do some things differently, such as “address Social Security,”
without being more specific.  Republicans attempting to strike a deal with Democrats on
raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling say they want to include
Ryan’s plan in any agreement. Earlier this month Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told Congress that unless the debt
limit is raised, he will run out of options to avoid default on
Aug. 2.  Ryan’s plan would replace the traditional Medicare health-
care system with subsidies for purchasing private health
insurance. The changes would affect people who turn 65 in 2022.  Last week five Republicans -- including Senator  Scott Brown 
of  Massachusetts , who is up for re-election next year in a
heavily Democratic state -- sided with Democrats as the Senate
rejected, 57-40, a House-passed budget measure that includes the
Medicare provisions.  Deficit Reduction  “A deal on deficit reduction is only possible if
Republicans remove Paul Ryan’s plan from consideration so we can
return our focus to ways to achieve savings that extend the life
of Medicare in its current form,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of
New York, the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, said in a
statement today after Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
told NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the Ryan plan should be “on
the table” in the debt and deficit talks.  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said his support for
raising the debt ceiling would require that Medicare be part of
the proposal.  The White House press secretary,  Jay Carney , told reporters
aboard Air Force One today that President  Barack Obama  would
meet with House Republicans on May 31 and with House Democrats
on June 1.  He said both Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden , who is
leading a bipartisan group of legislators in talks on reducing
the federal debt, were “optimistic” that “they will produce
an agreement that will allow for significant deficit
reductions.”  Best Way  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels said on “This Week” that
he believes Ryan’s plan “is the best way.”  “It ought, therefore, to be the centerpiece of the next
election, and we ought to test the proposition -- and I have
faith the answer will be yes -- that Americans are absolutely up
to the job of making changes necessary once they understand the
facts,” said Daniels, a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget, who recently announced that he wouldn’t
seek the Republican presidential nomination for 2012.  The Medicare issue contributed to last week’s upset victory
of Democrat Kathy Hochul in a special election for a vacant
House seat in a traditionally Republican district in western  New
York  state. “If they continue this way, not only will we keep
the Senate, but we’re likely to pick up the House,” Schumer
said on “Meet the Press.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  