-- 
Republicans Can Stop Waiting for 2012 White Knight: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-05-29T15:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/republicans-can-stop-waiting-for-2012-white-knight-albert-hunt.html
Godot isn’t likely to show up for the
Republicans. Like the characters in Samuel Beckett’s play, the
Republican establishment probably will wait in vain for a white
knight -- Jeb Bush,  Chris Christie  and Paul Ryan are the most
oft-cited -- to rescue the party’s presidential prospects.  The Republican field seems set, with the major contenders
likely to be former Governors Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota  and Jon Huntsman of  Utah , and possibly
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota. This assumes that
Bachmann and Huntsman will enter the race; the party’s 2008
vice-presidential candidate, Sarah Palin, former New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, as well as  Texas  Governor Rick Perry, may, too.  On the surface, it isn’t an especially formidable lineup,
though circumstances, campaigns and upset victories can change
that.  The considerations, smarter political strategists and
history tell us, will be match ups: How the strengths,
weaknesses, similarities and differences contrast in the early
contests in  Iowa  and New Hampshire, which are likely to be where
a winner emerges.  Differentiating issues, as always, will come into focus as
the campaign evolves and the initial debates occur. By
traditional measurements, the ideological divides are minimal.
All the contenders are conservatives, favoring spending and tax
cuts, less regulation. They also are, to varying degrees, social
conservatives who oppose abortion, gun control and gay marriage.  Establishment, Populists  Still, there are telling nuances. The former governors,
Romney and Huntsman and, to an extent, Pawlenty, are more
mainstream, business-friendly, establishment conservatives.
Bachmann and Palin, if she joins the race, are populist right-
wingers playing to the cultural, religious and social-issues
base of the party.  Two other populist wannabes seem less serious these days.
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s campaign has virtually
self-destructed before launching, and ex-Pennsylvania Senator
Rick Santorum’s major achievement so far has been to assail
national icons: criticizing President John F. Kennedy for being
insufficiently Catholic, and last week chiding Republican
Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, a prisoner of war for six-and-a-
half years during the Vietnam War, for not understanding
enhanced interrogation.  The Libertarian Congressman Ron Paul of Texas is sui
generis; he’ll command 5 percent to 10 percent or more of the
vote in most contests.  Romney, Huntsman  Romney and Huntsman, as rivals, are straight out of central
casting: both are Mormon, smart, attractive, wealthy former
governors, ex-businessmen. Romney has better corporate
credentials and Huntsman has more foreign-policy experience,
with two stints as an ambassador.  Both have potentially lethal liabilities: Romney
promulgated a  Massachusetts  health-care law that many
Republicans believe was a precursor to the plan enacted by
President Barack Obama; Huntsman served as Obama’s envoy to
 China , a double liability in the eyes of many conservative
Republicans.  The conventional wisdom of the  Washington  punditocracy in
recent weeks has been that Pawlenty is the one major contender
who can straddle both camps, acceptable to the more mainstream
economic conservatives and to the movement’s social right, while
a favorite of neither. True, though the problem for
“tweeners,” as such middle of the road types are sometimes
called in politics and sports, is that they don’t arouse much
passion, often the essential ingredient for success in primaries.  Primary Winners  There are crucial early decisions that will shape the
outcome. It’s a good bet the ultimate nominee will win either
the Iowa caucuses or the  New Hampshire  primary. That has been
the case with 17 of the past 18 major party nominees, the
exception being  Bill Clinton  in 1992, when there wasn’t a
contest in the Iowa caucuses.  Iowa, where social conservatives and the religious right
have a disproportionate influence, is a must-win for Bachmann,
or for Palin, for that matter. It’s hard to see a path to the
nomination for Pawlenty if he can’t win in his neighboring state.  Other candidates such as Huntsman probably will skip Iowa.
The toughest decision will be for Romney, the frontrunner, who
finished second in the Hawkeye State in 2008. If he makes only a
token effort and Pawlenty wins, it could jeopardize his front-
running status, as could a major effort that’s unsuccessful. As
of late last week, the Romney campaign was still undecided on
Iowa.  New Hampshire Victory  Romney and Huntsman, and Giuliani, if he runs, have to win
in more secular New Hampshire or it will be next to impossible
for them to capture the nomination.  The jump-start theory of presidential primaries -- to try
to show and place in Iowa or New Hampshire, and then win a big
subsequent state, like Florida or  Michigan  -- is always a fool’s
errand, as Giuliani learned four years ago. The problem is that
the winners of those two early states have the momentum to blow
right past the jump-starters.  This also is why there’s unlikely to be a white knight who
will reshape this race. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush,
associates say, hasn’t abandoned presidential aspirations. He
realizes the presidency and policies of his brother, President
 George W. Bush , remain unpopular with most Americans, and it’s
better to wait.  Christie’s Polls  Christie, who has governed  New Jersey  for less than a year-
and-a-half, is more popular with some party activists than in
his own state, where his poll ratings are dropping and show him
getting clobbered in a hypothetical presidential match-up
against Obama.  Ryan, the policy-savvy House Budget Committee chairman, is
a favorite of conservative pundits; the 41-year-old Wisconsin
Republican could dominate the change issue. The change he’s most
identified with is his proposal to transform Medicare. Last week,
the party lost a safe Republican congressional district in  New
York  in a special election that focused on Ryan’s Medicare plan;
if that was the centerpiece of a national election it would make
for a Democratic landslide.  Despondent Republicans might look back to similarly
depressed Democrats 20 years ago; all the heavyweights -- Mario Cuomo, Ted Kennedy,  Al Gore  -- were sitting out a race against
an incumbent president, leaving the field to a group of second-
raters.  Out of the pack emerged a nominee, the governor of  Arkansas ,
who proved to be a pretty fair politician.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net  