-- 
Rookie Keegan Bradley Wins Byron Nelson for First Title on PGA Golf Tour

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-30T04:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/rookie-keegan-bradley-wins-byron-nelson-for-first-title-on-pga-golf-tour.html
Keegan Bradley, a nephew of Hall of
Fame golfer Pat Bradley, beat  Ryan Palmer  in a playoff at the
Byron Nelson Championship for his breakthrough win in his rookie
year on the U.S.  PGA Tour .  Bradley found the edge of the 18th green, near a lake, with
a low hook from trees with his second shot at the first extra
hole yesterday. Palmer then dumped his ball in the hazard,
leading to a bogey, before Bradley made par to collect the $1.17
million winner’s check and a place at next year’s  Masters
Tournament .  “I hit about a 50-yard hook around these trees onto the
green and if it goes two inches more to the left it’s in the
water,” Bradley said of his second shot in a news conference.
“I really hit the shot of my life.”  Bradley, a 24-year-old graduate of  St. John’s University ,
needs 30 more wins to match the record of his aunt on the LPGA
Tour. Pat Bradley, 60, was the first woman to win all four
women’s major titles and in 1991 became the 12th woman to enter
the  Hall of Fame .  “She’s going to be thrilled,” Bradley said. “I’m sure
she was by the TV going crazy.”  When Pat Bradley won her first LPGA Tour event in 1976, her
mother went out to her porch and clanged a cow bell. She did the
same after all her wins, and the bell is now in the Hall of Fame.  “The cow bell in my family is an iconic thing,” he said.
“We might have to take it out.”  Bradley, who began the tournament ranked 203rd in the world,
shot a 2-under-par 68 in windy conditions at the TPC Four
Seasons Resort Las Colinas in Irving,  Texas , for a four-round
total of 3-under-par 277. Palmer had a 2-over-par 72 to also
finish at 3-under.  Ryuji Imada of  Japan  was in the lead at 4-under with two
holes to play. He missed a par putt from inside three feet at No.
17 to drop into a tie with Bradley. Imada, whose only PGA Tour
win came at the 2008 AT&T Classic, then bogeyed the final hole
after finding a greenside bunker.  Palmer, the 54-hole leader, three-putted for bogey at the
17th hole to drop back to 2-under. Needing a birdie at the last
hole to force a playoff, the world No. 62 dropped his approach
shot six feet from the cup and drained the putt.  “To make birdie on 18 to force a playoff is spectacular,”
Bradley said. “I was nervous.”  It was the fifth playoff in six weeks on the world’s
richest golf circuit.  The tour moves to Dublin,  Ohio , for the  Memorial Tournament 
from June 2-5, before heading to  Memphis  for the  St. Jude
Classic , the last event before the  U.S. Open , the second major
championship of the year.  The  U.S. Open  is scheduled for June 16-19 at Congressional
Country Club in Bethesda,  Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 