-- 
Russia RTS Index Futures Gain on Bets Greek Crisis to Be Solved

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-30T21:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/russia-rts-index-futures-gain-as-oil-commodity-prices-rally.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose, signaling the gauge may rise for a sixth session in Moscow
today, on expectations European Union leaders will find a
solution to Greece’s sovereign debt crisis.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose 0.2 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, gained 0.1 percent and OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 0.1 percent.  “Investors appear willing to tough out these difficult
conditions because they hope that the second half will be
better,”  Chris Weafer , the chief strategist at UralSib
Securities in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report. “The Greek
sovereign debt problem has not entirely killed off risk
appetites.”  European Union leaders will decide on a new aid package for
 Greece  by the end of June and have ruled out a “total
restructuring” of the country’s debt, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said yesterday in Paris after meeting with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy.  Inspectors from the EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Central Bank  are set to wrap a review of Greece’s
progress in meeting the terms of last year’s 110 billion-euro
($157 billion) bailout in the coming days. The EU will then
formulate its plan for new aid to Greece, which is shut out of
financial markets a year after the rescue package.  The euro weakened for the first time in three days versus
the dollar. Some investors buy dollar-denominated assets to
protect value when the dollar weakens against the euro and sell
them when the dollar gains. Oil and copper fell in  New York .  Oil Declines  U.S. markets were closed for the Memorial Day national
holiday yesterday.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including gold, silver, copper, nickel, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of its
economic output.  Oil dropped in electronic trading New York, headed for its
first monthly decline since August, on speculation that fuel
demand will falter amid a slowdown in the U.S. economic
recovery.  Crude for July delivery fell 21 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$100.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices are up 36 percent from a
year ago.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.4 percent to 1,644.99 in
Moscow yesterday, the highest since May 11. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index climbed 0.4 percent to 1,865.74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  