-- 
Russia May Leave Interest Rates Unchanged

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-05-29T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/russia-may-leave-interest-rates-unchanged.html
Russia’s central bank may keep
 interest rates  unchanged today after two increases this year to
avoid hurting economic growth.  Bank Rossii  will hold the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
at a policy meeting today after unexpectedly raising it last
month, according to 16 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The deposit and overnight auction-based repurchase rates will be
left at 3.25 percent and 5.50 percent, respectively, two
separate surveys showed.  Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is trying to keep inflation
between 6 percent and 7 percent without stifling credit flows
and undermining a recovery in the world’s biggest energy
supplier. With the inflation rate now “in order,” the bank
will be “very cautious” in raising borrowing costs to “avoid
hurting economic growth,” Ignatiev said May 26.  “It appears that inflation is stabilizing, although it’s
very high, and they will definitely remain in a hiking mode,”
said Sanna Kurronen, a Helsinki-based economist at Danske Bank
A/S. “Their priority has been assuring growth and they have
been quite passive with rate hikes.”  The central bank lifted rates last month to limit an
inflation rate that has held above the bank’s target since
October. The annual rate in April matched an 18-month high of
9.6 percent. The decision to raise the refinancing rate to 8.25
percent from 8 percent surprised the 15 of 20 economists who
expected no change.  Slowest Growing  The slowest-growing economy among the so-called BRIC
nations,  Russia  is relying on revenue from oil to bolster its
recovery, while seeking ways to reduce its reliance on energy
exports. Oil at more than $100 a barrel is no longer stoking
economic expansion, which slowed to 4.1 percent in the first
quarter, from 4.5 percent in the fourth. Growth slid further in
April, to 3.3 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said May 26.  The economy will expand 4.5 percent next year, compared
with 9.1 percent for China and 7.8 percent for  India , the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast in April.  The pace of inflation has shown signs of steadying.
Consumer-price growth in May will probably match the rate during
the same month last year, when prices gained a monthly 0.5
percent, Ignatiev said May 26.  Inflation  “Inflation hasn’t accelerated so they don’t have to hike
the repo rates,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging markets analyst
at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by phone. “They don’t
need to move aggressively this time.”  Investors have scaled back bets for higher interest rates.
Forward-rate agreements show the likelihood of 30 basis points
of interest-rate increases in the next three months, the lowest
since last October, Bloomberg data show.  The cost to lock in interest payments for a year dropped 12
basis points last week, to 4.89 percent, according to interest-
rate swap data on Bloomberg.  Unlike their counterparts in  Brazil ,  China  and India
Russian policy makers preferred currency gains and higher
 reserve requirements  for lenders as inflation-fighting tools to
help fledging growth. The ruble has gained a record 9 percent so
far this year after the bank relaxed currency controls. The
ruble strengthened 0.5 percent to 28.04 per dollar on May 27.  Russia will leave mandatory reserve ratios unchanged today
and begin to lift them in the second half, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists.  Elections  With parliamentary elections at the end of the year and
presidential elections in early 2012, policy makers will
probably step up their inflation-fighting rhetoric and revive
efforts to meet the inflation goal, according to Danske Bank’s
Kurronen and Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  “Inflation expectations are high” even as the harvest
poses the only “serious” risk to the bank’s forecast for price
growth this year, Ignatiev said May 26  “Previously” the central bank “put a greater weight on
growth, but with signs that the population is becoming
increasingly sensitive to the impact of inflation on real
disposable incomes, and with opinion polls showing a dip in
support for the ruling elites, controlling inflation is also
center stage,” Ash wrote in a note e-mailed on May 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 