-- 
Palin’s Harley Ride Through Capital Raises Speculation on Presidential Bid

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-05-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/sarah-palin-joins-rolling-thunder-bikers-for-ride-to-freedom-.html
Sarah Palin’s ride through Washington
on a  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  motorcycle yesterday as part of the
 Rolling Thunder  “Ride for Freedom” put her back in the
national spotlight as the race for the Republican presidential
nomination is revving up.  The former Alaska governor joined about 400,000 bikers for
the annual ride, which coincided with the first leg of a bus
tour that is renewing speculation about her 2012 White House
ambitions.  Palin, who had no official speaking role at the event,
arrived wearing a helmet and rode on the back of a Harley from
the Pentagon toward the Vietnam War Memorial. Rolling Thunder,
which began in 1988, was established by Vietnam veterans to draw
attention to missing service members and prisoners of war.
Palin’s husband, Todd, and daughters Piper and Bristol also took
part in the ride.  In a posting on her  political action committee website , the
2008 Republican vice presidential candidate said Rolling Thunder,
through the roar of tens of thousands of bike engines, keeps
alive the Memorial Day spirit of honoring veterans.  “I love that smell of emissions,” Palin told  Fox News  at
yesterday’s rally.  Palin’s campaign-style “ One Nation Tour ” by bus from
Washington through  New England  could be a prelude to a bid for
the Republican nomination -- or an effort to command the
spotlight as the competition heats up.  “Is this bus tour a trial run for a planned race, or is it
an attempt to remain visible and relevant?” asked  Charlie Cook ,
publisher of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington.
“You can count all the people who really know what Sarah Palin
is thinking and planning on one hand.”  Republican Field  Other Republicans are formalizing their plans. Former
 Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty  entered the race May 23 with an
announcement in  Des Moines .  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts
governor, visited Iowa Friday for the first time this year, and
his campaign says he will announce his candidacy on June 2.  Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania  is
expected to do the same on June 6, U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota has said she will make her intentions
known in June, and  Texas  Governor Rick Perry said on May 27 he’s
“thinking about” running. Also declared as candidates are
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson and Herman Cain, the former chairman of Godfather’s Pizza.  Not Running  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, real estate developer
 Donald Trump , Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour and former
Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee have all announced in recent
weeks that they wouldn’t enter the contest.  Huckabee won the  Iowa  caucuses in 2008 on a message of
socially conservative populism, so his decision not to run
provides an opening for a candidate such as Palin or Bachmann,
who have both built a similar political brand, said Cook.  “I suspect that Palin sees herself as having created this
space, she views Bachmann as an upstart and interloper,” Cook
said. “Conversely, Bachmann may see herself as intellectually
superior and more qualified than Palin.”  Palin has limited her public appearances over the past
several months to her role as a paid analyst for Fox News and to
occasional posts on  Facebook  and Twitter; she did little to
build formal campaign operations in early voting states such as
Iowa.  Hiring Staff  Indications she may be serious about a bid include hiring
additional staff and finishing a two-hour biographical
documentary. She has also purchased a home for about $1.7
million in Scottsdale,  Arizona , which could become a campaign
base, according to reports from news organizations such as the
Wall Street Journal and the Arizona Republic.  “She certainly is a major factor,” Senator  John McCain  of
Arizona, who as the Republican presidential candidate in 2008
chose Palin as his running mate, said on “Fox News Sunday”
today. “Whether she’ll even run or not, I don’t know.”  Before getting on her motorcycle, Palin mingled with the
bikers, surveying the tattoos of one and accepting a rally
souvenir patch from another.  Ted Shpak,  Rolling Thunder  national legislative director,
said May 27 on  MSNBC  that Palin hadn’t been invited and that the
group doesn’t endorse candidates. “We can’t stop her from
coming to ride,” Shpak said.  “If she wants to ride, that’s fine,” he said. “It is a
big distraction” because “we’re not political.”  ‘Smart Political Move’  Rolling Thunder director Artie Muller said on CNN yesterday
that she was welcome to join the ride.  “It’s a smart political move on her part,” said Kristina
Skirving, a 42-year-old from Charleston,  South Carolina . “She’s
all about guns and America. She knows there’s a lot of patriotic
people here whose vote she could get.”  Tim Crawford, a Palin spokesman and the treasurer of
SarahPAC, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Some Republican insiders doubt that Palin will run, said
Dan Schnur, a former adviser to McCain during his campaign in
2000 for the Republican presidential nomination.  As a candidate, Palin would lose her $1 million-a-year Fox
contract, and she would have to scale back her paid speaking
schedule. A political loss could also put at risk any future
earnings potential.  ‘Shadow Candidate’  “She’s smart enough to understand that the longer she
waits before making an announcement, the more visible she’s
going to be and the more influence she is going to have,”
Schnur said. “Being a shadow candidate can be a lot more fun
for her.”  Palin has said repeatedly that she has not made up her mind
about 2012. In October, she said she would run “if there’s
nobody else to do it.” In March, she told a Fox News host she
was “tempted” to run.  For her “One Nation Tour,” Palin has chartered a red,
white and blue bus for what the SarahPAC website describes as
“our new campaign to educate and energize Americans about our
nation’s founding principles, in order to promote the
fundamental restoration of America.”  Poll Numbers  A  Gallup poll  released May 26 showed Palin virtually tied
with Romney in a national survey of Republican and Republican-
leaning independent voters. Romney was supported by 17 percent
and Palin by 15 percent. The poll was taken May 20-24 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. A  Gallup
poll  a month earlier put her at 10 percent.  Her unfavorable ratings are high; a  Quinnipiac University
poll  released May 4 found that 58 percent of those surveyed said
they would never vote for Palin for president.  Other potential candidates include former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who resigned his post as U.S. ambassador to  China  on
April 30, and former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a
Democrat-turned-Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  