-- 
Scarcity Drives Non-Bank Bond Prices to Nine-Month High: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-30T04:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/scarcity-drives-non-bank-bond-prices-to-nine-month-high-australia-credit.html
Bonds sold in  Australia  by companies
outside the financial industry are trading at the highest price
in almost nine months amid a scarcity of local currency debt.  Notes sold by Woolworths Ltd., Telstra Corp. and other
companies account for A$3.6 billion ($3.8 billion) of bond sales
in the nation this year, or 6 percent of offerings, compared
with $293 billion and 52 percent in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pacific Investment Management Co. and
Western Asset Management Co. are buying Australian dollar non-
financial bonds, lured by economic growth forecast to outstrip
the U.S. and  Europe  next year and the highest interest rates in
the developed world.  “There is a scarcity bid for issuers that are well-
regarded,” said  John Sorrell , head of credit at Tyndall
Investment Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney, which manages
about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets. “Australian
corporates are viewed as stronger due to the healthier state of
the domestic economy relative to the U.S. or Europe.”  The weighted price of bonds in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Australian Industrial Index reached 100.6 cents on the
dollar May 27, the highest since Sept. 3 last year. The price
has jumped 1.8 cents in 2011, outpacing increases on similar
U.S. and global debt, the indexes show.  As investors snap up the bonds, relative yields on the debt
of Australian companies are tumbling.  Woolworths Bonds  Woolworths, the nation’s largest retailer, paid less to
borrow than General Electric Co. when it sold A$500 million of
five-year notes in March.  The 6.75 percent securities were priced to yield 105 basis
points more than the swap rate, compared with a spread of 110
paid by GE’s local finance unit on a sale of three-year bonds in
February, Bloomberg data show. The relative yield on Sydney-
based Woolworths’ bonds has since fallen to 85, Australia &  New
Zealand  Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  Telstra, Australia’s largest phone company, sold A$150
million of 10-year, 7.75 percent bonds at a 200 basis-point
spread in June, Bloomberg data show. When it added to the line
this month, it paid 160 basis points.  Local currency bonds sold by Woolworths, Telstra and other
companies including oil and gas producer Santos Ltd. have gained
4.7 percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Australian Industrial Index. That beats the 3.1 percent
return on industrial company debt sold globally and 3.9 percent
on similar bonds in the U.S., Merrill Lynch data show.  U.S. industrial bonds climbed 1.3 cents on the dollar this
year while the global equivalent gained 0.7 cents, the data
show. Yields on the Australian index relative to government debt
have fallen 29 basis points to 184 this year.  ‘Attractive’ Debt  “Australian corporate bonds are attractive because the
mining cycle is generating a lot of free  cash flow  that’s very
supportive for the local growth outlook, and companies tend not
to be very leveraged,” said Hayden Briscoe, head of Australia
and New Zealand fixed income at AllianceBernstein Holding LP’s
local unit.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens increased
borrowing costs seven times between October 2009 and November
2010 to 4.75 percent to contain inflation as the nation’s
biggest resources boom in a century cut unemployment to 4.9
percent.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main interest-rate in
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The
 European Central Bank  raised its benchmark interest rate to 1.25
percent last month after keeping it at a record low of 1 percent
for almost two years.  Growth Forecasts  Economists forecast 4 percent growth for Australia in 2012,
compared with estimates of 3.1 percent in the U.S. and 1.7
percent in Europe, Bloomberg surveys show.  Interest rates  and demand for commodities helped spur a 26
percent advance in the nation’s currency in the past 12 months
against the U.S. dollar, Bloomberg data show. The so-called
Aussie reached $1.0691 at 2:32 p.m. in Sydney today.  Consumer prices in Australia may rise an annual 2.98
percent in the next five years, based on the gap between yields
on government bonds and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to
hold inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond fell 2
basis points to 5.21 percent at 2:33 p.m. today, or 214 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Western Asset  Western Asset Management, which is part of Baltimore-based
Legg Mason Inc. and oversees $454 billion, has bought Telstra’s
7.75 percent bonds due in 2020, and debt sold by property firm
Stockland and Australia Pacific Airports Corp., the owner of
Melbourne Airport, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The scarcity of Australian corporate bonds is partly due to
companies funding themselves overseas in currencies such as the
 U.S. dollar  and euro, where lower benchmark rates help cut
yields. Bond sales by Australian companies in the U.S. made a
record start to the year, with Telstra, Woolworths and National
Australia Bank Ltd. among banks and firms offering $42.5 billion
of notes, Bloomberg data show.  Woolworths is paying a 3.15 percent coupon on $300 million
of April 2016 notes sold in the U.S. last month, compared with
6.75 percent on its Australian-dollar bonds due the same year
and issued in March, Bloomberg data show.  Australian banks continue to sell more bonds domestically
than non-financial companies, even as the lowest mortgage demand
since at least 1977 reduces lenders’ need to raise debt.  Bank Bonds  ANZ Bank,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , National
Australia Bank and Westpac Banking Corp. have sold a combined
A$11.9 billion of bonds domestically in 2011, more than three
times the debt issued by all non-financial companies, Bloomberg
data show.  “Australian credit portfolios are always looking to
diversify away from financials,” said Briscoe of
AllianceBernstein, which manages $477 billion globally including
$210 billion of fixed-income assets, according to its website.  The average price of bonds in the Australian Industrial
Index is 32 cents on the dollar higher than securities in the
Australian Financial Index, Merrill Lynch data show. The gap was
as low as 1 cent in March.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, prefers Australian corporate notes to
government debt and favors resource companies and supermarkets,
according to  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  portfolio
management .  Demand for local currency corporate debt has pushed
relative yields on some new offerings too low, said Mead.  “The levels on some primary transactions have been
squeezed too much,” he said. “We have been better buyers in
the secondary market at wider levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 