-- Alonso Wins German Grand Prix to Extend Lead in Standings
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-23T15:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/sebastian-vettel-of-red-bull-wins-monaco-grand-prix-extends-points-lead.html
Sebastian Vettel of  Red Bull  won
today’s Singapore Grand Prix to move up to second in the Formula
One drivers’ standings.  Jenson Button  of McLaren came second, 9 seconds behind, and
Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  was third in the floodlit night race
on the Marina Bay street circuit. Alonso retains the lead in the
drivers’ event, although it’s cut to 29 points from 37.  McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , second in the standings before
today, was leading the race when he had to pull out on lap 23
after a gearbox failure. It was Vettel’s second straight victory
in the race, his second this season and the 23rd of his career.  “This has been one of toughest races of the year, to be
honest,” two-time defending world champion Vettel, 25, told
reporters. “There are so many bumps, there’s no room for
mistakes and it just seems to go on forever. I’m incredibly
happy.”  Hamilton had taken pole position today, seeking his third
win in four races and a fourth straight victory for McLaren.  He had a good start, while Pastor Maldonado of Williams
lost ground from second place on the grid. Hamilton led early on
from Vettel, Button, Maldonado and Alonso. After a round of
early pit stops the pattern was the same when Hamilton withdrew,
banging his steering wheel in frustration as the car drew to a
halt.  Germany’s Vettel, who’d started third on the grid, took
over the lead. He was followed by Button, and they were among
those pitting when the safety car came out after Narain
Karthikeyan’s HRT crashed on lap 33.  Schumacher Crash  Hardly had racing resumed when seven-time series champion
 Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes crashed into the back of Toro
Rosso’s Jean-Eric Vergne. That sent both cars out of the race
and brought the safety car on again.  Vettel maintained his grip on the race as the safety car
exited, followed by Button, Alonso, Force India’s Paul Di Resta
and  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes.  By lap 52 Vettel had extended his lead over Button to 3
seconds and continued to stretch his advantage. The race, due to
last 61 laps, only completed 59 by the two-hour time limit.  Di Resta finished fourth, followed by Rosberg, Lotus duo
 Kimi Raikkonen  and  Romain Grosjean  and Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa .
Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso was ninth and Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  10th. Maldonado pulled out with a hydraulic problem  Alonso leads the drivers’ standings on 194 points, ahead of
Vettel (165), who moves up from fourth. Then comes Raikkonen
(149), Hamilton (142), Webber (133) and Button (119). Red Bull
leads the constructors’ event on 298, with McLaren on 261 and
Ferrari on 245.  Also this weekend, the Singapore government announced it
extended its contract to host a Formula One race for five more
years until 2017, providing a continued boost to the economy
from visitor arrivals and tourism receipts.  The next event, the 15th in a 20-race season, is the
Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka on Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  