-- 
Syrian Forces Kill Two Near Homs as Wave of Arrests Made Around Damascus

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-29T09:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/syrian-forces-carry-out-arrests-in-sweep-of-damascus-suburbs-after-deaths.html
Syrian security forces carried out
widespread arrests overnight as anti-government protesters took
to the streets in the suburbs of the capital after 13 people
were killed in rallies.  Demonstrations took place in the Damascus suburbs of Douma,
Barzeh, Harasta and Daraya yesterday night, said Mahmoud Merhi,
head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, in a phone
interview from  Syria . Security forces fired on anti-government
protesters in several cities May 27 as they broke up rallies
nationwide, pushing the death toll past 1,100 since
demonstrations against the government of President Bashar Al- Assad began in mid-March, said Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s
National Organization for Human Rights.  Syrian opposition groups and activists will hold a
conference in Turkey May 31 in support of the protesters
demanding political changes, according to Qurabi. The three-day
event in the Mediterranean city of Antalya will bring together
more than 200 people, he said.  The European Union announced sanctions on Syria May 23
aimed at “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. froze the assets of Assad and
top officials. In a speech earlier this month President  Barack Obama  urged Assad to stop the killing and lead a peaceful
transition to democracy or “get out of the way.”  Syria’s government has blamed the unrest on Islamic
militants and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the
country. Assad initially promised reforms in response to the
protests, which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt . Those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 