-- 
Syrian Deaths Mount After Army Helicopter Attacks; Eight Killed in Homs

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-29T17:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/syrian-forces-kill-two-demonstrators-in-crackdown-following-protests.html
Syrian army helicopters fired on
anti-government demonstrators today as government forces
continued a crackdown on protests that began in mid-March.  Helicopters fired on people in the towns of Talbiseh and
Rastan, injuring at least 16, said Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s
National Organization for Human Rights. Al Jazeera news channel
reported at least two protesters were killed in Rastan.  At least seven civilians were killed in the nearby city of
Homs, including a woman and a child, Qurabi said. A security
officer was also killed Homs, where government forces aren’t
allowing anyone in or out of the city, Qurabi said.  Government forces have carried out widespread arrests since
protesters took to the streets in the suburbs of Damascus
yesterday after 13 people were killed in nationwide rallies the
previous day following Friday prayers.  Demonstrations took place in the capital’s suburbs of
Douma, Barzeh, Harasta and Daraya late yesterday, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, in a
telephone interview from Syria. Security forces fired on anti-
government protesters in several cities May 27 as they broke up
rallies nationwide, pushing the death toll past 1,100 since
demonstrations against the government of President Bashar Al- Assad began in mid-March, according to Qurabi.  Opposition Conference  Syrian opposition groups and activists will hold a
conference in Turkey May 31 in support of the protesters
demanding political changes, according to Qurabi. The three-day
event in the Mediterranean city of Antalya will bring together
more than 200 people, he said.  The European Union announced sanctions on Syria May 23
aimed at “the highest level of leadership,” as well as a
review of aid programs. The U.S. froze the assets of Assad and
top officials. In a speech earlier this month President  Barack Obama  urged Assad to stop the killing and lead a peaceful
transition to democracy or “get out of the way.”  Syria’s government has blamed the unrest on Islamic
militants and “terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the
country. Assad initially promised reforms in response to the
protests, which followed popular uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and  Egypt . Those pledges haven’t been repeated in recent
weeks as security forces stepped up their crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 