-- 
Yemen, Syria Fire on Demonstrators

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-05-29T22:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/syria-s-helicopters-fire-on-protesters-egypt-still-plans-vote-this-year.html
Yemeni security forces set fire to
the tents of protesters in Freedom Square in Taiz, south of
Sana’a, and opened fire on demonstrators,  Al Jazeera  television
reported.  Akram Saed, who was in the square, told the network by
telephone that there were “flames everywhere” and that the
security forces aimed “directly at protesters.” Thousands of
demonstrators have been camped out at the square to demand the
ouster of Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  More than 3,000 people have been rallying outside a
government building near Freedom Square to call for the release
of six protesters who were detained on May 26, said Bushra al-
Maktari, an activist. Protesters in Taiz arrested one soldier
and demanded in return the release of their colleagues, Al
Jazeera said.  Some soldiers joined the opposition in Taiz, according to
Al Jazeera.  Al Arabiya  television reported yesterday that five
protesters in Taiz were killed; Al Jazeera said 90 were wounded.  Elsewhere in  Yemen , Islamist gunmen yesterday occupied
government buildings in the coastal city of Zanjibar amid claims
that groups such as al-Qaeda are exploiting unrest caused by
anti-government protests that began Feb. 11. Al Jazeera reported
that five people were killed and nine were wounded.  Twenty-two soldiers were killed in Yemen on Saturday and
Sunday, according to Al Arabiya’s correspondent in Sana’a.  Saleh has refused to sign a Western-backed power transition
accord, brokered by the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council,
that provides for his departure.  Syrian Army Helicopters  In Syria, army helicopters fired on anti-government
demonstrators yesterday as government forces continued a
crackdown on protests that began in mid-March and the opposition
prepared for a conference in Turkey tomorrow.  The military fired on people in the towns of Talbiseh and
Rastan, injuring at least 16, said Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s
National Organization for Human Rights. Thirteen were wounded in
Talbiseh when Syrian forces shot at a school bus, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing an activist, and eight demonstrators
were killed. The official Syrian news agency SANA, citing a
military source, said four soldiers, including an officer, were
killed in Talbiseh.  At least seven civilians were killed in the nearby city of
Homs, including a woman and a child, Qurabi said. A security
officer was also killed in Homs, where government forces aren’t
allowing anyone in or out of the city, he said.  Syrian security forces carried out widespread arrests over
the weekend as protesters took to the streets after 13 people
were killed in nationwide rallies following Friday prayers.  Security forces broke up rallies nationwide by gunfire,
pushing the death toll beyond 1,100 since mid-March, when
demonstrations against the government of President Bashar Al- Assad began, according to Qurabi.  Conference in  Turkey   Syrian opposition groups and activists will hold a
conference in Turkey, starting tomorrow, in support of the
demonstrators demanding political changes, according to Qurabi.
More than 200 people are expected to attend the three-day event
in the Mediterranean city of Antalya, he said.  The European Union announced sanctions aimed at Syrian
leaders last week and is reviewing aid programs. The U.S. has
frozen the assets of Assad and six other officials, and
President  Barack Obama  has urged Assad to “get out of the way”
of a democratic transition.  Syrian officials blame the unrest on Islamic militants and
“terrorist elements” seeking to destabilize the country. Assad
initially promised reforms in response to the protests, which
followed the uprisings in Egypt and  Tunisia  that led to the
successful ousters of those countries’ rulers.  Egyptian Elections  The Egyptian newspaper  Al Ahram  reported that according to
Hassan al-Roweini, a member of the country’s ruling military
council, parliamentary and presidential elections will occur on
time, before the end of the year. The security situation won’t
delay the elections, Roweini was reported as saying in a
television interview on Alhayat TV 2 channel.  Egypt’s shares rose to the highest level in almost two
months after the leaders of the Group of Eight industrial
nations pledged to provide at least $40 billion in aid to pro-
democracy movements in North Africa.  An Iranian diplomat accused of spying in  Egypt  was declared
persona non grata and will be expelled, Al Arabiya  reported.  In  Libya  yesterday, North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets
bombed weapons caches and oil trucks in the coastal city of
Ajdabiya, Al Jazeera reported. That attack came a day after the
U.K. said that NATO planes had leveled guard towers atop the
walls of leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s compound in central Tripoli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  