-- 
Egyptian Shares Climb to Two-Month High as G-8 Pledges Aid to North Africa

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-29T14:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/u-a-e-shares-rise-abu-dhabi-snaps-six-day-drop-as-oil-rises-aldar-gains.html
Egypt ’s shares rose to the highest
level in almost two months after the Group of Eight leaders
pledged to provide at least $40 billion in aid to North Africa.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded construction company, advanced 2.7 percent. EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, the largest publicly listed investment bank, rose
to the highest since March 23. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  rallied 2.5
percent to 5,548.06 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the highest
level since April 3. The measure has tumbled 22 percent so far
this year as a popular uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in
February forced the bourse to close for almost two months.  Local stocks are benefitting from “international aid
commitments announced for Egypt,” and after protests on May 27
passed without violence, said Tamer Nigm, head of sales and
trading at Cairo-based  Watheeqa Securities Brokerage .  Institutions such as the  World Bank  and the  African
Development Bank  could provide more than $20 billion for Egypt
and Tunisia through 2013, including 3.5 billion euros ($5
billion) from the  European Investment Bank , to support
“suitable reform efforts,” G-8 leaders said in a May 27
statement after a two-day summit in France. Thousands of
Egyptians rallied that same day in Cairo demanding faster trials
for Mubarak and other officials in his ousted regime, as well as
a bigger role in policy making during the transition period.  Proposed Law  French President Nicolas Sarkozy, in a press conference
last week, said G-8 countries will provide another $10 billion
in direct aid to Tunisia and Egypt, and that oil exporting
countries in the Gulf such as Kuwait, Qatar and  Saudi Arabia 
will kick in another $10 billion. Those figures weren’t included
in the communique.  Orascom Construction rose to 268.11 Egyptian pounds, the
highest since Jan. 24. EFG-Hermes surged 6 percent to 22.7
pounds. The EGX 100 Index jumped 2 percent.  Egypt is also studying legislation to legalize land sales
that violated the law under previous governments,  Al Masry Al
Youm  reported on May 26, citing Omar El Shawadfy, head of the
National Center for State Land Utilization. The law would hold
the government accountable, the Cairo-based newspaper said.  “Investors are seeing the government is making real
progress to settle disputes with business people, so that’s
driving the real estate sector,” Nigm said.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, Egypt’s biggest publicly
listed real-estate developer, is facing a lawsuit regarding the
purchase of land from the government for its Madinaty project
because it wasn’t done through an auction. A court in Cairo
delayed its ruling on the case until June 21. The shares rose
7.5 percent to 4.76 pounds, the highest since March 28.  Abu Dhabi  Rises  In the United Arab Emirates, the  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  climbed
0.4 percent, snapping a six-day drop, and Dubai’s  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.7 percent. Qatar’s QE Index declined 0.3 percent
and Oman’s MSM 30 Index lost 0.5 percent. Kuwait’s measure fell
0.3 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index retreated 0.6
percent to the lowest level on record. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained less than 0.1 percent.  Israel’s TA-25 Index rose 1 percent and 10-year  government
bonds  advanced. The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit note due
January 2020 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 5.06 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  