-- 
U.A.E. Stock Trading System Is Upgraded, Meets MSCI Criteria

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-29T12:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/u-a-e-stock-trading-system-is-upgraded-meets-msci-criteria-1-.html
The United Arab Emirates stock
exchanges said market participants are now ready to use an
upgraded trading system, meeting criteria for emerging market
status for the nation within the  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  index.  “As of today, members and custodians can execute trades
based on this internationally acclaimed model,” the so-called
delivery-versus-payment system, that “went live” on April 28,
the  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Abu Dhabi  exchange fully implemented the new settlement
system today, said a senior official at the bourse who declined
to be identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. The
U.A.E. is ready for MSCI’s review on June 21, the person said.
MSCI will revalue the bourses’ current frontier market status by
examining, among other measures, economic development, trading
volumes and market accessibility.  The exchanges said on April 27 they will give brokerages
time until May 29 to switch to the DvP on concern about the
readiness of market participants. The U.A.E. regulator, the
Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority, had said on April
11 the system would be introduced on April 28. The NASDAQ Dubai
said last week it plans to delay the proposed market
enhancements until July subject to regulatory approval.  An upgrade would “provide liquidity into the stock market
which is good for brokers and will generate demand on local
equities which is good for stock prices,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  snapped a six-day decline
today, advancing 0.4 percent to 2,607.53 at the 2 p.m. close in
the emirate. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.7 percent.  DvP is a securities industry procedure in which payment for
a security must be made when the security is delivered. Usually,
the payment is made to a bank, which in turn pays for the
security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  