-- 
Turks Sailing Again in Gaza Flotilla Chart a Collision Course With Israel

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-05-30T11:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/turks-sailing-again-in-gaza-flotilla-chart-a-collision-course-with-israel.html
In an Istanbul dockyard, workers are
outfitting the Mavi Marmara, the ship on which Israeli commandos
killed nine Turkish activists a year ago, to lead a second
attempt to break Israel’s embargo of the  Gaza Strip .  The first voyage ended when soldiers rappelled from
helicopters and opened fire after the ship, part of a six-boat
flotilla, refused to stop. Israel says people onboard shot first
and attacked with iron bars, a charge they deny. This time,
activists plan to sail 15 vessels loaded with cargo and pro-
Palestinian supporters, setting them on a collision course with
Israel’s military.  Their goal is to defy and undermine the blockade of Hamas-
ruled Gaza next month by delivering aid to the enclave without
permission. At stake are two often conflicting aims: Israel’s
stated desire to limit and monitor cargo going into Gaza to
prevent weapons from entering and Palestinian demands for self-
determination and improved living conditions.  “For the flotilla’s organizers and supporters, including
 Turkey , it’s a win-win situation, in which they either secure
humanitarian passage perceived to be alleviating suffering in
Gaza, or are assaulted and perceived to be the victims of state-
sponsored violence,” said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow
at the  Royal United Services Institute  in  London .  Turkey withdrew its ambassador after the raid and Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  demanded an apology and
compensation before relations are fully restored. The attack
prompted UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon to call the blockade
“unsustainable and wrong” while U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  called the deaths a “tragedy.”  Shekel Weakened  The day after the May 31 raid, the shekel weakened to an
almost 10-month low while the benchmark TA-25  stock index  posted
a two-day drop of 2.6 percent amid concern that criticism over
the raid would spur investors to sell. The stock index has since
rebounded 15 percent.  “The flotilla’s purpose was to embarrass Israel,
complicate Israel’s situation regionally and internationally,
and this definitely was achieved,” said Alon Liel, former
director-general of Israel’s Foreign Ministry. “Israel has to
treat this very seriously.”  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu on May 17 said he
delivered “serious warnings and messages” to Israeli
Ambassador Gabby Levy that “Turkey expects the incident won’t
be repeated.” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
his country’s response was justified and warned on April 1 that
“Israel is obligated to act aggressively against the
flotilla.”  U.S. Plea  Thirty-six members of the  U.S. Congress  have signed a
letter asking Erdogan to stop the convoy, calling it a
“provocation.”  “The question is whether Israel can prevent the transfer
of goods and perhaps weapons to Gaza, and continue the isolation
of Hamas without hurting its international image even further,”
 Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at  Bar-Ilan University 
near Tel Aviv, said in a phone interview.  Israel imposed the embargo after the Islamic Hamas movement
seized control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas a
year after winning parliamentary elections. Israel launched a
three-week military operation at the end of 2008 against the
Gaza Strip that it said was aimed at stopping cross-border
rocket attacks. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis
were killed in the fighting.  Reconciliation Agreement  Hamas is considered a terrorist group by  Israel , the
European Union and the  United States ; not by Turkey. The two
Palestinian groups signed a reconciliation agreement in Cairo on
May 4.  Unemployment in Gaza stands at 37.4 percent, the  World Bank 
said in April. Per capita gross domestic product in the
Palestinian territory is about $775, according to the
Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics. By comparison,
Israel’s gross domestic product per capita is about $30,000,
according to its Central Bureau of Statistics.  Less than a month after the confrontation, Israel loosened
its land blockade with Gaza with the aim of allowing more food
in and keeping weapons and items with a possible military use
out. Egypt on May 28 permanently opened its border crossing with
the Gaza Strip, easing its own four-year blockade of the
territory.  Arms Smuggling  Netanyahu says maintaining the blockade is crucial to
Israel’s security and has cited efforts by  Iran  to smuggle arms
to Hamas by sea.  The  Humanitarian Relief Foundation , or IHH, a Turkish
Islamic charity organization, says it has paid $600,000 to
repair and upgrade the Mavi Marmara. The other vessels in last
year’s flotilla were stopped without loss of life.  The group is planning a march in central Istanbul tonight
to commemorate the deaths on the Mavi Marmara, which occurred a
year ago tomorrow.  Huseyin Oruc, a spokesman and member of the IHH’s
administrative board, said 1,500 activists from 22 organizations
will be participating in the second flotilla, more than double
the size of the first. Only about 100 of the activists will be
Turks, he said. The Mavi Marmara will link up with ships
departing from  Spain ,  Greece ,  France  and  Italy  before heading
for Gaza.  ‘Stop Us’  “They don’t have a right to stop us,” Oruc said. “The
goal is to bring humanitarian aid to Gaza.”  Oruc said organizers would agree to allow ships to be
searched by an international body before sailing on to the
Hamas-controlled territory.  “Let international bodies check the boats, check the
passengers, check all the participants, individuals, everything,
every single thing, and then let the boats go to Gaza,” Oruc
said in an interview yesterday with Israel’s Channel Two.  Netanyahu’s spokesman  Mark Regev  called the new flotilla
“an unnecessary provocation” and “a political stunt to
support the Hamas regime.”  Turkey has discounted Israel’s investigation of last year’s
raid, which concluded that it was legal.  Political tensions have not significantly affected economic
ties. Turkey remains Israel’s biggest commercial partner in the
region. Imports from Turkey to Israel from January to April of
this year increased to $695 million from $600 million in the
same period last year and exports from Israel to Turkey rose to
$662 million from $420 million.  Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said if the
activists “really want to send aid to Gaza, they can do what
the international community is telling them to do, and that is
send it through Israel or  Egypt ’s land crossings.”  Oruc didn’t answer questions as to how the activists would
respond if Israelis boarded their ships.  “We believe they will not repeat the same mistake,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  