-- 
Yemen’s President Saleh Clings to Power Even as Closest Allies Desert Him

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-30T09:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/yemen-s-president-saleh-clings-to-power-even-as-closest-allies-desert-him.html
Ismail Aljelae is planning for the
day when President Ali Abdullah Saleh steps down. He has formed
a party and is training its members to run for parliamentary
elections in a democratic Yemen.  Aljelae began thinking about forming the Democratic Future
Party at the start of the anti-Saleh protests that erupted in
February. Back then, he expected Saleh to last in power just a
bit longer than Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , who was forced
to step down 18 days after a popular uprising.  “I gave Saleh a month,” said Aljelae in a May 28
interview at a Sana’a hotel. “But his skin turned out to be
thick, and he’s still with us today.”  Saleh has hung on to power even as domestic and
international allies deserted him and a crackdown on protesters
as well as clashes with a former ally killed more than 200
people. A fragmented opposition, army units headed by family
members and the lack of authoritative institutions such as the
military in  Egypt  that can tell him the game is up have helped
sustain him, said Gregory Gause, a professor at the University
of  Vermont , in response to e-mailed questions.  The events of the past few months have cost Yemen, the
poorest Arab state, $4 billion and threaten to destroy the
country, Minister of Industry and Trade Hisham Sharaf said in an
interview May 24. Sana’a has been divided in two, with Saleh’s
supporters camped in a square in the southern Sab’een part of
the capital and protesters at the Taghyeer or Change Square in
the northwest Sitteen area.  String of Excuses  Saleh has bought time by flip-flopping on a Western-backed
accord, brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council, that provides
for him to step down within 30 days of signing it. While the
opposition and Saleh’s party have signed the pact, Saleh has
refused to do so, offering a string of excuses, the latest of
which is his insistence that all parties sign at a public
ceremony.  Violence escalated after the GCC last week dropped efforts
to broker an agreement. Security forces stormed the central
square in the city of Taiz killing about 20 protesters,
Abdulrahim al-Samee, a doctor at the Taiz field clinic, said
today.  At dinner parties and qat chews, daily gatherings where
guests sit on carpeted floors and chew mild narcotic qat leaves,
the conversation inevitably turns to how long Saleh can survive
as president. While some give him a few days, others see him
lasting until the next presidential election in 2013.  Saleh says he came to power in a democratic election and
what’s happening is tantamount to a coup. He says even if he
steps down, he won’t leave Yemeni politics.  Hampering Efforts  Divisions have surfaced in the protesters’ camp, hampering
the efforts of the opposition Joint Meeting Parties and the
youths who began the anti-Saleh movement to speak with one voice
and form a credible alternative to the president.  “The opposition appears to be united only in their
opposition to President Saleh,” said Christopher Boucek, an
analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
 Washington  on May 27. “This tactical cooperation will likely
dissipate if Saleh steps down.”  In addition to the youth, the anti-Saleh camp includes
socialists, liberals, Zaydi Shiites and the Islamist Islah
Party, the most organized group in the six-member Joint Meeting
Parties. Islah includes mostly moderate Sunni Islamists as well
as hardliners led by Sheikh Abdul-Majeed al-Zindani. The U.S.
has designated al-Zindani a terrorist, accusing him of a role in
financing al-Qaeda and alleging he has been a spiritual leader
to  Osama bin Laden .  ‘Work Together’  “I don’t get the sense that these people can work together
effectively to force him out, or at least have not been able to
do so up to now,” said Gause. “It’s one of the reasons Saleh
has lasted all these years, not just these past few months.”  Saleh supporters say those differences mean the ruling
party General People’s Congress will remain the most viable
political party in town, even if Saleh steps down.  “The GPC still has the largest grassroots support and I
predict the new president will be from the GPC,” said Abdul-
Karim al-Eryani, Saleh’s political adviser. “There’s a lack of
homogeneity among the opposition and I think even before the
presidential elections, the opposition may not remain united.”  The divisions were manifested in the treatment of women and
liberals by conservative Islah members whom Aljelae says are
seeking to control the protesters’ camp and their message.  Protest Organizers  Samia al-Haddad, one of the protest organizers, said the
first weeks of rallies were heady as she and other Yemeni women
worked on equal terms alongside the male demonstrators to
organize rallies and set up media, medical and security.  “For the first time in my life, I felt like a complete
human being,” said al-Haddad, a 39-year-old program
communication specialist, at a qat chew on May 21.  All that changed, however, when Islah conservatives joined
the protesters at Change Square. They imposed strict gender
segregation rules that don’t exist in Yemen, said al-Haddad.
Women and men who defied the restrictions were beaten up, she
said. Female protesters, who already wore black cloaks, were
ordered to cover their hair, she said.  Al-Haddad and other Yemenis who want Saleh to leave, say
the tensions don’t mean the protesters have regretted their
movement and want Saleh to stay.  “Those tensions are a natural process of social
negotiations,” said Abdul-Ghani al-Eryani, a political analyst.  “The pseudo liberal social climate under Saleh was a bribe
given by the regime to the middle class,” he added. “In a new
system, society will be more honest with itself and these
personal liberties will have to be gained through laws and
parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  