-- 
Yemeni Government Says Islamist Gunmen Take Over Southern City of Zanjibar

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-29T11:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/yemeni-government-says-islamist-gunmen-take-over-southern-city-of-zanjibar.html
Islamist gunmen have occupied
government buildings in the Yemeni coastal city of Zanjibar,
amid claims that groups such as al-Qaeda are exploiting unrest
caused by anti-government protests.  There are conflicting reports on the affiliation of the
gunmen. Tarek al-Shami, who heads the information department at
the ruling General People’s Congress, said the gunmen were al-
Qaeda fighters who wrested control of the facilities in a gun
battle with Yemeni troops yesterday.  “The government is planning to launch a strike against
them,” he said in a telephone interview from the capital,
Sana’a. Opposition leader Ali Dahmas, speaking in an interview
from the city, said the gunmen were Islamist activists operating
under orders from regime loyalists “who withdrew from police
stations and other facilities and allowed the gunmen to take
control of the city.”  Anti-government protests have shaken Yemen since Feb. 11.
The demonstrators are calling on Ali Abdullah Saleh to step
down. The Yemeni president has refused to sign a Western-backed
power transition accord, brokered by the six-member Gulf
Cooperation Council, that provides for his departure.  “The government wants to show the international community
that al-Qaeda has taken advantage of the chaos resulting from
anti-regime protests and that if he were to step down al-Qaeda
would take over,” said Dahmas.  A statement issued yesterday by the opposition Joint
Meeting Parties denounced the “regime’s open handover of some
cities in the province of Abyan to armed groups,” which it said
the government had set up.  ‘Al-Qaeda Elements’  Al-Shami rejected the claims, saying the government has
“long been engaged in battles with al-Qaeda elements” in
Zanjibar and other parts of Abyan Province.  The takeover in Zanjibar came a day after three French
workers were reported missing in Yemen in Seyoun city, in the
southeastern province of Hadramaut.  The “chaos” of anti-regime protests in Yemen may let al-
Qaeda make inroads there, Mark Toner, the U.S. State Department
spokesman said on May 25. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula may
gain an “ability to interfere” in Yemen because of the
country’s instability, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a at
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 