-- 
Typhoon Songda Nearing Tokyo Weakens to ’Extratropical Cyclone’

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-05-29T08:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-29/typhoon-songda-weakens-to-extratropical-cyclone-.html
Typhoon Songda, the storm last week
forecast to pass over  Japan ’s stricken nuclear plant, weakened
to an "extratropical cyclone" after its forecast trajectory
earlier moved south of Fukushima prefecture.  The storm was moving at a speed of 55 kilometers per hour
(34 miles per hour) at 3:50 p.m. local time, the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  said on its website. The eye of the storm
was about 80 kilometers south-southwest of Murotomisaki, part of
Japan’s Shikoku island west of Tokyo, and moving northeast at 65
kilometers an hour at 2:40 p.m., the agency said.  The U.S. Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center’s forecast
graphic last week projected the possibility that the storm may
pass over the plant, which spewed radiation after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems and left
three of six reactor buildings with no roofs after explosions.
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co., operator of the plant, said last week
it was still considering typhoon measures and that it couldn’t
announce detailed plans.  Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman for the utility known as Tepco,
said it plans to complete the installation of covers for the
buildings by October.  Songda, which strengthened to a supertyphoon after
battering the  Philippines , weakened to a Category 3 storm from
Category 5 as it passed  Taiwan  on May 28. The typhoon’s path
also shifted south compared with the earlier projections,
lowering the risk of heavy rain or winds affecting the nuclear
plant.  Regularly Buffeted  Japan is regularly buffeted by typhoons and tropical storms
during the northwestern Pacific cyclone season. In 2004, eight
cyclones passed over or skirted the country’s Tohoku region,
where the Fukushima station is located, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency . The earliest was in May that year. The
eyes of two storms passed within 300 kilometers of Tohoku last
year, the agency’s data show.  Songda, the name of a branch of the Red River in  Vietnam ,
is the fourth storm to form over northwest Pacific this year.
The storm lashed the Philippines as it passed the eastern
seaboard, leaving one person dead, according to the country’s
disaster council. Songda prompted evacuations of coastal areas
and caused flooding that jammed traffic and stranded travelers.  Damage to crops was “very minimal” as most had been
harvested before the storm passed, Philippine Agriculture
Secretary Proceso Alcala told reporters March 27.  The U.S. Navy  Joint Typhoon Warning Center  classifies
storms as supertyphoons when their maximum sustain winds reach
at least 150 miles per hour, according to the Atlantic
Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  