-- ‘Angry Birds’ Fuels Finland Game Boom as More Hits Emerge
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-11-23T15:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/-angry-birds-fuels-finland-game-boom-as-investors-seek-next-hit.html
The success of “Angry Birds” is
helping Finland’s other mobile-game fledglings take wing.  Enticed by the title’s rapid rise to fame, venture-capital
investors are flocking to the Nordic country in search of the
next hit. The game developers attracting attention include the
makers of “Clash of Clans,” “Hay Day” and “Hill Climb
Racing.” Each of those has had millions of downloads, joining
“Angry Birds” in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s application store’s top lists.  Expanding at an annual pace of 57 percent, gaming has
emerged as a niche growth industry for the country of 5 million
seeking to diversify its economy as once-dominant mobile-phone
maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  shrinks and cuts thousands of jobs. “Angry
Birds” maker Rovio Entertainment Oy attracting $42 million in
venture money in 2011 has helped local rivals including
Supercell Oy and Grey Area Oy also lure international backers.  “There’s an amazing critical mass here,” said Sean Seton-
Rogers, general partner at London-based  Profounders Capital , who
joined thousands of investors and entrepreneurs in the Nordic
region’s biggest startup event, Slush, in Helsinki this week.
“Once you start having a viable ecosystem, it feeds off
itself.”  Helsinki-based  Supercell ’s “Clash of Clans” was the top-
grossing iPhone app in the U.S. as of yesterday, meaning its
players spent the most money, including in-game purchases,
according to appannie.com. Oulu, Finland-based Fingersoft Oy’s
“Hill Climb Racing” was the most downloaded free game. Rovio’s
“Angry Birds” was named the most downloaded paid app ever this
year by Apple, and its “Angry Birds Star Wars” edition is the
most popular paid app now, according to appannie.com.  Mobile Boost  While Finnish startups are benefiting now from the extra
engineering talent available as Nokia  cuts jobs , the country’s
gaming industry is decades-old and began developing in the era
of personal-computer titles. A shift in player preferences
toward mobile phones and tablets, resulting in Rovio’s success,
gave the industry a shot in the arm, Seton-Rogers said.  “The market has really grown with the growth in mobile
gaming,” said Seton-Rogers, who helps manage 30 million euros
($39 million) of venture funds and first invested in a Finnish
startup, mobile gaming cross-promotion network  Applifier , last
year. “As that’s taken off, people pay more attention now.”  Supercell got a $12 million investment last year from Accel
Partners, which also has a stake in Rovio and was an early
backer of Facebook Inc. Grey Area, maker of the location-based
multiplayer game “Shadow Cities,” has raised money from
investors including Index Ventures and London Venture Partners.  ‘Insanely Powerful’  While Finnish game makers compete in some areas, they
cooperate in others, sharing experiences as they seek global
growth. Helping with that goal is Startup Sauna, a non-profit
organization focused on polishing small businesses into world-
beaters, based on pro bono input from coaches like Rovio Chief
Marketing Officer Peter Vesterbacka and Supercell Chief
Executive Officer Ilkka Paananen.  “It’s all about the community, which makes it insanely
powerful,” said Vesterbacka, a co-founder of Slush, welcoming
visitors in his trademark red hooded sweatshirt to the event
whose attendance doubled from last year to 3,000. “It’s cold
and dark, but once you get inside, there are amazing startups.”  Developers also tend to move around, spreading talent.
Supercell CEO Paananen, for instance, has held top positions in
companies including Digital Chocolate Inc. and Sumea Oy, which
developed games in the early 2000s in cooperation with Nokia.  Gaming Cluster  Finnish game-industry veterans including Matias Myllyrinne
are embracing the new competition. Myllyrinne is the CEO of
 Remedy Entertainment Oy , the developer behind “Max Payne” and
“Alan Wake,” which beat “Angry Birds” for Time magazine’s
game of the year in 2010.  “It’s absolutely fantastic -- the birth of a gaming
cluster is good for everybody in the field,” he said in an
interview. “The threshold for me to call up the guys at
Supercell or Rovio is not very high, and vice versa.”  In a change of pace from blockbuster titles developed for
Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox 360, Remedy has also tried its luck in
mobile gaming, selling more than 10 million digital copies of
“Death Rally”.  “We’ve started looking at tablets and mobile phones, there
are fine opportunities for us to bring our knowhow,” he said.
“One can go see ‘Lord of the Rings’ on a big screen or watch
YouTube clips, they serve a different function.”  Plush Toys  As mobile games typically cost a maximum of a few dollars,
and many are free, the revenue the startups generate from game
sales is limited. Many target extra revenue from selling ads and
in-game features, as well as merchandise such as the ubiquitous
“Angry Birds” T-shirts, plush toys and candy.  The game industry in  Finland  grew 57 percent in 2011 to 165
million euros, according to the Finnish chapter of the
 International Game Developers Association . Growth has continued
this year, with Supercell alone now grossing “clearly above”
$500,000 a day, helped by “Clash of Clans” and “Hay Day,”
Paananen said in an interview. Apple takes a 30 percent cut of
what a game on its system grosses, with the developer keeping
the rest.  To help fuel the growth, Finland’s government is planning
tax breaks for minority investments in unlisted growth
companies. Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen attended Slush, wearing
colorful nail polish as he made his opening remarks, part of a
publicity stunt for guitar-learning game “GuitarBots.”  The nascent political support, coupled with the thriving
game-industry community and the “Angry Birds” success, make it
easier for startups to stay in Finland and less necessary to
relocate to Silicon Valley to gain funding.  “Helsinki is the best city in the world to build games at
the moment,” Paananen said. “People understand that it’s
possible to become global from Finland -- to have an example
like Rovio is very inspiring and motivating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  