-- A Sexual-Harassment Scandal Hits Chinese Volleyball
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-22T00:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/a-sexual-harassment-scandal-hits-chinese-volleyball.html
For years,  rumors have swirled  that
China’s young, diligent athletes were victims of sexual
harassment (and worse). But the country’s vast  sports
bureaucracy  has generally managed to escape large, public
sexual-harassment scandals -- until Nov. 13.  That evening,  Shanghai ’s much-lauded women’s volleyball
team, which includes three Chinese national team members, took
on Tianjin’s team, a heated rival. The highly anticipated match
resulted in a listless loss for Shanghai, leading some to
wonder: What damped Shanghai’s competitive fires?  The answer came minutes after the match ended, via Sina
Weibo, China’s leading microblog. An anonymous, allegedly
Beijing-based account registered to a user who goes by the
handle “ Speak Out 111 ” tweeted:  “Shanghai women’s volleyball players were in a collective
trance and not themselves at all! On the night of November 9th,
the coaches, who had previously used corporal punishment and
fines, developed some new ideas. … They sexually harassed some
team members in the name of helping players relax muscles during
a massage. … After it happened, with competition as an excuse,
the culprits were only required to write self-criticisms. Now
the players all have to face them every day. The players were
required to undergo conflict management training and told to
keep this quiet.”  They were explosive allegations, packed with sex, abuse of
power and official cover-ups. More interesting, still, was the
source of the information: Whistle-blowers rarely emerge from
 China ’s state-run bureaucracies. But if Speak Out 111 was
telling the truth, he or she must have been something of an
insider, close enough to know the terms of the punishment --
“self-criticism,” a written admission of guilt and wrong-doing -
- that would have been decided by the Shanghai Sports Bureau.  Sports in China is a government business. Local federations
and bureaus report to the national-level organization and share
its goal: preparing Chinese athletes for international
competitions,  including the Olympics .  Like most of China’s athletes, the members of the
volleyball league -- who range in age from early twenties to
early thirties -- tend to come from underprivileged families and
areas with limited educational and professional opportunities.
Those few who are successful will eventually be rewarded with
salaries and other financial benefits. Sports can be a way out,
and thus China’s athletes are  famous for bearing training  and
abuse that would probably deter athletes elsewhere.  Chinese are familiar with this system and –-- right or
wrong –-- the athletes it produces are held in almost
universally high-regard for their patriotic sacrifices. One
consequence of the high-regard for China’s athletes is the low-
regard for those who demean them. Speak Out 111’s Weibo account
had fewer than two-dozen followers at the time of the shocking
tweet, but the news it conveyed quickly went viral. (The tweet
was later deleted. It’s unclear whether censors or Speak Out 111
did the erasing, but  screen grabs  proliferate.)  Nonetheless, even on rumor-loving Sina Weibo, allegations
of sexual harassment aren’t given much credibility without at
least some supporting evidence. That came in the form of a
cryptic tweet posted by  Ma Yunwen , a star with the Shanghai and
national volleyball teams, one day earlier, on Nov. 12:  “It doesn’t matter if it’s our environment, the ecology,
even human conduct, thoughts, actions, attitudes, the two words
‘being clean’ have already become distant from us, and nothing
can be done about it. Tragic.”  Ma’s tweet doesn’t make much sense without the context of
Speak Out 111’s tweet -- and only marginally more sense with it.
Still, journalists and netizens were more than happy to connect
her claim that the team –-- or some group -–- was no longer
clean to the conduct of dirty old men (or bureaucrats). By the
morning of Nov. 14, news of the alleged harassment had spread
through Sina Weibo and into the  mainstream media . Adding fuel to
the rumors, Ma’s tweet soon disappeared, and she hasn’t tweeted
or spoken of her message since.  The online furor quickly caught the attention of the
Shanghai Sports Bureau which -- at 3:22 p.m. on Nov. 14 --
 tweeted  via its Sina Weibo account that it was investigating the
microblogged rumors. The investigation didn’t take long: At 6:29
p.m. the bureau  tweeted  a link to its findings. According to  the
statement , the coach in question had spent the evening
“socializing and drinking, and didn’t recall his words or deeds
very well.” Too bad for him, however, because the city’s
statement notes players distinctly recalled him using
“inappropriate words and actions” during the subsequent drunken
massage.  The Sports Bureau announced that the preliminary terms of
the coach’s punishment would be a suspension (the length of
which was not revealed), a self-criticism, and a requirement
that he formally apologize to the players and their parents. If
Speak Out 111 is to be believed, this response seems
disingenuous at best. The whistle-blowing tweet indicated that
the coach or coaches had already been punished. However, the
release gave no indication that the Sports Bureau had prior
knowledge of the events or the punishment.  Still, the bureau’s release might have been the end of the
matter were it not for a basketball player on the Henan province
professional team who took to Weibo on Nov. 15 to  announce  that
his girlfriend -- a volleyball player on the Henan team -- had
been harassed by a coach in a similar, drunken incident in
October 2011. That tweet was deleted by  the basketball player 
(who, apparently, thought twice about the attention it would
draw to him), but enterprising microbloggers and reporters took
notice and subsequently scoured the player’s tweets from 2011 to
find that he had posted cryptic tweets at the time, which -- in
light of his new tweet -- backed up his account. Late last week,
inspired by the Shanghai and Henan tweets, a reporter with
Chengdu Business Daily  decided to investigate  the 2011 incident.
The basketball player confirmed the tweets and alleged events --
including that the official in question blamed his behavior on
alcohol and, in part, on the fact that  the players wore pajamas
in his presence , and that his girlfriend had retired from the
volleyball team in the aftermath of the incident, though the
coach remained employed by it.  Chinese sports fans seem to have taken away two messages
from the expanding controversy. First, sexual harassment of
Chinese athletes by their government overseers is common. And
second, it’s common because Chinese officials routinely harass
their subordinates. On Nov. 16, Lin Xi, a Shanghai
photojournalist, summed up these feelings in a  tweet  to the Ten
Cent microblog, China’s second most popular Twitter-like
service:  “Days ago, news came that Shanghai’s female volleyball
players suffered sexual harassment at the hands of their coach.
And today’s news is that the volleyball coach in Henan assaulted
players when he was drunk. Actually, in contemporary mainland
China, no matter the level of department or public institution,
so long as there is a superior-subordinate relationship, this
happens commonly. ... The reason is clearly that one’s power is
too big, without supervision, and the oversight is out of
control.”  Amid the accumulating evidence of sexual harassment in
Chinese volleyball, the Shanghai Sports Bureau released  a second
statement  on Nov. 16, again  via Sina Weibo , announcing that the
unnamed coach “is being removed from his position with an
executive warning. The coach has to apologize to the players and
their parents and will be transferred away from women’s
volleyball.”  For those netizens interested in what  China’s Legal Times
called  “the first instance of a sex harassment scandal in
Chinese sports,” (in light of the Henan incident coming to
light, an arguably incorrect label) the punishment was both
unsurprising and unacceptable. Of course the Chinese bureaucracy
would protect one of its own by moving him to another agency.
That the supposed victims were national-grade athletes, groomed
for patriotic duty, only seemed to heighten the online anger. A
Sina Weibo microblogger in Guangzhou who uses the handle
“ tao91888 ,” summed up the displeasure in a comment posted
directly below the Sport Bureau’s Nov. 16 statement:  “The grief of China’s daughters is punished so lightly!
This is no joke! If just one of these victims was the daughter
of an important leader, I think we can anticipate the result.
Where are our police? Where is the rule of law?”  They are poignant questions, and ones that China’s sports
bureaucrats are likely no more interested in answering than
their counterparts in other agencies. But if further allegations
of sexual harassment and wrongdoing emerge from China’s women’s
volleyball leagues or other national sports institutes and
leagues, it’s probable that the anger expressed on behalf of
“China’s daughters” will only grow, necessitating something more
than job transfers. Sports, as many an observer has noted, is a
metaphor for life, and over the last two weeks, that’s never
been more true than in China.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the  World View 
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this blog post: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  