-- Thai Billionaire Extends F&N Offer Deadline After OUE Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-23T09:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/thai-billionaire-extends-f-n-offer-deadline-after-oue-bid.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi extended a deadline for a $7.3 billion offer
to gain control of  Singapore ’s  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  after a group
led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  topped the bid last week.  The closing date for the S$8.88 offer for the property and
beverages conglomerate by Charoen’s TCC Assets Ltd., which was
to end yesterday, will be extended for a third time to Dec. 11
at 5:30 p.m. Singapore time. The OUE-led group trumped his bid
with a S$9.08 offer on Nov. 15. F&N dropped 0.3 percent to close
at S$9.39.  Winning control of F&N’s soft-drink and real-estate
businesses would be a coup for Charoen as he seeks to expand his
operations in Asia. The billionaire has sought  control  of F&N
since July, when he agreed to purchase a stake in the Singapore-
based company, setting off a race to buy its assets.  “I doubt Charoen will walk away empty-handed from this
deal,” Justin Harper, Singapore-based strategist at IG Markets,
said before yesterday’s announcement on the new deadline. An
extension is needed “to shore up their finances so they can
come up with a better offer that puts off OUE,” he said.  Under the takeover code, TCC has as many as 60 days to
respond to OUE’s S$13.1 billion ($10.7 billion) offer after the
bid document is sent to F&N shareholders, subject to regulatory
approval, said Elaine Lim, a spokeswoman for F&N at its public
relations firm, Citigate Dewe Rogerson.  Acceptance Level  TCC Assets had valid acceptances for 35.04 percent of F&N
shares as of 5:30 p.m. Singapore time yesterday, the soft-drink
maker said in a statement.  Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , the largest shareholder in
F&N, fell 1.2 percent to 40.5 Singapore cents today.  OUE has enlisted  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest drinks
maker and F&N’s second-largest shareholder, in its bid. OUE
would get the company’s property business and Kirin would take
the food and beverage unit.  Kirin, which has a 14.8 percent stake in F&N, has agreed to
tender its shares and won’t accept any competing bid, OUE has
said. The Japanese brewer, Asia’s biggest beverage maker, will
offer S$2.7 billion for F&N’s food and beverage business, if OUE
wins enough support to complete the takeover.  “We’re aware of the announcement. We want to watch how
things develop carefully,” said Kan Yamamoto, a spokesman for
the company.  F&N said it had committed to pay the OUE consortium a
break-up fee of as much as S$50 million if a competing offer is
successful.  ‘Not Compelling’  Charoen, 68, has failed to win support for his S$8.88 a
share bid from F&N’s board, which said an independent adviser
found the offer “not compelling, though fair.”  His unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate unit.
Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer, gets almost
all its revenue from its home market.  Charoen’s net worth is $8.5 billion, according to data
compiled and calculated through the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OUE, which gets about 65 percent of its revenue from hotel
operations, is planning at least one investment a year in
Singapore to boost property holdings that include office towers,
luxury apartments and malls, Stephen Riady said in an interview
in August.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  won control of F&N’s beer unit, the maker of
Tiger beer, in a deal that closed Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  