-- Thai Police Warn of Yingluck Abduction Plot as Protest Looms
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-11-23T02:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/thai-police-warn-of-yingluck-abduction-threat-as-protest-looms.html
Thai police warned of a plot to
abduct Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra as her cabinet
approved using an internal security law to manage an anti-
government rally scheduled for tomorrow.  “We have some worrisome intelligence that there may be
violence when a lot of people gather,” National Police Chief
Adul Sangsingkeo told reporters in Bangkok yesterday. “We are
also very concerned about rumors about riots and the abduction
of the prime minister.”  The law giving security forces power to set up roadblocks
and make decisions quickly will be applied in three districts in
the capital until Nov. 30. Yingluck, the sister of former
premier Thaksin Shinawatra, said in a televised address late
yesterday that “reducing political conflicts and promoting
national reconciliation are vital to economic development.”  Groups who backed the ouster of Thaksin-linked governments
in 2006 and 2008 are now aiming to remove Yingluck from power.
Tit-for-tat demonstrations by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents
since the coup against him have killed more than 100 people and
led to road blockages and arson attacks.  “The situation is expected to be intense with a lot of
people gathering, so the security agencies agreed to ask the
cabinet to announce the security law,” said Paradorn
Pattanathabutr, secretary-general of the National Security
Council, adding that police would only use shields and batons.
“This will be to accommodate the protesters, not stop them.”  50,000 or 500,000  Police are preparing about 10,000 officers to handle the
demonstration and expect more than 50,000 people to attend. Siam
Pitak, the anti-government group holding the rally, aims to
attract half a million people, according to spokesman Watchara
Ritthakhanee, who welcomed the use of the internal security law
because it would help prevent violence.  The government is concerned that violence may be provoked
by demonstrators disguised as members of the United Front for
Democracy Against Dictatorship, the pro-Thaksin group known as
the Red Shirts, JP Morgan Securities ( Thailand ) Ltd. wrote
yesterday in a note to clients.  “Despite the noise, there appears to be little likelihood
of any eruption, as the UDD red shirts have judiciously
announced plans to give the protest a wide berth,” JP Morgan
equity analyst Sriyan Pietersz wrote, adding that the political
tension may damp overseas demand for  Thai stocks .  The government imposed the internal security law to
“preempt and prevent any situations” that threaten order,
Yingluck said in her speech.  Retired General  “The government believes in freedom of expression and is
convinced that the Parliament is the place for the people’s
representatives to settle differences in viewpoints and resolve
political conflicts,” she said.  The opposition group led by Boonlert Kaewprasit, a retired
army general, held a rally on Oct. 28 that attracted between
8,000 and 20,000 people, according to estimates from police and
organizers. Yingluck’s party won a parliamentary majority in
July 2011.  “We have no intention whatsoever to stage any violent
rally against the government,” he said by phone. “It’s just
gathering people who cannot tolerate the behavior of the
government.”  Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said he has
sought to reassure foreign investors that no violence will
occur. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  gained 0.2 percent yesterday.  “Thai politics have never been calm for very long,” he
told reporters. “Protest rallies have become routine for
Bangkok people. Another big rally this weekend should be fine as
long as it doesn’t turn violent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  