-- Thailand to Step Up Rubber-Purchase Program as Prices Gain
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-11-22T07:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/thailand-to-step-up-rubber-purchase-program-as-prices-advance.html
Thailand , the world’s biggest rubber
producer, will expand a state-buying program by more than
doubling purchases from farmers to support prices, according to
Deputy Farm Minister Yuttapong Charasathien. Futures gained.  The Southeast Asian nation will purchase a further 250,000
metric tons by March after buying 170,000 tons since May,
Yuttapong said in an interview in Bangkok yesterday. The country
will also proceed with plans agreed with Indonesia and  Malaysia 
in August to cut its shipments by 150,000 tons, he said.  Rubber in Tokyo has entered a bull market, rebounding from
a near three-year low in August, after the three countries
agreed to cut exports by a combined 300,000 tons. The rally,
also driven by prospects for increased demand as China and the
U.S. recover, may raise farmers’ incomes, while lifting costs
for tiremakers such as Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)   “The Thai program will absorb surplus from the physical
market,” Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company JSC
Corp. in Tokyo, said by phone. “The program will help bolster
rubber prices.”  Futures rose 24 percent from the year’s lowest close on Aug.
14 to yesterday, exceeding the 20 percent gain commonly seen as
defining a bull market. The April-delivery contract climbed 2
percent to 261.7 yen a kilogram ($3,170 a ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange today, the highest finish since Oct. 18.  ‘Move Forward’  “We will seriously move forward,” said Yuttapong, who has
overseen rubber policy since Nov. 5. “We will focus on managing
supplies to boost prices,” he said, without giving a target.  The total of 420,000 tons that Thailand may now buy from
growers equals 12 percent of last year’s output, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on figures from the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries. Thai production was 3.57
million tons in 2011, and 2.1 million tons in the first eight
months of this year, according to data from the ANRPC.  “Prices have been on an upward trend,” Yuttapong said.
The gains have been driven by the export-cut measures as well as
increased optimism that growth in  China  and the U.S. will
continue, improving rubber demand, he said.  More Americans this month said the world’s largest economy
will improve than at any time in the past decade, according to a
survey accompanying the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. Growth
in China may accelerate to 8.1 percent next year, according to
the median estimate of 56 economists’ forecasts. China is the
world’s largest rubber user, according to the ANRPC.  The top exporters, including ministers, senior officials
and representatives from exporters’ associations, will meet in
Thailand next month to discuss measures to bolster prices,
Yuttapong said. These include plans to form a regional futures
market and discuss the so-called appropriate rubber price that
allows farmers to make a living and promotes usage, he said.  In the longer term, Thailand will seek to boost domestic
demand, encouraging overseas tiremakers to set up local
facilities, he said. The government will focus more on prices
and demand than planting expansion, Yuttapong said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  