-- Manchester City Fails Again in Champions League as Real Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-22T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/manchester-city-fails-again-in-champions-league-as-real-advances.html
Manchester City failed to get out of
the group stage of soccer’s Champions League for the second
straight season, while Real Madrid and Arsenal were among six
teams securing spots in the round of 16.  City’s 1-1 draw with Real Madrid last night means the
Premier League champion can’t finish as one of the top two teams
in Group D that advance to the knockout stage of Europe’s elite
club competition. Real qualified along with Dortmund, which
routed Ajax 4-1.  “We’re very disappointed,” City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  told
 Sky Sports . “We had a few opportunities in this group when we
could have done a lot better. We’ve surprised ourselves in a
very, very bad way in this competition.”  Arsenal beat Montepellier 2-0 to advance from Group B along
with Schalke, a 1-0 winner against Olympiacos. Paris Saint-
Germain and AC Milan also qualified, leaving three places in the
round of 16 up for grabs in the final group matches on Dec. 4
and 5.  Manchester City needed to win at the Etihad Stadium to have
any chance of advancing. However, it was record nine-time
European champion Real that took the lead after 10 minutes on a
goal from Karim Benzema.  City tied the game in the 73rd minute on  Sergio Aguero ’s
penalty kick after Alvaro Arbeloa fouled the Argentine and was
sent off for a second yellow card. City couldn’t make its man-
advantage pay and made another early exit from the competition.  Difficult Group  “When we started this group we knew it was difficult,”
City manager  Roberto Mancini  said. “We are disappointed, we
wanted to go to the next stage. Now it’s finished, we can do
nothing.”  Dortmund tops Group D with 11 points, three more than Real,
following its win in Amsterdam.  Robert Lewandowski  scored twice
for the German champions, with Marco Reus and Mario Gotze adding
a goal each.  Second-half scores from  Jack Wilshere  and  Lukas Podolski 
sent Arsenal into the knockout stage for the 13th straight
season with a game to spare.  The Gunners head into the final round a point behind
Schalke, which beat Olympiacos on Christian Fuchs’s goal with 13
minutes remaining, in the race to finish atop Group B.  “When you’re in this competition, you just want to get
into the next round,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky
Sports. “Now we go into a cup competition.”  Ezequiel Lavezzi scored both goals as PSG beat Dynamo Kiev
2-0 in Group A to book its place in the final 16. Porto, which
had previously qualified, continues to lead the group by a point
after its 3-0 win against Dinamo Zagreb. The top two meet in the
French capital Dec. 4 to decide the group winner.  Stephan El Shaarawy, Philippe Mexes and Alexandre Pato
scored as AC Milan won 3-1 at 10-man Anderlecht, which had Bram
Nuytinck sent off, in Group C. Malaga, which already qualified,
guaranteed first place by drawing 2-2 at Zenit St. Petersburg.  Teams qualifying for the Champions League knockout stage:
AC Milan, Arsenal, Barcelona,  Bayern Munich ,  Borussia Dortmund ,
Malaga, Manchester United, Paris Saint-Germain, Porto, Real
Madrid, Schalke,  Shakhtar Donetsk , Valencia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  