-- Argentina Must Pay $1.33 Billion to Owners of Bonds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-11-22T20:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/argentina-must-pay-1-33-billion-to-owners-of-bonds.html
Argentina ’s bonds fell the most in a
week and the cost to insure its debt against default surged
after a U.S. court ruling ordered the South American country to
pay $1.33 billion to holders of defaulted securities.  Argentina must pay so-called holdouts, led by a unit of
billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management
Corp., next month if it proceeds with scheduled payments of more
than $3 billion to owners of its restructured bonds, according
to a copy of the ruling by a U.S. judge obtained by  Bloomberg
News . District Judge Thomas Griesa in Manhattan ordered
Argentina to pay the money into an escrow account  while an
appeals court considers his rulings in the case. The ruling
couldn’t immediately be confirmed in online court records.  Argentine bonds have fallen the most in emerging markets
this month after a Oct. 26 U.S. appeals court upheld an earlier
ruling by Griesa that said holders of defaulted debt should be
treated the same as investors who accepted two restructurings
following the country’s record $95 billion default in 2001.
Speculation Argentina will stop payments on its performing bonds
rather than pay holdouts has made its debt the costliest  in the
world to insure against default.  “Argentina must pay the debts which it owes,” Griesa, 82,
wrote in his ruling. “After ten years of litigation this is a
just result.”  Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said today during a press
conference in  Buenos Aires  that the ruling is “unfair,”
violates local laws and will be appealed. Argentina will make a
bond payment that falls due on Dec. 2 and is trusting in a
favorable response on its appeal by Dec. 15, when the country is
scheduled to pay more than $3 billion on warrants linked to
economic growth, Lorenzino said.  “We will take all the necessary legal steps” to defend
the country’s interests, and will go to the U.S. Supreme Court
if needed, Lorenzino said.  Warrants Payment  Griesa specified that the Dec. 15 coupon on the warrants
cannot be paid unless Argentina ensures a payment to the
defaulted bondholders in the escrow account beforehand or at the
same time.  One-year credit default swaps rose 224 basis points, or
2.24 percentage points, to 6,506 at 4:58 p.m. in  London ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps have risen
58.81 percentage points since Oct. 26. Five-year swaps rose 113
basis points to 2,766 today.  U.S. bond markets were closed today for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  “This is the worst scenario one could’ve imagined for
Argentina,” Brian Joseph, the head of trading at Buenos Aires-
based brokerage Puente Hermanos Sociedad de Bolsa SA, said in a
telephone interview. “The bonds and warrants are falling
because investors are worried Argentina will decide not to pay
what Griesa wants and the  ratings agencies  will declare a
selective default, forcing the real money investors to sell.”  Yields Jump  The yield on Argentina’s 8.75 percent bonds due in 2017
surged 84 basis points to 16.93 percent, the biggest jump since
Nov. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds’
price fell 2.2 cents to 74.8 cents on the dollar.  The Merval index fell 3.3 percent to 2,242.40 at the close
in Buenos Aires, the lowest since June 14.  Griesa rejected Argentina’s request to stay his ruling
while it’s considered by the appeals court, citing press reports
of statements by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and members of her cabinet saying they wouldn’t pay the
holders of the country’s restructured debt.  “Surely an extraordinary circumstance of the most serious
nature arises from continuous declarations by the President of
Argentina and cabinet officers, that Argentina will not honor or
carry out the current rulings,” Griesa wrote in his opinion.
“The less time Argentina is given to devise means for evasion,
the more assurance there is against such evasion.”  Exchange Offers  Argentina offered to exchange defaulted bonds for new bonds
in 2005 and 2010 at a discount of more than 70 percent,
according to a court filing in Manhattan by holders of the
exchanged bonds. About 92 percent of the bondholders accepted
the offer, they said in the filing.  Holders of restructured debt including Gramercy Advisors
LLC and Fintech Advisory Inc. backed Argentina in filings to the
court while  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for
Argentina’s benchmark bonds, entered a filing on Nov. 16 that
argued the judge’s order could place the bank in an untenable
legal position.  Griesa rejected the arguments made by the current creditors
that a payment in full to defaulted bondholders, including
Elliott’s NML Capital Fund Ltd. and Aurelius Capital Management,
would be unjust given the unfavorable terms accepted by
bondholders in the restructuring.  “In accepting the exchange offers of thirty cents on the
dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty,”
Griesa wrote. “The exchange bondholders made the choice not to
pursue the route which plaintiffs have pursued.”  Attorneys for exchange bondholders are preparing an
immediate appeal and motion to stay Griesa’s ruling, according
to an e-mailed statement.  ‘Obvious Frustration’  “Given Judge Griesa’s obvious frustration with the
Republic of Argentina we expected this ruling,” Sean O’Shea, a
lawyer for Gramercy Funds Management LLC, said in the statement.
“What we did not expect was the disregard of innocent Exchange
Bond Holders’ due process rights.”  Griesa also concluded the arguments made by BNY Mellon
“miss the point,” and that it is the responsibility of third
parties to ensure their actions don’t enable Argentina to break
the law.  The GDP warrants fell 0.03 cent to 11.81 cents. The extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to own Argentine dollar bonds
over U.S. treasuries surged 116 basis points to 1,263. The
average spread among  emerging markets  in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global index widened 2 basis points today.  Investor War  Lorenzino said in a Nov. 20 interview with C5N television
channel that Argentina will continue to pay bondholders that
accepted the debt swap while declining to comment on how to
resolve disputes with holdouts.  “This ruling may initiate a war between holdouts and
bondholders who accepted the restructuring,” Eugenio Bruno, a
lawyer from Garrido and Associates who advises holders of
restructured bonds, said in a telephone interview from Panama
City. “Argentina will deposit the cash and there won’t be
enough cash to pay all, starting a war between  hedge funds .”  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  