-- Argentine Stocks Drop on Ruling Not Publicly Available
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-11-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/argentine-stocks-drop-on-ruling-not-publicly-available.html
Argentine stocks fell to a five-
month low on news of a ruling that hadn’t been officially
released by the  New York  court that issued it.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa Nov. 21 ruled that
 Argentina  must pay $1.33 billion to holders of its defaulted
debt if it goes forward with next month’s scheduled payments of
more than $3 billion on the nation’s restructured bonds.  The  Merval (MERVAL)  index fell 3.3 percent to 2,242.40 yesterday in
 Buenos Aires , the lowest since June 14 and the biggest one-day
drop since Oct. 23.  The ruling, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News  on Nov.
21, wasn’t available on the electronic service used by the U.S.
courts to provide public access to court records.  Griesa ruled that Argentina must pay the money it owes the
so-called holdouts, led by a unit of billionaire hedge fund
manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp., into an escrow
fund while it appeals the judge’s decisions. The country has
until Dec. 15 to comply.  “Argentina must pay the debts which it owes,” Griesa, 82,
wrote. “After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.”  Griesa’s rulings were contained in two court opinions and
an order, each of which bears the judge’s signature and a stamp
indicating it had been filed electronically Nov. 21. The
Manhattan courthouse was closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  A call to Griesa’s chambers after business hours Nov. 21
wasn’t returned. Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for the
Manhattan-based federal court, declined to comment yesterday on
the release of Griesa’s ruling.  Same Treatment  A U.S. appeals court on Oct. 26 upheld earlier rulings by
Griesa that said holders of defaulted debt should be treated the
same as investors who accepted bonds offered in two
restructurings, after the country’s record $95 billion default
in 2001. Speculation that Argentina will stop payments on its
performing bonds rather than pay holdouts has made its debt the
costliest in the world to insure against default.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  