-- European Stocks, Metals Climb as Euro Strengthens
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-11-22T23:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/asian-stocks-climb-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-data-euro-advances.html
European stocks rallied for a fourth
day and metals gained on signs China’s manufacturing is
rebounding. The euro strengthened and Greek bonds rose for a
10th day as the region’s leaders prepared to hold budget talks.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.6 percent. Futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (MXEF)  added 0.2 percent in the U.S.,
where markets were closed today for the Thanksgiving holiday.
The euro appreciated against 14 of its 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Israel’s shekel advanced for a fifth day
as the Mideast cease-fire agreement came into effect. Copper
gained 0.3 percent.  A survey indicating the first expansion in China’s factory
output in 13 months boosted optimism that growth in the world’s
second-largest economy is recovering after a seven-quarter
slowdown. Leaders of the 27 European Union nations were due to
gather for budget negotiations in Brussels today and euro-area
finance ministers will meet Nov. 26 to discuss Greek aid. Israel
and the Palestinian group Hamas yesterday agreed to a truce,
halting eight days of aerial assaults.  “Chinese activity has been picking up since September and
it’s an indication that the economy has stabilized,” Gopal Agrawal, who helps oversee $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Mirae Asset Global Investments (India) Pvt., said by
phone today from Mumbai. “The truce between Israel and Hamas is
sentimentally positive.”  Stocks Rally  The Stoxx 600 increased to a two-week high as all 19
industry groups advanced.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  rallied 6.4 percent, the
most in a year, after the world’s second-biggest brewer said
first-half earnings rose 17 percent as gains in  Latin America 
and Africa offset European declines. Daily Mail and General
Trust Plc, the publisher of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper,
surged as much as 13 percent, the biggest advance in three
years, as full-year operating profit increased.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  gained 2 percent as the European
Commission approved its  takeover  of  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said Glencore’s offer to stop
buying zinc from Nyrstar NV ensured that the market for the
metal would remain competitive. Xstrata rallied as much as 3.2
percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.4 percent, gaining
for a fourth day, the longest winning streak since Nov. 2.
Fifty-day  volatility  on the gauge fell to the lowest since 2004.  The preliminary reading of a Chinese purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
was 50.4 for November. That compares with a final level of 49.5
for October. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Brazil Markets  Brazil’s real dropped to a three-year low as Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said the currency was on a “normal
trajectory,” encouraging speculation that the central bank will
let it stay weak. The Bovespa  stock index  advanced 0.3 percent
today.  Copper for delivery in three months rose to $7,715 a metric
ton on the London Metal Exchange. Aluminum, tin, zinc and lead
advanced while nickel fell.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rallied 1.6 percent to a six-
month high as a depreciating yen boosted the earnings outlook
for exporters. Japan’s currency retreated versus 10 of its 16
major peers, touching 82.84 per dollar, the weakest intraday
level since April 4.  Euro Boost  The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.2882 after touching
$1.2899 earlier today, the highest level since Nov. 2. It
strengthened 0.3 percent to 106.19 yen.  Greece ’s 10-year bond yield fell as much as 65 basis points
to 16.1 percent, the lowest since the nation’s debt was
restructured in March. Spain’s 10-year yield dropped four basis
points to 5.66 percent as the nation sold 3.88 billion euros ($5
billion) of bonds at an auction, beating its 3.5 billion-euro
target.  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring Portuguese
sovereign debt fell for a fourth day, dropping 8 basis points to
517 basis points. The contracts tumbled 20 percent this week
from 641 basis points on Nov. 16.  Israel’s shekel strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.8767 versus
the dollar after gaining as much as 1 percent, and the benchmark
stock  index  rose 0.2 percent. Israel and Hamas agreed to end
more than a week of air strikes and missile attacks after talks
brokered by Egypt’s Islamist leaders and the U.S. Futures on
crude oil slid 0.4 percent to $87.01 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  