-- Asian Stocks Advance as China Flash PMI Points to Rebound
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-22T12:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/asian-stocks-advance-as-u-s-jobless-claims-fall-yen-weakens.html
Asian  stocks  gained, with the
regional benchmark index headed for its highest close in two
weeks, on signs the U.S. jobs markets is stabilizing and Chinese
manufacturing is recovering.  BHP Billiton Ltd., a mining company that counts China as
its biggest market, gained 1 percent in Sydney.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
a Japanese carmaker that gets about 44 percent of sales from
 North America , climbed 3.5 percent as the weakened yen and U.S.
claims for jobless benefits fell. Sharp Corp. advanced 4.3
percent after Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays
said it has found customers for panels used in smartphones.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.9 percent to 122.05 as
of 9:15 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its highest close since Nov.
7. More than two shares rose for each that fell on the gauge.
The measure is poised for its first weekly advance in three
weeks on the back of a surge in Japanese shares and as data on
China manufacturing and U.S. jobs added to signs the world’s two
largest economies are on the mend.  “There could be a third-consecutive monthly increase in
global manufacturing,” said  Mark Matthews , Singapore-based head
of research at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which manages about $199
billion. “That would support risk appetite. We’re left with an
environment of low  interest rates . Probably we’re seeing the end
of the retracement since September.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 1.6 percent to the
highest close in more than six months, as the yen weakened past
82 to the dollar for the first time since April. A weaker
currency boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when repatriated.  Japan Election  The benchmark index has risen 8.1 percent since Nov. 14
when Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called for elections that
polls show the opposition party  Liberal Democratic Party , which
advocates more aggressive monetary easing, is likely to win.  “The market has momentum,” said  Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-
based chief fund officer at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about 30 billion yen ($364 million). “The yen
may weaken to the 85-yen level against the dollar as
expectations build that the Liberal Democratic Party will take
power after next month’s elections.”  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 0.8 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index and Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  both gained 1
percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.7 percent.  BHP, Samsung  Companies that do business with China gained. The nation’s
manufacturing may expand for the first time in 13 months in
November, according to a preliminary survey released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  BHP rose 1 percent to A$33.69 in Sydney.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , which counts China as its biggest market,
increased 2.4 percent to 1.417 million won in Seoul. NTN Corp.
soared 15 percent to 172 yen in Tokyo after Credit Suisse Group
AG said the bearing maker will benefit from recovery in China.  Chinese carmakers, construction companies and energy firms
advanced. Dongfeng Motor Group Co., which has joint ventures
with France’s Peugeot SA and South Korea’s Kia Motors Corp.,
jumped 4.3 percent to HK$10.58.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., a mainland fuel producer that owns
assets in Australia, climbed 1.1 percent to HK$11.54. Zoomlion
Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co., a maker of cranes,
increased 1.3 percent to HK$9.70.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent today. The measure rose 0.2 percent yesterday in New
York as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Egyptian
Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr brokered a cease-fire between
Israel and Hamas. Fewer Americans filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, the Department of Labor said.  U.S. Exports  Exporters to the U.S. advanced as the yen touched a seven-
month low against the dollar. Honda jumped 3.5 percent 2,750
yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, gained
2.3 percent to 3,515 yen.  James Hardie Industries SE, the building materials supplier
that counts the U.S. as its top market, added 1.1 percent to
A$8.91 in Sydney. The stock has gained 31 percent this year amid
signs the U.S. housing market is recovering.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 12 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The Asian benchmark  traded  at 13.6 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.4 for the S&P
500 and 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  New Customers  Sharp rose 4.3 percent to 171 yen in Tokyo. Other
electronics makers will probably begin selling mobile products
featuring the company’s IGZO display panels starting in the
first three months of 2013, a senior Sharp executive said
yesterday at a briefing in Osaka, given on condition of
anonymity. The executive declined to name customers or say
whether the products are smartphones or tablets.  Bank of the Philippine Islands climbed 1.8 percent to 90
pesos, the highest close since at least January 1990, after
saying it’s in talks with the Lucio Tan Group for a merger with
 Philippine National Bank  that could create the country’s biggest
lender by assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  