-- Banks Ditched as Pesticide Maker Joins Bond Rush: Nordic Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-11-23T11:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/auriga-ceo-says-bond-sales-are-way-forward-once-debt-contained.html
Scandinavia’s biggest pesticide
maker is joining a debt issuance spree in the region as
 Denmark ’s government works on a plan to help companies sidestep
banks.  Auriga Industries A/S (AURIB) , based on the west coast of Denmark,
is planning to sell bonds for the first time as soon as 2014,
Chief Executive Officer Kurt Pedersen said in an interview. DSV
A/S, the Nordic region’s biggest trucking company, last month
said it’s close to its first bond sale and the country’s biggest
issuers, including brewer Carlsberg A/S and utility Dong Energy
A/S, have sold new debt this year.  “We’re following this market closely and I think that in
two to three years we will be ready,” Auriga’s Pedersen said in
a Nov. 21 phone interview. “It makes sense to get funding via
the bond market, because it’s cheaper than having to go through
a Danish bank first. It removes a link.”  Denmark’s small and medium-sized enterprises, which have
issuance needs too small to attract most bond investors, will
now get government help to obtain cheaper funding. Business
Minister Annette Vilhelmsen said yesterday lawmakers in
Copenhagen are preparing legislation that will support pooled
issuance to help boost liquidity and attract more buyers. Any
program will be market based, she said.  Lending Drought  Effective  interest rates  on new bank lending to non-
financial companies rose to 2.49 percent in September from 2.01
percent a month earlier, according to Denmark’s central bank.  Though the reported rates may seem low, they don’t reflect
the drop-off in lending volume, according to the Confederation
of Danish Industry. Bank lending to non-financial companies fell
for 41 months in a row through September this year, plunging 31
percent since a December 2008 peak, according to data compiled
by the central bank.  A government-appointed panel this week recommended setting
up a trustee program as well as creating new short-term measures
to support SMEs until a corporate bond market is up and running,
the ministry said yesterday. The bond program will be ready in a
year, Vilhelmsen was quoted as saying today by FinansWatch.  “Having a trustee will ensure more use of standardized
documentation, which will benefit issuers and investors and
lower the cost of the corporate bonds,” Thomas Hovard, head of
corporate bond research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
yesterday in a note. “We think the establishment of such an
institution will be key for the development of the Danish
corporate bond market.”  Action, Words  Failure to find new ways to provide funds to companies will
prevent the kind of recovery needed to generate  job growth , Kent
Damsgaard, director of business economics at the Confederation
of Danish Industry, said in an interview.  The shift means companies should be able to rely on bond
markets to fund investments in machinery and plants, while bank
loans will be reserved for short-term credit, Damsgaard said.
Mortgage lenders will continue to fund commercial real estate
purchases, he said.  “It’s now up to the government to show whether they want
to create a better credit climate for the medium-sized companies
or do they not,” Damsgaard said. The government and opposition
parties “have said the right things for several years. Now it’s
time to put some action behind those words,” he said.  Denmark’s non-financial companies have issued 33.6 billion
kroner ($5.8 billion) in bonds this year, versus 18.3 billion
kroner for all of 2011, according to data compiled by Povl Bak- Jensen, a director in debt capital markets at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen.  Carlsberg Bond  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. plans to open a bond trading platform
next month to meet investor and issuer demand. Nasdaq, which
also runs the main  stock exchanges  in Stockholm and Copenhagen,
says its inaugural bond on its First North Bond Market will be a
750 million-krone five-year floating rate note sold by Danish
Crown A/S, the world’s biggest pork exporter.  Carlsberg sold 750 million euros ($966 million) this month
of a 2.625 percent bond due in 2022. The note yielded 98 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate at auction, from an
initially-marketed 110 basis-point area, a person with knowledge
of the sale said at the time. The yield declined to 2.73 percent
at 12:42 p.m. in Copenhagen from 2.75 percent yesterday.  Auriga, whose Cheminova unit controls more than 2 percent
of the global market for plant protection, has cut debt this
year after its  borrowing swelled three-fold  from 2007 through
2011. The company extended by almost three years a 1.1 billion-
krone bank credit line this quarter, giving it more financial
leeway, Pedersen said.  A bond sale “won’t happen right now as we need to reduce
debt first, but it’s definitely something we will look at,” the
CEO said.  Auriga’s net interest bearing debt fell to 2.11 billion
kroner at the end of September, down from 2.36 billion kroner a
year earlier. The company needs to reduce debt further in 2013
“and then the next year, in 2014, we may be ready” to sell
bonds, the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  