-- Aussie Dollar Halts Drop as Data Shows Factory Growth in China
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-22T06:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/aussie-dollar-holds-loss-on-signs-developed-economies-struggling.html
The Australian dollar snapped a two-
day decline after a private report showed  China ’s manufacturing
expanded for the first time in 13 months.  The so-called Aussie and the New Zealand dollar touched
seven-month highs versus the yen after Asian stocks climbed,
boosting the allure of higher-yielding assets. Demand for the
South Pacific currencies was limited before purchasing managers
indexes that economists say will indicate the euro area’s
services and manufacturing industries shrank for a 10th month.  “Today’s report underscores the halting of China’s
slowdown,” said Teppei Ino, an analyst at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s biggest financial group
by market value. “While we have to see further signs of
improvement, it’s positive for the Australian dollar.”  The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0387 as of 5:14 p.m. in
Sydney after falling 0.4 percent over the previous two days. The
 New Zealand  dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, added 0.1 percent to
81.55 U.S. cents following a two-day, 0.7 percent slide.  The Australian currency reached 85.791 yen, the strongest
since April 2, before trading at 85.64 from 85.55 yesterday. The
kiwi was little changed at 67.25 yen after climbing to 67.38, a
level unseen since April 13.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares rose 0.9 percent.
U.S. financial markets are shut today for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  Australia ’s bonds fell, with the benchmark 10-year yield
rising as much as eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 3.27 percent, the highest since Oct. 26.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today that
their purchasing managers’ index for Chinese manufacturing was
at 50.4 in November on a preliminary reading, compared with a
final level of 49.5 in October. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  ‘Nice Result’  “The bottom seems to be in for the Chinese manufacturing
sector, if we are to take the indications from the PMIs and
other incidental data,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior
currency strategist at Scotiabank, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “The flash PMI provides a nice result that should help
Asian sentiment into the end of the week.”  The Australian dollar weakened 1.7 percent in the past
three months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes that track 10 developed-market currencies. The kiwi
slipped 0.3 percent.  Markit Economics is predicted to say today that its
 composite index  for euro-area services and manufacturing was
unchanged at 45.7 in November, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “We haven’t really seen any stabilization as far as the
euro-zone economies go,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist
at  Bank of New Zealand  in Wellington. “The PMI data will feed
through to risk appetite and investor confidence, which is
important” for currencies such as the Australian and New
Zealand dollars, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  