-- Australian Stocks Slip as Europe Talks Continue on Greek Bailout
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-22T23:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/australian-stocks-slip-as-europe-talks-continue-on-greek-bailout.html
Australian  stocks  fell, paring
yesterday’s biggest surge in the benchmark index in eight weeks,
as European officials continue work on an updated aid package
for  Greece .  Ausdrill Ltd. (ASL)  sank 8.9 percent after saying profit will be
impacted by losses related to foreign exchange.  Ivanhoe
Australia Ltd. (IVA)  dropped 8.5 percent after the mining company
controlled by Rio Tinto Group raised about A$75 million ($78
million) at an 8.8 percent discount to its most recent closing
price.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slipped 0.2 percent to
4,405.20 at 10:15 a.m. in Sydney. The gauge yesterday rose the
most since Oct. 2. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index climbed 0.2
percent in Wellington. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.2 percent today. Equity markets were closed
yesterday in the U.S. for the Thanksgiving holiday. Japan’s
stock markets are shut today.  “It is looking like a fairly subdued day,” said Cameron Peacock, Melbourne-based analyst at IG Market Ltd., a provider
of trading services for equities, bonds and currencies.
“European leaders will be tied up with Greece and European
budget discussions for the next few days.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAPJ)  Excluding Japan Index gained 12
percent in 2012 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth, data showed a slowdown in
 China  may be ending and concern about Europe’s debt crisis
eased. The Asian benchmark traded at 12.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 for the S&P 500 and 12.3
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Debt Crisis  The region’s debt crisis and a deadlock over Greek aid
raise the stakes for European Union budget talks that began in
Brussels last night, testing whether the 27-nation bloc is
heading for more integration. The main obstacle to unlocking
international loans for Greece is a plan to reduce the  interest
rates  charged by euro-area creditors, a Greek official said.  A cut in interest rates would put them below the cost of
funding for some euro-area countries, the official told
reporters in Brussels on the condition of anonymity. European
officials will continue work on an updated aid package for
Greece into this weekend in preparation for a Nov. 26 meeting of
euro-area finance ministers, said the official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  