-- Bakrie Group Says Uncovered New Phone, E-Mail Hacking Evidence
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-22T17:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/bakrie-group-says-uncovered-new-phone-e-mail-hacking-evidence.html
The Bakrie Group, an Indonesian
family-owned palm oil-to-property empire, said it’s uncovered
further evidence of hacking of its e-mail servers and phones
after a person involved came forward with new information.  “We have been provided detailed and intimate information
surrounding the parties involved in the illegal hacking,” Chris
Fong, senior vice president of the Bakrie Group, said today in
an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  The hacking was started by a “foreign security company”
in March 2012, according to Fong’s statement, which didn’t name
the firm or the person who provided the information.  London-listed Bumi Plc, a coal miner part-owned by the
Bakries, started an urgent probe into “potential financial and
other irregularities,” at its Indonesian operations including
PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  in September. Bumi is at the center of a feud
between the Bakries and Nathaniel Rothschild, who quit the board
of the company he founded with the family last month.  Fong’s statement made no link between the hacking
allegations and the Bakrie Group’s dispute with Bumi and
Rothschild.  A spokesman for Bumi Plc in  London  declined to comment on
the Bakrie statement, as did a spokesman for Rothschild.  “The authenticity of the information provided has been
deemed reliable after details provided have been confirmed by
our technical experts including an IP address that was being
used to channel stolen data,” Fong said.  According to an Oct. 19 statement from Fong, evidence
showed the hacking targeted senior executives of the group and
that it showed documents had been “doctored to give a
misleading and inaccurate view to certain events.”  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , founded by the Bakries and Rothschild in a $3
billion deal in 2010, owns stakes in two coal producers -- 29
percent of PT Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s biggest producer of
the fuel, and 85 percent of  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  Tbk.  The Bakries last month offered to buy all of the assets of
London-listed Bumi in a bid to help resolve “irreconcilable
differences” with Rothschild and his fellow founders.
Rothschild has described their offer as not being in the
interests of investors.  PT Bakrie & Brothers, controlled by Aburizal Bakrie,
billionaire and brother of Bumi Plc co-chairman Indra, sold half
of their stake in the coal producer in November to help pay
$1.35 billion in debt owed to Credit Suisse Group AG. Aburizal
is the chairman of the Golkar Party of  Indonesia . He’s also the
2014 presidential candidate for the nation’s second-biggest
political party, which was founded by former dictator Suharto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  