-- Barclays Quits LME Floor to Trade Metals on Screen
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-11-22T15:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/barclays-ends-floor-trading-on-world-s-biggest-metals-bourse-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  withdrew today from
floor trading on the  London  Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest
metals bourse, as the bank reviews its businesses to cut costs.  The London-based bank became a Category 2 member of the
exchange with immediate effect, meaning it will continue to
trade electronically and by telephone, the LME said in a notice
to members today. Barclays remains “deeply committed” to the
metals market, it said in a statement today.  Barclays’ withdrawal leaves 11 companies still in the LME’s
6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring, London’s last venue for open-outcry
trading. Natixis SA also stopped floor trading in July to become
a Category 2 member, and Jefferies Group Ltd. joined in
September, hiring traders from the French bank. Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  is reviewing which parts of the
bank will be sold or shrunk as it seeks to bolster returns.  “They’ve probably decided this function isn’t critical,”
said  Ian Gordon , a London-based analyst at Investec Plc who
recommends buying shares of Barclays. “Is it a continuation of
the cost cutting program? Yes, probably.”  The 135-year-old LME handles more than 80 percent of world
trade in industrial-metals futures. Its shareholders, including
Barclays, approved a $2.2 billion takeover by Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in July. The transaction is expected
to close by the end of the year, LME CEO Martin Abbott said
earlier this month. Barclays will get 32.3 million pounds ($51.5
million) for its stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading Volume  The bourse’s trading volume will rise to a record for a
second consecutive year in 2012, Abbott said Oct. 15. The
exchange handled 146.6 million contracts valued at $15.4
trillion in copper and other industrial metals last year. Its
Category 1 members include JPMorgan Chase & Co., Marex Spectron
Group and Sucden Financial Ltd.  “The ring is still an important issue,” said  William Adams , an analyst at Fastmarkets.com in London. “The more
people there you have the more liquidity you have. If a large
player drops out then that has an impact.”  There are now 28 Category 2 members, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG, Standard Chartered Bank Plc, Standard
Bank Plc and ICAP Plc.  “We recognize that business models change and we are
pleased that  Barclays Bank  remains deeply committed to the LME
and the base metals markets,” Abbott said in a statement today.  Metals Vault  Cengiz Y. Belentepe manages Barclays’ industrial and
precious-metals trading. Barclays offers commodity futures and
over-the-counter precious metals trading via its BARX FX
platform. The bank opened its first precious-metals vault this
year and moved into warehousing in 2011.  Barclays’ investment banking chief,  Rich Ricci , said last
month he will combine part of the fixed income and equities
operations, his first change since taking sole control in June.
The trading and distribution teams in fixed income, commodities
and currencies and equities will be put into a single markets
business led by Eric Bommensath.  Barclays’ corporate and investment bank cut more than 500
million pounds of expenses in the past 18 months, Ricci said in
September. The bank would review products and services that are
no longer appropriate, regardless of financial return, he said.  The bank was fined a record 290 million pounds in June by
U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, leading to the departure of former CEO  Robert Diamond , the chairman and the bank’s chief operating officer.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  Last month, the lender said fixed income, commodities and
currencies  revenue  rose 10 percent to 1.58 billion pounds in the
third quarter, missing analyst estimates. Trading in October
continued “to be affected by the challenging economic
environment and subdued market volumes,” it said.  Barclays and JPMorgan became top players in global
commodity-derivatives trading, a Greenwich Associates survey
found in March. The two tied with Goldman in the share of
clients who used them for over-the-counter energy derivatives
trades, while among executives who use derivatives to hedge
metals prices, 35 percent chose Barclays, according to Greenwich
Associates.  Barclays lost Roger Jones, the bank’s former global head of
commodities, and four other energy traders to Mercuria Energy
Trading SA from March 2011 through June 2012. At least six more
Barclays traders left for companies including UBS AG and Noble
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  