-- Bezeq Gains on Bets Company Will Bundle Services: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-22T14:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/bezeq-gains-on-bets-company-will-bundle-services-tel-aviv-mover.html
Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ)  gained the most in more than five weeks on bets a deal
giving mobile phone companies access to the operator’s land-line
network will pave the way for bundled services and cost cuts.  Shares of  Israel ’s biggest fixed-line provider advanced 2.2
percent, the most since Oct. 16, to 4.76 shekels at the market
close in Tel Aviv, trimming the decline this year to 27 percent.
The TA-25 index gained for the fourth day in five, adding 2.5
percent this week.  Tel Aviv-based Bezeq’s board approved an agreement that
will allow  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , the nation’s second-
biggest mobile phone provider, buy access to Bezeq’s fixed-line
network that it can use to offer customers services including
internet and media. Bezeq said the move may be a step toward
attaining government approval to integrate its business units,
enabling it to offer so-called triple play packages combining
TV, internet and phone services. Bezeq now offers each of these
services through separate units.  Integrating Bezeq’s businesses “will enable Bezeq to save
over a billion shekels a year in costs,” Eran Jacoby, head of
research at DS Securities & Investments in Tel Aviv said today
by phone.  Boosting Competition  The move, which is a step toward creating a wholesale
market in Israel, comes as the Communications Ministry changes
regulations to increase competition in the wireless and fixed-
line telecommunications industry. Bezeq shares have been  third-
worst performers  on the TA-25 index this year, after mobile
phone providers  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and Partner, as the
government forced the companies to cut fees and encouraged new
players to start operations. Partner  shares  advanced 2 percent
to 23.77 shekels, the highest since May 14. Cellcom shares
gained 2 percent.  Bezeq and Partner are still negotiating prices and once a
detailed agreement is reached, Bezeq will publish it and allow
all mobile phone companies to access its network on the same
terms, it said today. The publication of a detailed agreement
may lead the Antitrust Commissioner to allow Bezeq to increase
its stake in its D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd. unit, the
company said.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which has a stake in Bezeq
via its  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM)  unit, surged 6.6 percent.  B
Communications (BRCD) , owner of a 31 percent stake in Bezeq, advanced
11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  