-- Billionaire Brothers May Quit Mining Business: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2012-11-23T11:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/billionaire-brothers-may-quit-mining-business-corporate-india.html
Gulf Oil Corp. (GULF) , controlled by the
billionaire Hinduja brothers, may exit the mining business as
restrictions on excavations in  India  slow demand for its
services to extract coal,  iron ore  and minerals.  The company may also consider separating the division into
a subsidiary, Managing Director Subhas S. Pramanik said in a
phone interview from Hyderabad. The unit IDLconsult, which
accounts for about 12 percent of revenue, has reported an
 operating loss  for three straight years, after the government
clamped down on illegal extractions and delayed mining approvals
citing environmental norms.  “We are tired of waiting for government policy on mining
to change,” Pramanik said adding that the company hasn’t taken
a final decision on retreating from the business. “We are
idling so much of our machinery and people.”  Exiting the unit may help Gulf Oil, which is buying
Houghton International Inc. for $1.05 billion in the biggest
acquisition by an Indian company this year, to increase focus on
selling industrial lubricants, said Shailesh Kumar, an analyst
with Indsec Securities & Finance Ltd. The company’s  revenue  in
the year ended March 31 from selling products to grease
machines, engines and clutches rose 38 percent in  Asia ’s third-
largest automobile market.  “The company’s focus is shifting to larger segments,”
said Kumar. Gulf Oil doesn’t “have the kind of manpower and
they don’t have management bandwidth as well to look into so
many businesses,” he said.  The share of lubricants in the company’s revenue rose to 71
percent in the year ended March 31 from 50 percent in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Explosives Business  The company on Oct. 4, 2010 said it had separated its
explosives business as demand for detonators to clear land for
mines had plummeted. The unit, which accounted for 23 percent of
sales, reported an operating loss of 19.2 million rupees
($348,236) in the fiscal year.  Gulf Oil’s  shares , which have dropped 4.2 percent since it
announced the plan to purchase Houghton on Nov. 7, fell 1.6
percent to 82.75 rupees at close in Mumbai. Larger rival Castrol
Ltd. dropped 0.2 percent to 293.25 rupees.  Most of Gulf Oil’s mining contracts are in the eastern
state of Odisha.  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the country’s
second-biggest maker of the alloy, will stop work at an iron ore
mine in the state to make way for an an elephant corridor, two
people familiar with the matter said.  India rejected billionaire Anil Agarwal’s  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) ’s bid for permits to mine bauxite at Niyamgiri hills in
Odisha, citing the effect they would have on tribes and
wildlife.  Market Share  “We are not allowed to work because of regulatory
issues,” Pramanik said. “This is the problem with the whole
mining scenario in the country.”  Purchasing  Houghton , which makes lubricants used by  steel
mills , corrosion-protection chemicals for aircraft makers and
fluids needed to produce prosthetics and surgical devices, will
help the company control 12 percent market share in the
lubricants for metals, Ravi Chawla, president of the lubricant
division, said in an interview on Nov. 16 in Chennai.  The company, which has a factory to make the lubricants in
western India with an annual capacity of 75,000 metric tons,
will “finalize within a month” a plan to build a new plant
with the same capacity in south India, he said.  Gopichand Hinduja and his brother Srichand acquired Gulf
Oil, which traces its origin to the 1901 U.S. oil boom in
Spindletop, in 1985. The brothers, based in  London , are
estimated to have assets valued at $8 billion, according to the
website of Forbes magazine.  Loan Transaction  The group, founded in 1914 by their father Parmanand, also
has interests in energy, chemicals, health-care, film
production, media, real estate, finance and  information
technology , according to its website. It controls  Ashok Leyland
Ltd. (AL) , India’s second-largest truckmaker.  Gulf Oil has hired Royal Bank of Canada to arrange $835
million loan to fund the Houghton purchase, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. The company will meet
investors next week in  New York  and London, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.  The company based in Hyderabad agreed to buy closely held
Houghton from private equity firm AEA Investors LP, according to
a statement on Nov. 7. Gulf Oil and its units had 2.2 billion
rupees of cash and equivalents and 3.5 billion rupees of  total
debt  as of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Houghton reported
sales of $858 million in the year ended Sept. 30, according to
the Nov. 7 statement.  Houghton’s purchase will help Gulf Oil expand from
supplying lubricants only to automobile companies, which “are
experiencing a slowdown in growth,” Mohit Chopra, Gurgaon,
India-based  executive director  at PricewaterhouseCoopers said.
Lubricants will account for 90 percent of Gulf Oil’s revenue
once the acquisition is complete, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  