-- Bovespa Index Advances After China Manufacturing Report
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-11-22T20:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/bovespa-index-advances-as-china-manufacturing-boosts-producers.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose for the
second time in three days as homebuilders rallied after a report
showing inflation slowed in November spurred speculation  Brazil 
will be able to keep borrowing costs at a record low.  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA was the best performer on
the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV) , which climbed to a one-week
high. Banco Bradesco SA rose to the highest level since Sept. 24
after it announced a partnership with cellular phone operator
Claro for mobile payments.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index added 0.3 percent to
56,436.97 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-six
stocks rose on the Bovespa while 31 declined. The real was
little changed at 2.0989 per  U.S. dollar  after weakening
yesterday to a three-year low. Brazil’s swap rates fell on most
contracts after a report showed consumer prices increased at a
slower pace in the month through mid-November.  “Inflation seem to be coming in more or less in line with
what the central bank expects, which supports the idea that
 interest rates  won’t rise in the near future,”  Alvaro Bandeira ,
a partner at Orama Asset Management, said by phone from  Rio de
Janeiro .  The IPCA-15  price index  gained 0.54 percent, the national
statistics agency reported today. While it exceeded the 0.51
percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, it
was lower than the previous reading of 0.65 percent. Brazil’s
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in a congressional
hearing today inflation will converge to the bank’s 4.5 percent
target in the third quarter of 2013.  MRV gained 2.8 percent to 10.60 reais. PDG Realty SA rose
1.4 percent to 2.85 reais while  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  added 1.9 percent to 17.48
reais.  Fuel Prices  Bradesco advanced 1.1 percent to 34.55 reais, the highest
in almost two months.  State-controlled oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro climbed
0.2 percent to 18.65 reais. Brazil may allow the company to
raise fuel prices early next year, said a government official
who asked not be identified because discussions aren’t public.  Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster told
reporters in Brasilia yesterday that while she expects fuel
prices to rise, there is no schedule for an increase.  Preferred shares of state-controlled power utility  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  tumbled 6.9 percent to 7.3 reais,
extending its monthly plunge to 55 percent, amid concern rate
cuts ordered by the government will erode earnings.  ‘Stay Away’  Brazil’s plan to reduce electricity costs by as much as 28
percent will almost erase earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization next year, Chief Financial Officer
Armando Casado de Araujo said Nov. 19. The government is
offering Eletrobras 14 billion reais in cash as compensation,
less than half the 30 billion reais the company had said it
expected to receive.  “With all the changes the government is trying to
implement in the electrical sector, most people are choosing to
stay away from those stocks,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at
brokerage Titulo Corretora de Valores in  Sao Paulo , said in a
phone interview.  The Bovespa’s Electric Energy index of 15 power utilities
dropped 0.4 percent to a two-year low.  The benchmark Bovespa index has climbed 7.5 percent from
this year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central banks around
the world eased economic concern and borrowing costs at a record
low in Brazil boosted demand for equities.  Trading volume was 3.5 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year through Nov.
19, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  