-- Brazil Inflation Converging to Target in 2013, Tombini Says
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-11-22T15:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/brazil-s-november-mid-month-prices-climb-more-than-expected-1-.html
Brazil’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said inflation will converge to the bank’s 4.5
percent target in the third quarter of 2013 even as new data
showed the pace slowing less than expected.  Inflation remains “under control” and falling wholesale
prices “are expected to be reflected in consumer prices in the
coming months,” Tombini said in a congressional hearing today.  Inflation, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, reached 5.64
percent in the year through mid-November, up from 5.56 percent a
month earlier, the national statistics institute said today in  Rio
de Janeiro .  Consumer prices  in the month through mid-November
gained 0.54 percent, compared with a 0.51 percent median  estimate 
from 36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Mid-month inflation was
0.65 percent the month prior.  The central bank has cut Brazil’s benchmark  lending rate  by
525 basis points since August 2011, more than any other Group of
20 nation, to a record 7.25 percent, and has pledged to keep the
rate low for a “prolonged period.” At the same time, President
Dilma Rousseff’s administration has pushed commercial banks to
reduce borrowing costs, lowered taxes on consumer and industrial
goods and cut bank reserve requirements to spur lending as the
economy struggles to pick up speed.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.33 percent at 12:29 p.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.4 percent to 2.0908 per  U.S. dollar .  Food and Beverages  The increase in prices was driven by higher transport and
clothing costs, while pressure on food prices began to ease in the
world’s second-largest emerging market.  “The only groups slowing down are food, which was the most
important, and then housing and health,”  David Beker , chief
Brazil economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “All other groups
accelerated. And, despite the slowdown, food is still running
pretty high.”  Food and beverage prices rose 0.83 percent in the month,
after leaping 1.56 percent in the month through mid-October
because of droughts in the U.S. and Brazil. Rice gained 6.6
percent, down from 11.9 percent, while potato prices fell 4.45
percent, following an increase of 19.2 percent.  ’Hopeful Signs’  “There are some hopeful signs that food inflation, at least
in month-on-month terms, may now be easing back,”  Neil Shearing ,
chief  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said
by telephone from  London . “The annual rate of inflation is going
to climb a bit from here, but the monthly rates of inflation seem
to have peaked.”  Higher prices for fuel and plane tickets pushed up the cost
of transport, which increased 0.5 percent through mid-November,
Alexandre Barbosa, chief economist at Banco Cooperativo Sicredi,
said by telephone from  Porto Alegre .  Prices of apparel increased 1.4 percent through mid-November
after rising 1.05 percent the month before.  Prices as measured by the IGP-10 index, which is 60 percent
weighted in wholesale prices, fell 0.28 percent in the month
through Nov. 10, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said last week.
Wholesale prices in the index slid 0.57 percent, while consumer
prices were up 0.36 percent.  Lower Growth  Economists reduced their forecast for  Brazil ’s 2012 inflation
this week to 5.45 percent, according to a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts. They have cut their forecasts for economic
expansion in 2012 repeatedly, most recently to 1.52 percent,
following annualized growth rates of 0.5 percent and 1.6 percent
in the first and second quarters.  Brazil’s economy expanded at a 4.7 percent annualized rate in
the third quarter, and will continue apace into 2013 and coming
years, Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa said on Nov. 19.
Barbosa said the economy can grow while containing inflation.  Some economists remain doubtful that inflation will slow to
target as Tombini forecasts.  “At no time during 2013 do I forecast inflation below 5
percent,” Ines Filipa, chief economist at ICAP Brasil, said in a
phone interview on Nov. 21. “That ’convergence’ to the 4.5 center
of the target, even non-linear as the central bank likes to say,
is far from occurring in 2013 and also in 2014.”  Electricity Tariffs  Inflation faster than the central bank’s target is unlikely
to spur policy makers to raise the benchmark Selic rate in the
near term, particularly with cuts to electricity tariffs scheduled
to come into effect in January, tempering annual inflation,
 Capital Economics ’ Shearing said.  “When needed, we will make adjustments in our instruments,
whether up or down, to attend to what is defined in our inflation
targeting regime,” Tombini said.  A strong jobs market has sustained consumer demand. The
 unemployment rate , which has remained near historic lows all year,
fell to a record 5.3 percent for the month of October from 5.4
percent in September, the agency said today. While  retail sales 
have increased for four straight months, the economy’s response to
the stimulus measures has been uneven, as reflected by a 1 percent
drop in  industrial production  in September.  “Inflation is still very high,” Alexandre Barbosa said.
“The labor market is still very heated. Inflation is concerning
for the coming months.”  Tombini also said the bank remains ready to intervene in
 currency markets , while it has no set range for the real’s value.  “If needed, we will also intervene in the temporary supply
of liquidity at the turn of the year,” he said.  Brazil’s real fell to a three-year low yesterday after
President  Dilma Rousseff  told Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor
Economico the currency is “overvalued,” spurring speculation
that the government will allow it to depreciate further. The
currency slid 0.9 percent to 2.0985 per dollar at the close in Sao
Paulo, the weakest level since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 