-- McAlpine Pedophilia Tweet Cases May Expand U.K. Libel Law
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-22T11:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/mcalpine-pedophilia-tweet-cases-may-expand-u-k-defamation-law.html
A former U.K. politician wrongly
named on Twitter as a pedophile after a false report by the
British Broadcasting Corp. may expand the reach of libel law
with his threat to sue thousands of people over online posts.  Alastair McAlpine, 70, a former Tory party treasurer, has
said he’ll take legal action against about 10,000 people who he
says tweeted or retweeted defamatory posts after the  BBC  wrongly
implied he sexually abused a boy in the 1970s. The cases may
correct the view that libel on social media isn’t as bad as in
print publications, said  Ruth Collard , a media lawyer at Carter-
Ruck in London.  “With Twitter and the Internet generally, people think
it’s not the same as publishing a newspaper, book or magazine,
but if you are the author, then you take responsibility for
it,” Collard, who isn’t involved in the dispute, said in a
phone interview. “It’s no defense to say you had no idea.”  The BBC, the world’s biggest broadcaster, agreed to pay
McAlpine 185,000 pounds ($295,000) after the Nov. 2 error on its
“Newsnight” report, which gave hints about the ex-politician’s
identity without naming him. Before the mistake was uncovered,
Twitter Inc. postings accusing McAlpine were already spreading,
setting the stage for the biggest case of its kind in Britain.  McAlpine, who was deputy chairman of the U.K. Conservative
Party under  Margaret Thatcher , wants Twitter users with fewer
than 500 followers to apologize and donate to the BBC Children
in Need charity, said  Charlotte  Offredi, a spokeswoman for
McAlpine’s lawyers.  500 Followers  Twitter users with more than 500 followers, including a
journalist at the  Guardian newspaper  and Sally Bercow, the wife
of House of Commons Speaker John Bercow, should also apologize
for naming him, she said, though McAlpine hasn’t decided what
legal action to take against that group.  McAlpine’s libel dispute has caught the attention of the
 Metropolitan Police Service  in London. Officers are meeting with
“interested parties” to determine whether a crime may have
taken place, the Met’s press office said today in an e-mail.  Until now, the highest-profile Twitter libel in Britain
involved former New Zealand cricket captain Chris Cairns suing
Lalit Modi, ex-chairman of an Indian league, for tweeting that
he fixed matches. Modi failed to prove the claim in court and
was ordered in March to pay 90,000 pounds in damages.  As McAlpine brings the threat of such legal claims to
average citizens, the former politician who now lives in Puglia,
 Italy , may create a “tipping point” in the public’s view of
defamation, including libel, said  Andrew Terry , a media lawyer
at Eversheds LLP in London, who isn’t involved in the cases.  Hard Time  “What the extreme nature of this situation shows is how
easily reputations can be damaged by social media and why it is
so important that there can be redress, whether those defamed
are public figures or not,” Terry said in an e-mail.  While newspapers can defend mistaken reports by showing
they tried to get it right, Twitter users don’t have the same
standards and may have a hard time defending postings that are
later proved wrong, Collard said.  Twitter limits postings to 140 characters and users can
share another person’s tweet with a few clicks.  “At least if you’re writing an article you can ask the
other party to comment and you can be balanced,” said Steven
Heffer, a media lawyer at Collyer Bristow LLP in  London . “But
in a short tweet you’re taking a risky step if you allege
something, but you can’t prove it.”  Honest Belief  It doesn’t matter if the Twitter users believed they were
spreading correct information at the time, because the “good
intention or honest belief of the publisher doesn’t help,” said
 Eddie Parladorio , a media lawyer with PSB Law LLP in London.  Although tweets that name McAlpine and accuse him of crimes
are clearly defamatory, Parladorio said, a tweet doesn’t even
need to cite him or the word “pedophile” to give him a case if
a “reasonable reader” of the post would link him to the BBC
report.  After the BBC report, Bercow tweeted, “Why is Lord
McApline trending? *innocent face*”. She later tweeted that the
tweet wasn’t libelous.  John Bercow’s office in Parliament declined to give out
Sally Bercow’s phone number and said she could only be reached
through standard mail delivery. She didn’t immediately reply to
an e-mail to her husband’s office and her Twitter account has
been turned off.  English Law  If the threatened cases make it to court, the defendants
may be helped by a provision of English law allowing judges to
reduce damage awards based on how much money someone has already
received from other sources, Heffer said.  McAlpine’s potential lawsuits are “an unusual approach,
particularly when he’s received a large award from the BBC,”
Heffer said in a phone interview. McAlpine may also have a hard
time identifying users who don’t name themselves on their
Twitter pages and may have to sue Twitter to do it, Heffer said.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , is often resistant to
requests for personal information about users. Helen Prowse, a
spokeswoman for the company, declined to comment on McAlpine.  The scandal started when Steve Messham, a victim of abuse
at a children’s home in Wrexham, north  Wales , alleged
involvement by an unnamed senior figure in the Tory party. He
said he was “sold” to men for sexual abuse at a nearby hotel.  McAlpine issued a statement on Nov. 9 denying subsequent
Internet rumors he had been part of a pedophile ring,
complaining of a “media frenzy” and saying he “must publicly
tackle these slurs and set the record straight.”  “A lot of people who made the allegations were just
repeating what had come to them,” Collard said. The McAlpine
case “may make people think more cautiously about sending on
rumors or gossip without really knowing anything about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  