-- Cameron Set for EU Clash as Tories Demand Budget Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-22T12:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/cameron-heads-for-eu-clash-as-tories-demand-budget-cuts.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
arrived at a summit on the European Union’s budget as his
Conservative lawmakers demanded a cut in the 27-nation bloc’s
spending plan that they say is bloated.  Cameron, usually among the last to arrive at EU summits
because he’s not part of a mainstream political grouping, set
off from London for Brussels before dawn today to meet EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy , hoping to generate support for his
call to freeze the bloc’s 2014-20 spending plan.  “These are very important negotiations,” he said on
arrival in the Belgian capital. “Clearly at a time when we are
making difficult decisions at home over public spending it would
be quite wrong, it is quite wrong, for there to be proposals for
this increased extra spending in the EU.”  British officials say they’re working on securing a deal at
the summit that begins today and may continue into the weekend.
The premier has nonetheless kept up a stream of anti-EU
rhetoric, needing to placate euro-skeptic Tory lawmakers, some
of whom want the U.K. to pull out of the union altogether. He
said three days ago the EU needs to stop “picking the pockets”
of a British public suffering from austerity measures at home.  “His people expect the impossible,” Tim Bale, professor
of politics at Queen Mary University of  London , said in a
telephone interview. “That’s the problem: they want him to
fail. They don’t want him to bring back the deal that can
possibly be done, because that will prove we can’t deal with the
EU, and the only solution is to get out of it.”  ‘Long Way’  After Cameron’s half-hour meeting with Van Rompuy and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso , the prime minister’s
office said in a statement that “it was clear that there was a
long way to go before we had a deal.”  It’s just under a year since Cameron was cheered by Tory
lawmakers when he refused to join a German-inspired fiscal
accord to rescue the euro at a Brussels summit. Most other
countries went ahead with the agreement anyway.  Van Rompuy  is proposing to cut the budget to 973 billion
euros ($1.24 trillion), lower than the EU Commission’s planned
1.03 trillion euros and the figure for the previous seven-year
period of 994 billion euros.  When asked whether he was pleased with the proposed cuts,
Cameron said today, “No, I’m not happy at all.”  Cameron hit the phones before the summit to drum up support
from other EU leaders. Other net contributors such as Germany
and  France  also oppose an increase, and the premier has
threatened a veto if he doesn’t get the deal he wants.  ‘Major Threat’  “I see a major threat,” Barroso told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg, France, yesterday. “Compromises have
to be constructive. They’ve got to be about strengthening  Europe 
and not about pulling Europe apart.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday EU states
may need to reconvene again in early 2013 to reach agreement.  Britain is not the only country to have threatened a veto.
Latvia may also scupper negotiations if its interests are
ignored, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said yesterday. The
Danish premier, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, is demanding a rebate.  For Cameron, anything less than a real-terms budget cut
would not be enough to satisfy some of his party. More than 50
Conservatives joined forces with the opposition  Labour Party  in
the House of Commons on Oct. 31 to demand he press for
reductions in Brussels.  “Britain is facing 20 percent cuts in most government
spending departments,” Tory lawmaker Mark Reckless said by
phone. “I don’t see why the EU should be exempt from similar
cuts.”  Freeze Realistic  Cameron insists a freeze is more realistic, though he said
yesterday he wouldn’t give up any part of the EU budget rebate
that his Tory predecessor,  Margaret Thatcher , secured in 1984.  The rebate acts as compensation to the U.K. because British
farmers receive relatively little support under the EU’s Common
Agricultural Policy, compared with similarly sized economies
such as France. The latest figures -- from 2010 -- show
Britain’s net contribution was 7.3 billion euros as a result
rather than the 10.9 billion euros it would otherwise have paid.  “The rebate negotiated by Margaret Thatcher is an
incredibly important part of Britain’s position in Europe and
making sure we get a fair deal,” the premier told Parliament in
London.  Leaving EU  An opinion poll last week found that more than half of
British voters would vote to leave the EU if a referendum were
held. Fifty-six percent said they want the U.K. to go it alone,
while 30 percent want to remain in the bloc, the Opinium
Research survey for the Observer newspaper showed. Opinium
questioned 1,957 adults between Nov. 13 and Nov. 15.  Conservative hostility to Europe isn’t confined to rank-
and-file lawmakers. Two members of Cameron’s Cabinet,
Environment Secretary Owen Paterson and Northern Ireland
Secretary Theresa Villiers, attended a 90-pound ($144) a head
dinner on Nov. 19 to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the
Maastricht rebellion, when a group of Conservatives defied their
then leader,  John Major , to vote against the creation of the
EU’s governing treaty.  They applauded three speakers, including two serving
members of Parliament, Bill Cash and Mark Pritchard, who called
for a referendum to take Britain out of the EU. Cameron will use
a speech next month to set out his view on the future of
Britain’s relationship with the bloc.  “It may be that there is a parting of the ways and that
the British public decides it is better off as an independent
country,” said Reckless.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  