-- Canada September Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-11-22T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/canada-september-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment insurance report for Sept. released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following an increase in August, the number of people
receiving regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits in
September declined slightly, by 5,700 (-1.1%), to 525,900.  The number of beneficiaries edged down in  Quebec , British
Columbia and New Brunswick, while it rose slightly in Manitoba.  Claims unchanged in September  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims was
virtually unchanged in September at 230,300.  The situation varied among the provinces. Claims increased
11.5% in Prince  Edward Island , 9.4% in  Alberta , 5.1% in Manitoba
and 4.7% in Ontario. There were smaller increases of 2.7% in New
Brunswick and 2.5% in British Columbia.  At the same time, claims fell 3.8% in Saskatchewan and 3.0%
in Quebec. There was little change in  Nova Scotia  and
Newfoundland and Labrador.  Small decrease in beneficiaries in a number of provinces  The number of people receiving regular EI benefits declined
slightly in September in a number of provinces. In Quebec, the
number decreased 1.6%, following a notable increase of 6.2% the
month before.  There were smaller declines in the number of beneficiaries
in British Columbia (-1.1%) and New Brunswick (-1.0%). The
number of people receiving benefits in British Columbia has held
fairly steady since April, while, in  New Brunswick , it was on an
upward trend over the same period.  In September, the number of beneficiaries rose slightly in
Manitoba, continuing an upward trend that began last April.
There was little change in the other provinces in September.  Note to readers  Employment Insurance (EI) regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal adjustment,
see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service Canada and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. A recent example is the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim
( http://www.servicecanada.gc.ca/eng/ei/information/wwc.shtml ),”
which was introduced on August 5, 2012.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from September 9 to 15. This period
coincides with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey
(LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits. 