-- Canada Dollar Falls as Retail Sales Rise Trails Forecasts
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-22T22:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/canada-dollar-falls-as-retail-sales-rise-trails-forecasts.html
Canada ’s dollar declined against its
U.S. counterpart as retail sales trailed economists’
projections, eroding the currency’s appeal.  The loonie, so-called for the image of the aquatic bird on
the dollar coin, declined against the majority of its most-
traded peers. It advanced earlier after Chinese factory output
rose for the first time in 13 months, adding to signs growth in
that economy is rebounding.  Retail  sales  increased 0.1 percent to C$39.1 billion ($39.3
billion), the third consecutive monthly gain, as increases at
new car dealers were offset by declines at department stores and
gasoline stations,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 0.5 percent
increase, based on the median of 22 projections. U.S. markets
are closed today for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “The retail data is a huge disappointment,” Mazen Issa,
Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities, said in a phone interview. “Being range-bound is
the theme for the Canadian dollar today, especially with U.S.
markets closed and quiet markets here.”  The Canadian dollar declined 0.1 percent against the
greenback to 99.74 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0026.  The loonie has climbed 1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has dropped 1.7 percent, and
the yen leads decliners with a drop of 9 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
advanced 0.5 percent on the manufacturing data from  China , among
the largest importers of metals. Canada derives about half its
export revenue from commodities.  Crude oil for January delivery slipped 0.3 percent. Crude
is Canada’s largest export.  Retail Sales  The preliminary reading in China was 50.4 for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. It compares with a final level of 49.5 for October. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Canada’s economic growth rate may remain less than 2
percent through the rest of this year, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumers are
reacting to slow employment growth and tighter rules on mortgage
borrowing that Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  imposed in July to
ease the risk of a housing bubble.  “The data is a sign of weak growth,” Issa said. “It has
implications for the monthly gross domestic product, extending
into quarterly implications for GDP, and there’s a significant
chance that the Bank of Canada will not reach its growth
target.”  Redeploying Cash  Canadian bonds were little changed, with the yield on the
government 10-year  bond  at 1.77 percent, one basis point higher.
The 2.75 security due in June 2022 slipped 4 cents to C$108.60.  Canadian investors are fleeing Canadian government yields
at almost record lows by redeploying cash into the corporate
credit market. About C$14 billion in coupons and principal will
be paid on Dec. 1, according to Royal  Bank of Canada  estimates.  A total of C$60 billion of such payments will flow to
investors during the month, in line with past December figures,
said Ian Pollick, a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank’s RBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  