-- Carney, Dickson Said to Meet Top Banking Executives
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-11-22T16:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/carney-dickson-said-to-meet-top-banking-executives.html
Canadian bank chief executives will
discuss new regulatory hurdles and risks to the global economy
at a meeting with Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney and
banking watchdog Julie Dickson next week, according to a person
familiar with the meeting.  Carney will speak to executives on global economic issues
and household debt while Dickson, who heads the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, will focus on risk
management issues such as new capital requirements, the person
said on condition they not be identified because the Nov. 26
discussions at the central bank’s Toronto office will be
private. Carney and Dickson, who typically meet bank CEOs twice
a year, will brief the executives on new regulatory initiatives,
the person said.  The meeting comes as growth in lending slows amid mounting
regulatory requirements and as risks to Canada’s economy
escalate because of record debt levels. Moody’s Investors
Service placed six Canadian lenders, including  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , on review for possible
downgrade last month. Canada’s banks are scheduled to release
fourth-quarter earnings beginning next week.  “The government is taking a much more activist stance
against the banks that have to date shown they’re quite prudent
on consumer lending,” said John Aiken, an analyst at Barclays
Capital in Toronto.  Housing and household debt, and the industry’s capacity to
overcome shocks, are expected to be a focus for Carney, who will
also provide an overview of the global economic outlook and its
impact for banks.  Bank of Canada spokesman Jeremy Harrison said the bank does
not comment on Carney’s private meetings. OSFI spokesman Rod
Giles said Dickson normally meets bank executives twice a year
to exchange information.  Banks Vulnerable  “High levels of consumer indebtedness and elevated housing
prices leave Canadian banks more vulnerable,” Moody’s said in
its report.  Carney last month told Canadian lawmakers that record
household debt burdens are the main domestic risk to the
economic expansion.  Canada’s economy is also being restrained by an
inconsistent global recovery with risks posed by  Europe ’s debt
crisis and the prospect of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts in the U.S. next year. In his most recent public
statements, Carney has warned that doubts over policy makers’
ability to resolve global economic issues has begun to curb
global business investment.  “There is a relatively high degree of uncertainty about
the stance of economic policy across many major jurisdictions,”
Carney said in a Senate committee hearing Oct. 31. “The net
effect of this is causing business investment to be less robust.
You see this most directly in the European Union.”  New Regulations  Dickson and Carney, who also chairs the Financial Stability
Board group of global regulators and central bankers, are
expected to discuss new regulatory initiatives such as
additional capital requirements for domestic institutions deemed
systemically important, the person said.  Barclays Capital’s Aiken said he expects the banks will be
looking for clarity on how domestic systemically important banks
will be classified, and looking for assurance that there won’t
be any structural changes to personal lending practices.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty has tightened mortgage
lending rules four times to stop the country’s home market from
overheating, and Dickson has issued draft  guidelines  on mortgage
underwriting to banks.  “If we do have an actual slowdown in mortgage lending,
there’s only so many more avenues that the banks can use to
sustain lending growth,” Aiken said.  Basel III  Countries face a Jan. 1 deadline for starting to apply so-
called Basel III rules, which were drawn up by global regulators
to prevent any repeat of the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. OSFI assistant
superintendent Mark Zelmer said yesterday that Canadian banks
should meet Basel III capital requirements by the end of this
year.  While countries are allowed to phase in the new
requirements until 2019, Zelmer said Canadian banks “are strong
enough that they do not need most of the phase-in
requirements.”  Canada’s financial industry is also preparing for an
assessment next year by the International Monetary Fund on the
stability of the system, and this is expected to be discussed at
the meeting, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  