-- Catalan Vote May Highlight Pressure for Split From Spain
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-11-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/catalan-vote-may-highlight-pressure-for-split-from-spain.html
Voters in Catalonia head to the
polls in two days in a regional election likely to advance
nationalists’ push for independence and weaken Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy .  Catalans are set to hand nationalist parties control of the
135-seat regional parliament, setting them on a collision course
with Rajoy’s government in Madrid, polls show. Regional
President Artur Mas, who’s pledged to hold a referendum on
independence that Rajoy says would be illegal, had the support
of 37 percent of voters and the Catalan Republican Left was at
12 percent, in a Metroscopia poll this month.  “The Catalan government is likely to push for a legal
referendum to be held within the next two years,”  Antonio Barroso , a political analyst at Eurasia in  London  and a former
Spanish government pollster, said in a Nov. 20 research note.
Mas “cannot backtrack once he is reelected.”  Mas’s ambition to lead the 7.5 million Catalans out of
Spain poses a constitutional crisis to Rajoy, who may be forced
to relinquish some sovereignty in exchange for an international
bailout. Rajoy says he’ll block any referendum Mas holds because
it would be unconstitutional.  “I won’t abandon it,” Mas said in a Nov. 19 radio
interview. If there’s a majority of pro-independence lawmakers
from his party and others in the regional assembly, “it would
be fraud” to ditch the planned vote.  Seat Breakdown  Mas may claim 62 deputies in the chamber, unchanged from 
its current tally. Rajoy’s  People’s Party  may overtake the 
Socialists  to get 19, the second most, as it attracts voters 
who  favor remaining part of Spain, according to Metroscopia’s 
poll of 2,500 voters conducted from Nov. 8 to Nov. 15. The 
margin of error was 2.5 percentage points.  Hanging over the election is Rajoy’s broader struggle to
restart the Spanish economy while reining in public borrowing
that is set to jump by 17 percentage points this year to 85
percent of gross domestic product as the state absorbs to the
cost of bailing out the banks, the power system, construction
firms and regional governments. Unemployment reached a record 26
percent in September bringing Spaniards onto the streets in a
wave of protests against the government.  Mas has added his voice to those of the European officials
urging Rajoy to request aid from the EU and lower borrowing
costs for Spanish companies. Rajoy says he’s still considering
whether a bailout would be in Spain’s best interest.  Bailout Seen  “Following the Catalan elections, we think Spain will be
more likely to enter an EU/IMF program,”  Alberto Gallo , head of
European macro credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London, said in a Nov. 19 research note.  The deterioration in Catalonia’s public finances helped
push Mas toward calling early elections. About 1.5 million
rallied for independence on Sept. 11, according to Catalan
officials. The protest came after Mas was forced to ask Rajoy
for a 5 billion-euro $6.5 billion) bailout as he struggled to
cover his utility bills or pay cleaners and security guards.  Catalan bills maturing in April yielded 8.7 percent
yesterday, down from 17.3 percent in August before the bailout
request. The region’s 2018 notes yielded 10.3 percent, compared
with the sovereign’s 4.78 percent.  Mas, who rejected the limits Rajoy demanded on regional
deficits next year, argues that his region is being dragged down
by poorer regions in  Spain  that receive 15 billion euros a year
in transfers from taxes paid in Catalonia. He says Catalans will
be better off outside of Spain.  ‘Against History’  “This proposal goes against history, it goes against the
zeitgeist and it goes against common sense,” Rajoy said in a
Nov. 6 radio interview. “In a move like this, we all lose.”  The 7.5 million Catalans make up 16 percent of the Spanish
population and last year contributed 19 percent of the country’s
economic output. Madrid is the second-biggest regional economy,
with its 6.5 million inhabitants producing 18 percent of
national output.  “Between Catalonia and Spain there’s a feeling of
fatigue,” Mas told an audience of business leaders and
government officials in Madrid on Sept. 13. “Catalonia is tired
of not being able to develop as it feels it should within the
Spanish state.”  The biggest obstacle to Catalan independence may come from
the European Union, which may also have to take a stance on a
split in the U.K. after Scots vote on independence in 2014. A
new state would have to reapply to join the 27-nation EU,
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said this month.  ‘Absolutely Impossible’  “If within the process we reach the conclusion that it
would be absolutely impossible” to stay in the EU “then we
will rethink,” Mas he added Nov. 7.  To avoid a showdown, the leaders may seek a deal that lets
Catalonia keep a greater share of its  tax revenue , allowing Mas
to claim he’s increased the region’s autonomy without Rajoy
having to confront the breakup of his country, Barroso said.  “The lines within the PP seem to be slowly moving toward
favoring a deal that would give more resources to Catalonia in
order to defuse the current tensions,” he wrote. “That will
not solve the long-term issue of Catalonia’s status but it at
least will delay the issue of independence for some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  