-- McEwen Shops Copper Mine to Focus on Gold
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-11-22T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/mcewen-shops-copper-mine-to-focus-on-gold.html
Rob McEwen, the founder of  Goldcorp (G) 
Inc., says his  McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX)  may sell a copper project and
use the proceeds to help finance its plan to become one of the
world’s biggest gold producers.  “All the big players” in the copper industry have
expressed an interest in the Los Azules deposit in Argentina,
McEwen said at a Nov. 15 investor presentation in  New York .
“Arms of the Chinese government” are among those who’ve been
in contact, he said, without giving details.  “The project is very large for a company with our size and
balance sheet,” McEwen, 62, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “You would rather go in with someone who knows how
to do that.”  Selling Los Azules would free up cash for McEwen Mining’s
precious-metals exploration projects in  Argentina ,  Mexico  and
the U.S. as producers find it difficult to raise funds. In
 Canada , where more than 400 gold miners are based, producers
announced $2.53 billion of equity sales this year, down from
$3.51 billion in the same period a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  McEwen Mining said it settled a lawsuit over Los Azules
that had brought its ownership into question, allowing the
Toronto-based company to realize the project’s full potential.  “We put a data room together,” McEwen said last week.
“We’ll be inviting people who have expressed an interest down
there in January.”  Mining Finance  While cash from selling the project would be welcome,
McEwen says his company can still raise more funds, even though
it’s “not the friendliest time” for getting mining finance.
McEwen Mining said last month it plans to raise about $60
million in a rights offering, backstopped by its CEO, who
according to its  website  has a 25 percent stake in the company.  Los Azules is worth about $535 million, based partly on the
deposit’s 15 billion pounds of copper resources, and will cost
almost five times that to develop, said Aleksandra Bukacheva, a
Toronto-based analyst at Fraser Mackenzie Ltd.  “A junior precious-metals company is unlikely to come up
with the $2.5 billion on its own needed to develop a  copper mine 
at Los Azules,” Bukacheva, who has a hold rating on the stock,
said by phone.  The site may appeal to  Japan ’s Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
Korea Resources Corp. and other Asian companies keen to secure
copper supplies, she said. Many of the largest copper producers,
such as  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and BHP Billiton Ltd., might not be
interested because they’re already developing or expanding
comparable deposits in  South America , according to Bukacheva.  Goldcorp’s Success  Katelyn Kim at Korea Resources’ Toronto office didn’t
return a call from Bloomberg seeking comment. Ryota Sekine, a
vice president and director of Seattle-based Sumitomo Metal
Mining America Inc., wasn’t available to comment. The publicity
department of  China ’s National Development and Reform Commission
couldn’t immediately comment on the matter. Three calls to the
office of Yao Jian, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of
Commerce, went unanswered.  McEwen, the founder of his eponymous company, is trying to
repeat his success at Vancouver-based Goldcorp, a Canadian gold
producer he established about two decades ago and one that
earlier this month briefly surpassed Toronto-based  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX)  to become the world’s largest producer of the metal.  The Canadian businessman switched from a career in
investment to mining in 1990. He was CEO for 13 years, during
which time the company announced six acquisitions valued at a
combined $2.26 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Gold  He created McEwen Mining by renaming U.S. Gold Corp. after
its C$747 million acquisition of Minera Andes Inc. in January,
combining two companies of which he was CEO.  “I think he will ultimately achieve a good deal of
success,’ said Aaron Kennon, the New York-based co-founder and
CEO of Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC. ‘‘He may have picked a
couple of difficult jurisdictions early on that he later
realized were more challenging than he would have hoped -- and
Argentina is one of those areas.’’  Argentina placed restrictions on mining companies last year
to make them keep export revenue in the country. McEwen Mining
is spending cash from its stake in the  San Jose  mine in the
country on exploration at Los Azules, Ian Ball, a senior vice
president at the company, said at the New York presentation.  The company said last week that it settled a lawsuit with
Vancouver-based  TNR Gold Corp. (TNR)  over Los Azules, allowing McEwen
Mining to boost exploratory drilling at the site and examine
parts of the project in Argentina’s San Juan province that were
previously contested.  Operating Mines  McEwen Mining owns the El Gallo silver and gold mine in
Mexico, which is in production. It also has a 49 percent stake
in San Jose, another operating gold and silver mine, with the
other 51 percent held by London-based  Hochschild Mining Plc. (HOC)  In
addition to Los Azules, McEwen Mining is developing the Gold Bar
and Tonkin gold projects in  Nevada .  While the company says it plans to increase annual gold
production to 290,000 ounces by 2015 from 105,000 ounces now,
its CEO says that could be exceeded. McEwen Mining will target
qualification for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index during 2015
and will probably seek an acquisition before then, McEwen said.  McEwen Mining, which fell 1.4 percent to C$3.47 today in
 Toronto trading , has dropped 39 percent since the closing of the
U.S. Gold-Minera Andes deal. In that time, the  S&P/TSX Global
Gold Sector Index (SPTSGD)  has decreased 20 percent, while the price of
gold for immediate delivery in  London  has declined 0.6 percent.
For McEwen, the underperformance of gold-mining equities
presents a clear buying opportunity.  ‘The disparity between gold and stocks is enormous right
now,” he said. “We haven’t seen it grow this big in the last
11 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  