-- Chi-X Australia Seeks New CEO as Fowler Will Step Down in 2013
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-22T21:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/chi-x-australia-seeks-new-ceo-as-fowler-will-step-down-in-2013.html
Chi-X  Australia  Pty., Australia’s
sole stock-exchange competitor to ASX Ltd., said its Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Fowler  will step down in early 2013 and
will remain as a director on the board.  ASX, the operator of Australia’s main stock exchange, lost
its monopoly as the country’s only public bourse last year with
the entry of Chi-X Australia. Traditional exchanges worldwide
are losing market share to dark pools and other alternative
venues, such as Chi-X. Chi-X Australia yesterday handled A$423
million of trades and recorded a market share of 12.4 percent,
according to the statement.  “I would like to thank Peter for his myriad contributions
over the past five years, as his leadership, knowledge and
tenacity have proved invaluable as we’ve built the business,”
Tal Cohen, CEO of Chi-X Global Holdings LLC, said in a statement
today. “Chi-X’s arrival has been good for the Australian market
and resulted in better market infrastructure for all trading
participants. The cost of trading has been ‘‘lowered, price
improvement opportunities are now presenting themselves to all
investors and a more robust infrastructure and regulatory regime
is in place.’’  As part of the Australian government’s attempt to increase
its presence as a financial hub by opening up Asia-Pacific’s
fourth-largest equity market, the country is considering whether
or not to allow  ASX (ASX)  to maintain its monopoly over the clearing
and settlement of trades.  ‘‘While appreciating that adapting to significant market
structure changes such as the ones we’ve seen in Australia is
not without its challenges, I believe it is important that the
Australian market continues to innovate, improve and, where
appropriate, reform,” Fowler said in the statement. “For
instance, there are clear benefits to all trading participants
and investors in enabling competition in other areas of the
trade cycle, particularly clearing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  