-- China Five-Year Swap at Seven-Month High on Signs of Recovery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-22T03:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/china-five-year-swap-at-seven-month-high-on-signs-of-recovery.html
China ’s five-year interest-rate swap
rose to a seven-month high after a report indicated
manufacturing may expand in November for the first time in 13
months, adding to signs the economy is rebounding.  The preliminary  reading  was 50.4 for a purchasing managers’
index released today by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics.
That compares with a final level of 49.5 for October. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction. The
People’s Bank of China offered 46 billion yuan ($7.4 billion) of
seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts and 43 billion yuan of
14-day agreements, according to a statement on its website.  “The rise in the swap reflects strengthening confidence
about growth,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at
China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender.
“The economy is rebounding in the fourth quarter.”  The five-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, jumped five basis points to 3.55
percent as of 10:57 a.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since April 25.  The monetary authority sold 50 billion  yuan  of six-month
treasury deposits at commercial banks on behalf of the Ministry
of Finance at a yield of 4.8 percent, according to a trader
required to bid at the sales.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, climbed one basis point to 3.21 percent, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The yield on the 3.39 percent government bonds due
August 2022 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.53 percent, according to data from the Interbank Funding
Center.  --Judy Chen. With assistance from Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore .
Editors: Andrew Janes, Amit Prakash  To contact the reporter on this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  