-- Closing Arms Tunnels Crucial to Ending Israel-Hamas War
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-22T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/closing-arms-tunnels-crucial-to-ending-israel-hamas-war.html
The cease-fire between Israel and
Hamas is unlikely to end their conflict unless smuggling routes
the militant group uses to re-arm itself are closed, a challenge
that so far has stymied Israel and now puts new pressure on
Egypt’s Islamist government.  “We have to find a way of blocking the great smuggling of
sophisticated arms from Iran, including long-range missiles
across the desert into Gaza,” Israeli Ambassador to the U.S.
 Michael Oren  said yesterday on  Fox News . Oren has estimated that
as much as 90 percent of Hamas’s long-range missiles were
destroyed by Israel’s operation.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  pledged yesterday that the U.S.
would “intensify” efforts to help Israel deal with weapons and
explosives smuggling through Egypt into Gaza in a telephone call
with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , according to a
White House statement.  So long as militants can restock their arsenals with goods
from Sudan, Libya and Iran smuggled through Gaza’s tunnels, any
Israeli success against Hamas will be short-term, said analysts
such as Adam Hug, policy director at the Foreign Policy Centre
in London. Hamas, which rules Gaza, is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Durable progress will require cooperation from the
fledgling government of Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, a
former member of the  Muslim Brotherhood . Mursi must weigh public
support for Hamas, sympathy for the people of Gaza and antipathy
toward Israel against his country’s dependence on economic aid
from the U.S., the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Humanitarian Pressures’  “Mursi doesn’t want to be seen doing Israel’s bidding
during a time of direct conflict,” Hug said. “The question is
how they can come to a more sustainable situation that relieves
humanitarian pressures while strengthening the grip on
security.”  The tunnels Hamas uses to smuggle arms are also used to
circumvent an Israeli blockade of Gaza and deliver food, fuel,
medicine and other civilian goods.  There’s no definitive assessment of Hamas’s remaining
missile arsenal after  Israel ’s weeklong Operation Pillar of
Defense. Yiftah Shapir, an analyst with the Institute for
National Security Studies in Tel Aviv, estimated that Hamas may
have 10 percent to 20 percent of its rockets left.  Riccardo Fabiani, an analyst in the London office of the
Eurasia Group, a New York-based political risk consultancy, said
that part of Hamas’s “arsenal hasn’t been reached, and is
unlikely to be wiped out by Israel unless a ground invasion
takes place.”  Hamas Arsenal  In addition to Iranian-made medium-range Fajr 5 rockets,
which can reach Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, smugglers have brought
in Grad rockets with a range of 20 kilometers to 40 kilometers
(12.4 to 25 miles). Gaza militants are also thought to have
Chinese WS-1E rockets, which have a 40-kilometer (25-mile)
range.  Hamas relies on financing and arms supplies from Iran,
Syria and Lebanon, as well as from “unfettered arms markets
such as Eritrea and Yemen, and possibly China,” Israeli
military intelligence officials told U.S. diplomats, according
to a classified November 2009 State Department cable made public
by Wikileaks last year.  The State Department refuses to comment on the cables
released by Wikileaks.  Yesterday, Israel Defense Forces spokeswoman Lt. Col.
 Avital Leibovich  told  CNN  that Iran was trying to supply Hamas
with additional longer-range missiles while the recent fighting
was under way. In a press conference yesterday, Hamas leader
 Khaled Mashaal  said that “Iran played a part in providing
weapons and financial support.”  Smuggling Routes  The weapons are transported from Iran to Egypt via the Red
Sea, Sudan or Libya and from there through the Sinai and into
the estimated 400 to 500 tunnels that dot Egypt’s border with
Gaza.  The tunnels provide jobs for about 70,000 of the 1.4
million Palestinians in the  Gaza Strip  and are managed by a
Hamas “tunnels committee” that taxes the flow of goods,
according to the Israeli newspaper Haaretz.  The tunnel infrastructure is large and redundant, said
Daniel Byman, a professor in the School of Foreign Service at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington , and “best closed from the
Egyptian side.”  Whether it will be is problematic. Under the regime of
former President  Hosni Mubarak , Egypt made sure weapons such as
the Fajr 5 that could shift the balance of power didn’t get into
Gaza, said Michael Hanna, a fellow at the Century Foundation, a
 New York  policy group.  ‘Too Stressed’  Egypt’s new government is “too stressed out on other
issues” to deal effectively with the tunnels, said  Paul Sullivan , a professor at the National Defense University in
Washington. “The fact that the Egyptian military could not stop
the murder of their own in North Sinai in July says a lot.”  Egypt  wants to tackle the problem, said General Mohamed el
Keshky, the military attaché at the Egyptian embassy in
Washington. Since Aug. 16, Egyptian forces have demolished 202
tunnels into Gaza, el Keshky said in a telephone interview.  “It’s difficult because you destroy one tunnel, they build
another, but it affects our national security, so we try to
secure this area from illegal smuggling, rockets and drugs,” el
Keshky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  