-- Daily Mail Jumps on Share Buyback as Net Debt Declines
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-11-22T17:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/daily-mail-full-year-revenue-declines-on-advertising-in-u-k-.html
Daily Mail and General Trust Plc ,
publisher of Britain’s  Daily Mail  newspaper, rose the most in
more than three years after announcing it will buy back shares
in the coming year and debt fell.  The stock rose 11 percent to 524 pence, the biggest advance
since April 2009. The buyback will be as much as about 100
million pounds ($160 million), the London-based company said in
a statement today. Net debt dropped to 613 million pounds in the
year ended Sept. 30 from 719 million pounds 12 months earlier as
Daily Mail disposed of assets.  The company, which yesterday said it agreed to sell its
regional newspaper business, has been focusing on its conference
and exhibition operations to offset a decline in newspapers.  “Net debt at 613 million pounds was strong versus our 671
million-pound estimate,” Gareth Davies, an analyst at Numis
Securities in  London , wrote in a note today. The share buyback
is “a positive and reflecting the strong balance sheet,” he
wrote, adding that Numis remains “very comfortable” with a buy
recommendation on the shares.  The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization was 1.6 times, less than an
internal limit of 2.4 times and “significantly below” bank
covenant requirements, according to today’s statement.  “We continued to refine our portfolio of businesses during
the year with further acquisitions and disposals aimed at
improving our long-term growth potential,” Chief Executive
Officer Martin Morgan said in the statement.  Northcliffe Sale  Full-year sales dropped 1.3 percent to 1.96 billion pounds
on sluggish advertising revenue in the U.K. That compares with
the 1.98 billion-pound average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Operating profit rose 6.8 percent to 300 million
pounds.  “First-quarter consumer trading to date has been a little
slow and we remain cautious about the medium-term outlook, given
continuing external uncertainties, particularly for U.K.
advertising,”  the company  said. “A continued focus on cost
efficiencies should provide margin stability.”  Daily Mail said yesterday it will receive 52.5 million
pounds in cash for its Northcliffe news business and a 38.7
percent stake in a new media group, Local World, which combines
Daily Mail titles with regional newspapers from Iliffe News &
Media.  Local World brings together titles including the Nottingham
Post and Cambridge News and offers content and advertising
through a stand-alone company. Local newspapers have been
suffering for years as readers increasingly move online and
advertising revenue falls.  Local World is headed by David Montgomery, the former chief
of U.K.-based newspaper company Mecom Group Plc. Trinity Mirror,
which publishes the Daily Mirror newspaper, will have a 20
percent stake and Iliffe will get 21 percent. The remaining
stake will be taken by financial investors including Odey Asset
Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 