-- Debt Burden Adds to Won Gains in Crimping Korea Rebound
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-11-23T09:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/debt-burden-adds-to-strengthening-won-in-crimping-korea-rebound.html
South Korean consumers faced with
falling home prices and elevated household debt are cutting
spending, dragging on demand just as export growth is restrained
by gains in the won.  Borrowing and credit purchases rose to a record 937.5
trillion won ($864 billion) in the third quarter, the Bank of
Korea said yesterday. At the same time, an index of household
consumption fell to a record low, according to a Statistics
Korea  report  last week.  Candidates campaigning for a Dec. 19 presidential election
have highlighted household debt as a weakness that remains in
South Korea’s economy even after three credit-rating companies
upgraded the nation this year. The ruling party’s Park Geun Hye,
who leads in polls, proposes an 18 trillion won fund to help
avoid defaults by the indebted poor.  “The candidates are all throwing out policy pledges to
reduce household debt because it is the biggest risk in the
Korean economy,” said Kim Hyeon Wook, an economist at the
Seoul-based SK Research Institute and a former Bank of Korea
adviser. “The data show the debt is keeping people from
spending and that they are saving as a precautionary measure.”  Household debt reached a record 164 percent of disposable
income last year, which compares with 138 percent in the U.S. at
the start of the housing crisis, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Rising Won  The won weakened for a third day amid concern the
government will act to stem currency gains, closing at 1,086.14
per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,080.05 yesterday, the strongest level since Sept. 9,
2011.  The won is the best-performing Asian currency against the
dollar in the second half of this year, threatening to restrain
an economic rebound after exports rose for the first time in
four months in October. The economy expanded 1.6 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  The won will extend its rally on speculation the nation
will elect a new president next month who is more willing to
tolerate a stronger currency, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Plc analysts.  Home prices in South Korea have declined 0.2 percent this
year through Nov. 12 and 4.1 percent in Seoul, according to data
from Kookmin Bank, the country’s biggest mortgage lender. The
index measuring consumption from disposable household income was
at 73.6 in the third quarter, the lowest since records began in
2003. Fixed expenditures, including interest payments on debt,
rose to a record high, according to the same Statistics Korea
survey of 8,700 households.  Interest Burden  “Rising fixed expenditures can partly be attributed to the
increasing burden of interest payments,” said An Ki Tae, an
economist at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “That
is a major constraint on consumption.”  Main opposition party candidate Moon Jae In has pledged to
cap interest rates at 25 percent per year and independent
candidate Ahn Cheol Soo’s 2 trillion won “Fresh Start Fund”
would prohibit rental deposits paid to landlords from exceeding
3 million won.  The nation has ramped up borrowing as residents started
their own businesses and struggled to pay for housing, said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura International
Ltd. The cost of homes in Seoul and surrounding areas increased
66 percent in the decade to February 2008 before they began to
stagnate.  Bae Ji Hoon borrowed 200 million won six years ago to buy a
three-room apartment outside Seoul. The Hyundai Motor Co.
salesman said he and his wife have had to cut back on purchases
as the mortgage payment adds to rising education costs for his
7-year-old son.  Less Shock  “My wife and I are trying to reduce spending as much as we
can,” Bae said. “We’re going to cheaper places and avoiding
department stores and nice restaurants.”  South Koreans continued to expand debt while other advanced
countries deleveraged after 2007 and 2008 because the country
experienced less of a shock from the crisis, said Park Chang
Gyun, a professor at Seoul-based Chung-Ang University business
school. The U.S., U.K.,  Germany  and  Japan  have cut household
debt since 2007, according to an Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  report .  Household lending from local banks and non-bank
institutions rose 3.7 percent from a year earlier to 648.5
trillion won as of the end of September, the smallest increase
since the BOK began keeping data in 2003. The government
announced measures to curb debt last year such as requiring
lenders to boost fixed rate loans and setting limits on credit
card lending.  Increasing Defaults  Still, high household debt will contribute to a weaker
“overall operating environment” for banks over the next four
to six quarters, Moody’s Investors Service’s senior credit
officer Youngil Choi told reporters on Nov. 13. Moody’s said in
a report last month that banks have enough capital to withstand
increasing defaults while characterizing household leverage as a
“systemic concern.”  The nation’s  non-performing household loan ratio  hit a six-
year high of 0.8 percent as of September, the Financial
Supervisory Service said on Nov. 7. Non-performing loans are
those in default for more than three months.  South Korea is unlikely to face a banking crisis even in
the event of a further 20 percent decline in housing prices,
according to the  Korea Institute of Finance . Under such a
scenario losses at financial firms would increase to 16.6
trillion won, according to the report.  Confidence Declines  The main risk posed by household debt is that it may hinder
consumption and growth, said Erik Lueth, an RBS economist based
in Hong Kong. The nation’s  consumer confidence  for October fell
to a nine-month low.  Chun Bong Sil, 40, who runs a textile trading firm in Seoul,
paid 300 million won for an apartment in the capital last year.
Since then, his business has slowed as the  European debt crisis 
and stronger currency crimp exports.  “I felt like I was on top of the world when I finally
owned my own home,” he said. “Now I think I made the most
stupid mistake in my life as I have to spend almost half of my
income to pay debt while my business is slumping.”  Elsewhere in Asia today,  Singapore ’s inflation slowed to 4
percent in October, easing from a 4.7 percent annual pace in
September.  German Confidence  Taiwan’s industrial output rose 4.56 percent in October
from a year earlier, after a revised 2.88 percent gain in
September, the Ministry of Economic Affairs said today. Taiwan
also reported its final estimate of third-quarter gross domestic
product today. Growth was 0.98 percent compared with a year
earlier, after a preliminary estimate of 1.02 percent.  In  Europe , data from Germany’s Ifo institute may show
business confidence fell to the lowest in almost three years in
November, according to the median forecast of 48 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  France  will also report industrial
confidence data today. The sentiment index may have recovered to
87 in November, after dropping to 85 in October, the lowest
reading in more than three years.  In North America,  Canada  will report October inflation data
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  