-- Deutsche Telekom Plans Faster Broadband Rollout in 2013
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/deutsche-telekom-plans-faster-broadband-rollout-in-2013.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s
largest phone company, plans to roll out a technology to
accelerate broadband on its old copper lines starting next year,
providing a cheaper alternative to fiber-optic cables.  The company hopes to get regulatory clearance within six
months, Niek Jan van Damme, who heads the Bonn-based operator’s
German unit, told reporters in Cologne yesterday. The vectoring
technology eliminates electrical signals that corrupt and slow
transmission on copper cables. This doubles download speeds and
quadruples the pace of uploads, according to Deutsche Telekom,
owner of the T-Mobile wireless brand.  “The cost of the project is still being evaluated, and is
dependent upon the conditions and support we get,” van Damme
said. “We need a facts-orientated discussion. At the moment it
is rather emotional.”  European  phone companies  face a challenge in balancing the
need to invest for years to develop fast networks against the
need to woo investors with attractive dividends and share
buybacks. Deutsche Telekom, which has made slow progress rolling
out fiber-optic cables to customers, is betting it can trim
expenses and boost its position versus cable operators such as
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  by speeding up old copper lines.  Market Share  Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  plans to deliver the
faster vectored DSL to 24 million customers in the next four
years. This would mean the company would no longer share access
to its DSL lines with other operators, something that German
regulators introduced to foster competition.  “Telekom is not in any way interested in remonopolising
the network,” van Damme said yesterday. “It will help our
market share,” he added, declining to specify any targets.  The European Commission said in July that it won’t draft
rules to push down the prices that Internet network owners
charge for access to copper lines. That helps Deutsche Telekom
and other former European phone monopolies that own vast,
decades-old networks of copper wires.  Fixed-line revenue at the German division has fallen for
years, eroding gains made in the wireless business. The home
market accounted for 44 percent of Deutsche Telekom’s net
revenue of 43.5 billion euros ($56.1 billion) in the first nine
months of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  