-- Di Matteo Told He Would Lose Job If Torres Axed: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-22T06:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/di-matteo-told-he-would-lose-job-if-torres-axed-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Di Matteo’s Warning  Roberto Di Matteo ignored warnings that he would lose his
job as Chelsea manager if he dropped club-record signing
Fernando Torres, the  Sun reported .  Chelsea officials were aware that Di Matteo, who was fired
yesterday and replaced on an interim basis by Rafael Benitez,
was thinking of axing the 50 million-pound ($79.7 million)
striker for the Champions League game against Juventus two days
ago and advised him not to, the newspaper reported.  Guardiola Offer  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich wants former Barcelona coach
Pep Guardiola to take the job permanently and has offered to
make him soccer’s highest-paid manager with an annual salary of
15 million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  Guardiola is currently on a year-long sabbatical and his
representatives say he won’t make a decision on his future until
the new year, the newspaper said. A deal with Chelsea is said to
have been agreed in principle, the Mail added.  Teenage Talent  Manchester City is seeking to beat Manchester United and
Real Madrid to the signing of Dinamo Zagreb midfielder Alen
Halilovic and is prepared to spend about 6 million pounds on the
16-year-old, the  Mail reported .  A three-man delegation from the English champion traveled
to  Croatia  this week to negotiate with Zagreb over the transfer
of Halilovic, who has recently been allowed to train with Real,
the newspaper reported.  Fellaini’s Future  Belgium midfielder Marouane Fellaini, who is being watched
by Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester United, says he’ll stay at
Everton provided the team qualifies for the Champions League,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  “I want to play in the Champions League, and if Everton
finish in the top four then I’m happy to stay here, I’d love to
do that with Everton,” the Mirror cited Fellaini as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  