-- Edgebell Becomes First to Expand Hedge Fund Under New Japan Rule
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-22T07:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/edgebell-becomes-first-to-expand-hedge-fund-under-new-japan-rule.html
Edgebell Capital Co. , run by former
bankers at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., will start raising money for its global macro hedge fund
from institutional and overseas investors after approval from
 Japan ’s regulator under a new fund rule.  The fund, set up in April 2011 to wager on trends in
stocks, bonds and currencies, has only been available to
domestic individuals, said Chief Operating Officer Kazuho Suzuki, who set up Edgebell with Masaru Koibuchi. The company
obtained approval from the financial regulator on Nov. 20 to act
as a discretionary investment manager. It plans to set up a new
Cayman Island-based fund as early as February, he said.  Japan relaxed rules governing fund management companies in
April, including staffing and minimal  capital requirements  for
those seeking to only sell to certain investors. Edgebell is the
first hedge fund to get a license under the new rule and may
pave the way for other managers, who had favored  Singapore  and
 Hong Kong  because of easier registration processes, to set up in
Japan.  “With Edgebell’s approval marking the first hedge fund
under the new licensing system, there are some expectations that
those with limited capacity will follow suit,” said Skip
Hashimoto, the Tokyo-based Japan representative at Ogier
Fiduciary Services, which provides administrative services to
hedge funds.  ‘Stronger Presence’  The Edgebell Capital Global Macro Strategy returned about 2
percent from April 2011 through March this year when the Tokyo-
based company decided to return money to investors to apply for
the new license, Suzuki said. Edgebell is seeking to raise about
5 billion yen ($61 million) in the first year, from about 1
billion yen to 2 billion yen at the start, by making the
strategy available to outside investors through the offshore
fund, he said.  Startup funds in Japan typically register as investment
advisory firms that give investment advice to a fund first,
while investment managers overseas manage the funds. They then
apply for a discretionary investment management license to run
their own funds after expanding their businesses.  “We expect investment advisor license holders in Japan to
consider ’upgrading’ to this license in order to further
solidify their presence within the Japanese market,” said
Ogier’s Hashimoto.  Under the new so-called DIM-Pro rule implemented April 1,
companies are required to only have 10 million yen in capital
compared with the previous 50 million yen, according to Suzuki.
The required number of employees has been more than halved to
about three; investors in the funds have to have held more than
300 million yen in financial capital for more than a year and
the funds cannot manage more than 20 billion yen, he said.  “The hurdle to entry has been lowered and we really hope
that this will start creating a trend where  hedge funds  will set
up shops in Japan,” Suzuki said. “I’m hoping for a revival and
regain in confidence for the current Japanese fund industry.”  Koibuchi was the former head of corporate derivatives
structuring at Goldman Sachs in Japan, and Suzuki used to head
equity index investments at Mizuho Corporate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  