-- Egyptian President Mursi Expands Powers Ahead of Cairo Rally
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-11-23T00:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/egyptian-president-mursi-expands-powers-amid-renewed-protests.html
Egypt’s president decreed his
decisions are above review and ordered the retrial of former
regime officials ahead of a planned mass protest against the
Islamist-led government today in Cairo.  Mohamed Mursi’s decisions, which included firing the
prosecutor-general and protecting a disputed constitutional
committee from legal challenges, come after four days of violent
demonstrations in the capital. The protesters include youth
groups who say Mursi and his government haven’t fulfilled the
aims of the protesters who ousted  Hosni Mubarak , or brought to
justice those responsible for killing protesters.  Mursi “wants the social unrest on the street to end and to
rob the protesters of the card that there have been no
punishments meted out,” Ashraf el-Sherif, adjunct lecturer in
political science at the American University in Cairo, said by
phone. “We may see a temporary relative quiet but when it
becomes clear that the trials will not result in much, things
will go back to where they were and we’ll see instability.”  The decrees, announced by presidential spokesman Yasser Ali
in a televised address yesterday, came a day after Mursi was
hailed by President  Barack Obama  and other leaders for his role
in realizing a truce between Hamas and  Israel . As well as
dealing with the Gaza conflict and a renewed push to raise
Egypt’s profile in the region, he is contending with unrest at
home and an economy battered by months of strikes and protests.  Mass Protests  Mursi also pushed from office Prosecutor-General Abdel-
Meguid Mahmoud, who had served under Mubarak. Acquittals of
Mubarak-era figures triggered mass protests and an unsuccessful
bid by Mursi to fire the prosecutor last month. Talaat Ibrahim
was appointed public prosecutor for four years, Ali said
yesterday.  The new president, drawn from the ranks of the Muslim
Brotherhood, also decreed that no judicial body can disband the
assembly writing the constitution, and extended the mandate of
the 100-member panel by another two months. Ayman Nour, an
opposition politician, told Al Jazeera television he was leaving
the committee after the announcement.  The committee has faced legal challenges and been
criticized by secular groups who contend it is dominated by
Islamists forcing through articles that curtail freedoms and
don’t represent the country’s religious minorities.  “Mursi today usurped all state powers and appointed
himself  Egypt ’s new pharaoh,” Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei,
who played a key role in last year’s uprising, said on his
Twitter account. “A major blow to the revolution that could
have dire consequences.”  Protest Call  Opposition figures including ElBaradie, former Arab League
Secretary-General Amr Moussa and Hamdeen Sabahi issued a
statement late yesterday calling for protests against the
decrees, calling for them to be overturned and warning that
Mursi’s legitimacy was on the line.  The moves mark the latest push by the Islamist president to
wrest power away from a judiciary that the Brotherhood has
argued is biased against him. The group said it supported his
latest decisions and considers anyone who objects to them as
“selling the blood of the martyrs,” the state-run Middle East
 News Agency  said, citing Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan.  Analysts and activists such as Gamal Eid, a human rights
lawyer, predicted the decrees could further stoke unrest in the
country as it struggles to right a stumbling economy and push
ahead with a fitful political transition.  “Mursi has committed a fatal mistake by decreeing his
decisions cannot be appealed,” Eid said by phone from Cairo.
“The move will trigger more anti-government protests and will
increase public frustration. The people don’t need another
dictator.”  ‘Frightening’ Move  The judiciary also criticized the move. “It’s
frightening,” Judge Yussuf Auf said by phone. “This decree is
a disaster on many levels because it undermines judicial
principles that have been in place for decades. This will lead
to an intense clash between the judiciary and the presidency
unlike any we’ve seen in the past.”  Mursi’s decree is “tragic” and “pained the nation,”  Al
Arabiya  cited Egypt Judges Club Chairman Counselor Ahmad al-Zind
as saying yesterday.  “This is an assault on the independence of the
judiciary,” the chairman was cited as saying. “The Egyptian
people should decide their future.”  Looted Rights  Ibrahim said he will work to achieve the revolution’s goals
following his appointment as public prosecutor by Mursi, Egypt’s
state-run Ahram Gate website reported.  “I will do all I can to raise the banner of justice,”
Ibrahim was cited as saying. “I want to assure the people that
we will give them back their looted rights.”  In a nod to the demands of youth groups, Mursi ordered
“reinvestigations and retrials in the crimes of killing,
attempting to kill, and injuring protesters,” as well as crimes
of “terrorism” against demonstrators by officials of the
former regime. Mubarak was sentenced to life in prison in June
for failing to stop the killing.  Mursi also stipulated that any decrees issued by him since
taking office and preceding the adoption of a new constitution
and the election of a new parliament are not open to appeal and
can’t be reversed. New elections are slated to be held after the
constitution is finished and approved in a referendum.  The decisions don’t mean the return of the former Islamist-
dominated parliament, which Mursi tried to reinstate after it
was disbanded by the country’s then-ruling generals after a
court ruling, Ali said late yesterday in an interview with  Al
Jazeera .  e  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  