-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Volatility Hits 2004 Low on China
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-11-22T22:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/emerging-stocks-rise-fourth-day-on-china-data-gaza-cease-fire.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a fourth day, with price swings in the benchmark index falling
to an eight-year low, as a gauge of Chinese manufacturing
climbed and Israel agreed to a cease-fire with Hamas.  MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA  led homebuilders higher
in Sao Paulo after an inflation report spurred speculation
Brazil will be able to keep borrowing costs at a record low.
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, pushed a gauge of technology
companies to a two-week high. OAO RusHydro had the biggest gain
in more than two months as Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
approved a cash injection for the country’s largest renewable
energy producer. Israel’s shekel climbed versus the dollar.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.5 percent to 985.72
in New York, its highest close since Nov. 12. The index’s 50-day
volatility fell to 9.11, the lowest since Sept. 2004. A Chinese
manufacturing index signaled the first expansion in 13 months, a
survey of  purchasing managers  showed. Israel and the Palestinian
militant group Hamas agreed to a cease-fire yesterday after
talks brokered by  Egypt ’s Islamist leaders and the U.S.  The  China  report “was better than expected and indicates
the economy has possibly begun expanding again,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion of assets as a London-
based director of global  emerging markets  for Henderson Global
Investors Ltd., said by e-mail. “For most investors China
remains the main show.”  The preliminary reading was 50.4 for the Chinese purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That compares with a final level of 49.5 for October.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  ‘Excessive’ Fluctuations  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  gained 0.9 percent to a two-week high.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.7 percent, following the
benchmark index’s biggest gain in three weeks, as waning
speculation of lower bank reserve requirements overshadowed the
increase in the manufacturing gauge.  Russia’s Micex lost 0.2 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa
advanced 0.3 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose 0.8 percent
to its highest close since Nov. 12.  Brazil’s real was the worst performer among emerging market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg, dropping to a three-year low.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the currency was on a
“normal trajectory,” encouraging speculation that the central
bank will let it stay weak.  Israel’s shekel strengthened as much as 1 percent to 3.8581
versus the dollar before ending with a 0.5 percent gain at
3.8767.  Low Volumes  The  MSCI Emerging Markets/Information Technology Index (MXEF0IT) 
gained 1.1 percent, the most among 10  industry groups . The
broader emerging-markets gauge has risen 7.6 percent this year,
compared with a 9.1 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The
developing-nations measure trades at 11.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.3, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volumes for the Shanghai Composite were 28 percent
below the 30-day average and 12 percent lower for Taiwan’s Taiex
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Volume was down 30
percent on Russia’s Micex Index and 54 percent on Mexico’s IPC
Index versus the 30-day average, the data show. U.S. markets are
closed today for Thanksgiving.  A report from the Brazilian national statistics agency
showed inflation slowed in November, boosting homebuilders. MRV
surged 2.8 percent and  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes (CYRE3)   added  1.9 percent.  RusHydro Gains  RusHydro gained 3.8 percent, the most since Sept. 14. Putin
signed a decree approving a government proposal to provide
RusHydro with as much as 50 billion rubles ($1.6 billion) from
the budget this year and allowing the company to issue
additional shares to increase its capital, according to an e-
mailed copy of the document.  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. surged 6.8 percent in
Johannesburg, leading gains among emerging-market stocks, on
speculation that a drop to the lowest level since 2003 was
overdone. The stock had fallen for 12 consecutive days through
Nov. 20, when the company announced Matthias Wellhausen would
replace Rudolph Torlage as chief financial officer.  TVN SA (TVN)  gained 1.3 percent to a three-month high, after
Raiffeisen Centrobank AG raised Poland’s second-largest
television network to buy from hold.  Samsung Electronics jumped 2.4 percent to a record. Apple
Inc. was ordered by a federal judge in its patent lawsuit
against Samsung to disclose licensing terms of a settlement with
HTC Corp. Samsung had argued the terms of the licensing
agreement are “highly relevant” to Apple’s request for an
order blocking U.S. sales of Samsung smartphones.  Cigarettes, Noodles  National Societe Generale Bank, Societe Generale SA’s
Egyptian unit, fell 5.1 percent to the lowest since Sept. 24.
Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority extended Qatar National
Bank’s due diligence process until Feb. 20 to make an offer for
a stake in SocGen’s unit.  Bank of the Philippine Islands  advanced 1.8 percent in
Manila to a record high. The bank said it’s in talks with the
Lucio Tan Group for a merger with  Philippine National Bank  that
could create the nation’s biggest lender by assets.  Cigarette company  PT Gudang Garam (GGRM)  jumped 6.6 percent and
noodle maker  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur (INDF)  added 3.6 percent,
leading gains in Indonesian consumer stocks, on speculation a
potential increase in minimum wages will boost sales.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. slumped 4.7 percent to the lowest level
since July 2010, leading Chinese liquor makers lower, after
Xinhua News Agency cited the nation’s quality watchdog as saying
samples made by JiuGuiJiu Co. contain excessive levels of
plasticizer.  JCY International Bhd. (JCYH) , a Malaysian supplier of hard disk-
drive components, tumbled 17 percent in  Kuala Lumpur , the
steepest loss on record, after its fourth-quarter profit slid 59
percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  