-- Mersch Named to ECB After Longest Euro Appointment Battle
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-23T00:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/mersch-named-to-ecb-post-after-longest-euro-appointment-battle.html
Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch was named
to the  European Central Bank ’s board after the longest battle
over an appointment in the euro’s 13-year history, bolstering
the ECB’s anti-inflation wing.  Mersch, 63, overcame Spain’s attempt to retain the seat and
a plea by European parliamentarians to give the post to a woman.
He will join the ECB’s six-member Frankfurt-based Executive
Board on Dec. 15, according to a European Union  statement  issued
at a summit in Brussels early today.  Mersch’s selection tilts the ECB board further toward
monetary rigor after financially ailing Spain unsuccessfully
sought to hold on to the post. As Luxembourg’s representative on
the ECB’s wider interest-rate-setting Governing Council, Mersch
is the euro area’s longest serving central-bank chief and enjoys
a reputation as an inflation hawk.  “I am looking forward to bringing in my experience to the
work of a highly professional team, being fully aware of the
responsibility and challenges going along with the position
especially during a severe financial crisis,” Mersch told
 Bloomberg News .  While following the German approach to  interest rates ,
Mersch broke with the Bundesbank by supporting ECB President
 Mario Draghi ’s planned bond-purchase program to combat the debt
crisis.  ‘Great Admiration’  “I have great admiration for the arguments of the
Bundesbank but I also value the loyalty to the institution very
highly,” Mersch said last month. Bundesbank opposition to the
bond plan has “led to uncertainty and confusion in large parts
of the German population,” he said.  With the fiscal crisis raging, the fight over who would
succeed Spain’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, whose term ended
May 31, marked the first time since the euro’s debut in 1999
that government leaders failed to immediately fill an ECB
vacancy.  Spain tried to keep the job by nominating Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of legal services at the ECB, counting on European
leaders to uphold an informal understanding that the four
largest euro countries -- Germany,  France , Italy and  Spain  --
would always have ECB board seats.  Germany led the way in tearing up that gentleman’s
agreement, chafing at the perception that southern European
countries were gaining the upper hand after the appointment of
Italy’s Draghi as president last year. The bank’s vice
president,  Vitor Constancio , is from  Portugal , a country drawing
on rescue aid.  Leverage Undermined  Spain’s leverage was undermined by its resorting to as much
as 100 billion euros ($129 billion) in aid from richer northern
countries for its banks, a relief program that was approved in
July. Spain is also considering seeking even more aid to repair
its government balance sheet.  Politics in France prolonged the ECB vacancy. Running for
re-election in May, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  had pledged to
back the Spanish candidate. His defeat by  Francois Hollande 
cleared the way for finance ministers to pick Mersch in July.  Mersch then ran into opposition from the  European
Parliament , which plays an advisory role in central bank
appointments. While praising his qualifications, the parliament
issued its first-ever negative opinion on an ECB candidate in a
protest against the shortage of women in top European jobs.  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , have sat on the ECB board. Assuming
current members serve full terms, the next chance to appoint a
woman won’t be until Constancio steps down in  June 2018 .  Parliament Vote  Resistance to Mersch in the parliament, which represents
all 27 EU countries, was less than overwhelming. A vote last
month against the circumstances of his appointment passed by
only 325 to 300 with 49 abstentions.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , who supervises top-level
appointments, moved quickly to override the parliament. He sent
letters to the 17 euro government leaders, setting Nov. 5 as a
deadline for them to respond by mail, fax or e-mail with an
assent to the Luxembourger.  Spain wouldn’t let the matter rest. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  blocked the appointment by the exchange of letters, a
standard procedure used for uncontroversial decisions. Rajoy’s
maneuver forced the issue on to the agenda of the summit, a
setting where Spain didn’t have a veto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  