-- EU Carbon May Rise in 2013 on Utility Buying, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-11-22T15:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/eu-carbon-may-rise-in-2013-on-utility-buying-deutsche-bank-says.html
Prices for carbon permits in the
European Union’s emissions-trading system may rise next year
after the market’s regulator proposed a temporary cut in supply,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The EU Commission, the regulator, proposed on Nov. 12 to
postpone the sale of 900 million permits from 2013 through 2015
until 2019 and 2020, a process known as backloading. The
commission is considering ways to reduce an oversupply of
permits after the economic crisis cut industrial output and
demand for carbon allowances. Prices for December fell to a
record of 5.99 euros ($7.71) a metric ton in April.  “We don’t need the whole surplus to be taken out to see
price tension,” Mark C. Lewis, a utilities analyst at the bank
in Paris, told delegates today at a conference in Amsterdam.
“Nine hundred million is a decent number but we think there
needs to be a more permanent solution.”  Permit prices may rise next year as power generators begin
to buy allowances to cover the emissions from generation two
years in the future, he said.  “I think in the short term prices will remain weak and in
the second quarter you could see them start to recover as
utilities enter their seasonal hedging period,” he said. “If
there is no economic deterioration then prices could rise to 15
euros a ton as utilities hedge in the secondary market.”  Lewis said he was “more optimistic than we have been for a
long time” after the EU presented its backloading proposal.  The bloc’s carbon market will have a surplus of 1.5 billion
metric tons of permits by 2020, Lewis said.  “Any deterioration in the economy will increase the
surplus further,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  