-- EU Power Markets Don’t Need Capacity Mechanism, Vattenfall Says
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-11-22T14:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/eu-power-markets-don-t-need-capacity-mechanism-vattenfall-says.html
European power markets would be
better off without governments paying power plant operators to
guarantee backup supply, Vattenfall Energy Trading GmbH said.  So-called capacity mechanisms, which reward utilities for
running backup plants when renewable power is insufficient, are
being developed in  Germany ,  France , the U.K. and  Belgium .  “A system without capacity mechanism already works well,”
Stephen Asplin, head of business unit trading, said yesterday in
an interview at a conference in Amsterdam. “We should not be
afraid of having high prices for some hours.”  Europe ’s growing dependence on intermittent generation from
sources including the sun and wind has sparked fears about
security of power supply during times of unfavorable weather and
high demand. The European Commission said in a strategy paper
this month on the internal energy market that a hasty move
toward capacity markets risks being counterproductive and an EU-
wide approach should be taken.  “We haven’t seen any mechanism that doesn’t limit cross-
border trade and that’s not something we want to compromise,”
Mark van Stiphout, a member of European Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger ’s Cabinet, said yesterday at the conference.
“We need to look at peak demand and peak supply from renewables
across borders.”  Individual countries analyzing their own energy mix is not
the right approach, he said.  Politicians have lost faith in the market’s ability to
deliver the right signal at the right time, Klaus Schaefer,
chief executive officer of EON Energy Trading SE, said at the
conference yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  