-- Yen Gains Versus Peers on Bets Recent Losses Overdone
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-11-23T06:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/euro-near-3-week-high-on-prospects-of-greek-aid-agreement.html
The yen climbed versus most of its
16 major peers as technical indicators signaled its recent drop
may have been too rapid and as a contraction in euro-area
manufacturing and services damped global growth prospects.  Japan ’s currency pared a weekly decline that comes as
opposition leader Shinzo Abe, who is favored to become the
country’s next prime minister after elections on Dec. 16,
increased pressure on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to add to stimulus
measures that tend to weaken the yen. The euro approached its
highest level in three weeks on prospects finance ministers will
agree on an aid package for  Greece  next week, even after a
report showed Europe’s common currency area slipped back into
recession.  “Some investors may think the recent rally in dollar-yen
has been a bit over-extended and it’s time for a bit of a
correction,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “We’ve recently got confirmation of
a technical recession in the  euro zone , so going ahead things
are still pretty uncertain.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 82.31 per dollar as of 6:52
a.m. in  London  after touching 82.84 yesterday, the weakest since
April 4. It added 0.2 percent to 106.07 per euro.  Europe ’s
shared currency was at $1.2889 from $1.2884 yesterday, when it
climbed to $1.2899, the highest since Nov. 2.  Japanese markets are shut today for a holiday. U.S. markets
are set to reopen after Thanksgiving yesterday.  The yen is set for a 1.2 percent drop versus its U.S.
counterpart this week. The euro has advanced 1.2 percent against
the greenback since Nov. 16.  Relative Strength  The yen was supported as technical indicators signaled its
recent decline may have been too rapid. The currency’s 14-day
relative strength index against the dollar was at 26, its fifth-
straight day below the 30 level that some traders see as a sign
an asset is about to change direction. Against the euro, it was
at 30.  Japan’s Abe, who heads the opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party , said intervention to weaken the yen is not effective,
especially if the country acts alone in the  currency market , the
Wall Street Journal reported today, citing an interview
yesterday. The BOJ should work to increase the nation’s monetary
base and set a clear inflation target, the newspaper quoted Abe
as saying.  Abe’s party pledged this week to achieve nominal economic
growth of 3 percent and set an inflation target with the central
bank of 2 percent should it win the Dec. 16 elections in the
lower house of parliament.  Worst Performance  The yen has declined 8.8 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro had the second-
biggest drop, falling 2.4 percent. The dollar lost 1.7 percent.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in manufacturing and services in the euro zone was at 45.8 in
November compared with 45.7 in October, London-based Markit
Economics said yesterday. A report last week showed the region’s
 gross domestic product  slipped for a second-straight period in
the third quarter, the first back-to-back drop since 2009.  The euro is set for the biggest weekly advance since the
period ended Oct. 5 before finance ministers from the 17-nation
currency bloc hold an emergency meeting on Nov. 26 to discuss
unlocking bailout funds for Greece. They failed to reach an
agreement after 11-hour talks broke up on Nov. 21.  “The market expects officials to agree on a Greek
package,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist in Sydney
at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “I wouldn’t be
surprised if the euro presses on a little further ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  