-- Brady, Patriots Cruise Past Jets 49-19 as Texans, Redskins Win
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-23T05:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/texans-beat-lions-34-31-in-overtime-first-nfl-team-to-10-wins.html
Tom Brady threw for three touchdowns
and rushed for another as the New England Patriots defeated the
New York Jets 49-19 on the Thanksgiving holiday, while the
Houston Texans beat the  Detroit  Lions in overtime for their
National Football League-best 10th win.  The Patriots forced four first-half turnovers and scored 35
second-quarter points, six shy of the NFL record, in East
Rutherford, New Jersey, last night. The NFL’s highest-scoring
offense, the Patriots rushed for 152 yards in their fifth
straight win, their 17th in the past 23 meetings with New York.  The Jets got their points on a 32-yard field goal from Nick Folk, a safety, and touchdowns from Bilal Powell and Dustin Keller. The Jets’ worst loss since a 34-0 defeat to the San
Francisco 49ers on Sept. 30 dropped them to 4-7 this season.  “We’re about as wounded as you can possibly be, but we’re
not dead,” Jets coach Rex Ryan said after the game. “I’ll tell
you this, we’ll give everything we have, every ounce of energy
we have, to get this thing going.”  In the other Thanksgiving game, the  Washington  Redskins
withstood a second-half rally by the Dallas Cowboys for a 38-31
victory, behind four passing touchdowns from rookie quarterback
Robert Griffin III.  At MetLife Stadium, Brady completed 18 of his 28 passes for
323 yards, and has passed for 15 touchdowns and no interceptions
in his past five games. The team has averaged 37 points per game
this season, the most in the NFL, and sits four wins clear of
the other three teams in the American Football Conference East
division at 8-3.  52-Second Spree  The Patriots opened the scoring with a pair of Brady
touchdown passes, the second starting a run of three scores in
52 seconds. New England returned a Mark Sanchez fumble for a
touchdown three plays later, and then returned a Joe McKnight
fumble on the ensuing kickoff to make it 28-0 with 8 minutes, 51
seconds remaining in the half.  Brady added another passing touchdown to make it 35-0, and
scored a rushing and passing touchdown in the fourth quarter.  “It was a good team victory,” Brady said in a televised
interview after the game. “Makes for a good Thanksgiving.”  Fans chanted “Tebow! Tebow!” after the Patriots took a
21-0 lead, vocalizing desire to see New York backup quarterback
Tim Tebow, who was acquired during the offseason and has passed
for 39 yards and rushed for 87 this season. The chants were
interspersed with jeers for much of the final three quarters.  Sanchez passed for 301 yards with a touchdown and an
interception. Ryan said after the game that he expected Sanchez
to start Dec. 2 against the  Arizona  Cardinals and that he
expects to be with the team next season.  Ryan’s Promise  “You have five games left, let’s see how good we can play,
and how good we can coach,” Ryan said. “I can promise you
we’re going to keep playing, and I can promise you we’re going
to keep coaching.”  In Detroit, Houston’s Shayne Graham kicked a 32-yard field
goal with 2:21 left in overtime to give the Texans, who also
benefited from a rules technicality, the win at Ford Field.
Graham missed a field goal attempt earlier in overtime, while
Detroit’s Jason Hanson hit the right upright from 47 yards in
the extra period.  The Texans rallied from a 10-point second-half deficit,
aided by an 81-yard touchdown run in which Justin Forsett’s
forearm and knee appeared to touch down at his own 25-yard line.
Lions coach Jim Schwartz threw his challenge flag despite being
unable to challenge the play, and under NFL rules, a call is not
reviewable after an illegal challenge has been made.  Flag Fault  The play would have been reviewed had Schwartz not thrown
his flag as all scoring plays are automatically reviewed by
replay. The Lions were penalized 15 yards for the coach’s
mistake as fans booed for the final 6:35 of the quarter.  “I know that rule, you can’t challenge a turnover or a
scoring play, and I overreacted,” Schwartz said after the game.
“I had the flag out of my pocket before he even scored the
touchdown and that’s all my fault.”  Arian Foster  rushed for 102 yards and two touchdowns for
Houston, which never led until Graham’s field goal. It was the
Texans’ second straight overtime win after they beat
Jacksonville 43-37 four days ago and makes them the first team
in the NFL to reach 10 wins.  Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford threw for 441 yards and
two touchdowns, while Calvin Johnson had eight catches for 140
yards and one score. It was the ninth consecutive Thanksgiving
loss for Detroit (4-7), who are now 33-38-2 in a tradition of
games on the holiday that dates back to 1934.  In Arlington,  Texas , the Redskins scored four second-
quarter touchdowns to build a 28-3 lead.  Dallas  quarterback Tony Romo responded with three second half touchdown throws,
including an 11-yard pass to Dez Bryant on fourth down with 8:18
remaining to make it 35-28. Washington’s Kai Forbath kicked a
48-yard field goal to put the game out of reach.  Griffin completed 20 of 28 passes for 311 yards and four
scores as the Redskins improved to 5-6, pulling even with Dallas
in the National Football Conference East division standings.
Romo had a career-high 441 yards passing, and Bryant grabbed
eight catches for 145 yards and two scores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  