-- Mexico Peso Swings Rise as Global Concern Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-11-21T15:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/mexico-peso-swings-rise-as-global-concern-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexican peso volatility rose to a
one-month high as U.S. budget wrangling and European sovereign-
debt concern damped the global outlook for the Latin American
country’s exports.  One-month historical volatility, which measures the
magnitude of the peso’s fluctuations over the period, advanced
for a seventh day, the longest stretch since May. It increased
to 8.79 percent at 9:26 a.m. in Mexico City, the highest level
on a closing basis since Oct. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 13.0361 per
 U.S. dollar .  Swings in the peso rose as European leaders struggled to
resolve the region’s debt crisis and U.S. politicians negotiated
to avoid automatic government spending cuts and tax increases,
 Rafael Camarena , an economist at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “The peso has been
affected by all of the global volatility,” he said.  Democratic President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans are working to reach an agreement by year-end to
avoid a $607 billion “fiscal cliff” in the U.S., which buys
about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  European leaders are heading into their second
confrontation this week, saying they’re likely to fail to agree
on a seven-year budget plan just as they were unable to strike a
deal on Greek debt.  Mounting concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will
slow global economic growth and reduce the market for  Mexico ’s
exports sank the peso last year, making it Latin America’s
worst-performing major currency.  Mexican retail sales rose 3.8 percent in September from a
year earlier, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast in a survey by Bloomberg was 4 percent.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in December 2024 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.51 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.18
centavo to 139.53 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  