-- French Rapeseed-Area Losses in Burgundy and Lorraine Seen at 50%
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-22T17:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/french-rapeseed-area-losses-in-burgundy-and-lorraine-seen-at-50-.html
French winter-rapeseed area losses
may reach 50 percent in northern Burgundy and the Lorraine
region, which typically account for almost a fifth of  France ’s
plantings, industry researcher Cetiom said.  “Very dry” August and September conditions meant farmers
in the regions planted 15 percent less rapeseed than intended,
while poor and late crop emergence prompted them to plow under 5
percent of the area and reseed with winter grains, Cetiom wrote
in an online  report  today. More fields will probably be plowed
under after the winter, the Paris-based researcher said.  France is the European Union’s largest rapeseed grower.
French farmers  harvested  1.61 million hectares (3 million acres)
of the oilseed this year, almost exclusively planted as a winter
crop, according to Agriculture Ministry data.  “We’ll have to wait for the end of winter to have a
clearer view of the situation and of the surfaces that could
really be lost,” Cetiom wrote.  In Lorraine and north of Burgundy, losses may be as much as
50 percent of the planted area, according to the report. Based
on the area harvested in 2012 and the share of northern Burgundy
and Lorraine plantings, that would amount to about 150,000
hectares.  In the two regions, 10 percent to 25 percent of the
rapeseed area is expected to be plowed under in the spring,
while the situation is uncertain for another 20 percent to 40
percent of the planted crop, according to Cetiom.  Farmers in Lorraine and Burgundy seeded a “large” area
with spring barley after a cold wave in February killed part of
the wheat crop, resulting in very dry soils that caused “major
difficulties” in preparing fields for planting with the
following rapeseed crop, Cetiom wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  