-- Gaza Cease-Fire Allows Victory Claims That Face Peacetime Test
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-11-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/gaza-cease-fire-allows-victory-claims-that-face-peacetime-test.html
Leaders of  Israel  and Hamas, who
proclaimed themselves winners when a cease-fire ended the latest
round of violence in the  Gaza Strip , may falter when they have
to flesh it out with concrete steps.  The accord, which called a halt to eight days of bloodshed
that left 163 Palestinians and six Israelis dead, commits both
sides to “stop all hostilities,” the key requirement for
Israelis seeking an end to rocket fire. It says that after 24
hours of calm, discussions will start on freeing the movement of
people and goods to and from Gaza, meeting a central Hamas
demand by easing a five-year blockade.  That’s when threats to the understandings may emerge.
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  may be reluctant to
reconsider border arrangements he considers vital for security.
Hamas, considered a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union, needs to display gains from the diplomacy and
can’t always rein in other militant groups, some of which are
already vowing to fight on.  “On both sides, the propaganda machine is portraying this
agreement as a victory,” said Riccardo Fabiani, a regional
analyst at the Eurasia Group, which studies political risk, in
London. “It’s clear that without a long-term understanding on
the rules of the game, the truce won’t last forever. The gap is
between what Hamas and Israel want from and are ready to concede
to one another.”  Market Reaction  The announcement of a cease-fire late on Nov. 21 spurred a
 rally in U.S. stocks  and oil retreated from a one-month high
earlier in the week on expectations of a truce. Israel’s shekel
rose as much as 1 percent yesterday to 3.8581 a dollar, the
highest in almost a month.  The  TA-25 (TA-25)  benchmark  stock index  increased 2.5 percent on
the week, the biggest gain since the week ended Oct. 4. In
 Egypt , the benchmark  index  is down about 4 percent since the
conflict began, though it’s still among the world’s best
performers this year with a 50 percent gain.  In Gaza on Nov. 21, Asmail al-Ashqar, a senior Hamas
leader, declared “victory on all levels -- military, political,
economic and security.” Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said the military achieved its goals. The army said in an e-mail
sent 33 minutes after the cease-fire went into effect that it
hit more than 1,500 military sites, including underground rocket
launchers and weapon manufacturing and storage facilities.  Israel imposed a blockade on Gaza after Hamas seized full
control of the seaside territory in 2007, ending a partnership
government with  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s
Fatah party a year after winning parliamentary elections.  Border Curbs  As the talks stipulated in the accord get underway, Israel
will seek guarantees such as an Egyptian or Palestinian
Authority presence at the crossings before agreeing to ease
restrictions, an Israeli government official said, speaking
anonymously as he wasn’t authorized to talk about the situation.
Hamas may not accept the dilution of its authority over Gaza
that such an arrangement would involve.  “I don’t think there will be an easing of the blockade,”
said Ashraf el-Sharif, a lecturer in political science at the
American University in Cairo. “We will just go back to the
status quo that was before the latest operation: a declared
truce and quiet in preparation for the next round.”  Both sides have signaled their readiness to resume
fighting.  “Israel is ready to act should the cease-fire be
violated,” Netanyahu said yesterday. “We will be committed to
the cease-fire as long as the Zionist enemy is,” Hamas’s al-
Ashqar said by phone. “The battle with the enemy hasn’t
ended,” declared a masked gunman from the  Islamic Jihad ’s
military wing at a press conference in Gaza City.  Lebanon Precedent?  Lebanon to Israel’s north may set an encouraging precedent
for Gaza, said Gabi Ben Dor, director of national  security
studies  at Haifa University. The understanding Israel reached
with Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based Islamic militant group, called
for a full cessation of hostilities and curbs on arms sales. It
has kept the border largely peaceful since the monthlong war
between the countries in 2006. That accord succeeded because it
allowed both sides to claim victory, Ben Dor said.  “I think the cease-fire is going to hold,” he said.
“Both sides will be happy enough for some time,” with Hamas
leaders enhancing their legitimacy both locally and globally,
while the damage inflicted by Israel will act as a deterrent and
give it time to develop new anti-missile technology.  Maintaining peace with Hamas may be tougher, because it’s
fighting for statehood and survival in a way the Lebanese group
isn’t, Eurasia’s Fabiani said.  “Israel is only one of Hezbollah’s problems, whereas for
Hamas, Israel is the problem,” he said.  No Turkey  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, who came to power after
the popular revolt last year that ousted Israel and U.S. ally
 Hosni Mubarak , emerged from the conflict with enhanced global
stature for his role in brokering the halt to hostilities.  Turkish Premier  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who has sought a
mediating role in Middle Eastern conflicts and was involved in
earlier diplomacy over Gaza, didn’t play a role in the final
negotiations and irked the U.S. with repeated verbal attacks on
Israel.  Praise rained down on Mursi from all sides.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who stood
alongside Mursi’s foreign minister as he announced the cease-
fire in Cairo, commended Egypt’s new government for showing
leadership. Hamas leader  Khaled Mashaal  hailed Mursi for showing
solidarity by sending Prime Minister Hisham Qandil to visit Gaza
while it was under fire.  New Architecture?  “We’ve been able to engage Egypt in the solution,”
Israeli deputy premier Dan Meridor told reporters in Jerusalem
yesterday. “We might have created a new architecture for Egypt
and Israel.”  For Mursi, too, cementing the cease-fire will prove a
challenge, and he probably will come up against the limits of
his newfound authority, said Emad Mostaque, a London-based
emerging-market  investment adviser  at Religare Hitchens
Harrison. Protesters against Mursi’s government have repeatedly
clashed with security forces in the past week, and he’s still
struggling to revive Egypt’s economy after tourists and
investors fled last year’s unrest.  “He’s got enough momentum on this particular thing that he
can start the flow across the border in particular,” Mostaque
said by phone. “But I don’t think he’s got sufficient momentum
to effectively take up the role of Israel in policing Gaza.”  Abbas and his Palestinian Authority, which controls the
 West Bank , were left on the sidelines of the past week’s
diplomatic flurry. Clinton’s visit to him in Ramallah last week
was sandwiched between her talks in Jerusalem and Cairo, where
the cease-fire was hammered out.  UN Request  Abbas next week plans to ask the  United Nations General
Assembly  to upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s status to “non-
member state.” While the move has been applauded by Hamas,
opposition from Israel and the U.S. blocked a similar attempt at
the  Security Council  last year.  “The PA and Mahmoud Abbas come out of this looking
irrelevant, and of course that’s something that helps Hamas,”
which has become “a respected regional player like never
before,” Brookings’ Hamid said. “Hamas is the main winner in
all of this.”  ---With assistance from Mariam Fam and Tarek El-Tablawy in
Cairo, Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem and Jennifer Freedman in
Brussels. Editors:  Ben Holland , Anne Swardson.
 