-- Gazprom to Spend $2 Billion to Boost EU Gas Flows via Belarus
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-11-22T14:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/gazprom-to-spend-2-billion-to-boost-eu-gas-flows-via-belarus.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  will invest $2 billion
to expand Belarusian natural-gas pipelines and boost fuel
transit shipments from the nation to the European Union by 30
percent, Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said.  Expanding gas storage facilities will cost a further $1.1
billion, and the Russian gas export monopoly plans to approve
its three-year and 10-year investment plans for Belarus this
month, Miller said near Minsk, where Gazprom opened a gas
distribution station today.  Gazprom, which meets about a quarter of European gas
demand, is investing in new pipelines to bypass Ukraine, now the
main transit route for Russian gas. Gazprom has repeatedly
clashed with Ukraine over prices and volumes in gas contracts,
which led to supply disruptions to E.U. members.  The gas exporter is shifting some Europe-bound volumes to
Belarus, where it owns the pipeline network, and the Nord Stream
pipeline, a direct link to  Germany  from  Russia  under the  Baltic
Sea . It will also start construction of the South Stream
pipeline to central  Europe  under the  Black Sea  next month.  “We agreed to consider very thoroughly the possibility of
increasing transit of Russian gas through Belarus by 30
percent,” Miller said. He also met with Belarus’ President
Aleksandr Lukashenko today, Gazprom said in a statement.  Gazprom will begin work to reconstruct infrastructure in
Belarus to increase the transit volumes as early as next year,
Miller said.  Gazprom’s transit volumes to Belarus will total 44.5
billion cubic meters this year, according to Miller. That’s
about 30 percent of the Moscow-based company’s total exports to
Europe in 2011 and means full use of current transit capacity,
he said.  Shipments to Belarus will increase by 10 percent from the
previous year to 22 billion cubic meters, he said.  Gazprom last year gained control of the Beltransgaz
pipeline operator by acquiring the half of the company it didn’t
already own for $2.5 billion, while lowering gas prices for
Belarus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  