-- GE Said to Be in Talks for Avio After Cinven Rejected CVC Bid
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/ge-said-to-be-in-talks-for-avio-after-cinven-rejected-cvc-bid.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is in talks to
acquire Italian defense company Avio SpA from buyout firm Cinven
Ltd., which rejected a previous offer from two private-equity
funds, according to people with direct knowledge of the talks.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Clessidra SGR SpA don’t plan
to revise their offer of about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
for Avio, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private, leaving GE to pursue the
acquisition. Cinven is also considering holding an initial
public offering of Avio next year, the people said.  London-based Cinven, which is seeking 5 billion euros for a
new fund, began preparing Avio for a sale last year when it
hired banks to manage an IPO of the company. The stock sale was
postponed amid stock-market swings, after Cinven received
approaches for the asset from suitors including  France ’s  Safran
SA (SAF) , which makes jet engines and aerospace components, and GE.  Officials for Cinven, Avio, CVC, Clessidra and GE declined
to comment.  Avio makes components for GE’s newest engine, the GEnx,
which powers Boeing 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 wide-body
airliners, according to the company’s website. It’s also a
supplier to CFM International SA, a joint venture between GE and
Safran SA that’s the exclusive maker of engines for the Boeing
737, the world’s most widely flown passenger jet.  2006 Buyout  Cinven bought Avio, based in Turin, Italy, in 2006 from
Carlyle Group and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in a deal that valued the
company at about 2.6 billion euros.  Finmeccanica SpA,  Italy ’s biggest defense company, in May
agreed to sell its 15 percent stake in Avio to Fondo Strategico
Italiano SpA, the country’s 4 billion-euro investment fund. As
part of the joint offer with CVC and Clessidra, the fund was set
to own about 20 percent of Avio, and Cinven would keep about 10
percent of Avio under that plan, a person said.  An official for FSI in  Rome  declined to comment on the
fund’s involvement in either bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  