-- Generali Said to Pitch Sale of Private Bank BSI to Apax, RBC
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-11-22T16:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/generali-said-to-pitch-sale-of-private-bank-bsi-to-apax-rbc.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  is
seeking offers for its Swiss private bank BSI Group from buyout
firms including Apax Partners LLP and companies such as  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY) , according to three people with knowledge of the
situation.  Generali’s advisers, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Mediobanca
SpA (MB) , are sending sales documents to potential buyers this month
for the 139-year-old wealth manager, said the people, asking not
to be identified because the discussions are private. The so-
called information memorandums will be sent to at least 20
potential buyers, one of the people said. Indicative offers are
due in January, two people said.  Generali Chief Executive Officer  Mario Greco , who took the
helm in August, is reviewing the strategy of  Italy ’s biggest
insurer to bolster profit and strengthen capital weakened by the
sovereign-debt crisis. Generali may battle to find a buyer as
the erosion of Swiss banking secrecy and higher regulatory costs
crimp margins, complicating the task of assessing the financial
health and business model of a private bank.  BSI’s book value is about 2.3 billion euros ($2.96
billion), according to Trieste, Italy-based Generali. The
insurer may struggle to sell the private bank for that amount,
two of the people said.  Officials at Generali, Apax, RBC, JPMorgan and Mediobanca
declined to comment.  Overseas Expansion  BSI, the largest private bank in  Switzerland ’s Italian-
speaking region, has been expanding operations abroad, winning
clients in  Singapore  and  Hong Kong . The firm boosted client
assets under management by 4.9 percent to 81.5 billion Swiss
francs ($87 billion) in the first half from the end of 2011,
according to Lugano, Switzerland-based BSI. Net income rose 33
percent to 42.6 million francs in the period.  RBC CEO  Gordon Nixon  has said his firm would explore
“strategic acquisitions” amid a slowdown in Canadian  consumer
lending . Toronto-based RBC, the nation’s largest lender, has
named wealth and asset management as one of the areas it plans
to grow.  Generali and other European insurers are selling non-core
assets before the planned implementation in 2016 of Solvency II
regulations, which requires capital reserves to be aligned with
risks to boost protection for policyholders.  The Italian insurer has hired Citigroup Inc. to advise on
the sale of Generali USA Life Reassurance Co., a unit that may
be valued at $800 million to $1 billion, people with knowledge
of the matter have said.  Solvency Ratio  Generali said Nov. 9 that its solvency ratio, a measure of
its capacity to absorb losses, rose to 140 percent at the end of
September from 130 percent at the end of June. Third-quarter
 profit  jumped to 291 million euros from 20 million euros after
year-earlier writedowns of Greek bonds and stakes in Italian
companies weren’t repeated.  Apax, which is based in London, owns financial firms
including Israeli fund manager Psagot Investment House Ltd. and
personal-finance information provider Bankrate Inc.  Potential buyers such as RBC and Apax haven’t decided
whether they’ll make a bid for BSI, the people said.  Swiss banks are seeing withdrawals by American and European
clients who are repatriating assets following a crackdown on  tax
evasion  that has widened since the U.S. sued UBS AG three years
ago. Higher compliance and regulatory costs as wealth managers
pursue a new “white-money strategy” are also crimping profit
margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  