-- Germany Says Much Work Needs to Be Done on EU Banking Oversight
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-11-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/germany-says-much-work-needs-to-be-done-on-eu-banking-oversight.html
European leaders have several
hurdles to overcome before establishing centralized banking
oversight that some member states view as essential to resolving
the  European debt crisis , a German official said.  European officials, who will take up the issue again at a
meeting in Brussels on Dec. 3-4, haven’t sufficiently addressed
issues regarding which banks to focus on, what powers a central
authority should have and interfering with national legal
frameworks, the official told reporters today in Berlin. He
spoke on condition of anonymity in line with government rules.  Centralized European supervision, which the European
Commission has recommended should start work on Jan. 1, is a
pre-condition for enabling euro-area bailout funds to
recapitalize banks directly. That would forestall mounting bank
credit from adding to government balance sheets, short-
circuiting a cycle that has compounded the crisis.  Policy makers should prize quality before speed, the German
official said. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has
said the EU won’t have an operational banking authority before
2014 as the bloc resolves the crisis “step-by-step.”  Germany  prefers such an authority to focus on banks that
are systemically relevant, rather than dividing its attention
among almost 6,000 financial institutions in the bloc, the
official said. The  European Central Bank , which will house any
authority, should also have the resources to extract data and
interfere to resolve banking problems, the official said.  The ECB should also establish a strict divide between
monetary policy and oversight, while enabling EU member states
that haven’t adopted the euro to participate. Proposals for such
a component aren’t yet sufficient, the official said.  Policy makers must also resolve the issue of conforming
with the legal framework of the various  member states , the
official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  