-- Give Thanks and Raises to Millions of Retail Workers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-22T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/give-thanks-and-raises-to-millions-of-retail-workers.html
As you push your way through the
shopping-mall crowds on Black Friday, pity the poor retail
clerk.  Many of the U.S.’s 15 million cashiers and salespeople had
little choice but to report to work before the sun rose the day
after Thanksgiving, the frenzied start of the  holiday shopping
season . It was even more painful for some:  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
employees had to dash off to work in time for an 8 p.m. opening
-- on Thanksgiving Day.  That’s not the only reason we empathize. Take a look at the
typical retail worker’s salary. As of October, average hourly
wages (excluding supervisory jobs) were about $14, according to
the  Bureau of Labor Statistics . Annual earnings came to about
$20,000 for cashiers and $21,000 for salespeople. More than
700,000 retail employees live in poverty. Health insurance, sick
leave and other benefits are pretty skimpy, too.  Now take a look at retail-industry earnings. According to
 U.S. Census  data, in this year’s second-quarter, after-tax
profits of retail companies with at least $50 million in assets
totaled $19.3 billion, higher than in any other second quarter
since 2008. Such results could signal a strong fourth quarter,
when most retailers pull down their biggest profits. Wal-Mart,
the U.S.’s largest employer, with a payroll of 2.2 million, as
well as its largest retailer, earned $16 billion last year.  Productivity Improved  Clearly, the retail industry is  recovering  from the
financial crisis. It would be nice if the workers who have
helped the retail chains keep prices low recovered as well.
Retail productivity has improved by an average of 0.8 percent
each year since 2008, yet median compensation has declined over
the same period. The benefits of the recovery are not reaching
those at the bottom of the income chain.  Does this mean we endorse the  recommendations  of labor
unions and left-leaning think tanks for across-the-board raises
for retail workers? Or with this week’s study by the New York-
based research group  Demos  calling for salaries of at least
$25,000 a year? Actually, no -- even though we agree it’s in
employers’ best interests to pay more.  Studies  show that
managers who invest in their employees are able to retain the
best-trained and hardest-working among them, which increases
productivity, lowers turnover and drives down labor costs. One
Wharton School of Business study concluded that every $1
increase in a retailer’s monthly payroll results in $3.94 to $28
more in monthly sales.  Most retail executives, however, are loath to voluntarily
raise labor costs. And the truth is that the best way to raise
wages is by lowering U.S. unemployment. With 22 million people
out of work or underemployed, retailers have an enormous pool of
cheap labor from which to draw, leaving existing employees with
little leverage. Reducing the slack in the labor market would
translate into fatter paychecks for retail workers.  Easier said than done, we know, but it’s one more reason
(as if one was needed) that President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans should agree to a $4 trillion package
of long-term spending cuts and tax increases that would avert
the year-end fiscal cliff. Such a show of bipartisanship would
raise the confidence of corporate executives to invest their
cash stockpiles, totaling about $3 trillion, and renew hiring,
leading to a virtuous cycle of increased  consumer spending  and
yet more  job creation . The faster economic growth would also
boost retailers’ profits and make it easier for them to justify
paying higher wages.  Corporate Taxes  While they’re at it, the fiscal-cliff negotiators would do
well to cut corporate taxes. Corporations don’t really pay
taxes; they pass them on to employees (by reducing wages),
consumers (through higher prices) and shareholders (in smaller
dividends). And then there’s the double-taxation problem, in
which profits are taxed at the corporate level and again at the
individual level when dividends are paid. This further
encourages companies to pass along tax expenses to consumers and
employees and discourages the payment of dividends.  The amount of  revenue  from corporate taxes has been
declining since the 1950s because loopholes and preferences keep
multiplying. Most companies now pay far less than the official
35 percent top rate. Not so for many retailers, whose rates are
higher because they have minimal overseas operations (where
profits aren’t taxed unless they’re repatriated) and fewer ways
to shelter income. If the many loopholes and exclusions that
corporate lobbyists have won over the decades were closed, and
corporate tax rates were lowered, U.S. retailers would no longer
be at a disadvantage.  Considering that more than 95 percent of workers at large
retail firms are at least 20 years old (and that 20 percent of
them are the sole source of family income), retail wages should
be an issue of national concern. Steering America away from the
fiscal cliff and lowering corporate taxes would go a long way
toward helping the economy -- as well as that cashier who got up
at 5 a.m. to be there to run your  credit card  through the
register.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  ease hunger in India ;
 Caroline Baum  on  watching the Fed and other gossip ;  Michael
Kinsley  on how  voters don’t really want change ; William Pesek on
 Indonesia’s failure to sustain reforms ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 accounting industry’s watchdog committee ;  Whitney Tilson  and
Anthony Scaramucci on  coming together to raise taxes and cut
entitlements .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 