-- Glencore Wins EU Approval for $33 Billion Xstrata Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-11-22T17:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/glencore-wins-eu-antitrust-approval-for-32-billion-xstrata-deal.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  won
European Union approval for its $33 billion takeover of  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  after offering to end a zinc-purchase agreement with Nyrstar
NV and to sell its stake in the largest producer of the metal.  Glencore’s offer to scrap an accord to sell Nyrstar’s zinc
output in  Europe  and divest its stake of about 7.8 percent
eliminated EU antitrust concerns that the combination with
Xstrata would have been able to raise prices for zinc metal, the
European Commission  said  in an e-mailed statement today. It will
avoid buying Nyrstar’s European zinc for 10 years.  Glencore, which gained shareholder backing for its Xstrata
offer on Nov. 20, previously had an agreement to sell all of
Balen, Belgium-based  Nyrstar (NYR) ’s so-called commodity-grade zinc.
Nyrstar produced about 1.1 million metric tons of the metal last
year. Zinc accounted for 18 percent of Glencore’s 2011 operating
profit, and 10 percent at Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata.  “The proposed remedy ensures that competition in European
zinc metal market is preserved, so that European customers such
as steel galvanizers and carmakers can continue to produce
valuable  consumer goods  at low prices and good quality,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  European steelmakers lobby group Eurofer criticized the
ruling, saying the remedies aren’t sufficient to protect the
region’s market from the dominant influence of one supplier, it
said in a statement.  ‘Dangerously Close’  Terminating the offtake agreement with Nyrstar “may not
have the desired effects,” said  Gordon Moffat , Eurofer director
general. “Post-merger, the parties still will have a share of
around 35 percent of the European market, a level of
concentration that is dangerously close to the 40 percent
threshold set by the Commission.”  Nyrstar dropped 3 percent to close at 4.01 euros in
Brussels after the EU announcement. The zinc producer said a
settlement needs to be negotiated with Glencore to terminate or
change their sales agreement.  “With respect to the divestiture of Glencore’s minority
shareholding in Nyrstar, Nyrstar will seek with Glencore to
ensure that this is conducted in a considered manner,” it said
in an e-mailed statement. “Negotiations with Glencore have
commenced in an effort to reach agreement on mutually acceptable
terms.”  Glencore advanced 2 percent to 340.7 pence by the close of
trading in  London . Xstrata gained 1.7 percent to 1,014 pence.
The ratio of Xstrata’s stock to those of Glencore was at 2.98
times, near the closest it has been to Glencore’s 3.05-share
offer price, as investors bet that the deal will get done.  South Africa  Glencore said in a statement acknowledging the EU approval
that it was still waiting for authorizations from Chinese and
South African regulators before it could close the transaction.  “Uncertainty about how the Chinese antitrust approval
process works adds a little bit of concern and delay,” Paul Gait, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, said
by phone. “But, as Glencore and Xstrata don’t operate any
assets under the Chinese jurisdiction, the merger won’t increase
consolidation in the Chinese market and there shouldn’t be any
major issues in obtaining approval. South African approval
should be fairly straightforward at this stage.”  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is
creating the world’s fourth-largest mining company by adding
Xstrata’s coal, nickel, zinc and copper operations to his
cotton-to-crude-oil commodities empire.  Xstrata Zinc  Glencore will gain through the takeover the right to sell
all of Xstrata’s production of zinc, used in the coating of iron
or steel to protect the metals against corrosion, compared with
a third now.  “We are somewhat surprised by the leniency of the EC,”
 Christopher LaFemina , an analyst at Jefferies, said in a report.
“But not at all surprised that this transaction has ultimately
been approved by Brussels.”  Glencore, Xstrata, Nyrstar and  Boliden AB (BOL)  are the only four
companies producing zinc metal in Europe. Glencore Xstrata Plc,
the combined company, would have about 11 percent of global zinc
output of some 13 million tons.  Glencore Xstrata will also have interests in about 35 coal
mines in Colombia, Africa and  Australia , and account for about
10 percent of global seaborne exports of the fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  