-- GM China Chief Sees Lift in 2013 Sales on Commercial Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-22T06:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/gm-china-chief-sees-lift-in-2013-sales-on-commercial-demand-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which counts
China as its biggest market by volume, said its sales in the
world’s largest auto market may see a lift next year from gains
in commercial vehicle deliveries and demand for passenger cars.  The company’s passenger-vehicle sales in the world’s
second-biggest economy should be “about the same” as this
year, while commercial vehicles may “pick up a little bit,” GM
China President Bob Socia, who took over the role on Oct. 1,
said in an interview at the Guangzhou auto show today.  GM, which sells Buick and Chevrolet cars in China, is
competing for buyers with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Nissan Motor Co. and an
estimated more than 90 auto brands. Passenger-vehicle sales will
expand by an average 8 percent a year to reach 22 million in
2020, driven by demand for sport-utility vehicles and rising
incomes in smaller cities, according to McKinsey & Co.  “We recognize that there’s some formidable competition out
there, but next year should be a pretty good year,” Socia said.
“What we want to do is continue to outstrip the growth in the
industry and try to grab share along the way, as we’ve done this
year.”  GM aims to hold on to its position as the market leader
among foreign automakers in  China , Socia said. VW edged ahead of
GM in the third quarter in China sales, the first time in eight
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cadillac Focus  Promoting the Cadillac brand in China will be “an area of
concentration,” said Socia, who joined the Cadillac division in
 Detroit  in 1975. GM will also focus on boosting SUV sales and on
the export business, he said.  During the first 10 months of this year, GM and its joint
ventures sold 2.3 million vehicles in China, an increase of 11
percent from a year earlier. Cadillac sales in China rose 20
percent to 2,491 units in October.  “The major task for GM would be to reinforce their
positioning in the luxury segment because this is a segment that
is continuing to grow,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based global
head of automotive coverage at researcher Ipsos.  Socia was vice president for global purchasing before
taking the China assignment, replacing  Kevin Wale  who retired on
Oct. 31. In 2007, Socia was named executive vice president of
Shanghai GM, the Detroit giant’s joint venture in China with
 SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)   SUV sales will triple in the 10 years from 2011 for the
fastest growth among the vehicle segments, as Chinese consumers
become wealthier and buy bigger vehicles, according to a report
released this week by McKinsey. China’s smaller cities will
account for almost 60 percent of new car deliveries by the end
of the decade, up from 40 percent in the preceding period, it
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  