-- Greece Exit Costs Hurt Coca-Cola Hellenic’s Debt
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-11-23T12:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/greek-exit-costs-hurt-coca-cola-hellenic-debt-corporate-finance.html
(Corrects outstanding debt in eighth paragraph, number of
employees in 18th paragraph and adds company comment in 10th
paragraph of story first published Nov. 22.)  Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA (EEEK) 
bondholders are losing confidence in the firm’s plan to leave
 Greece  on concern the cost of the move will trigger a credit-
rating downgrade for the nation’s biggest company.  The extra yield investors demand to own Coca-Cola
Hellenic’s most-traded notes over the safest government debt
plunged one percentage point on Oct. 12, the day after the
company said it planned to move its headquarters to  Switzerland .
Since then, the spread on the 4.25 percent bond due 2016 has
widened by 0.61 percentage point to 232 basis points.  While the world’s second-largest Coke bottler says it will
get cheaper funding by exiting a nation that has contracted for
17 quarters as strikes and protests against austerity measures
paralyze the economy, the notes have lost almost 60 percent of
the gain on speculation the move will add too much debt. Moody’s
Investors Service says Coca-Cola Hellenic may need to borrow a
half-billion euros ($640 million), about twice its net income in
the first nine months of 2012, and jeopardize its Baa1 rating.  “The change of headquarters is good for the company since
it reduces the risk of higher taxes or nationalization, but it
deteriorates its liquidity position because of the costs,” said
Ramon Nieto, a  fund manager  at Geroa EPSV Fondos in San
Sebastian,  Spain . The firm oversees 1.1 billion euros and used
to hold Coca-Cola Hellenic’s bonds. “Even with the recent
increase in the yield, it’s not attractive enough for us to buy
them.”  Notes Surge  The initial surge in the company’s notes helped make them
the best-performing of 123 issues in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Consumer Non-Cyclical, Food & Drug Retail, Pharma
Index in October, returning 2 percent compared with an average
0.69 percent. The debt has lost 0.05 percent on average this
month, one of only two securities in the gauge to post a
decline.  Under the plan, a new company called Coca-Cola HBC AG is
offering to buy Coca-Cola Hellenic shares on a one-for-one
basis. If more than 90 percent of investors agree to the deal,
the company can start a buyout of the remaining stock either
through a share exchange or cash settlement.  Moody’s estimates it may cost as much as 500 million euros
if all minority shareholders choose cash. That’s more than twice
the 240 million euros of net profit the company said Nov. 8 that
it made in the nine months through September.  Debt Increase  Coca-Cola Hellenic has 1.8 billion euros of  outstanding 
bonds, as well as a 500 million-euro undrawn credit facility
that matures in 2016, Bloomberg data show. The company said it
also has a 550 million-euro  term loan  which will only be used if
it needs to buy out shareholders.  Chief Financial Officer Michalis Imellos said this month
that the company plans to refinance debt in bond markets next
year.  “We believe that more than 90 percent of our shareholders
will tender into the exchange offer,” the company said in a
statement. “Our shareholders understand and support the
rationale of this transaction and 61 percent of our shareholders
have already committed or stated that they will tender their
shares. The attractiveness of a cash alternative of 13.58 euros
will depend, to a significant extent, on our share price at the
relevant time.” The company’s current share price is
“significantly higher than the cash alternative,” it said.  Leverage Ratio  An increase in debt could worsen the leverage ratio of
Coca-Cola HBC beyond the guidelines the ratings company requires
for its current Baa1 grade, Yasmina Serghini-Douvin, an analyst
at Moody’s, wrote in a report last month.  Coca-Cola Hellenic’s gross debt rose to 3.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization as of June
30, from 3.1 times a year earlier, according to Moody’s.  The negative outlook on the company, which is 23 percent-
owned by Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , reflects concern that the
group’s performance “will remain vulnerable to the overall weak
consumer environment in  Europe  and that this will continue to
constrain its margins and credit metrics,” Moody’s said.  The euro-area economy has been in a recession since the
third quarter of 2011, when the shortest expansion since 1970
ended, the Centre for Economic Policy Research said Nov. 15.  Retail Sales  Retail sales in the 17-nation region fell 0.2 percent in
September, the European Union’s statistics office said Nov. 7.  Consumer demand in Greece is even worse, with retail sales
slumping 7.2 percent in August from a year earlier. The nation’s
jobless rate surged to 25.5 percent as austerity measures linked
to the country’s 240 billion-euro bailouts constrained growth.  Greece’s economy contracted 6.3 percent in the second
quarter from the same period last year.  Coca-Cola Hellenic, which has about 2,000 of its 41,900
employees in Greece, has been based in  Athens  for the past 12
years after being formed by a merger between Hellenic Bottling
Company S.A. and London-based Coca-Cola Beverages. It operates
in 28 countries as varied as Ireland and  Nigeria .  The company said Oct. 11 the move is intended “to improve
Coca-Cola Hellenic’s access to both the international equity and
debt capital markets and increase its flexibility in raising new
funds to support its operations and future growth.”  London Listing  Coca-Cola Hellenic’s decision to leave its home equity
market and switch its primary listing to  London  increases the
chance Greece will be demoted to an emerging market next year,
MSCI Inc. said Oct. 25.  The index provider put Greece’s stock market under review
for downgrade from developed status on June 20 and will make a
final decision as part of its annual reclassification in June
next year. The MSCI Greece Index consists of just two companies,
with the bottler accounting for 75 percent by weight.  Coca-Cola Hellenic’s 6.4 billion-euro  market capitalization 
would qualify for a listing on London’s benchmark FTSE 100
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company reported a 1 percent decline in net income in
the three months through September to 146.5 million euros,
helped by sales in developing markets including Poland and
 Russia . Less than 10 percent of earnings are made in Greece,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Nov. 2 report.  Exit ‘Risks’  If the move out of Greece isn’t approved then a “multi-
notch downgrade could still be possible as a result of risks
associated with Greece exiting the  euro zone  and the potential
impact of Greek government policies on Coca-Cola Hellenic’s
business and financial environment,” the ratings firm said. The
company’s BBB+  rating  is on negative watch at S&P.  Coca-Cola Hellenic last issued debt in February 2011 when
it sold its 4.25 percent bonds in euros due November 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their yield, which is
232 basis points more than the safest government debt, is almost
double the 133 basis-point spread on similar-maturity debt sold
by Absolut vodka maker Pernod Ricard SA.  The company’s  share price  has risen 32 percent this year to
17.5 euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock fell as
much as 10 percent the day the exchange offer was announced.  “We view the new share structure as credit positive,
removing tail risk, loosening the link between the company and
problems in Greece and associated fear of contagion from a Greek
euro exit in the minds of investors,” Max Castle, an analyst at
ING Financial Markets in Amsterdam, told clients in a note.  Coca-Cola Hellenic’s net  cash  from operating activities
fell to 675 million euros at the end of September, from 711
million euros a year earlier, its earnings statement shows. Free
 cash flow  dropped to 381 million euros from 416 million euros.  “In principal the move the company is looking to make is
on the right track -- they have calculated the cost and it is a
moving-forward plan,” said George Satlas, the Athens-based head
of investments at Mutual Funds of Postal Savings Bank and
Hellenic Post. “They’ve done quite a job in terms of
profitability. But they’re operating in a tough environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  