-- Michelin Adds Two Restaurants in Spain With Three-Star Status
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-22T23:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/michelin-adds-two-restaurants-in-spain-with-three-star-status.html
Michelin named two new three-star
restaurants in  Spain , taking the country’s total to seven and
extending the country’s lead over the U.K., which has four.  The newly elevated establishments are  Azurmendi , in
Larrabetzu; and Quique Dacosta, in Denia.  Akelare  and Arzak, in
San Sebastian,  Martin Berasategui , in Lasarte-Oria; Sant Pau, in
Sant Pol de Mar (Barcelona); and El Celler de Can Roca, in
Girona, hold onto their top rankings.  Two more Barcelona restaurants gained a second star, for a
total of 19: Moments (in the Mandarin Oriental) and Enoteca.
Establishments that won their first included Dos Palillos, Koy
Shunka,  Lluerna  and Nectari in Barcelona.  “In terms of gourmet dining, 2013 was an outstanding year
in Spain and Portugal,” Michelin said today in an e-mailed
release to announce the results of the guide to the Iberian
nations. “Both countries continued to receive high marks for
the quality and diversity of their culinary offerings.”  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  The Michelin Guide Spain & Portugal for iPhone will be
available beginning in the first week of December for 7.99 euros
($10.29).  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Robert Heller  on music,  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater and
 Greg Evans  on film.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 