-- India’s Singh Defeats Bid to Topple Government on Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-11-22T08:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/india-s-singh-defeats-bid-to-topple-government-on-retail.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
survived a bid to oust his government over its decision to allow
foreign companies to open supermarkets in the country.  After protests and adjournments in both houses of the
legislature, the Trinamool Congress party, a former ally, failed
to win enough support among lawmakers to bring a no-confidence
vote in Singh’s minority administration.  The party’s chief,  Mamata Banerjee , says the retail
proposals -- announced in September as part of a policy push to
stoke a slowing economy -- will put small shopkeepers out of
work and drive down prices paid to farmers. Losing a confidence
vote can lead to the dissolution of parliament and elections.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party , which refrained
from backing Trinamool, has called for a debate on the retail
policy, followed by voting under a different parliamentary rule.
The supermarket plan doesn’t need lawmakers’ assent.  After the last parliamentary session was largely washed out
by rival parties’ protests over corruption, the failure of
opposition groups to unite around a no-confidence motion is a
rare boost for the government. The ruling Congress party-led
administration is looking to pass a series of laws aimed at
turning around slumping support and an economy that is growing
close to the slowest pace in three years in a the monthlong
winter session of parliament starting today.  Singh said before parliament resumed the country was facing
“formidable” challenges and all parties needed to work
together to overcome them. Action was required to revive growth
and create employment, he said.  “I invite all political parties to join hands in this
rightful endeavor,” Singh said  Congress needs to win support from parties outside of its
bloc to push through steps enabling foreign companies to hold
bigger stakes in insurance firms and invest in the pension
sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  