-- Liquor Maker JiuGuiJiu Apologizes for Chemicals in Drinks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/liquor-maker-jiuguijiu-apologizes-for-chemicals-in-drinks.html
Chinese liquor-maker  JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799) 
apologized to consumers and investors yesterday after Hunan’s
provincial quality supervisor found excessive levels of
plasticizer in its drinks.  The Jishou, Hunan-based spirit maker said in a statement to
the Shenzhen stock exchange that it is co-operating with
requests from the quality watchdog to run strict checks on its
distribution and packaging processes to rectify the issue.  Shares of liquor makers slumped in Shanghai and Shenzhen
yesterday after the Xinhua News Agency reported that drinks made
by JiuGuiJiu had more than three times the permitted level of
dibutyl phthalate, a chemical used to flavor drinks and in
plastic containers, in some samples.  “The company continues to strengthen its quality
supervision infrastructure in order to produce safe and high
quality products for buyers,” JiuGuiJiu said in the statement.
“At the same time, we extend our sincere apologies to consumers
and investors over this recent issue.”  JiuGuiJiu said in last night’s filing that its products met
the relevant national standards in  China  and did not pose a
health risk to the consumer.  Liquor Shares  Inspections showed as much as 1.04 milligrams per kilogram
of dibutyl phthalate, or DBP, in some JiuGuiJiu samples, Xinhua
said, citing the General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine. The health ministry had set a limit
of 0.3 milligram per kilogram, Xinhua said.  The report adds to a series of food and beverage scandals
in China spanning melamine-tainted milk to reprocessed cooking
oil.  Concerns over food and beverage quality have spurred the
government to pledge greater consumer protection. Milk tainted
with melamine, a toxic chemical used to make plastic and tan
leather, was blamed for the deaths of at least six babies in
2008, with tens of thousands of children hospitalized.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , the country’s biggest liquor maker,
fell 4.7 percent to 27.46 yuan, the lowest in more than two
years, in Shenzhen yesterday.  Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock
Company Co. (002304) , China’s third-biggest distiller, dropped 3.4
percent to 96 yuan.  Consumer Confidence  Shares of JiuGuiJiu, maker of the Xiangquan and Jiugui
spirit brands, will resume trading today, after a four-day
trading halt, according to the statement.  “It’s a blow to  consumer confidence ,” said Liu Hui, a
Shanghai-based analyst at CSC Securities HK Ltd in an interview
yesterday. “The whole sector will be under pressure in the
short term.”  Kweichow Moutai Co., the world’s second-largest distiller
by market value, dropped 0.6 percent to 217.29  yuan  in Shanghai
trading.  Sichuan Swellfun Co. (600779) , part-owned by  Diageo Plc (DGE) , lost
4.1 percent in Shanghai.  Tests show that almost all Chinese liquor products contain
plasticizers, at an average 0.537 milligrams per kilogram,
Xinhua said, citing the China Alcoholic Drinks Association. The
alcohol industry is discussing limits for plasticizers in
liquor, according to the agency.  The Administration of Quality and Technology Supervision of
 Hunan Province  said on its website yesterday that it asked the
company to investigate the findings.  “Ingestion of dibutyl phthalate may cause gastrointestinal
irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea,” according to the
 website  of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  