-- Italian Lower House Approves Monti’s Budget Before Senate Vote
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-22T13:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/italian-lower-house-poised-to-approve-monti-s-budget-law.html
Italy’s Lower House of Parliament
approved the government’s budget law, setting up a final vote in
the Senate that will remove a hurdle for setting the date of
early elections.  Lawmakers voted 372 to 73 in favor of the measure. Today’s
ballot came after Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government won
three confidence votes yesterday on the plan as lawmakers rush
to clear the legislative agenda.  President Giorgio Napolitano said last week that he would
consider a request to set early election for March 10 once
Parliament passed the budget law and adopted a revamp of voting
rules.  The budget package, which is crucial for the government to
bring its deficit to 1.8 percent of gross domestic product next
year, includes a 1 percentage point increase in the highest
value-added  tax rate  starting from July. A previous plan to
reduce the two lowest income tax brackets was replaced last
month with a reduction of payroll taxes paid by employers.  With unemployment at a record high and an economy that is
mired in its fourth recession since 2001, Monti has been under
growing pressure to do more to stimulate growth. The European
Commission forecasts this month that the Italian economy will
shrink 2.3 percent and contract 0.5 percent in 2013.  Italy’s economy shrank less than economists forecast in the
quarter through September. GDP declined 0.2 percent from the
second quarter, when it decreased a revised 0.7 percent, the
National Statistics Institute Istat said in a preliminary report
Nov. 15.  The government reached yesterday an agreement with unions
and employers to pass measures to boost productivity, even
though the Cgil, the country’s biggest union, rejected the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 