-- Japan Aluminum Buyers Said to Get First Fee Cut in a Year
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-11-22T04:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/japan-aluminum-buyers-said-to-pay-lower-fee-as-recession-looms.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan ,  Asia ’s
largest importer, are set to secure the first fee reduction in a
year from suppliers as the economy sinks into a recession,
according to three executives involved in the negotiations.  Premiums for the three months starting in January may drop
about 4 percent from fees this quarter that ranged between $253
and $255 a metric ton over the London Metal Exchange cash price,
said the executives, representing suppliers and buyers, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Fees more than doubled in the past 12 months, reaching a
record this quarter, supported by rising premiums in  Europe  and
the U.S. Now Japan’s economy is shrinking, contracting an
annualized 3.5 percent last quarter, the most since the
earthquake and tsunami in early 2011. Gross domestic product may
decline a further 0.4 percent in the final three months of this
year, the third technical recession since 2008, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “It’s hard to find factors that may push up metal demand
in the second half of this fiscal year,” said Koji Iida, head
of statistics at the Japan Aluminium Association, which reported
an unexpected drop in shipments in the six months ended Sept. 30.
“We are concerned about demand from the auto sector, as the
anti-Japan campaign in  China  is taking a toll.”  Toyota, Honda  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
saw a plunge in deliveries to China for a second month in
October as consumers shunned their cars amid a territorial spat.  Shipments to China, Japan’s largest export market, fell
11.6 percent last month, data from the  Finance Ministry  showed
yesterday. A territorial dispute over islands in the  East China
Sea  hurt the $340 billion trade relationship between Asia’s two
biggest economies.  Japanese automaker output in China may be 40 percent less
than normal this quarter and gradually improve until it’s fully
recovered in the third quarter of next year, according to an Oct.
23 internal note prepared by Toyota’s research division.  The  auto industry  is the biggest consumer of rolled-
aluminum products in Japan after the construction and can-
manufacturing sectors. Shipments to the industry began dropping
in August because of an end to subsidy payments by the Japanese
government to buyers of fuel-efficient vehicles.  Stockpiles Surge  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products dropped 2.5
percent in September, the second month of decline, according to
the association. The metal stockpiled in the ports of Yokohama,
Nagoya and Osaka swelled to an eight-month high in September
before dropping 5.9 percent last month, according to trading
company Marubeni Corp.  Record premiums this quarter have added to costs for
fabricators such as  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741) , Japan’s largest
mill. Company spokesman Ryu Sawachi said he couldn’t confirm the
premium for next quarter.  The negotiations might be settled by the middle of December,
according to the officials. The fee is applied to so-called Good
Western-grade aluminum ingot, and includes freight and insurance
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  