-- Japan Carmakers Plan China Growth as Partner Says Worst Over
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-23T04:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/japan-carmakers-plan-china-growth-as-partner-says-worst-is-over.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) , recovering from a consumer backlash in  China , will continue
to expand in the world’s largest auto market as their local
venture partner said the worst is over.  Toyota will introduce 20 new models to China in the next
three years, Senior  Managing  Officer Hiroji Onishi said at the
Guangzhou auto show yesterday. Honda is guaranteeing buyers
against damage due to anti- Japan  sentiment, while  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  said it is targeting to expand in smaller Chinese cities
with its Venucia brand.  They are participating in their first major car show in
China since large-scale, anti-Japan protests broke out in
September over a territorial dispute that led to some cars being
smashed and dealerships torched. The most difficult period has
passed and people are calmer, said Zeng Qinghong, general
manager of Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., which operates joint
ventures with both Toyota and Honda.  “In 2013 Japanese brands will go all out to regain any
lost ground encountered in the fourth quarter of this year,”
Namrita Chow, a Shanghai-based analyst at industry researcher
IHS Automotive, said. “This will mean new model launches,
discounts and good service packages as well as an increased
line up of models on offer to consumers in China.”  Territorial Dispute  Guangzhou Auto’s shares rose 1.2 percent to HK$5.79 as of
the midday break in Hong Kong trading, extending yesterday’s 4.6
percent advance that was the biggest gain in a month. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added 0.3 percent today.  Japanese automakers reported a plunge in China deliveries
in September and October, as Chinese consumers shunned their
cars after tensions escalated over the group of disputed islands
known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  Toyota showed 46 models at this year’s show in Guangzhou,
expanding its exhibition space by 12.5 percent from last year.
Honda, Japan’s third-biggest carmaker, displayed 23 models at
the show, including the Fit hybrid compact, with plans to begin
local production of hybrid models in China from 2014, according
to the Tokyo-based company.  Showroom traffic at Nissan dealerships have recovered to
last year’s levels while orders are at 80 percent, said Hideki
Kimata, senior vice president at the carmaker’s Chinese joint
venture, Dongfeng Motor Co. Nissan’s commitment to China hasn’t
changed and the automaker wants to assure consumers that the
brand is “safe and secure,” he said.  Peaceful Resolution  “Growth for Japanese brands will depend on how quickly the
two countries solve the territorial dispute peacefully,” said
Chow of IHS, which estimated that Japanese carmakers may suffer
production cuts into 2014 and lose a combined 650,000 units in
vehicle production if tensions don’t abate.  In contrast,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and General Motors Co. said they
aim to continue growing faster than the industry in China.  Volkswagen, which also owns the Skoda and Audi brands, is
outpacing the industry growth rate as “every business, every
brand is selling especially well,” China chief Jochem Heizmann
told reporters Nov. 21.  “Next year’s growth won’t be at the past five years’ rate,
but China will continue to grow, at a healthy, rational, mild
growth rate which is better for the Chinese market’s
development,” Jochem said.  GM’s sales in China may be lifted by gains in commercial
vehicle deliveries and demand for passenger cars, said Bob Socia,
the automaker’s China chief, in an interview at the Guangzhou
show.  ‘Formidable Competition’  The company aims to keep its position as the market leader
among foreign automakers in China and focus on promoting its
Cadillac brand,  sport utility vehicles  and export business, he
said. Volkswagen edged ahead of  GM (GM)  in the third quarter in China
sales, the first time in eight years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We recognize that there’s some formidable competition out
there, but next year should be a pretty good year,” Socia said.
“What we want to do is continue to outstrip the growth in the
industry and try to grab share along the way, as we’ve done this
year.”  Marin Burela, president of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s China joint
venture, said 2013 will be a “red-letter year” for the
automaker in the country as it competes in more vehicle segments.  “We will definitely sell more cars in 2013 than this
year,” he said in Guangzhou. “We’ve now started to open up and
enter into segments we previously did not compete in. We’re
absolutely focused on the SUV market because it is a very fast-
growing market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  