-- Japan Buys Trout From Highlands Based in Land-Locked Lesotho
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-22T05:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/japan-buys-trout-from-highlands-based-in-land-locked-lesotho.html
Highlands Trout started the first
exports of the fish from land-locked  Lesotho  to  Japan , boosting
an economy that depends on diamonds, clothing and selling water
to South Africa.  The first batch of the commercially farmed fish was sent to
Japan last week, Stuart Slabbert, the company’s project manager,
said in an interview at Lesotho’s Katse Dam on Nov. 16.
Highlands Trout has the capacity to produce about 4,000 metric
tons or $20 million of fish a year, he said.  “We will target Japan where there’s a huge demand for
trout,” Grant Merrick, general manager at the Highlands Trout
fish farm, said in a presentation to bankers.  Lesotho receives 46 million rand ($5 million) to 54 million
rand a month from neighboring South  Africa  for Katse Dam water
used by mines and factories in Gauteng province, according to
Zodwa Dlamini, South Africa’s chief delegate to the Lesotho
Highlands Water Commission. Its economy is otherwise dependent
on diamond mining and the low-cost production of clothes, often
for U.S. brands.  Highlands Trout employs 60 people at its operations, which
were renovated from engineering workshops used during the
construction of Africa’s second-highest dam wall during the
1990s. Private investors put up the funds for the business,
Slabbert said, declining to say who they are. The company is co-
owned by aquaculture investment groups Advance Africa Management
Services and Pure Ocean Aquaculture, according to its website.  South Africa’s aquaculture industry produces about 4,500
tons of fish a year, Slabbert said. The company imports fish
eggs from the U.S. and  Denmark  while importing feed from  France ,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  