-- Khazanah Said to Place Out 8.7% Stake in Malaysia Airports
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-11-22T07:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/khazanah-said-to-sell-another-8-7-stake-in-malaysia-airports.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state investment company, sold another 8.7 percent stake in
 Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  through a placement, a person
familiar with the share sale said.  A total 106 million shares changed hands at 5.50 ringgit
today in off-market trades valued at about 583 million ringgit
($191 million), according to data from the Kuala Lumpur stock
exchange, which didn’t name the buyers or seller. That’s at the
bottom of its marketed range of 5.50 ringgit to 5.60 ringgit,
according to a term sheet sent to fund managers. It’s also 1.8
percent below Malaysia Airports’ closing price yesterday.  Khazanah has progressively cut its stake in Subang-based
airports operator to 40.4 percent from 67.7 percent in 2010 as
part of the government’s plans to reduce its local business
holdings. It’s also pared its holding in companies including
 Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)  and power producer  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)   Khazanah exercised an upsize option to increase the number
of shares available from 85 million, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the information was private.  Bashir Ahmad, Malaysia Airports managing director,
confirmed the placement in a text message to  Bloomberg News ,
without providing details. A Khazanah spokesman declined to
comment on the transaction by phone.  Shares Fall  Credit Suisse Group AG and OSK Investment Bank Bhd. were
joint book-runners, the person said. Permodalan Nasional Bhd.,
Employees Provident Fund and CIMB-Principal Asset Management
Bhd. were among local buyers who acquired about 60 percent of
the placed shares, said the person.  The  stock  fell 1.3 percent to 5.53 ringgit as of 3:12 p.m.
in  Kuala Lumpur . It has lost 4.7 percent this year, compared
with a 5.8 percent rise in the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  Malaysia Airports operates more than 20 local and
international  airports  in Malaysia and is building a new budget
terminal outside Kuala Lumpur. It also has interests in  India ,
Turkey and the Maldives.  Khazanah’s placement plan was first reported by the Edge
Financial Daily today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  