-- Nazis Faced Mythic Resistance, Selfish Picasso in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/nazis-faced-mythic-resistance-selfish-picasso-in-paris.html
The French have been slow in coming
to terms with one of the darkest chapters of their history, the
German Occupation in World War II.  For many years, they cultivated the myth that, except for a
few collaborators, the whole nation stood up to the invaders.
More than half a century would pass before a French leader,
President  Jacques Chirac , publicly recognized the country’s
responsibility for deporting thousands of Jews to their death.  “L’Art en Guerre: France 1938-1947,” at the  Musee d’Art
Moderne de la Ville de Paris , is the first exhibition to examine
the French art scene during the Occupation without avoiding any
taboos or imposing self-censorship.  The venue is well chosen. At the very same Palais de  Tokyo ,
the Vichy regime had presented, from 1942 to 1944, French
contemporary art -- without  Pablo Picasso , without abstract
painters, without Surrealists, without Jews.  The show starts with the big retrospective of Surrealism,
organized by Andre Breton and Marcel Duchamp in 1938, the last
highlight of the pre-war years when Paris was the undisputed art
capital of the world.  Occupation Kitsch  The second room is devoted to the kitsch industry that was
supposed to restore  France ’s battered self-esteem after the 1940
debacle -- ashtrays, pipes, and cookie jars with the portrait of
the new head of state, Marshal Philippe Petain.  By then, Breton and Duchamp had fled to the U.S. with the
help of Varian Fry and his Emergency Rescue Committee which also
saved  Max Ernst  and  Marc Chagall .  Not everyone was so lucky. Felix Nussbaum, Otto Freundlich
and other Jewish artists from  Germany  were first interned in
French camps and later deported to Auschwitz or Majdanek. The
works they created in the camps with the primitive means at hand
are the final traces of their lives.  Figures of international stature, on the other hand, were
left unfettered by the occupying force. Paintings by  Henri Matisse  and  Georges Braque , though banned in Germany as
“degenerate art,” continued to be exhibited in French museums
and galleries.  EvenPicasso, who stayed put in Paris, didn’t face any
serious danger. Although his antipathy toward the Fascist
government in his native  Spain  was well known, German diplomats
and officers treated him with respect.  Vichy Regime  For his part, he was careful not to produce anything that
might give offense to the enemy or the Vichy regime. When his
friend, the poet Max Jacob, was arrested and sent to the
detention camp at Drancy, he refused to use his German
connections and intervene on Jacob’s behalf. Jacob died in the
camp in 1944.  Georges Rouault, who had retreated to a remote village near
Nantes, was a bit more courageous. His canvas “Homo Homini
Lupus” (Man is a Wolf to Man), depicting a hanged man, is a
lament over France’s desperate situation.  The only works in the show openly critical of the occupiers
were produced by an amateur. Joseph Steib, a retired civil
servant, denounced the Nazis and their French henchmen in naive
paintings not unlike ex-votos in pilgrimage churches.  The opposite was more common. Maurice de Vlaminck, Andre Derain, Kees van Dongen and others gladly accepted invitations
to visit the  Third Reich  as guests of the Nazi regime.  Vlaminck also attacked Picasso in the Comoedia weekly
magazine for “having dragged French painting into the most
fatal dead end, into indescribable confusion.”  Hitler’s Favorites  One showcase reminds us of the most glittering event of the
Occupation years -- the 1942 exhibition at the  Orangerie ,
attended by Le Tout Paris, of giant sculptures by Arno Breker,
Hitler’s favorite artist.  It would be nice to assert that the artists who compromised
themselves during the dark years produced junk and that the
victims created masterpieces. Unfortunately, that’s not the
case.  The show confirms that talent and virtue don’t necessarily
go hand in hand.  When Picasso, after Liberation, re-emerged from his semi-
seclusion in his studio on Rue des Grands-Augustins, he was
lionized at the  Salon d’Automne  as a national hero. He
immediately aligned himself with the new trend setters and
joined the Communist Party.  “L’Art en Guerre: France 1938-1947” runs through Feb. 17,
2013. Information:  http://www.mam.paris.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 