-- New Jersey Bank’s Biggest Secret Is Its Own Name
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-11-22T23:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/new-jersey-bank-s-biggest-secret-is-its-own-name.html
It has been almost four years since
 Unity Bancorp Inc. (UNTY)  got $21 million of  bailout funds  as part of
the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. The small New
Jersey lender hasn’t repaid the money. But it has stayed out of
trouble, unlike some people who once audited its books.  Last week the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
 sanctioned  three accountants who used to audit Unity’s financial
reports for  McGladrey LLP , one of the largest accounting firms
outside the Big Four. The board accused Dale Hotz, Jyothi
Manohar and Michael Fadner of altering their work papers and
misleading the agency’s staff during an inspection of one of
their audits. They settled without admitting to or denying the
board’s allegations. McGladrey wasn’t accused of any violations.  Investors should have every right to know of any regulatory
actions against the people auditing the books at companies where
they own securities. And Unity’s name certainly shouldn’t be a
secret from taxpayers, considering that the bank still has the
 government’s money . If you can’t trust a company’s auditors, you
may not be able to trust the company’s numbers.  The board’s disciplinary order didn’t name the audit client
in question, which should be mandatory in cases like this. But
it did contain enough clues for me to figure out that the
company was Unity by using a database maintained by  Audit
Analytics , a Sutton, Massachusetts-based research firm.  Clear Clues  For instance, the order noted the month McGladrey was  hired 
as the bank’s auditor (March 2007) and the cities where the
accountants worked. The order also cited specific  pages  from the
mystery client’s 2009  annual report  that matched Unity’s. The
bank’s chief executive officer,  James Hughes , confirmed that
Hotz and the others worked on Unity’s audits in prior years and
were pulled off by McGladrey for disciplinary reasons.  The  lack  of  transparency  also  goes  to the  heart  of the
accounting  board  as an institution. Back in late 2010, when the
misconduct allegedly occurred, McGladrey’s national director of
accounting was  Jay Hanson . He now serves as one of the five
members of the accounting oversight board.  The board won’t say if Hanson had a role in overseeing the
three McGladrey accountants while he was at the firm. It won’t
say if Hanson was a witness in the board’s investigation.
Incredibly, it won’t even say if he recused himself from voting
on the matter as a board member. Hanson, who was appointed to
the accounting board by the Securities and Exchange Commission
in January 2011, declined to comment.  Officially, the board’s mission is to “protect the
interests of investors.” In this case it seems to be
McGladrey’s interests that the board is protecting. Hiding
Unity’s identity minimizes the risk that McGladrey might lose
the company as a client.  There’s nothing in the law that prohibited the board from
disclosing Unity’s name. Unlike with its inspection reports, the
board’s usual practice when issuing disciplinary orders against
accountants and their firms is to name the audit clients in
question. Asked why it didn’t do so this time, a spokeswoman for
the accounting board,  Colleen Brennan , said the board “does not
identify audit clients in orders imposing sanctions solely for
conduct that is separate from the conduct of the audit.”  That reasoning is a stretch. The order accused Hotz,
Manohar and Fadner of violating the board’s standards through
the “improper creation, addition, alteration and/or backdating
of audit documentation prior to a board inspection.” If the
board’s allegations are to be believed, the three McGladrey
accountants were caught trying to cover up problems in the way
they performed and documented their work. That’s related to the
audit, not separate.  Official Sanctions  Manohar is the only one of the three still employed by
McGladrey. Hotz, who was the lead partner on the audit, was
barred from being associated with a PCAOB-registered accounting
firm for at least two years. All three were censured.  Hotz, Fadner and Manohar either declined to comment or
didn’t return phone calls. Their attorney,  Elissa Preheim  of
 Arnold & Porter  in  Washington , declined to comment.  A McGladrey spokeswoman, Terri Andrews, said, “McGladrey
discovered this situation, immediately notified the PCAOB and
concurrently began our own internal investigation of the
facts.” She declined to comment on the firm’s audit work for
Unity. Brennan, the accounting board’s spokeswoman, declined to
comment when asked why McGladrey wasn’t disciplined.  Hughes, the CEO of Clinton, New Jersey-based Unity, said
Hotz, Manohar and Fadner “were very, very professional at all
times during the engagement, and I have nothing but the highest
level of respect for them.” The allegations, he said, don’t
“impact the financial statements or the credibility of the
audit.” Additionally, Hughes said the directors on Unity’s
audit committee “did what they felt was in the best interests
of the shareholders and the company” when they decided to keep
McGladrey as Unity’s auditor.  “The right decision was made,” Hughes said. At least the
bank’s shareholders can now make more-informed decisions for
themselves on whether to agree with him.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  ease hunger in India 
and how to  improve lives of retail workers ;  Caroline Baum  on
 watching the Fed and other gossip ;  Michael Kinsley  on how  voters
don’t really want change ; William Pesek on  Indonesia’s failure
to sustain reforms ;  Whitney Tilson  and Anthony Scaramucci on
 coming together to raise taxes and cut entitlements .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 