-- Nexus Says Crux Australia Drilling May Show Floating LNG Need
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-11-22T13:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/nexus-says-crux-australia-drilling-may-show-floating-lng-need.html
Nexus Energy Ltd. (NXS) , an Australian oil
and gas explorer, said further exploration at the  Crux field  may
justify the development of a floating liquefied natural gas
project.  The company, together with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Osaka
Gas Co., next year plans to drill a well at the Auriga prospect,
which may hold 1.4 trillion cubic feet of gas resources, said
Chief Executive Officer Lucio Della Martina. Crux is located in
the Browse Basin off western Australia.  “A successful outcome will provide substantial economic
underpinning of the East Browse standalone FLNG case, which in
Nexus’ view is the case with the highest value potential,” he
 told  shareholders in  Melbourne  today.  Shell, which holds 80 percent of the project, so far plans
to pipe the Crux gas to its nearby Prelude FLNG project. In
 Australia  companies are examining plans to build as many as five
floating vessels that will cool gas to liquid for transportation
in tankers to clients.  Nexus is reviewing plans to sell part of its 17 percent
stake in the project to reduce debt or even exit the venture.  “We have received an indication of interest in both a
tranche of the asset and potentially in the entire Nexus
stake,” Della Martina said. “Whilst the strategic intention is
to divest a tranche of Crux, the board will consider the full
range of divestment options provided these reflect the full
value potential of the permit.”  In addition, Nexus has a 12-month option to sell 2 percent
points from its stake in Crux to Shell for A$75 million ($78
million) before Oct. 22 next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  