-- NHL, Players Union Meet; No Further Talks Set in 67-Day Lockout
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-11-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/nhl-players-union-meet-no-further-talks-set-in-67-day-lockout.html
The  National Hockey League  and its
players union held two meetings in  New York  yesterday and
reported movement on some issues as they try to end a 67-day
player lockout and reach a new Collective Bargaining Agreement.  Neither side said further talks were scheduled after the
National Hockey League Players’ Association presented what
Executive Director Donald Fehr described as “a comprehensive
proposal on all of the core economic issues.”  Fehr told reporters outside NHL headquarters yesterday that
he was disappointed at the owners’ reaction to the latest player
proposal.  “I can tell you that a lot of the people that were there
today, given the response we got, thought they had a lot better
things to do on the night before Thanksgiving,” he said.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman warned that more games will
have to be canceled unless an agreement is reached soon.  “There was movement on some issues by the player
association, and that was appreciated, there was some movement
by us on some issues, but we’re still far apart,” he told
reporters outside the league’s headquarters.  NHL players have been locked out since Sept. 16, the day
after the old labor contract expired, and the league has
canceled all regular-season games through Nov. 30. The two sides
disagree on proposed changes to player contract rights and the
sharing of hockey-related revenue.  The NHL has canceled 327 regular-season games since the
start of the lockout, including the annual Winter Classic
scheduled for Jan. 1.  “The players have done everything they could to get the
game back on the ice, this is a fight they didn’t want, it’s a
fight they didn’t pick,” Fehr said. “We made an enormous move
in the owners’ direction to try and end it. At least as of
today, that hasn’t been successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  