-- Nigeria Mergers Give Starcomms New Chance Against Rivals
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-11-23T09:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/nigeria-mergers-give-starcomms-new-chance-against-rivals.html
Nigerian telecommunications
companies operating non-GSM technology, led by Starcomms Plc,
have another chance to challenge dominant rivals, such as  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN) , after takeovers and new investments, the Association
of Licensed Telecoms Operators of  Nigeria  said.  Starcomms Plc, a Nigerian telecommunications company, said
on Oct. 31 it reached an agreement with Capcom Ltd. for
investment of cash and assets worth $210 million in return for a
90.5 percent stake, handing over control of the company.
Starcomms will get assets including a license operated by MTS
First Communications Ltd. and the mobile-phone business of
Multi-Links Telecommunications Ltd., giving it the biggest
spectrum allocation for any mobile operator in Nigeria and
making it the first able to run the faster 4G data services,
according to the statement.  “There is a huge opportunity in providing broadband from
greater funding and the combination of spectrum licenses of
Starcomms and Multi-links,” Gbenga Adebayo, president of the
association known as Alton, said in a Nov. 20 phone interview
from Lagos, the commercial capital. “Broadband is required to
be competitive in the telecommunications industry.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, has one of Africa’s fastest-growing
telecommunications industries, with about 107 million telephone
subscribers as of September, according to industry regulator,
the   Nigeria Communications Commission . The Code Division
Multiple Access, or CDMA, networks have about 4.8 million
customers, or a 3.02 percent share of the country’s phone
subscribers, with fixed lines at 0.44 percent and the global
system of mobile communication, or GSM, at 96.54 percent.  Competitive Advantage  Capcom is a Lagos-based holding company, with investors
including Nairobi, Kenya-based Oldonyo Laro Estate Ltd. and
London-based Helios Investment Partners LLP, a private equity
company backed by  George Soros .  Capcom will buy Multi-Links from Helios and pay with
Starcomms’ shares, which will make Helios a 10.5 percent
shareholder of Starcomms, Funmi Abiola-Odutola, a communications
consultant representing Capcom said in e-mailed comments on Nov.
21. Fergus Wheeler, a consultant for Helios declined to comment
when contacted by e-mail, saying the discussions are
confidential.  Starcomms was unchanged at 50 kobo a share as of 10:40 a.m.
in Lagos. It has no imminent plans to pay a dividend and plans
to invest profits to expand its business, according to a
 statement  on the company’s website.  Networks Upgrade  “The combination of spectrum allocation of the companies
making up Starcomms will count as a competitive advantage,”
Akintola Salam, a telecommunications analyst at Lagos-based
Financial Derivatives Co. said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Inadequate investments impaired CDMA growth while GSM
networks run by Johannesburg-based MTN, Abu Dhabi-based  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , known as Etisalat, Mumbai-based  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and Nigeria’s Globacom Ltd. prospered. MTN Nigeria,
with more than 45 million customers, has a 42 percent share of
the country’s phone subscribers, according to September data on
the website of the regulator, also known as NCC. Globacom is
second biggest with 19.8 million subscribers, while Airtel is
third with 18 million.  “Starcomms and their new backers will be hoping that they
leapfrog the GSM guys by investing heavily in LTE 4G,” Bunmi Asaolu, an analyst at Lagos-based FBN Capital Ltd., said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Visafone Communications Ltd., another CDMA operator in the
West African nation, engaged Huawei Technologies Co. of  China ,
earlier this year to upgrade networks at a cost of $20 million
and plans to begin another phase of its expansion in January,
Joseph Ushigiale a spokesman, said yesterday by phone from
Lagos.  Visafone and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  started BlackBerry
services on the CDMA mobile network on Oct. 28 “to achieve
growth of data usage, thus becoming the first carrier to
introduce the CDMA-enabled BlackBerry smart phones in Africa,”
according to Ushigiale.  “If the purchase of Starcomms is successful, we hope to
see more mergers and acquisitions by local and foreign
investors,” said Adebayo of Alton. “There are many CDMA
licenses that are redundant today because the companies stopped
operations. They are targets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  