-- Nordic Power Price for Delivery Tomorrow Drops to Six-Week Low
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-22T13:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/nordic-power-for-the-next-quarter-edges-down-on-rain-forecast.html
Nordic electricity for delivery
tomorrow dropped to the lowest in more than six weeks as low
demand and high wind-power output weighed on prices.  The average price for baseload power delivery tomorrow in
 Norway , Sweden,  Denmark  and  Finland  will be 31.57 euros a
megawatt-hour, the lowest since Oct. 7, based on the results of
an auction today on the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange in Oslo.  Mild temperatures and high wind power output have caused a
slide in prices, and the “risk for extreme prices this winter
looks limited,” with a glut of water and nuclear output
creating a broad surplus in supply, Bixia AB, Sweden’s fourth-
largest power trading company, said yesterday in a report.  Falling temperatures next week may trigger a 3,000-megawatt
increase in average power demand, pushing up the average
baseload price for prompt delivery to 37 euros, the company
said.  Sweden  consumed 18,824 megawatts between noon and 1 p.m.
Stockholm time, according to  data  from grid operator Svenska
Kraftnaet’s website.  Electricity for next week fell to the lowest since Nov. 16
as rainy forecasts and the weak price for prompt delivery
weighed on the market. The next-week contract lost 2.3 percent
to 35.80 euros ($46.14) a megawatt-hour as of 2 p.m. on the
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo. Power for next
quarter fell 0.4 percent to 40.15 euros, while the contract for
next month gained 0.8 percent to 39.60 euros.  Hydropower assets in excess of the seasonal average may
total 8.77 in the next two weeks, which is 0.99 terawatt-hours
more than forecast earlier today, Markedskraft AS data on
Bloomberg show. The Nordic region meets more than half its power
needs by running  water through turbines , which means rainfall
impacts electricity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  