-- Oil Trades at Two-Day High After Israel, Hamas Cease-Fire
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-11-22T18:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-after-israel-hamas-cease-fire.html
Crude futures traded near the
highest level in two days in New York amid concern that a cease-
fire between  Israel  and Hamas may not hold, putting at risk
supply from the  Middle East .  West Texas Intermediate oil fell 0.3 percent after a cease-
fire crafted yesterday by Egypt and the U.S. halted eight days
of aerial assaults that ravaged the  Gaza Strip  and made Tel Aviv
a missile target. Floor trading in New York is closed today
because of the Thanksgiving holiday. A Chinese manufacturing
index signaled the first expansion in 13 months.  “There’s the potential for future price gains due to the
shaky nature of the truce in Israel,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP
Paribas SA’s head of commodity markets strategy in London, said
by phone. “We aren’t going to see much today with the U.S.
closed and low volumes.”  Crude for January delivery dropped 24 cents to $87.14 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract climbed 63 cents yesterday to $87.38, the
highest close since Nov. 19. Prices are down 12 percent this
year. Today’s transactions will be booked with tomorrow’s trades
for settlement purposes. Electronic trading was halted at 1:15
p.m. and will resume at 6 p.m.  Brent for January settlement slid 31 cents to $110.55 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $23.41 to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread widened for a
third day yesterday to $23.48.  Cease-Fire Uncertainty  “There’s some skepticism on whether the cease-fire will
hold and that’s causing near-month prices to sort of bobble up
and down a bit,” Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist at ITG
Investment Research Inc. in Calgary, said by phone.  Hamas and Israel are seeking to solidify the cease-fire
which took effect at 9 p.m. local time yesterday and was
announced by Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr and U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Israeli leaders have said that all options, including a
military strike, are justified to counter  Iran’s nuclear
program , which they describe as an existential threat. Iran is
the fifth-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Given the supply risks from the Middle East, I don’t
really think prices will be going down further,” said  Tetsu Emori , a chief  fund manager  at Astmax Investment Management Inc.
in Tokyo who predicts  Brent crude  will trade at about $120 to
$125 a barrel by the end of the year.  Chinese Manufacturing  The Chinese manufacturing index added to signs that
economic growth is rebounding after a seven-quarter slowdown.  The preliminary reading was 50.4 for a purchasing managers’
index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
It compares with a final level of 49.5 for October. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  “China has been providing good fundamentals, and if the
economy moves to a higher level, they need oil,” said Emori.  Oil’s advance in  New York  may stall around $89.50 a barrel,
along the top of a downward-sloping trend channel on the daily
chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted a
rally this week in this channel, which goes back about two
months. Sell orders tend to be clustered near technical-
resistance levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  