-- Oil Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Mideast Concern, U.S. Supply
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-11-22T23:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/oil-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-on-mideast-concern-u-s-supply.html
Oil headed for a third weekly gain
in New York after fighting in Gaza renewed concern about the
threat to Middle East supplies and U.S. crude stockpiles
unexpectedly dropped.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed
compared with the close on Nov. 21, taking the week’s gain to
0.4 percent. There was no settlement yesterday because floor
trading was closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. A cease-fire
crafted by  Egypt  and the U.S. halted eight days of aerial
assaults that ravaged the Gaza Strip and made Tel Aviv a missile
target. Oil inventories shrank 1.47 million barrels last week,
according to the Energy Department. The median estimate in
Bloomberg survey of analysts was a gain of 1 million.  Crude for January delivery traded at $87.10 a barrel, down
28 cents, or 0.3 percent, in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at 7:32 a.m. in Singapore. The contract
climbed 63 cents Nov. 21 to $87.38. Prices are down 12 percent
this year.  Brent for January settlement slid 31 cents to settle at
$110.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday. The European benchmark crude closed at a premium of
$23.17 to New York-traded WTI.  Hamas and  Israel  are seeking to solidify the cease-fire
which took effect at 9 p.m. local time Nov. 21 and was announced
by Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr and U.S. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton.  The conflict in Gaza threatens further instability in the
Middle East and North Africa after a wave of uprisings that
started last year, including one that almost entirely halted
crude exports from Libya. Israeli leaders have said that all
options, including a military strike, are justified to counter
 Iran ’s nuclear program, which they describe as an existential
threat. Iran is the fifth-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in  Singapore  at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  