-- Hollande Risks Squandering French Bonds’ Sweet Spot
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-11-22T12:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/hollande-risks-squandering-french-bonds-sweet-spot-euro-credit.html
President  Francois Hollande  risks
squandering an opportunity to rekindle  France ’s stalled economy
after the nation’s latest credit rating downgrade did little to
push up yields.  French 10-year bond yields have barely budged since Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. on Nov. 19 followed Standard & Poor’s
January decision to strip France of its top rating, rising about
10 basis points to 2.18 percent. Borrowing costs have declined
since Hollande’s May election, prompting him to boast last week
that 10-year yields near their Aug. 3 record low of 2.002
percent validate his policies.  Far from it, say strategists such as Michael Quach at Smith
& Williamson Investment Management in  London , who sees French
bonds benefiting from European Central Bank actions and pledges.
Also, being higher rated than  Italy  and offering better returns
than German debt, France is in a bond market sweet spot that
belies its woes of almost no growth, unemployment at a 13-year
high and an Hollande revival plan that Moody’s calls inadequate.  “Moody’s doesn’t necessarily provide new information about
France but its move did put a spotlight on the country,” Quach
said. “French yields are historically low because of the global
backdrop and what the ECB has done. France should use this
opportunity to get reform through because we don’t know how long
the market will be in this condition and when investors will
lose their patience.”  Investors are demanding 73 basis points more to hold French
10-year bonds than comparable German bunds, down from 200 points
a year ago and 143 basis points when Hollande took office.  Outperforming Bonds  The yield on 10-year French bonds was little changed at
2.17 percent at 11:50 a.m. London time. Two-year notes yielded
0.14 percent.  Moody’s downgraded French sovereign debt by one level to
Aa1 and maintained its negative outlook, citing what it said was
a worsening growth outlook. S&P lowered the rating by one level
to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13.  Still, French bonds have handed investors an 8.8 percent
return since the S&P downgrade, more than double the 3.9 percent
gain from AAA rated sovereign bonds, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Top-ranked German bonds returned
3.1 percent.  The gains underscore how downgrades by credit-ratings
companies are being shrugged off by investors. The U.S. has been
deemed more creditworthy by investors since S&P removed the
nation’s AAA grade in 2011, with 10-year note yields dropping to
a record this year.  AAA Scarcity  A shrinking supply of AAA rated assets globally -- the
number of issues in a BoA Merrill Lynch AAA index fell to 3,601
from 5,223 in 2007 -- is aiding French bonds, said Adrian Owens,
a  money manager  in London at GAM, which has $48 billion in
assets under management.  “Because of the increasing scarcity of AAA rated assets,
investors are forced to move further along their risk curve,”
he said.  Still, the downgrade of  Europe ’s second-biggest economy
underscored the concern expressed by allies of German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  that the Socialist Hollande’s failure to recognize
the urgency of France’s woes risks deepening Europe’s slump.  It “would be good if the Socialists there would
courageously initiate real structural reforms now,” said  Volker Kauder , head of the parliamentary group of Merkel’s Christian
Union bloc, according to a Spiegel magazine report this month.  Like Spain  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was compelled to
come to France’s defense last week when he spoke out against his
countrymen calling France the “sick man” of Europe.  “France’s economy is in more of a chronic than acute
state, unlike what we see in Ireland or  Spain , for example,”
said  Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer for Europe,  Middle
East  and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, which
oversees about $1.8 trillion globally. At a London presentation
yesterday he said Merrill isn’t buying French government debt.  “France is going to be every bit as big a debacle as
Spain,” John Mauldin, president of Millennium Wave Advisors,
said on Bloomberg Television’s ”Money Move” today. “They have
too much debt and they are not dealing with it.”  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  used the Moody’s
decision to press home the need to remodel France’s economy,
blaming its current state on former President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Biggest Anomaly  “Moody’s sanctioned the delays France has taken to deal
with its debt and its loss of competitiveness,” he told
reporters in Paris on Nov. 20. “We see it as an invitation to
pursue the reforms that we’ve undertaken. France must cut its
deficit and restructure to make its economy more competitive.”  The  International Monetary Fund  and European Commission
expect France’s economy to expand 0.1 percent and 0.2 percent
respectively in 2012. They see growth of 0.4 percent next year,
half Moscovici’s forecast.  The discrepancy will make the Hollande government’s promise
to slash the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product next
year harder to keep -- one of the reasons cited by Moody’s for
its rating cut -- and probably means that unemployment will
climb higher from its current 10.2 percent.  “There’s a glaring disconnect between France’s
deteriorating fundamentals and the country’s record-low bond
yields,” said Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London. “France remains one of the biggest anomalies in the
European sovereign credit landscape. Yet the French bond
market’s resilience is likely to persist.”  Relative Safety  Key to that resilience is the implicit support of the ECB
in the face of greater economic troubles in neighboring Italy
and Spain, where 10-year bond yields are 4.83 percent and 5.68
percent respectively, compared with 2.14 percent in France.  The ECB has ploughed 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of
liquidity into the region’s financial system and ECB President
 Mario Draghi  agreed in September to buy the bonds, under some
conditions, of euro nations whose yields have skyrocketed.  With debt at about 126.5 percent of gross domestic product,
Italy’s burden is more than a third bigger than France’s.
Meanwhile, Spain’s budget deficit this year will be 8 percent of
GDP compared with France’s 4.5 percent, according to Eurostat.  “France has poor and deteriorating fundamentals but their
bonds are doing well because of demand from investors who seek
relatively safe bonds with higher yield pickup and investors who
give policy makers the benefit of the doubt,” said GAM’s Owens.  Becoming Urgent  Hollande is starting to take steps to tackle France’s
record trade deficit and high labor costs, saying this month
that he’ll raise sales taxes to pay for a cut in charges on
business. At a 2 1/2 hour press conference on Nov. 13, the
Socialist president also pledged 60 billion euros in spending
cuts over five years.  Hollande has asked unions and business leaders to agree on
ways to increase labor flexibility by the end of the year,
threatening to decree change if there is no accord.  “Paris shouldn’t wait until the conclusion of the current
negotiations between unions and the employers’ federation to
start fleshing out precisely its definition of a more flexible
labor market in France,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank in London. “The market for the time
being is giving France the benefit of the doubt, but a further
clarification of the policy stance is becoming urgent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  