-- Lovers Discover Parallel Universe, Rylance Flips Gender
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/lovers-discover-parallel-universe-rylance-flips-gender.html
Suppose your life forked into
simultaneous versions at every decision. “Yes” would take
things one way, “no” another. There would be further forks,
and billions of concurrent lives.  Nick Payne’s quirky speculative romance “Constellations,”
about a love story in parallel universes, has transferred to
 London ’s Duke of York’s Theatre from the  Royal Court .  The play is a 70-minute two-hander between quantum-theory
specialist Marianne (Sally Hawkins) and blokey bee-keeper Roland
(Rafe Spall). Their first meeting, a comical affair at a garden
barbecue, is played out several times.  In one version Marianne is screwball and gauche. In
another, she’s trying too hard. In another, she’s posh and
satirical. Roland is politely offhand; then immediately
flirtatious; then merely affable. In one of the variants they
hit it off.  The same rewind-replay trick is used through the following
scenarios which present their developing relationship. There are
several versions of the first date, an infidelity and a tango
lesson.  Details are changed for comic effect. When Roland tries to
find out whom Marianne was unfaithful with, his outraged
question “Not the one with the center parting?” subsequently
becomes “Not the one with dandruff?” and then “Not the bald
one?” In one version, it’s Roland himself who’s had the illicit
fling.  Cosmic Balloon  Tom Scutt’s simple set -- a floating cloud of gorgeously-
lit balloons against a black background -- reflects the playful
and cosmic elements of the writing.  In one scene Marianne explains that the existence of
parallel universes (the “multiverse”) may be a way of
reconciling the mutually incompatible, but demonstrably correct,
quantum and relativity theories.  It’s one of those nice plays where you come out feeling a
bit cleverer than you went in.  The script lays down a gauntlet to the two actors, who
sometimes have to repeat their lines over and over with subtle
changes. Hawkins takes the challenge and flies with it. She can
make a 180-degree turn in mood and characterization in a blink,
and it’s a joy to watch her.  When Marianne gets a brain tumor, Hawkins’s different
reactions of fear, anger, and confusion are extremely touching.  Spall does a good job, without reaching her level of
transformation. Each of his Rolands bears the same similarly
affable, blokey stamp.  Intellectual Dazzle  For all the intellectual dazzle, the ideas behind the
writing and their realization don’t ultimately meld. We don’t
see billions of possibilities, just a few relatively (forgive
the pun) predictable ones. That all these reality-replays may be
the result of Marianne’s malfunctioning brain seems a bit of a
let-down too.  Those are quibbles. A concise play which prompts cosmic
speculation long after the final speech is still a very
refreshing and welcome thing. It’s both amusing and stimulating,
which is always a bonus. Rating: ****.  Richard, Olivia  Mark Rylance , fresh from his triumph in “ Jerusalem ,” is
now appearing in the title role of “Richard III” and as Olivia
in “Twelfth Night” (which also includes Stephen Fry as
 Malvolio ).  Tim Carroll’s Shakespearean period-practice stagings have
transferred from the Globe Theatre to the  West End .  The action in both cases takes place in front of a high
wooden panel which supports a musicians’ gallery. Props are kept
to a minimum. 1590s-style costumes are made using traditional
techniques. The acting ensemble is exclusively male, just as in
Shakespeare’s time.  With such a pared-down aesthetic, everything relies on the
quality of the acting and the interaction of the ensemble.  Some performances are luminous. Rylance’s Richard is by
turns a comedian, a tyrant, and a vulnerable little boy. Paul
Chahidi is amusingly earthy as the quick-witted maid Maria in
“Twelfth Night,” and Samuel Barnett makes a proud and
confident  Queen Elizabeth . If Stephen Fry is not quite the last
word in Malvolios, he’s enjoyably pompous and uppity.  Then there are the others. Rylance’s Olivia is too often
played for exaggerated laughs. One moment he minces like a
demure geisha; the next he’s putting out like a puppy on heat.
Peter Hamilton Dyer underplays Feste so much, it’s as if he’s
forgotten that it should be a comic role.  Fortunately there are far more hits than misses, and, after
their runs at the Globe, both productions have a bedded-in feel.
It’s a delight, too, to be offered a glimpse into the theater of
400 years ago.  “Richard III” rating ****, ‘Twelfth Night” rating ***.  “Constellations” is at the Duke of York’s Theatre.
Information:  http://www.atgtickets.com  or +44-844-871-7615  “Richard III” and “Twelfth Night” are in repertoire at
the Apollo Theatre. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com   Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris art.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 