-- Paula Broadwell’s Radar Tracks Generals, Not Fed
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-11-22T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/paula-broadwell-s-radar-tracks-generals-not-fed.html
I had pretty much forgotten about
the  Federal Reserve , what with the presidential election, the
fiscal cliff, the brouhaha over Benghazi, and the bevy of buxom
gals mixing with Army brass at Centcom.  Even without the distractions, it’s hard to muster much
interest when the central bank has pledged to hold its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero for years and its  bond-buying program 
has become part of the daily routine.  I had just about concluded that no, I wasn’t seeing double,
and that yes, Jill Kelley has a twin -- Kelley is the woman who
received threatening e-mails from Paula Broadwell, General David Petraeus’s biographer and onetime paramour -- when my reverie
was interrupted by a red headline crossing the Bloomberg
terminal: YELLEN SAYS FED SHOULD LINK LOW-RATE OUTLOOK TO
ECONOMIC GOALS.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who has no relationship to
Petraeus, Broadwell or Kelley but is a likely candidate to
succeed  Ben Bernanke , signed on to what had been a minority view
at the Fed calling for an interest-rate increase to be
contingent on reaching a goal rather than a date. Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  has long argued for tying the Fed’s
forever-at-zero interest-rate pledge to a specific level of
 unemployment  (7 percent). He clearly convinced the Minneapolis
Fed’s  Narayana Kocherlakota , who two months ago offered both an
unemployment (5.5 percent) and an inflation-rate threshold (2.25
percent) as  prerequisites for “liftoff”  from this low-
interest-rate environment.  Indicator Barrage  Yellen, in a  speech  last week in Berkeley,  California , said
she agreed with the idea of replacing the current calendar-date
guidance -- a funds rate of 0 to 0.25 percent at least through
mid-2015 -- with economic conditions that would need to be
satisfied before raising rates.  She’s not alone. The  minutes  of the Fed’s Oct. 23-24
meeting, made public on Nov. 14, indicate that policy makers
“generally favored the use of economic variables, in place of
or in conjunction with a calendar date,” to communicate their
thinking about the initial increase in the funds rate. Before
implementing any change, the committee needs to iron out some
“practical issues,” such as whether to supplement unemployment
and inflation thresholds with other indicators of economic and
financial conditions, according to the minutes.  Uh-huh. Petraeus, a retired four-star general, could
explain to Bernanke the tactical issues involved in establishing
multiple lines in the sand.  For example, what if both inflation and unemployment exceed
the Fed’s thresholds, as they did in the 1970s? Presumably the
Fed now understands the consequences of trying to stimulate
demand in the face of a supply shock.  Or what if the Fed is wrong and today’s unemployment is
structural, the result of a skills mismatch, and not cyclical?
That would mean full employment in the U.S. is higher than 5 to
6 percent.  Just imagine what introducing thresholds for a host of
other metrics would do for the conduct of policy, not to mention
transparency.  All this transparency makes me yearn for the days (pre-
1994) when a now-extinct species known as “Fed watcher” would
pore over daily  reserve injections  to see what the Fed was up
to. Why, it was the equivalent of the FBI’s eavesdropping.  I used to rail about the silliness of such an opaque
approach: If the goal of changing policy is to change behavior,
by all rights the Fed should hire a brass band to announce its
moves, not couch them in secrecy.  Intel Leaks  Fast-forward two decades. The Fed now announces policy
changes, lays out the expected future path for the overnight
rate, and provides  scatter diagrams  of individual policy makers’
predictions about when that rate will rise. (No names. That
would be a transparency bridge too far.)  And if the Fed is desperate for some new kind of target,
there’s no need to reinvent the wheel. Nominal gross domestic
product is a good proxy for the Fed’s dual mandate, encompassing
as it does both real output -- the source of job growth -- and
inflation.  What do we have to show for all this newfound transparency?
Bupkes. The federal funds rate has been at 0 to 0.25 percent for
four full years. The Fed promises three more. All the coddling
and coaxing in the world hasn’t convinced the business
community, focused as it is on fiscal policy, that this is a
good time to invest and hire.  The theory of  rational expectations  suggests transparency
should make a difference. Because people are rational, they make
decisions on the basis of past experience and expectations about
the future, presumably including the level of the overnight rate
in 2015.  Not everyone is attuned to the intricacies of monetary
policy. Most people don’t know or care whether the Fed uses
dates or thresholds to convey its intentions. They may be
rational, but the cost of information relative to the perceived
benefit is too great.  Socialite Jill Kelley isn’t sitting around her Tampa,
Florida, manse waiting for the Fed’s 2:15 p.m. post-meeting
announcement. Nor is she apt to read it online. My best guess is
that her spending, including a lavish entertainment budget, is
less a function of expectations about the Fed than of lawsuits
related to credit-card debts and foreclosures.  This “public” isn’t relying on the Fed’s forward guidance.
Sure, the real housewives of Tampa may glance at the quarterly
401(k) statement, feel wealthier when the asset value goes up
and spend a bit more. But I seriously doubt that expectations
about Fed policy are anywhere on Paula Broadwell’s radar.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  ease hunger in India 
and how to  improve lives of retail workers ;  Michael Kinsley  on
how  voters don’t really want change ; William Pesek on
 Indonesia’s failure to sustain reforms ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 accounting industry’s watchdog committee ;  Whitney Tilson  and
Anthony Scaramucci on  coming together to raise taxes and cut
entitlements .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  