-- Philippine Peso Advances for Fourth Day on Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-11-22T08:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/philippine-peso-advances-for-fourth-day-on-inflows-bonds-steady.html
The Philippine peso strengthened for
a fourth day after foreign funds pumped money into the nation’s
stocks on speculation the central bank will cut borrowing costs
next month as inflation slows.  Government bonds  were steady.  The currency traded near the strongest level in more than
four years after overseas investors bought $146 million more
shares than they sold yesterday, the most in four months,
exchange data show. The Philippine Composite Index of equities
rose to an all-time high. Financial losses incurred by the
central bank may hinder its capacity to prevent further gains in
the peso before year-end, according to Bank of America Corp.  “The inflows are underpinning the strength of the stock
market and the peso,” said Ghia Yuson, an analyst at First
Metro Securities Brokerage Corp. in Manila. “The year-end is a
seasonally strong period in remittances” from overseas
citizens, she said.  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 41.073 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , according to data from Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency has appreciated 0.6 percent this week. It touched
41.050 on Nov. 8, a level last seen in March 2008. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was steady at 4.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’s losses widened 187 percent to
68.4 billion pesos ($1.7 billion) in the third quarter, the
Philippine Star reported on Nov. 19. The weaker balance sheet
“could constrain its ability to prevent further peso strength
into the seasonally strong year-end period,” Bank of America
said in a research note to clients yesterday.  Consumer-price gains eased to 3.1 percent in October from a
year earlier, compared with 3.6 percent in September, official
data show. Governor Amando Tetangco said on Nov. 13 the central
bank has “policy space” to manage domestic cash flows. First
Metro expects a rate cut in December, Yuson said.  The yield on the 5.75 percent bonds due September 2032 was
steady at 5.65 percent, according to Tradition Financial
Services. It has declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  