-- Ping An’s Investor Appeal Lies in Bank, Asset Management Mix
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-23T08:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/ping-an-s-investor-appeal-lies-in-banking-asset-management-mix.html
HSBC Holdings Plc’s $9.6 billion
stake in  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  offers investors a share
in a diversified business with stable profit growth, analysts at
Capital Securities Co. and BoCom International said.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest lender by market value, said Nov. 19
it’s in talks to offload its 15.6 percent holding in Ping An,
 China ’s second-largest insurer, without identifying potential
buyers.  Thailand ’s Charoen Pokphand Group is offering to buy the
stake for HK$74 billion ($9.6 billion), the Shanghai Securities
News said on Nov. 20, citing a person it didn’t identify.  “Ping An has over the years grown into one of the best
insurers in China and certainly has its value as a long-term
investment,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Capital Securities. “Although the insurance sector has been
sluggish and volatile in the past few years, Ping An’s banking
and trust operations maintained stable growth, enabling the
company to achieve growth in profit while some other big
companies report huge declines.”  Chairman Peter Ma has overseen the expansion of Ping An
into the world’s third-largest insurer by market value, as well
as banking, securities and money management operations, since he
founded the company in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen 24
years ago. With the most diversified business mix among local
insurers, Ping An can cross-sell its products among various
units, giving it greater potential to grow revenue, said Li
Wenbing, a Beijing-based analyst at BoCom.  ‘Depressed’ Valuation  “One of the appeals of Ping An is its financial holdings
structure with life, property insurance, banking, wealth
management businesses,” said Li. That’s unlike many Chinese
insurance companies, which rely on bancassurance for
distribution and have a bank-controlled client base, he added.  The company’s new business value, which gauges the
estimated profit from new policies sold, may grow a “strong”
13 percent in the second half of this year as agent sales shift
back to long-term risk-protection products, improving from a 9
percent drop in the first half, Barclays Plc said in a report e-
mailed Nov. 14.  “Ping An’s stock continues to trade on very depressed
multiples” of four times estimated new business value for 2013,
although the indicator’s growth outlook has improved, analysts
led by Mark Kellock wrote. “We believe the current price offers
attractive potential upside.”  The  stock  rose 1 percent to HK$59.40 at the close of  Hong
Kong  trading, taking its gain this year to 16 percent. The Hang
Seng Finance Index, of which Ping An is a member, has gained 20
percent in the period.  New Business Profitability  Thanks to its strong presence in bigger cities and
effective management of its agent forces, Ping An enjoys the
highest individual agent productivity among Chinese insurers and
the highest new-business profitability, according to Core
Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd.  Ping An’s agents averaged 7,316 yuan ($1,174) in new
business per month in the first half of this year, compared to
4,800 yuan at larger China Life Insurance Co. and 4,400 yuan at
China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., said Olive Xia, Core
Pacific’s Shanghai-based analyst. Subsequently, Ping An’s new-
business margin stood at 32 percent for that period, more than
double  China Life (2628) ’s and China Pacific’s, according to Xia.  Founded in 1988 as China’s first joint-stock insurer, Ping
An has grown into the nation’s second-biggest insurance company,
with 74 million clients, more than 175,000 employees, and about
500,000 agents.  Cross-Selling  Ping An’s property-insurance unit obtained 15 percent of
its business from clients at other operations in the first half
of this year, while 42 percent of Ping An Bank Co.’s credit
cards were issued through non-banking channels, according to the
company’s first-half report. Ping An last year folded its
banking operations into Shenzhen Development Bank Co. after an
acquisition, and renamed the combined lender after the insurer’s
old banking arm.  Ping An Securities Co. underwrote 34 initial public
offerings in China last year, the most among brokerages, while
its trust unit’s assets under management jumped 50 percent from
2009 to almost 200 billion  yuan  in 2011, the company said.  “If you look at sales figures in the past few years, the
cross-selling model is working,” Capital Securities’ Xie said.
“And it’s not a model every insurer can copy as it needs
backstage coordination and management adjustments.”  Limited Impact  China’s insurance market expanded an average 19 percent a
year in the past decade to become the world’s sixth biggest,
while insurers’ assets jumped tenfold, according to the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission. Premiums income slid 1.3
percent in 2011 as regulators tightened rules on selling
coverage over bank counters and insurers adjusted their product
mix to improve profitability.  The nation’s insurance market is attracting investors.
People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China, the nation’s
largest property insurer, is seeking as much as HK$27.8 billion
in what may become Hong Kong’s biggest initial public offering
in more than two years.  The exit of HSBC from its investment in the Chinese insurer
with a dual share listing in Hong Kong and Shanghai will have
“limited” impact on Ping An, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The news could create negative sentiment for Ping An’s
share price movement near term, but have a limited impact on
Ping An’s strategy, management, or fundamentals,” Goldman Sachs
analysts Mancy Sun and Ning Ma wrote in a report Nov. 20. “We
believe there is not much synergy between HSBC and Ping An’s
businesses.”  Growth Potential  There would be no fundamental impact on Ping An should HSBC
reach a deal to sell the stake, although short-term sentiment
may be hurt, analysts at Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit said in separate reports this
week.  “If they want to find a financial market with high-growth
potential to invest in, the Chinese mainland remains a very good
option,” said Joyce Huang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Fitch
Ratings . “What would worry us is if it’s a majority, strategic
shareholder reducing its holdings, which might affect a
company’s operations. But HSBC is only Ping An’s financial
investor, so there won’t be any direct impact.”  Ping An refocused on the domestic market after a foray to
expand in Europe ended with the company writing off 22.8 billion
yuan in 2008 on its investment in Fortis, once  Belgium ’s biggest
financial-services firm that eventually collapsed despite
government bailouts, a casualty of the global credit crunch.  “The company’s operations are running as usual,” Ping
An’s Shenzhen-based spokesman Sheng Ruisheng said in an e-mailed
statement, reiterating an earlier response.  Bank Profit  An 18 percent increase in unit Ping An Bank’s profit helped
the company’s third-quarter  net income  rise by 21 percent,
buffering the effect of declines in the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index that caused larger rival China Life to suffer
its first quarterly loss since 2008 amid impairments.  Beijing-based China Life is the world’s biggest insurance
company by market value in U.S. dollar terms, followed by
 Allianz SE (ALV) , based in Munich, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ping An’s third-quarter net income climbed to 2.13 billion
yuan as banking revenues rose and net premiums earned expanded
19 percent, the company said last month. The embedded value,
which investors use to gauge insurers’ net assets after
actuarial adjustments, rose 10 percent in the first half to 259
billion yuan, according to its first-half report.  --Zhang Dingmin, with assistance from Bei Hu in Hong Kong.
Editors: Andreea Papuc, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  