-- Pioneer Unfazed by More Bond Sales as Union Buys: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-11-23T09:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/pioneer-unfazed-by-more-bond-sales-as-union-buys-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asian government plans to
boost bond sales next year aren’t deterring Union Investment
Privatfonds and Pioneer Investments, who say they favor
sovereign securities from  Thailand  and the Philippines.  Union Investment bought debt of the two nations recently,
instead of Indonesian notes, because their currencies have been
more stable than the falling rupiah, Sergey Dergachev, a senior
portfolio manager in  Frankfurt , said in a Nov. 20 interview.
Pioneer plans to buy new issues from Thailand because it has a
better  credit rating  than the other countries, Yerlan Syzdykov,
who oversees emerging-market bonds, said in a Nov. 16 interview.  Southeast Asian governments are issuing more debt to build
roads, rail, ports and schools, spending that lifts productivity
and economic growth, unlike in  Europe  where states often borrow
to fund social programs. Thailand plans to sell a record 525
billion baht ($17 billion) of local-currency notes in the year
through September 2013, 52 percent more than the year before.
The Philippines expects to increase domestic borrowings by 9
percent in 2013, while  Indonesia  aims to boost sales of local
and foreign-currency securities by 13 percent, excluding the
replacement of maturing debt.  “Investors will be happy to direct their flows to  Asia ,”
said Dublin-based Syzdykov at Pioneer, which manages 153 billion
euros ($197 billion) of assets. “We are reducing our Indonesian
allocation due to potential politically induced volatility in
the pre-election year.” Indonesians will vote for a new
president in 2014.  Spreads Tighten  Pioneer’s $944 million  emerging-market bond fund  has
returned 24 percent over the past year, beating 98 percent of
its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Thailand, the
 Philippines  and Indonesia are the largest Southeast Asian
countries in terms of issuance and weighting in the major debt
indexes, Syzdykov said. The relative scarcity of sovereign notes
from the region has resulted in yield premiums over Treasuries
narrowing, he said.  The yield  gap  between Thailand’s 10-year securities and
similar-maturity  U.S. debt  shrank 47 basis points since this
year’s peak on June 1 to 171 basis points today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the same period, the spread for
Indonesian bonds decreased 132 basis points to 373, while that
for the Philippines  narrowed  121 basis points to 335.  Standard & Poor’s assigns Thailand a BBB+ rating, its
third-lowest investment grade, while ranking the Philippines and
Indonesia three levels lower at BB+, the top junk assessment.  Resilient Economies  Southeast Asia ’s economies have proved remarkably resilient
to the 2008 financial crisis and ensuing global slowdown.
Domestic consumption and rising investment look set to buoy
growth over the next few years, says the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, who forecast this month
that Indonesian gross domestic product will increase by an
average of 6.4 percent from 2013 through 2017. Thailand and the
Philippines will expand by 5.1 percent and 5.5 percent, the
Paris-based organization forecast.  The Thai government is planning to spend more than 2
trillion baht on infrastructure and water-management projects
over the next seven years to boost growth and prevent a repeat
of last year’s worst floods in almost 70 years. The Philippines
has proposed a record 2 trillion peso budget for 2013 to build
roads, hospitals and schools. Indonesia has already allocated
$185 billion of funding for highways, ports and power stations,
out of its $416 billion 15-year development plan.  “The most important source of financing for the region now
is bonds,” Iwan Azis, head of regional economic integration at
the  Asian Development Bank  in  Manila , said in a Nov. 21
interview. “Any effort to increase the liquidity of the bond
markets are a welcome development. Asia has huge deficits in
both physical and social infrastructure.”  Commodity Price Vulnerability  The state finances of Indonesia, the world’s largest
exporter of power-station coal, may come under pressure due to
declining commodity prices, Union Investment’s Dergachev said.
The Newcastle coal  spot price  has dropped 27 percent this year
to $81.60 a ton on Nov. 16, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A lot will depend on commodity prices, where Indonesia is
far more sensitive than the Philippines and Thailand,” said
Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion of emerging-market
assets.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting Thai sovereign
debt have fallen 97 basis points this year to 84.9 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That compares with a 92 basis point
drop to 99.7 for the Philippines and an 84 basis point decline
to 124.6 for Indonesia.  Strengthening Currencies  The Philippine peso has strengthened 6.6 percent against
the dollar this year, the second-best performance among Asia’s
11 most-traded currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Thai baht  has advanced 2.8 percent, while the
rupiah has weakened 5.7 percent. The three currencies will gain
2.6 percent, 2.4 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively, by the
end of 2013, according to median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  “Increased supplies from ASEAN nations don’t really change
our rather bullish view on their bonds,” Yichun Shi, a Taipei-
based portfolio manager who oversees NT$2.6 billion ($89 million)
of assets at Eastspring Securities Investment Trust Co., a unit
of Prudential Plc, said in a Nov. 15 interview. “If we decide
to increase holdings, it would be Thai bonds for the
appreciation potential of the baht.” 