-- Portugal’s Dengue Outbreak Worsens as Cases Accelerate
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-11-22T12:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/portugal-s-dengue-outbreak-worsens-as-cases-accelerate.html
An outbreak of dengue on the
Portuguese island of Madeira worsened as infections of the
mosquito-borne disease accelerated.  Reported cases of the potentially lethal disease rose to
1,672 as of Nov. 18,  Portugal ’s health ministry said in a report
on its  website  yesterday. That’s a 23 percent jump in one week,
after cases rose 18 percent in the week ending Nov. 11,
according to data on the website. The ministry first reported
two cases on Oct. 3.  The epidemic is the first sustained outbreak of dengue in
Europe since the 1920s, the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control said in a Nov. 20 report. Transmission
will probably increase as the number of visitors to the island
swells during the Christmas holidays, the ECDC said.  Most cases so far are among island residents, though there
have been 10 infections among visitors from mainland Portugal,
seven from  Germany , six from the U.K., two from  France  and one
each from Sweden and Finland, the ministry said. One hundred
people have been hospitalized and none have died.  Dengue causes flu-like illness with  symptoms  such as severe
headache, pain behind the eyes, muscle and joint pain, nausea
and rash. In its worst form, it can cause severe bleeding,
breathing problems and death. There’s no approved vaccine and no
specific treatment.  Mosquito Carrier  The disease is caused by one of four viruses carried by the
Aedes aegypti mosquito, which has been present on Madeira since
at least 2005, according to the Stockholm-based ECDC. There’s no
evidence of established populations of the insect on continental
Europe, the agency said.  Dengue, entrenched in more than 100 countries, has begun to
appear in the continental U.S., with local cases occurring in
 Key West ,  Florida , in 2009 and 2010 and in Miami as recently as
 last week . The virus infects as many as 100 million people a
year globally, about 20 times the number of serious influenza
cases, according to the  World Health Organization .  The incidence of dengue is rising globally as the human
population increases and  climate change  causes mosquitoes to
disperse more widely, according to the Geneva-based WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  