-- Pound Falls to Four-Week Low Versus Euro After Factory Report
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-11-22T16:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/pound-snaps-two-day-gain-versus-euro-before-manufacturing-report.html
The pound dropped to a four-week low
against the euro after a gauge of U.K. manufacturing stayed near
the lowest in 10 months, adding to concern the economy is
struggling to recover.  Sterling dropped versus all except two of its 16 major
counterparts after  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  told a
parliamentary commission that the uncertainty of regulatory
fines levied on British lenders was weighing on their ability to
raise finance. U.K. government bonds were little changed as the
Debt Management Office sold 3.25 billion pounds ($5.18 billion)
of index-linked bonds though banks.  “Although sterling has received some support from the
situation in the  euro zone , there are some challenges in terms
of U.K. economic fundamentals that could limit any rebound in
sterling,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “We expect more negative
headlines on the data and fiscal fronts and that should continue
to put pressure on the pound.”  The U.K. currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 80.82 pence
per euro at 4:32 p.m.  London  time after sliding to 80.86 pence,
the weakest level since Oct. 25. The U.K. currency dropped 0.1
percent to $1.5937.  Morgan Stanley predicts the pound will decline to 83 pence
per euro by March, Stannard said.  The Confederation of British Industry’s factory orders
 index  was at minus 21 this month from minus 23 in October, which
was the lowest since December 2011. A measure of manufacturers’
output expectations for the next three months slid to minus 9,
the lowest this year, from 12.  Third Worst  Sterling has weakened 2.1 percent in the past six months,
the third-worst performer after the dollar and yen of the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar dropped 3.3 percent and the yen
slid 6.6 percent.  Fines levied on U.K. banks including over the manipulation
of Libor is hurting their ability to raise funds, King told
lawmakers at a hearing of the  Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards  in London.  “One of the additional burdens on banks at present, for
which they will need to provide capital, is the increasing
consequence of regulatory fines of all kinds, not just Libor,”
King said. “The problems may not be confined to Libor, but to
commodity markets or other areas.”  The pound is poised to extend its decline against the euro
to the weakest since June after it dropped through a level of
so-called support of 80.78 pence today, Credit Suisse Group AG
said, citing trading patterns.  The U.K. currency may fall to 81.66 pence, the low set on
Oct. 22, after sliding beyond the low of Oct. 31, analysts
including  David Sneddon  in London, wrote in a note to clients.  U.K. Gilts  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt declined one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.84 percent. The price of
the 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 rose 0.075, or 75
pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99.16.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.25 percent by the end of
June as the British economy recovers and after the Bank of
England halted its asset-purchase program this month, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “After a disappointing 2012, we expect a low pick-up in
the U.K. economy over 2013, driven predominantly by an improving
global backdrop,” JPMorgan strategist Francis Diamond in London
wrote in a research note yesterday. “We think that the BOE’s
quantitative-easing program has ended and that monetary policy
will be kept unchanged over 2013.”  The DMO said it sold the index-linked gilts due in March
2044 at a real yield, or return adjusted for inflation, of 0.331
percent. Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings
Plc and Nomura International Plc led the sale.  Gilts returned 2.5 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
3.4 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  earned 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  