-- Referee Clattenburg Cleared of Racist Remark in Chelsea Game
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-22T18:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/referee-clattenburg-cleared-of-racist-remark-in-chelsea-game-1-.html
England’s Football Association
cleared referee Mark Clattenburg of making a racist remark to
Chelsea midfielder John Obi Mikel during the match against
 Manchester United  last month.  Following today’s decision, the F.A. charged Mikel with
misconduct for threatening and insulting behavior near the match
officials’ changing room at the end of the Oct. 28 game. The
ruling body announced both rulings on its website.  The decisions come after the Metropolitan Police on Nov. 13
dropped a probe into the allegation against Clattenburg. It
started to look at the alleged incident after a complaint by the
Society of Black Lawyers, which called for an inquiry into
whether a criminal offense had been committed.  The F.A. said Chelsea complained after Brazilian midfielder
Ramires alleged he heard Clattenburg say “Shut up, you monkey”
to Nigerian Mikel during the 3-2 home defeat to United.
Clattenburg, 37, hasn’t refereed a match since the incident and
denied Chelsea’s allegation he used “inappropriate language.”
Mikel didn’t hear the alleged words.  “Having considered all of the available evidence it was
the opinion of David Waters QC, independent counsel, that the
evidence of Ramires was not supported by any other evidence,”
the F.A. said in a statement on its website. “Moreover it was
contradicted by other witnesses and does not cross the
evidential threshold required to bring a charge against Mark
Clattenburg.”  While clearing Clattenburg, the F.A. said it believed
Ramires had acted “in good faith.”  Terry Controversy  “It is entirely possible for a witness to be genuinely
mistaken and convincing in his belief,” the governing body
said.  The case started shortly after Chelsea captain  John Terry 
was banned for four games by the F.A. following an investigation
into claims he’d racially abused Queens Park Rangers defender
 Anton Ferdinand  during a game last season. Terry’s case, which
included a criminal trial in which the player was cleared, hurt
Chelsea’s reputation and overshadowed its first-ever  Champions
League  win in May.  “All allegations are properly investigated,” the F.A.
said. “It is not uncommon for investigations to lead to no
disciplinary charge being brought.”  Mikel has until Nov. 30 to respond to the misconduct charge
against him.  “While the player does not deny the charge, he will
request a personal hearing to explain the mitigating
circumstances,” Chelsea said today on its website.  ‘Duty of Care’  The club’s Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said in an
interview earlier this month his team had a “duty of care” to
Mikel as an employee to report the allegation after speaking
with him, investigating the incident and consulting external
legal professionals.  Clattenburg sent off Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic for
tripping Ashley Young and then gave  Fernando Torres  a second
yellow for diving. United won when  Javier Hernandez  scored in
the 75th minute from what television replays showed may have
been an offside position. Mikel was booked after the third
United goal.  “I am looking forward to putting this behind me and
concentrating on refereeing in the Premier League and other
competitions,” Clattenburg said in an e-mailed statement. “To
know you were innocent of something but that there was the
opportunity for it to wreck your career was truly frightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  