-- RIM Gains as National Bank Sees Better Outlook
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-22T21:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/rim-gains-as-national-bank-sees-better-outlook.html
Research In Motion (RIMM)  Ltd. surged 18
percent, the most in more than three years, after National Bank
Financial said new BlackBerry 10 phone sales should be better
than expected.  RIM rose to C$12.06 at the close in Toronto, the biggest
gain since April 2009. The gain pared the stock’s loss this year
to 19 percent. Trading of RIM shares in  New York  was closed for
Thanksgiving today after the stock gained 5.7 percent to $10.26
yesterday.  RIM’s new BlackBerry 10 phones, scheduled to go on sale in
February, should reach about 35.5 million in shipments next
fiscal year, said  Kris Thompson , a National Bank analyst in
Toronto, up from a previous estimate of 31.6 million. Most
analysts had expected sales to start in March, he said. He
lifted his price target for the U.S. shares to $15 from $12 and
kept his rating at the equivalent of a buy.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is counting on BlackBerry
10 to restore its reputation as a smartphone innovator after its
aging lineup of devices caused a loss of market share to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. Chief Operating Officer Kristian Tear said in an
interview this month that the phones will go on sale in February
on multiple continents.  Thompson lifted his estimate for shipments to account for
an additional month of availability and “a little extra for the
positive sentiment building in the industry from our
discussions,” he said in a research note dated yesterday.  Eric Jackson , president of Ironfire Capital LLC, which had
bet on RIM shares to fall in the past, said he bought the stock
yesterday because he expects a surge of upgrades from loyal
BlackBerry customers. He declined to say how many shares he
acquired.  “Most are greatly underestimating how many loyal
subscribers will upgrade to BB10 in calendar 2013,” Jackson
said today. “All those pending upgrades are currently not
factored into the stock.”  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, speaking last week
at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau, said he expected a wave of
upgrades from RIM’s government clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  