-- Robbie, Stones; Action Art; Brutal Drama: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-11-23T13:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/robbie-stones-action-art-brutal-drama-london-weekend.html
The O2 is set for four nights of
continuous hits from  Robbie Williams  and the  Rolling Stones .  Williams, playing three shows through Nov. 24, is back on
top of the U.K. album and singles charts. He will be singing
tracks from his new collection “Take the Crown” and can chose
from a catalog that includes “Angels” and “Let Me Entertain
You.” Each gig will be released as an instant live 3-CD album.  The Stones play their first stadium concert since 2007 on
Sunday -- one of just five to mark the group’s 50th anniversary.
The performances are sold out, though tickets can be found
online for prices of as much as 1,500 pounds ($2,391).  The O2, Peninsula Square, SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-
8463-2000 or  http://www.theo2.co.uk ,
 http://mind.robbiewilliams.com ,  http://www.rollingstones.com .  Saturday  A team of naked women daub their bodies with blue paint and
roll around on canvas.  The year is 1960, and artist Yves Klein is staging his
“Anthropometries de l’Epoque Bleue” before a chic Parisian
audience. Klein is a key figure in Tate Modern’s new exhibition,
“A Bigger Splash: Painting after Performance.”  The show opens with a Jackson Pollock action painting and
 David Hockney ’s picture of a diving board moments after someone
jumped off. Then comes a truly global survey of action- and
performance-based visual art.  There’s an Andy Warhol self-portrait in drag, images of
Viennese actionist Hermann Nitsch spilling animal guts over
naked humans, and films of Niki de Saint-Phalle shooting at
sacks of paint pinned to a canvas.  Too bad Tate didn’t splash out on the exhibition more:
Works are mainly from the museum’s own collection. Still, the
show is an eye-opener on an important contemporary genre.  Through April 1, 2013 at Tate Modern. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Ballet’s Edward Watson stars in the world premiere of
“Alpha Episodes,” an exploration of masculinity by
choreographer Paolo Mangiola (who dances with the Wayne McGregor
Company). It’s part of a Wayne McGregor/Random Dance company
mixed bill at the Royal Opera House’s Linbury Studio.  There are performances on Friday at 7:45 p.m., Saturday
2:30 p.m. and 7:45 p.m. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk .  Saturday Night  Howard Barker  once again turns brutality into art in
“Scenes From an Execution,” which is coming toward the end of
its run at  London ’s National Theatre.  After the wartime rape and onstage birth of “The
Europeans” set in 1683 Vienna, Barker turns to 16th-century
 Venice  where the headstrong artist Galactia is commissioned to
create a mural to mark victory in the Battle of Lepanto.  Galactia, powerfully portrayed by Fiona Shaw, infuriates
her patrons by sketching a disturbing image of carnage.  Baker’s work is hardly easy going, more a thought-provoking
exploration of sexual politics. Galactia’s lover completes the
work as she faces jail for her artistic independence.  Until Dec. 9 at the Lyttelton, National Theatre, South
Bank, SE1 9PX. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk   Sunday  Combine your Christmas shopping with a dash of culture.  Studio Voltaire -- the cutting-edge art gallery in Clapham,
south London -- is having artists create objects for sale in a
Mayfair pop-up. There’s a shopping bag by Jeremy Deller and
hand-tinted etchings by Pablo Bronstein.  Staff at the boutique will include familiar faces,
sometimes very familiar ones, such as actors  James Franco  and
Lily Cole.  The House of Voltaire ends Dec. 15 at 17a Adam’s Row,
London W1. Information:  http://www.studiovoltaire.org .  It’s a short walk from Studio Voltaire’s show to China
Tang, a glamorous Chinese restaurant in the Dorchester hotel.
While it can be expensive, there’s also a dim sum menu
Information:  http://www.chinatanglondon.co.uk/  or +44-20-7629-
9988.  Over in Wimbledon, 140 artists are inviting visitors into
their studios this weekend so you can meet them and, if tempted,
buy directly. Information:
 http://www.wimbledonartstudios.co.uk/open-studios/next-show .  When in Wimbledon, it’s worth seeking out the Lawn Bistro,
about a mile away from the exhibition. This is the domain of
Ollie Couillaud, a talented chef who previously worked at
Bord’eaux on  Park Lane  and at  Tom Aikens . Information:
 http://www.thelawnbistro.co.uk/  or +44-20-8947-8278.  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris art and  Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writers on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 