-- Rockwell Collins Ties Up With Tata for Indian Air Force Bid
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-11-22T18:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/rockwell-collins-ties-up-with-tata-for-indian-air-force-bid.html
Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  has tied up
with  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  to bid for an Indian  Air Force  contract as
the aerospace-equipment maker seeks to boost sales outside home
amid curbs in U.S. military spending.  Rockwell Collins is planning more partnerships in  India  for
future deals, TC Chan, managing director for Asia Pacific, said
in a Nov. 21 interview in  New Delhi . The company, based in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, is bidding to supply software defined radio in
partnership with  Tata Power Strategic Electronics Division , he
said without disclosing the size of the contract.  The manufacturer joins  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
in seeking orders from India, which has tripled its defense
spending in the last decade to keep pace with China and counter
internal security threats. In contrast, military budget growth
has slowed in the U.S., prompting contractors there to fire
workers and restructure operations.  “India is trying to update systems across navy, army and
air force and that’s one big area,” Chan said. The nation’s
“requirements are going to be for the longer term.”  Rockwell Collins  plans to cut about 6 percent of its
workforce next year as its defense revenue falls amid curtailed
U.S. military spending. The company expects to let 1,250
employees go in the fiscal year through September, Chief
Executive Officer Clay Jones said last month. Boeing and
Lockheed Martin are also paring jobs.  Research Facility  In the next five years, KPMG International estimates, India
will seek bids for $42 billion of military hardware -- from
fighter jets to artillery guns. Rockwell Collins sees a
potential market of $500 million for communication and avionics
products in the next five to seven years, Chan said.  The  company  is setting up a research facility in the
southern city of Hyderabad, where it already has a design
center. It employs about 500 people in India.  The electronics division of Tata Power, India’s largest
non-state generator of electricity, has worked on electronics
and software development programs for the nation’s Defence
Research and Development Organisation since 1967. The Rockwell
Collins-Tata partnership may compete with state-owned  Bharat
Electronics Ltd. (BHE)  and  Electronics Corp. of India Ltd.  that are
developing software defined radio equipment.  Shalini Singh, a spokeswoman for Tata Power, didn’t
immediately reply to e-mailed questions on the partnership.
Gerard Galway, Indian Air Force’s spokesman, also didn’t respond
to a call and text message seeking comments on the tender.  “No matter how hard we try, we cannot get a good insight
that a local company can give in India,” Chan said. “Tata will
do a significant amount of work on our behalf in order to
fulfill that contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  