-- Rothschild Raises $270 Million for Bumi Severance Proposal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-23T06:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/rothschild-raises-270-million-to-fund-bumi-split-from-bakries.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , who quit the
board of London-listed Bumi Plc last month, has raised $270
million for a proposal to the coal producer that would see it
sever ties with shareholders including Indonesia’s Bakrie
family, Rosan Roeslani and Chairman Samin Tan.  Rothschild’s NR Investments has committed funds to the
proposal along with other investors, he said in an e-mailed
statement sent to  Bloomberg News . The Bakries, who made a rival
$1.2 billion approach for the coal assets of Bumi last month,
would be willing to study the plan, spokesman Chris Fong said.  “The independent board members need to evaluate our
proposal which currently appears to be the only workable
solution,” Rothschild said in his statement yesterday.  The proposal from the 41-year-old, whose ancestor helped
bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic  France , was sent to
Bumi independent directors last month as he stepped up a battle
for control of the group he set up with the Bakries in 2010.
Rothschild resigned as a director amid a feud with the Bakries
and Tan, saying he’d lost confidence in the board.  “They are open to anything that is reasonable and works
for everybody,” Bakrie spokesman Fong said by phone from Sydney
yesterday. “This is just an unfortunate situation what’s
happened.”  ‘Difficult for Investors’  Bumi investors  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Standard Life Investments,
Artemis Investment Management LLP and Abu Dhabi Investment Co.
have agreed to support Rothschild’s proposal, a person with
knowledge of the plan said. The proposal may include a rights
offer, the person said, asking not to be identified as the
negotiations are confidential.  “It’s difficult for investors to take a view because we
don’t have any details of the proposal,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “The
key risk is that the company may be left without any powerful,
aligned interests in Indonesia and that could be a scary
proposition.”  Robert Friedland, the billionaire founder of mining company
 Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) , has agreed to invest $50 million in the venture
with Rothschild, the person said. Friedland declined to comment.  Rothschild, the scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty,
also called for Tan to step down. “A new board will restore
confidence,” he said in his statement. Tan said last week he
supports the Bakries’ offer, adding that it equates to between 5
pounds and 6 pounds a share.  ‘Bring Price Down’  “If there’s a deal which can bring the share price to 5 to
6 pounds, why don’t we support it?” he said in a Nov. 15
interview. “If there is other ways and means to achieve the
same or even better, rest assured I will go for it. If Nat’s
proposal can result in the same or better, I will undoubtedly
support it.”  Bumi Resources shares declined 1.7 percent to 590 rupiah at
the midday break in Jakarta trading and were headed for their
lowest close since February 2009. Shares of Borneo Lumbung
Energi & Metal, which together with the Bakrie group controls
47.6 percent of Bumi Plc, fell 1.6 percent to 610 rupiah.  “The questions is, can he offer a better deal than the
Bakries?” Wilianto Ie, head of  Indonesia  equities research at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said by telephone from Jakarta referring
to Rothschild’s offer. Considering Rothschild has “only raised
$270 million for now, will he do it with leverage? At the end of
the day, he has to offer a better deal than the Bakries.”  Morgan Stanley  Rothschild, who is being advised by Morgan Stanley, has
also secured support from Hashim Djojohadikusumo, son of
Sumitro, one of the architects of Indonesia’s economic programs
in the late 1960s, the person said. His proposal is being
studied by Bumi’s advisers and independent directors, according
to a Nov. 5 statement.  Officials for Schroders, Standard Life and Artemis and Bumi
declined to comment. Officials at Abu Dhabi Investment couldn’t
be reached for comment.  Tan said in the interview he hadn’t seen Rothschild’s
proposal as it had only been given to independent directors of
 Bumi. (BUMI)   PT Borneo (BORN)  Lumbung Energi and Metal and the Bakrie Group
may agree this week to end their joint venture that holds 47.6
percent of the shares in Bumi, freeing Bakrie to trade its stake
and exit the company, Tan said in the interview.  Coal Producers  The $3 billion deal between Rothschild and the Bakries two
years ago listed stakes in two Indonesian coal producers in
London. The boardroom infighting and investigations in London
and Indonesia into potential financial irregularities have
prompted moves to unwind the investment. The Bakries have
offered to acquire the 29 percent stake in PT Bumi Resources and
85 percent of  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  held by Bumi Plc.  The Bakrie Group has offered to exchange a 23.8 percent
stake in Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Jakarta-based  Bumi
Resources. (BUMI)  The group also made a conditional proposal to buy
back the remaining 18.9 percent in Bumi Resources in cash by
Christmas. In addition, it plans to offer $947 million for Bumi
Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in Berau Coal Energy.  Roeslani is president director of Berau Coal Energy and
owns about 13 percent of London-listed Bumi Plc through
Recapital. Rothschild owns about 12 percent of the company’s
voting stock. Bumi declined 2.6 percent to close at 259.8 pence
in London yesterday.  Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s top producer of power-station
coal, said a court on Nov. 9 approved an independent
investigation into its accounts dating back to 2010. Bumi
Resources is part-owned by the Bakrie family.  The probe was prompted by the company’s audit committee
“in view of the public notifications by a shareholder, Bumi
Plc, and various reports, both in international and local
media,” Jakarta-based Bumi Resources said that day.  The London-listed company announced Sept. 24 an inquiry
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations, Bumi Resources and Berau Coal Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  