-- S&P Cut No Match for Swedish Mortgage Bond Allure
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-11-22T12:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/s-p-cut-no-match-for-swedish-mortgage-bond-allure-nordic-credit.html
Swedish bonds tied to mortgages are
basking in the country’s haven status, undiminished by the
threat of a downgrade from Standard & Poor’s, as investors bet
limited supply will add to the debt’s appeal.  The yield spread on  benchmark covered bonds  issued out of
 Sweden  has eased to its narrowest since 2008 as supply of the
notes is seen dropping about 40 percent this year. The AAA rated
securities offer higher yields than  Sweden’s government debt ,
adding to their allure as risk-averse investors look for ways to
generate better returns.  “The spreads can tighten a bit further,” said Joakim Buddgaard, a fund manager at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  in
Stockholm, who helps oversee $13.8 billion in fixed-income
assets, including Swedish covered bonds. “I’m a buyer, not
because I think the spread is going to tighten massively, but
because there is still a good pick-up in yields,” he said in an
e-mailed reply to questions yesterday.  Sweden’s status as a haven from the debt crisis in the euro
area looks set to endure as investors flock to one of only 12
remaining AAA rated countries. The Nordic nation’s success in
cutting public debt to about a third the euro-zone average, as a
percentage of gross domestic product, has kept investors loyal
even as exports stall and companies such as Ericsson AB and
 Volvo AB (VOLVB)  cut jobs.  S&P Warning  While Sweden enjoys solid public finances, household debt
levels have soared, reaching about 170 percent of disposable
incomes, the central bank estimates. S&P lowered its outlook on
eight Swedish banks this week, including the biggest covered-
bond issuers, Handelsbanken and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , to negative from
stable and said Sweden faces “a sharper economic slowdown” and
“a build-up of substantial indebtedness for households.”  The euro area debt crisis poses the biggest risk to the
country’s financial system, according to a Riksbank survey of
bond and currency market participants published today. They see
a small likelihood of Swedish households not repaying loans.
Though the S&P warning initially sent spreads on Swedish
mortgage bonds wider relative to similar-maturity government
notes, investors are betting the impact will be short-lived.  The  spread  between the five-year benchmark mortgage bond
sold by Stadshypotek AB -- a unit of Handelsbanken -- and
similar-maturity Swedish government notes has narrowed by about
100 basis points this year to 91.4 basis points on Nov. 19, the
lowest since July 2008. The spread to swap rates has narrowed to
46 basis points from 116 basis points on Dec. 16, the lowest
since August 2008.  Local Buyers  The mortgage notes will be buoyed by a committed domestic
investor base as supply declines, according to  Charlotte  Asgermyr, an analyst at SEB AB in Stockholm.  “If you look at the yield pick-up that Swedish covered
bonds still offer toward government” debt, “we expect the
domestic Swedish investor base to continue to favor covered
bonds in relation to government bonds,” Asgermyr said by phone.
“We believe the underlying trend is for tighter spreads.”  Price increases in the securities are likely to resume at
the turn of the year, after investors finish closing their
positions for 2012, she said.  The premium on mortgage bond yields has fallen as issuance
of covered bonds dropped to about 340 billion kronor ($50
billion) up to the end of last month, according to Asgermyr at
SEB. Issuance will reach about 380 billion kronor in 2012, down
from 620 billion kronor in 2011, she said.  Basel Effect  Swedish bank ratings would face a one-level downgrade in a
worse-than-expected economic situation, S&P said. Swedish
covered bonds could still withstand another issuer downgrade of
1 to 3 levels before their AAA ratings would be jeopardized,
Asgermyr wrote in a note today.  Swedish covered bond issuers had stepped up supply in 2010
and 2011, selling longer-term notes in response to a stable
funding requirement set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision. Basel has since pushed the deadline back to 2018,
giving lenders more time to adjust and easing pressure to sell
longer notes.  Norway  this year surpassed Sweden as the largest Nordic
covered-bond market as measured by the volume of international
mortgage-backed bonds outstanding, according to a report by
Barclays Plc. Issuance is falling in  Europe , with gross supply
dropping to 155 billion euros ($198 billion) in 2012 from 247
billion euros, according to a Nov. 16 report by Barclays. New
covered bonds will rebound to 175 billion euros in 2013.  Worst Performance  Swedish government bonds have returned 1.57 percent this
year, the worst performance among the 26 major Bloomberg/EFFA
sovereign indexes. The yield on Sweden’s 10-year note fell one
basis point to 1.55 percent while two-year yields were at 0.75
percent. The Swedish OMRX Mortgage Bond Index of benchmark
securities has returned 3.68 percent this year.  “Demand has been very strong and continues to be strong,”
said Roland Nilsson, chief fixed-income strategist at Swedbank
in  Stockholm . “It’s secured and you get a yield pick-up versus
government bonds, so that’s very appealing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  