-- Sarkozy Named a Material Witness in Bettencourt Affair
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-11-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/sarkozy-questioned-by-judge-on-bettencourt-gifts-campaign-funds.html
Former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  was named a material witness by judges investigating
claims that people close to  Liliane Bettencourt  took advantage
of the 90-year-old’s mental frailty to get at her fortune.  Sarkozy escaped being charged in the matter after 12 hours
of grilling yesterday by the three judges, according to his
lawyer Thierry Herzog and the Bordeaux prosecutors.  “At the end of this appearance, Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy found
himself declared a material witness,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the prosecutors. That classification places him
between a simple witness and a target of the matter.  The judges questioned Sarkozy on allegations the  L’Oreal SA (OR) 
heiress was victim to abuses of her mental frailty, abuses of
trust and fraud, according to the statement. Witnesses in the
case who used to work for Bettencourt claimed to have seen
Sarkozy at her home and that cash was passed on to help fund his
2007 presidential campaign.  Sarkozy has denied any wrongdoing, saying in April that
“there’s not a penny whose origin is unaccounted for” from
that campaign. Sarkozy has also acknowledged visiting the
Bettencourt home in 2007, while saying he was there just once
that year, in February to see Andre Bettencourt, her husband.  Sarkozy lost his bid for re-election in May, lifting the
immunity that accompanies the post of president in  France . He is
the second former president in France’s modern era to face
questioning in a criminal investigation after leaving office.
His predecessor,  Jacques Chirac , was found guilty of corruption
during his time as mayor of Paris prior to his term as
president, receiving a suspended jail sentence in December.  Searches  Jean-Michel Gentil, the lead judge in the investigations,
led police on searches of Sarkozy’s Paris home and offices in
July, seizing agendas to help trace meetings with the
Bettencourts and their representatives. Sarkozy was out of the
country at the time of the searches.  Andre Bettencourt’s death in November 2007 set in motion a
family dispute over how his widow, heir to the L’Oreal founder
and France’s richest woman, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaire’s Index, disposed of her fortune and whether she was
mentally fit to make such decisions.  The Bordeaux investigations stem from that quarrel.
Bettencourt is now under the court-ordered care of her family.  Bettencourt’s former financial adviser, Patrice de Maistre,
and  Eric Woerth , the treasurer of Sarkozy’s party during the
campaign and a former budget minister, have been charged in the
case. Both men deny the allegations. De Maistre said in an
interview in the Journal du Dimanche on Nov. 11 that he never
gave money to either Woerth or Sarkozy.  In total, over a dozen people have been charged in the
probes spawned by the affair,  Agence France-Presse  said. The
Bordeaux prosecutors’ office refused to confirm the number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  