-- Saudi Arabia Plans $109 Billion Boost for Solar Power
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-11-22T16:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/saudi-arabia-plans-109-billion-boost-for-solar-power.html
Saudi Arabia plans to produce
electricity from its first nuclear plant by 2020 and begin
operating a solar farm by 2015, said an official at the agency
developing the country’s  renewable energy  program.  The country will start work on its first solar-power
facility early next year, which may take as much as 24 months to
complete, Khalid al-Suliman, vice president at the King Abdullah
City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, told the state-owned Saudi
Press Agency.  Al-Suliman said the project will get underway once the
government approves his agency’s plan for renewable energy. He
told the press agency yesterday that he expects to receive
official approval early next year.  Saudi Arabia, which is tapping renewable energy as a way to
free more crude oil for export, is planning for $109 billion in
investment to create a solar industry that generates a third of
the nation’s electricity by 2032.  The world’s largest crude oil exporter targets 41,000
megawatts of solar capacity within two decades, according to the
plan that was announced in May. Al-Suliman said 16,000 megawatt
of that will be generated from photovoltaic panels. The rest
comes from solar-thermal technology, which use mirrors to focus
the sun’s rays on heating fluids that turns a power turbine.  Al-Suliman said that they want renewables and nuclear
reactors to supply half of the Kingdom’s electricity in the
coming two decades. Solar would supply a fifth of that energy.  Saudi Arabia  currently has about 3 megawatts of solar
installations, trailing  Egypt ,  Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Algeria  and the
United Arab Emirates, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Nuclear Mix  The vice president for the organization known as Ka-care
said officials are considering options to generate electricity
from nuclear energy and they will decide next year on the
percentage of nuclear power in the country’s future energy mix.  Al-Suliman said in May that Saudi Arabia would build 16
nuclear reactors by 2030 with a capacity of 14,000 megawatts of
electricity. He didn’t discuss costs.  The desert-Kingdom may spend $100 billion to build 17
nuclear reactors over the coming two decades to produce
electricity, the Saudi Press Agency said, citing unnamed
experts. The cost of developing the reactors is similar to an
earlier estimate by officials from Ka-Care.  The country signed a nuclear cooperation agreement with
 China  in January, following three accords signed last year with
 France , South Korea, and Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  