-- HSBC Bets on Won Rally as Korea Politics Frowns on Conglomerates
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-11-23T04:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/hsbc-bets-on-won-rally-as-korea-politics-frowns-on-conglomerates.html
South Korea ’s won will extend  Asia ’s
best rally since June on speculation the nation will elect a new
president next month who is more willing to tolerate a stronger
currency, HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc analysts said.  The three leading contenders have pledged to support small
companies that rely on imports over family-run conglomerates,
known as chaebol, that account for most of the nation’s exports.
Frontrunner Park Geun Hye, the ruling New Frontier Party’s
nominee, Moon Jae In, an opposition lawmaker, and Ahn Cheol Soo,
an independent, favor a market-determined exchange rate and
limiting the influence of large businesses on an economy driven
by overseas sales, according to members of their campaign staff.  “Whichever party wins, they are likely to show more
tolerance of won appreciation to strike a better balance between
big groups and small, medium-sized enterprises and consumers,”
 Ju Wang , a senior foreign-exchange strategist for HSBC in  Hong
Kong , said in a Nov. 16 telephone interview. “Consumers have
been hurt by high import prices, and smaller companies suffer
indirectly. A weak won helps the chaebol.”  The won has advanced 5.4 percent since June, the most among
the 11 most-traded Asian currencies, as monetary easing in
developed nations spurred inflows into emerging-market assets
and the nation received sovereign rating upgrades. HSBC predicts
a 3.5 percent gain to 1,050 per dollar by the end of 2013, more
bullish than the 1,075 median estimate of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Koreans vote Dec. 19 to elect a successor to
President  Lee Myung Bak , whose five-year term ends in February.  ‘Smoothing’ Operations  The won retreated from a 14-month high yesterday after
Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said action is needed to
curb excessive moves. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Oct. 9
the government conducts “smoothing” operations to check
volatility.  “It’s important to make the  currency market  transparent so
that the exchange rate can reach appropriate levels,” Ahn said
at a Nov. 19 press briefing in  Seoul . “Still, it’s the
government’s role to smooth abnormal and excessive movements in
the won.”  In the past five years, the won has weakened 14 percent
against the greenback and is currently 3.8 percent below its
daily average in August 2008, the month before the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the deepest global
recession since World War II. The Japanese yen has strengthened
32 percent against the dollar since November 2007, while  China ’s
 yuan  appreciated 19 percent in the same period.  Barclays Forecast  Under the next administration, the “style of intervention
may not be as heavy handed as before,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior
regional economist at Barclays in  Singapore , said by e-mail on
Nov. 19. Still, “we expect the authorities to continue to guard
the pace of won appreciation to prevent one-sided expectations
building up.”  Barclays forecasts the currency will strengthen to 1,050
per dollar in the next 12 months.  The presidential race has turned the spotlight on the cost
of pursuing export-led economic growth as South Korea’s income
gap widens. The nation’s Gini coefficient, which measures  income
inequality , rose from 0.306 in 2006 to 0.311 in 2011, according
to government statistics. Zero represents perfect equality and a
level of one signifies perfect inequality, with one person
holding all the wealth.  Gross domestic product growth slumped to a three-year low
of 1.6 percent last quarter as  Europe ’s debt woes crimped demand
for the nation’s goods. Exports account for about half of the $1
trillion economy.  Largest Conglomerates  The 30 largest chaebol, including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , accounted for 84 percent of South Korean
exports in 2010, according to latest figures from the Federation
of Korean Industries, which represents the nation’s biggest
companies. Only 15 percent of sales of smaller manufacturers
were to customers abroad, data from the Korea Federation of
Small and Medium Business show.  Ahn, the founder of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , South Korea’s biggest
antivirus software maker, has campaigned to gradually break up
crossholdings by conglomerates to weaken the grip of the
controlling families. His deputy spokesman, Hong Seok Bin, said
in a Nov. 16 telephone interview that past administrations have
kept the won weak to help exporters.  Moon, the candidate of the opposition Democratic United
Party, has created as part of his campaign a so-called Economy
Democratization Committee that advocates policies favoring small
enterprises. Currency intervention isn’t desirable, Lee Joung Woo, who heads the panel, said by telephone on Nov. 19.  Campaign Merger  Ahn and Moon are in talks to merge their campaigns after
they fell behind in the polls to Park, whose late father Park Chung Hee helped build up the chaebol in the 1960s and 1970s
during his time as the country’s longest-serving military
dictator.  Park leads the race with a support rate of 44.7 percent,
according to a poll published Nov. 23 by Seoul-based Realmeter.
Moon, a former human rights lawyer, is second on 25.6 percent,
with Ahn is on 23.4 percent. The survey of 1,500 people has a
margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  “We should change the current economic system dominated by
big business groups to a one where small and medium-sized
enterprises develop together,” Park said in a Nov. 16 statement
on her official website.  The won will strengthen as South Korea’s competitiveness
improves, and the government shouldn’t seek to artificially
weaken the currency to help exporters, Kang Seoghoon, an
economic advisor to Park, said by telephone Nov. 21.  Tax Incentives  Support for small businesses and entrepreneurs under the
next administration is more likely to come by way of fiscal
measures such as tax incentives, rather than through a change in
currency policy, said Craig Chan, the Singapore-based head of
Asia ex- Japan  foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc.
The government will prefer to keep the won relatively weak
because the economy remains export driven, he said in a Nov. 15
telephone interview.  South Korea’s overseas sales unexpectedly rose 1.1 percent
in October from a year earlier, while factory output expanded at
the fastest pace in four months in September from the previous
month, the latest official figures show.  Speculation that a stronger currency will hurt exports is
“overstated” as manufacturers gain competitiveness, according
to Chia-Liang Lian, the Singapore-based head of  investment
management  for Asia excluding Japan at Western Asset Management
Co., which oversees $446 billion globally.  “Korean manufacturers are now much less sensitive to the
 exchange rate ,” Lian said in a Nov. 16 telephone interview.
“There is room for the won to strengthen at a pace consistent
with the country’s improving fundamentals. Greater flexibility
will ultimately enhance the scope for short-term policy
adjustment and bolster longer-term growth sustainability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  