-- MSG’s Dolan Enjoying Best Rally With Knicks, in Stock Market
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-22T05:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/msg-s-dolan-enjoying-his-best-rally-with-knicks-in-stock-market.html
James Dolan  is enjoying a triple
success story as chairman of the Madison Square Garden Co., less
than a year after being vilified by New York Knicks fans.  MSG stock is up, corresponding with the Knicks’ rise to
first place and a tie for the best start in the  National
Basketball Association , led by  Carmelo Anthony , the player Dolan
insisted stay in town.  The company’s namesake arena in Midtown Manhattan, less
than a mile from the annual Christmas Spectacular at MSG’s Radio
City Music Hall, has regained the buzz that surrounded
championship seasons long past. Who needs the Rockettes? The
holiday season in New York suddenly is filled with basketball
wonder.  “They needed their own storyline, and winning is always
the best storyline,” said  Paul Swangard , managing director of
the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon.  The Knicks lost last night against the  Dallas Mavericks  in
Texas to move to 8-2 for the season, after winning their first
six games.  New York hasn’t won a playoff series since 2000. The last
two times the Knicks started 8-1, they won the NBA championship.  The emergence of the Knicks, led by Anthony,  Tyson Chandler 
and  Jason Kidd , to rival the defending-champion  Miami Heat  with
All-Stars LeBron James and  Dwyane Wade  comes as the Brooklyn
Nets play their first season in the $1 billion Barclays Center
across the East River. The city’s older franchise hasn’t let the
New Jersey transplant take the spotlight, even with the Nets’
own 6-4 start.  Fans’ Wish  “The Knicks response is what New Yorkers have been wishing
for for decades: a competitive team again,” Swangard said in a
telephone interview.  The Knicks and Nets were scheduled to play in the season
opener at Barclays Center on Nov. 1, before  Hurricane Sandy 
forced a 25-day postponement.  In the weeks since the start of the NBA season, MSG’s
shares have climbed 8.3 percent, and the company, spun off from
the Dolan family’s  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , looks to further
benefit from a $3 billion valuation of the YES Network, another
regional sports television outlet network, according to
analysts.  The company’s shareholders also will benefit from strong
reviews of the $980 million overhaul of the Garden, which during
the offseason completed the second of three phases, according to
 John Tinker , an analyst at New York-based Maxim Group LLC.  “You go back a year or two, there were a lot of people
saying the renovations would be a disaster,” Tinker said.
“Now, the only question is if there’s going to be a surprise
dividend. That’s a huge turnaround in how investors look at the
stock.”  Goodbye ‘Linsanity’  The Knicks in July declined to match a three-year, $25
million offer from the  Houston Rockets  for star guard Jeremy Lin, instead adding veterans such as Kidd, Marcus Camby, Rasheed Wallace and  Raymond Felton . The dropping of the Harvard
University graduate who created what became known as Linsanity
during a month-long run in February had fans snarling over
Dolan’s tactics.  Now the oldest team in the NBA at an average age of more
than 31 years, the Knicks have bought into  Mike Woodson ’s
coaching philosophy, which emphasizes defense and minimizing
turnovers.  “Every single night has to be our style of basketball,”
Chandler said after the team’s 102-80 win against the  New
Orleans Hornets  two nights ago. “You have to have your
identity. You have to be able to lean on something when times
get tough.”  Heading into last night, the Knicks had allowed 88.9 points
per game, the fewest in the NBA, and committed 10.33 turnovers
per contest, almost three fewer than the next closest team. The
team’s 100.7 points per game offense was sixth best.  MSG Parts  MSG, which was spun off from Cablevision in February 2010,
has three main components: MSG Sports, which includes the
Knicks, the National Hockey League’s Rangers and the Garden; MSG
Media, which includes the MSG Network cable channels; and MSG
Entertainment, which includes the Beacon Theater and Radio City
 Music Hall , home of the high-stepping Rockettes dance troupe.  MSG shares closed yesterday at $43.90, up from its $40.52
price when the NBA season began though below the 52-week high of
$44.76, achieved at the close on Nov. 16, hours before the
team’s first loss of the season. In the quarter ended Sept. 30,
total company revenue increased to $204.2 million primarily on
the growth of the media unit, a 15 percent increase over the
prior year’s quarter.  MSG also stands to benefit from Rupert Murdoch-led News
Corp.’s agreement this week to buy 49 percent of the YES
Network, the cable channel that carries New York Yankees
baseball games. The deal valued YES at about $3 billion.  ‘Look Smart’  “The valuation placed on the YES network shows the
incredible value placed on regional sports networks,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone
interview. “It makes Dolan look smart to keep control of sports
programming through the MSG Network.”  Neither Dolan nor Hank Ratner, chief executive officer of
MSG, was available to comment on the Knicks, said Barry Watkins,
a spokesman for the company.  MSG’s diverse business model prepares the company to
weather the effects of the NHL lockout, according to Richard Peddie, who formerly ran Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment,
owner of the NHL’s Leafs, NBA’s Toronto Raptors and Air Canada
Centre.  Though the Maple Leafs accounted for about 40 percent of
company profit heading into the NHL’s season-long 2004-05
lockout, it didn’t lay off any employees, said Peddie, the
company’s former chief executive officer.  Company Synergy  “You hate to lose 40 percent of your profit but you still
have 60 percent doing stuff, you still need people to service
your other assets,” Peddie said in a telephone interview. “You
hurt a bit on hockey nights, but the scale and synergy in the
rest of the company really helps you get through it.”  Former coach and ESPN analyst Jeff  Van Gundy  said last week
in an interview that the Knicks had established themselves in a
group of Eastern Conference contenders alongside the  Boston
Celtics , one level below James and the Heat. New York’s odds to
win its third NBA title have dropped to 16-to-1 from 35-to-1
before the season started, according to online sports book
Bovada.lv.  “I love their energy and intensity and the
unselfishness,” said Van Gundy, who coached the team to the NBA
Finals in 1999. “There’s not a better place to play or coach
than New York City when you have a chance to win a title.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  