-- Singh Still Weighs 2005 Plan as Sales 7% of China: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-22T06:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/singh-still-weighs-2005-plan-as-sales-7-of-china-india-credit.html
Seven years after  India ’s policy
makers agreed on steps to expand a corporate bond market that’s
less than a 10th the size of China’s, they’re still talking
about implementing most of them.  The government is seeking to simplify rules and taxation to
attract investors and boost trading in municipal debt, asset-
backed securities and contracts that insure against credit risk,
Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said at conference in
New Delhi on Nov. 9. These proposals were made in 2005 by a
panel led by Ramchandra H. Patil, who founded the National Stock
Exchange of India Ltd., and included the heads of the central
bank and the capital-market regulator.  A doubling of bond sales by Indian companies in five years
to 1.8 trillion rupees ($33 billion) in 2011 was dwarfed by a
six-fold surge in issuance in China to 2.69 trillion  yuan  ($432
billion), data compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreign  holdings  of
rupee-denominated notes are now at $32.5 billion, or less than
half of the amount allowed, even after Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh more than tripled the investment  limit  since 2009.  “People seem to have had given up on Indian bonds,”
Philippe Petit, a Singapore-based senior investment manager at
Pictet Asset Management SA who helps manage $24 billion in
emerging-market debt, said in an interview yesterday. “They
should do away with the quota system and other restrictions, cut
the withholding tax, and then you’ll see massive inflows.”  ‘Wish List’  In its December 2005  report , the so-called high-level
committee headed by Patil, who died in April, called for uniform
provincial duties on company bonds, easing of taxes and fiscal
concessions for municipal debt to encourage investors and
issuers. The panel also recommended setting up settlement and
trading systems for corporate notes and backing securities with
features such as guarantees and cash flows to cut credit risk.  “The 2005 report still remains a wish list,” Prithvi Haldea, chairman of New Delhi-based research firm Prime Database
who was part of the panel, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The report should be deliberated seriously with market
stakeholders and implemented.”  Developing the company debt market is vital to the success
of India’s goal to attract $1 trillion of funding for roads,
ports and power plants by 2017 and reviving the economy. The
central bank predicted last month that  expansion  will slow to
5.8 percent this fiscal year, which would be the smallest gain
in a decade, according to official data.  Removing Constraints  India’s opposition parties are threatening a no-confidence
vote as the government will try to push through the nation’s
biggest opening to foreign investment in a decade in the
parliament session from today through Dec. 20. Singh in
September opened retailing and airlines to foreigners, pared
fuel subsidies and cut a tax on companies’ overseas debt in a
burst of policy making after two years of legislative gridlock.  “We are very keen to develop the corporate bond market,”
Mayaram said. “This will require several things. One is
strengthening the legal framework for regulation of corporate
debt by amending rules. Also removal of legal and regulatory
constraints for nascent products such as covered bonds,
municipal bonds, credit default swaps, credit enhancement and
securitization receipts.”  Policy makers have implemented some of the committee’s
proposals, introducing repurchase contracts based on company
notes and allowing the formation of infrastructure debt funds.  The failures of market segments such as securitized debt,
municipal notes, credit-default swaps and bond futures suggest
they haven’t done enough, according to SJS Markets Ltd.  Failed Attempts  Sales of asset-backed securities in India slid 43 percent
in five years to 366 billion rupees in the 12 months ended March
31, according to  ICRA Ltd. (ICRA) , the local unit of Moody’s Investors
Service. Restrictions by the Reserve Bank of India, which
released final guidelines for securitized debt this year, will
boost risk for banks in some transactions, leading to a further
decline in issuance, the credit assessor said in a report in
May.  India hasn’t seen a municipal bond sale since 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, when Vishakhapatnam Municipal Corp.
issued notes due 2017 at 11 percent. There has been little
trading in rupee-denominated credit-default swaps since they
were introduced a year ago. Government debt futures also have
had almost no activity since an attempt in 2009 by the central
bank and the Clearing Corp. of India to revive the market.  China , which started efforts to develop a local debt market
after India, is now moving faster.  Trailing China  Guo Shuqing, the 56-year-old head of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, has taken steps to consolidate regulatory
power over bonds since he became chairman last year. He’s set up
an office to study new products, and in May the CSRC, the
equivalent of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said
it’s considering introducing municipal bonds. In June, Guo
started a program to allow small and medium-sized companies to
sell debt comparable to speculative-grade bonds.  Companies in Asia’s largest economy issued the equivalent
of $582 billion in local-currency debt so far in 2012, compared
with the $34 billion raised by Indian borrowers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s relatively high yields and its potential for
infrastructure development and economic growth are attractions
for international fixed-income investors, according to William
Streeter, a Singapore-based infrastructure debt adviser at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Attractive Yields  Rupee-denominated company  debt  rated AAA by Crisil Ltd.,
the local unit of Standard & Poor’s, pay 9.05 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Comparable notes offer 4.88
percent in China and 1.25 percent in the U.S. Ten-year sovereign
bonds in India yield 8.21 percent, compared with 3.53 percent in
China and 1.68 percent in the U.S.  The yield on the 8.15 percent debt due June 2022 was little
changed today, offering an  extra  amount of 653 basis points over
Treasuries.  “Investors want to invest in those assets that produce
economic and social benefits to people and infrastructure
projects provide that function,” Westpac’s Streeter said in an
interview on Nov. 9. “Yields on the projects make Indian debt
attractive to overseas investors.”  Indian sovereign notes returned 9.11 percent this year,
trailing the 11.39 percent earned by Indonesian securities in
the best performance among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The rupee slipped 0.1
percent to 55.16 per dollar today.  ‘Reasonably Complex’  Bond risk for Indian companies has slid this year. The
average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment by seven local issuers declined 160 basis points to
301, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets.  “The Indian market is reasonably complex and doesn’t seem
a free market,” Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research at
SJS Markets in Bangalore, said in an interview on Nov. 20.
“Overseas investors have to deal with issues such as local
registration and applying for quotas that lapse if not used
within a certain period. There have been improvements too. Seven
years ago, foreigners couldn’t invest at all but now they can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  