-- Smartphone Seen Driving Cielo Returns to New Record
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-11-22T19:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/smartphone-seen-driving-cielo-returns-to-new-record.html
Credit-card payment processor  Cielo
SA (CIEL3) , Brazil’s most profitable company, expects its mobile-payment
services venture with  Oi SA (OIBR4)  to generate even higher returns.  Paggo Solucoes de Meios de Pagamento SA, owned by Cielo and
Brazil’s fourth-largest mobile telephone operator, forecasts it
will win 1.5 million customers and process 3.4 billion reais ($1.6
billion) in mobile payments by next year, Paggo President
Massayuki Fujimoto said. Paggo’s operations, which started in
2010, are based on mobile phone applications that allow vendors
from taxi drivers to door-to-door salespeople to process credit
card payments.  “We will make the credit card industry more efficient,”
Fujimoto said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “In five years, Paggo
will have many more merchants than Cielo.”  Brazil, the world’s largest developing economy after  China ,
is following the steps of nations from  India  to  Kenya  in using
mobile payments to extend banking services to low-income
consumers. An estimated 30 million to 40 million economically
active Brazilians do not have a bank account, and 86 percent of
Brazil’s poorest 95 million citizens use cash to make payments,
according to the  Brazilian Association of Credit Card Operators ,
or Abecs.  Competition  Paggo will face competition from banks and phone carriers,
including Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB,
which is developing business models with various financial
institutions, it said in a statement. America Movil’s Brazil unit
Claro and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  announced today that they would issue
co-branded pre-paid cards for mobile phones.  Cielo’s return on common equity, a measure of its ability to
generate earnings from shareholder money, was 135 percent in the
third quarter. The gain is the most on the benchmark Bovespa index
and the highest among companies worldwide that process credit-card
transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, as a share of revenue reached 58 percent,
the fourth-highest among Bovespa index companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Paggo’s ebitda margin will be even higher than Cielo’s in
five years when it will have at least double its parent company’s
1.6 million vendors, said Fujimoto.  India, China  Global mobile payment transactions will rise almost fourfold
by 2017 to more than $1.3 trillion, according to an August report
by Hampshire, U.K.-based  Juniper Research . A  study  by software
developers ACI Worldwide showed that two-thirds of respondents in
China and India use smartphones to make payments, and a  survey  by
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  showed that 68 percent of Kenyans frequently use
mobile payment services.  While Brazil trails those countries in launching mobile
payment services, the volume of cash transactions and the millions
of people without bank accounts provide an attractive market, said
Abecs Vice-President Raul Moreira.  Paggo’s target market includes 3 million registered door-to-
door vendors, such as  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  sales staff, and 20
million individual entrepreneurs, such as personal trainers and
taxi drivers. “There are many more individual entrepreneurs than
traditional ones with a store,” said Fujimoto.  More secure mobile payment technology would also boost e-
commerce by eliminating fraud that accounts for 0.5 percent of
Internet-based payments, Fujimoto said.  Uncertain Rules  Concerns about payment rules may keep some players on the
sidelines and delay deployment of new products, said Carlos Alberto da Silva Junior, equity fund manager at Modal Asset
Management, which oversees 6 billion reais in  Rio de Janeiro .  “It may take a while for this market to develop,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s government sees mobile payment as an opportunity to
extend low-cost banking services to millions of consumers.
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said he’s working with the
central bank to draft legislation for the fledgling industry that
would be ready by mid-2013.  “It’s a win for banks and a win for operators,” Bernardo
said last month.  Paggo this month will offer a pre-paid credit-card option to
be used with mobile phones, a bid to capture lower-income clients.
Growth prospects for that line of business are less certain, said
Fujimoto.  Eventually, operators plan to use mobile payment as a
distribution channel for other financial products from loans to
insurance policies. “That’s where you start making real money,”
said Windsor Holden, research director at  Juniper Research .
“Provided the business is not over-regulated and has scale, it
can be very lucrative.”  Foreign Interest  Foreign and domestic players are studying the market.
TransUnion Corp., the world’s third-biggest consumer credit agency
by revenue, may bring to  Brazil  the kind of credit lines it offers
to  South Africans  via mobile phone, Maria Olga Rehbein, the
company’s president for  Latin America , said in a phone interview
from  Chicago , where the company is based. It acquired a majority
stake in Sao Paulo-based software firm Crivo Sistemas em
Informatica SA in January. “Brazil is one example where we hope
to bring the mobile technology,” Rehbein said.  “There will be strong movement by each group, each
partnership between banks and phone operators, in coming years,
and then there will be a consolidation among those groups,”
Fujimoto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  