-- Societe Generale Sells First Samurai Bond After Four-Year Delay
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-11-22T05:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/societe-generale-sells-first-samurai-bond-after-four-year-delay.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  sold its first
Samurai bonds, pricing 70 billion yen ($849 million) of the debt
more than four years after the lender registered to offer the
securities.  It sold 23.8 billion yen of 0.9 percent two-year notes to
yield 60 basis points more than the yen swap rate, 39.7 billion
yen of 1 percent three-year bonds at a spread of 70 basis
points, and 6.5 billion yen of 1.11 percent Samurais due in five
years at a 75 basis-point premium, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  France’s second-largest bank marketed the yen-denominated
securities in the Japanese market after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi pledged to buy unlimited amounts of
government bonds, easing concern about the region’s debt crisis.
Moody’s Investors Service this week cut  France ’s rating from the
top investment grade, citing a worsening economic outlook.  Ai Ogawara, a spokeswoman in Tokyo for Societe Generale,
wasn’t immediately able to comment on today’s sale, and on the
bank’s previous plans to offer Samurai bonds.  The Paris-based bank filed to sell the notes in September
2008, just before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declared
bankruptcy. It delayed the offering amid the global financial
turmoil, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said at
the time. The registration was valid for two years.  Societe Generale posted another filing on June 8, 2011 to
sell Samurai debt. It said in the submission that it would set
the terms for an offering of three- and five-year fixed-rate
notes, as well as five-year floating-rate securities, by the
middle of that month.  The issuer then postponed the offering, a person familiar
with the matter said 17 months ago, asking not to be identified
because the details were private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in  Tokyo  at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  