-- Son of Ex-Senegal President Faces Police Queries in Wealth Probe
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-11-22T15:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/son-of-ex-senegal-president-faces-police-queries-in-wealth-probe.html
Karim Wade, the son of former
Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade who was once a government
minister, was questioned by police for as part of an “illegal
enrichment” investigation, said Justice Ministry spokesman
Macoumba Mbodj.  Karim Wade faced queries at the same police station in
Dakar, the capital, on Nov. 15, Mbodj said by phone today from
the city, declining to give details.  As minister from 2009 to 2012, Wade’s portfolio included
energy, international cooperation, regional development, air
transportation and infrastructure. He was in charge of the body
which organized infrastruture building for the Organization of
the Islamic Conference which was held in Dakar in 2008.  He left the government earlier this year when Macky Sall
defeated his 86-year-old father in an election that sparked
protests in the West African nation over Wade’s attempt to run
for a third term in office.  Sall created a special court to prosecute fraud and
financial crimes. Karim Wade has been questioned four times as
part of the investigation into former government members.  Members of Wade’s Parti Democratique Senegalais have been
told to stay in the country, El Hadj Amadou Sall, a spokesman
for the party, said by phone. “Karim Wade is the first of a
long list of people who will be questioned. We consider this
harassment by the Macky Sall regime,” he said.  Under the younger Wade, contracts were signed between
 Senegal  and international partners including a 380 billion-CFA
franc ($743 million), 65-kilometer (40-mile) highway linking
Dakar with a new airport in Diass that he also authorized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Bamako via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  