-- Sony, Panasonic Credit Rating Cut to Speculative Grade
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-11-22T10:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/sony-panasonic-credit-rating-cut-to-speculative-grade.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the
Japanese electronics makers reeling from record losses, had
their credit ratings cut to junk for the first time by  Fitch
Ratings  amid slumping demand for their televisions.  Sony’s rating was cut by three levels to BB-, three steps
below investment grade, and Panasonic by two levels to BB, with
the outlook on both companies being negative, Fitch said in
separate statements today. Both companies had their short-term
ratings reduced to B from F3.  The companies will struggle amid a strong yen and weakened
economic conditions at home and overseas, Fitch said. After
dominating the consumer-electronics industry since the 1980s,
Sony, Panasonic and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  have resorted to cutting jobs,
closing plants and selling assets after failing to come up with
hit products to challenge Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “The future of both companies will depend on their ability
to curb loss-making segments and rediscover the kind of
technological leadership, which historically enabled them to
develop must-have products,” Steve Durose, Fitch’s head of
technology ratings for the Asia-Pacific region, said in a
statement. “Sony is the higher risk of the two, hence its lower
rating.”  Yuki Shima, a spokeswoman at Tokyo-based Sony, and Chieko
Gyobu, a spokeswoman at Osaka-based Panasonic, said their
companies don’t comment on ratings changes.  Shares Collapse  Shares of Sony, Panasonic and Sharp  sank  to their lowest
levels in more than 30 years in Tokyo this year as investors
remain unconvinced the companies can rebound from mounting
losses without hit products. The three companies combined are
valued at $24 billion, compared with $528 billion for Apple and
$192 billion for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  Sony, founded in 1946 and the inventor of the Walkman
player that revolutionized the  music industry  in the 1980s, was
worth more than $120 billion in 2000. Its shares gained 1.8
percent to 834 yen in Tokyo trading today before the downgrade.
The stock has lost 40 percent this year.  Panasonic, founded in 1918, rose 0.7 percent to close at
407 yen, trimming its loss this year to 38 percent.  “The downgrades may put pressure on shares,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  “No
measures to revive these companies have been found yet.”  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Panasonic debt over
similar-maturity sovereign bonds has fallen from 354 basis
points on Nov. 7 to 197 basis points as of 5:14 p.m. in Tokyo,
according to the  Japan  Securities Dealers Association. Investors
demanded a premium of 63 basis points on Oct. 31, the data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Sony’s 45 billion
yen ($544 million) of 0.664 percent bonds due March 2017 rather
than government debt fell six basis points to 116 today,
according to JSDA prices. The notes were priced in March at a
spread of 36 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Borrowing costs in the corporate-bond market have climbed
for the three Japanese electronics makers as record losses and
widening deficit forecasts sapped investor confidence.  Sony posted a net loss of 15.5 billion yen for the quarter
ended Sept. 30, compared with the 15.6 billion-yen average
profit of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg before
the Nov. 1 announcement. The company, which has reported losses
in each of the past four years, retained its forecast for full-
year net income of 20 billion yen.  Meaningful Recovery  Sony was downgraded to the lowest investment grade on Nov.
9 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited falling demand for
the company’s TVs and cameras. Moody’s cut Panasonic to the same
level on Nov. 20.  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is cutting 10,000
jobs and selling assets as he focuses on mobile devices, games
and digital imaging to revive the company. Sony sold a chemical-
products making unit, stakes in two display-making ventures and
invested in  Olympus Corp. (7733)  after racking up 692 billion yen in
losses selling TVs in the past eight years.  “Meaningful recovery will be slow, given the company’s
loss of technology leadership in key products, high competition,
weak economic conditions in developed markets and the strong
yen,” Fitch said in today’s ratings statement.  Continuing weakness at Sony’s home entertainment, mobile
and communications businesses will offset its “relatively
stable” music and movie operations and improvements at its
components businesses, Fitch said today.  Market Share  Sony had 7 percent of the global TV market in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, down from 8.4 percent the previous quarter,
according to  DisplaySearch . Panasonic dropped to 6.2 percent
from 6.8 percent in the same period. Samsung remained No. 1 with
25.2 percent, according to the researcher’s website.  Net  debt  for Sony’s non-financial services businesses
increased by 400 billion yen from March to September, partly
because of higher financial needs, Moody’s has said. Gross debt
for Sony’s non-financial services businesses increased to about
1.25 trillion yen in September from 1.15 trillion yen in March.
Cash and deposits decreased to about 420 billion yen from about
720 billion yen.  Panasonic, the maker of Viera televisions and Lumix
cameras, forecast a 765 billion-yen net loss for the year ending
March 31. That would be the second-biggest loss in company
history after the 772 billion-yen net loss the previous year.  Today’s downgrade “reflects Panasonic’s weakened
competitiveness in its core businesses, particularly in TVs and
panels, as well as weak cash generation from operations,” Fitch
said. “Panasonic will continue to suffer from frail economic
conditions in both Japan and overseas and resultant weak demand
for its products, as well as continuing price competition from
overseas companies.”  Sharp, the Osaka-based maker of Aquos TVs, was downgraded
to junk by Fitch earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  