-- South Africa Holds Key Rate as Weak Rand Prevents Stimulus
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-22T14:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/south-africa-holds-lending-rate-as-weak-rand-prevents-stimulus.html
South Africa’s Reserve Bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second meeting as a weak
rand and rising food and fuel prices prevented policy makers
from stimulating the economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the repurchase rate at 5
percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria ,
the capital, matching the forecasts of all 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The decision was unanimous and there was
no discussion of raising or lowering borrowing costs, she said.  Since a surprise rate cut in July, Marcus has tempered
expectations of further reductions as the rand’s depreciation
adds to pressure on inflation. The currency dropped yesterday
below 9 per dollar for the first time since April 2009,
threatening the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target.
That’s limiting the central bank’s ability to stimulate an
economy that’s set to expand at its slowest pace since a
recession three years ago.  “The rand is expected to remain volatile and subject to
overshooting and its depreciation poses an upside risk to the
inflation outlook,” Marcus said. “The domestic economic growth
outlook has deteriorated recently, largely as a result of the
continued global slowdown and aggravated by domestic events.”  Growth Slows  The rand fell to 8.9506 per dollar as of 4:12 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 8.9464 before Marcus began speaking. The yield
on the rand debt due in 2021 rose 1 basis point to 6.66 percent
today.  Central banks from  Hungary  to  Israel  to the Czech Republic
have cut interest rates in the past two months to stimulate
their economies as global growth wanes. Africa’s biggest  economy 
is set to expand 2.5 percent this year, lower than a previous
estimate of 2.6 percent, Marcus said.  Inflation accelerated to a four-month high of 5.6 percent
in October as vegetable prices surged 9.5 percent in the month,
the statistics office said yesterday. Gasoline costs jumped 15
percent in the first 10 months of the year.  The central bank raised it forecast for inflation to an
average 5.5 percent next year from 5.2 percent previously,
Marcus said. The inflation rate will peak at 5.7 percent in the
first quarter and average 5 percent in 2014, she said.  Inflation Target  The rand has plunged 9.9 percent this year against the
dollar, the second-worst of the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Every 1 percentage point drop in the rand adds as
much as 0.2 percentage points to inflation, according to
Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “The exchange rate depreciation does put pressure on your
inflation outlook,” Madalet Sessions, an economist at Nedbank
Group Ltd. in Cape Town, said in a telephone interview. “The
rand, food and oil are all supply-side issues.”  Investors are boosting bets inflation will remain near the
top of the bank’s target range as changes to the consumer price
basket next year will give more weighting to electricity and
gasoline prices. The  yield-gap  on fixed-rate debt due in 2017
and similar maturity bonds linked to inflation rose 30 basis
points in the past month to 5.82 percent.  Rising wage demands are adding to pressure on inflation,
Marcus said.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  gave workers pay increases of as much as
22 percent to end a six-week strike at its Marikana mine in
August, prompting labor unrest at mines owned by AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. and Gold Fields Ltd. as workers pushed for higher
wages.  Rating Downgrades  “The MPC is concerned about the recent trend in wage
settlements and the potential for negative impacts on the
economy, particularly on growth and investment,” Marcus said.
“There is no doubt that the increases granted are well above
inflation.”  Since the last MPC meeting, domestic conditions have
dominated central bank concerns, Marcus said. More than 46
people died in clashes at Marikana in the worst mining violence
since the end of apartheid. Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s lowered South Africa’s sovereign credit rating
since then as the growth outlook deteriorated.  The MPC cut its growth forecast for next year to 2.9
percent from 3.4 percent and projects the economy will expand
3.6 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  