-- Southern Hemisphere’s Biggest Wind Project Set to Start
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-22T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/southern-hemisphere-s-biggest-wind-project-set-to-start.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Australia’s largest
operator of renewable energy projects, expects its A$1 billion
($1 billion) Macarthur wind farm to be operating fully in
February as the country seeks to reduce it reliance on coal.  “It’s on time, on budget and, in fact, may well be
completed a little ahead of schedule,” Managing Director
Michael Fraser said Nov. 21 in an interview in Sydney.  Sydney-based AGL and partner Meridian Energy Ltd. are
starting the 420-megawatt Macarthur project in Victoria state,
the largest wind farm in the Southern Hemisphere, as Australia
moves toward its goal of getting 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy by 2020. The company expected Macarthur to be
completed by the end of March 2013, Fraser said.  AGL expects to get government approval for its Gloucester
coal-seam gas project in New South Wales state early next year.
It faced a blockade last year at that project organized by
environmental protester, farmers and politicians who were
concerned that drilling for the gas would damage aquifers and
contaminate and deplete water supplies.  “We’ve still got people who are protesting, but we’re not
being blockaded,” Fraser said. “We’re getting on with the job.
If we don’t develop new sources of gas, I don’t know where New
South Wales is going to get the molecules from come 2017.”  Surging Gas Price  The Australian electricity and gas retailer expects the New
South Wales government to decide early next year whether to
approve its plan to expand the  Camden natural gas project .  With natural gas prices on the east coast of  Australia 
projected set to double and the government’s price on carbon
emissions discouraging fossil fuels, the cost of gas-fired power
stations may converge with that of wind farms, he said.  Australia in July started charging about 300 of its largest
polluters a fixed price of A$23 a ton for their carbon
emissions. It plans a market-based system beginning in 2015.  Gas prices on the east coast of Australia are forecast to
double to about A$8 a gigajoule in about 2016 or 2017 from about
A$4 gigajoule now as projects in Queensland ship liquefied
natural gas to Asia at prices linked to oil, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  