-- South African Strikes Widen Political Divide in Wine Area
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-23T06:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/south-african-strikes-widen-political-divide-in-wine-area.html
A South African police van weaves
through rocks and trash used to barricade the streets of
Stofland, as its three occupants monitor a truce brokered with
residents of the shantytown after days of violent protests.  Stofland, or Dust Land in Afrikaans, is on the outskirts of
the town of De Doorns in the Hex River valley and is home to
several hundred families who work as laborers in vineyards. The
turmoil that erupted in the area, 150 kilometers (94 miles)
northeast of  Cape Town , spread to 15 other rural towns in the
Western Cape Province this month, claiming the lives of two
farmworkers and destroying vines and sheds.  The government says the protests were sparked by workers’
outrage over low pay and inhumane  living conditions  and agreed
to consider demands for the minimum daily wage to be raised from
70 rand ($7.81) to 150 rand. Farmers say the violence is aimed
at destabilizing the only one of the nine provinces not run by
the ruling  African National Congress .  “All of here in this valley, we are crying for more
wages,” Phumla Tsheko, 21, who lost her job on a mushroom farm
after asking her employer to raise her daily pay of 60 rand,
less than the legal limit, said in a Nov. 20 interview in the
Stofland shack she shares with five relatives. “We have
families to support. This thing has been started by the people
on the farms.”  Labor Action  The farm violence followed a series of pay strikes that
began at mines in August and have curbed growth and output in
 Africa ’s largest economy, contributing to two credit-rating
downgrades.  South Africa ’s rand has weakened 9.3 percent against the
dollar since labor unrest started at mines on Aug. 10, the worst
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
gained 0.3 percent to 8.9188 at 8:30 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Agriculture makes up about 2.1 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product directly and farms produce close to 6.5
percent of the country’s exports, including wine, citrus fruit,
corn, grapes, apples and pears, according to government data.  South Africa is the world’s ninth largest wine producer and
has Africa’s biggest table grape output. The protests caused
about 120 million rand ($13.5 million) in damages, with grape
growers hardest hit, according to  AgriSA , the main farmers’
group.  Minimum Wage  Gerhard de Kock, 60, who owns 12 farms in the Hex River
valley and employs about 3,000 full-time and seasonal workers,
said the violent labor action was the first he has had to
contend with in 30 years of farming. He watched some of his
workers being intimidated to join a march led by several hundred
young men, most of whom were bussed into the area and burned 9
hectares (22 acres) of his vines, he said.  “I’ve never seen this before,” De Kock, who estimated his
losses at about 9 million rand, said in a Nov. 20 interview in
Cape Town. “It’s a politically driven thing. The population of
the Western Cape is getting punished for voting for the
opposition.”  Fruit and wine farmers in the Western Cape on average pay
their workers 30 percent more than the  minimum wage  and most are
externally audited to ensure they meet required standards,
according to  AgriSA . It hasn’t received any reports of protests
outside the province, the country’s main grape and wine
producer.  “We as a farming community are quite convinced that this
is not a minimum wage or labor issue,” Anton Rabe, chairman of
Agri SA’s labor committee, said in a Nov. 20 phone interview
from Paarl, near Cape Town. “There is some other agenda behind
this. It’s clear that this has been orchestrated.”  ‘Rotten Apples’  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
largest labor organization, alleges widespread exploitation and
abuse of farmworkers in the Western Cape. Its view is backed up
by an August 2011 report by New York-based  Human Rights Watch ,
which found many workers were denied basic labor rights and
access to toilets and drinking water while working.  The farmer organizations “would want to suggest that there
are a few rotten apples, but unfortunately it’s a lot wider than
that,” Cosatu organizer Mike Louw said in a Nov. 20 phone
interview from Cape Town. “Allegations that these protests were
instigated from outside are totally groundless.”  Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said black and mixed-race
farmworkers who were confined to being laborers and denied
access to land under white segregationist rule, which ended in
1994, are still not deriving enough benefit from the farms they
worked.  No Surprise  “I’m not surprised there has been an explosion of this
sort,” he told reporters in Cape Town on Nov. 14. “I think
farmworkers have felt alienated.”  Calm has been restored to most towns since Nov. 17 when
Cosatu brokered a two-week suspension of the strike pending the
minimum-wage review. Five armored police vehicles stood idle
outside the De Doorns police station this week, and police
spokesman Andre Traut said no new incidents of violence had been
reported.  The truce may not last, with unions and workers warning
labor action will resume on Dec. 4 if their demands aren’t met.
 Helen Zille , premier of the Western Cape and leader of the
 Democratic Alliance , has called for the army to be sent.  “The military is not the solution,” Agriculture Minister
Tina Joemat-Pettersson told reporters in Cape Town on Nov. 14.
“This is not a political matter.”  Mechanization has seen the number of workers employed on
farms fall about 30 percent to 680,000 over the past decade,
AgriSA’s Rabe said. He expects more job losses to stem from the
violence, adding to a 25 percent  unemployment  rate.  “I’m convinced farmers will mechanize more,” he said.
“Some production practices will be changed to become fully
independent of seasonal workers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  