-- Statnett Faults IEA’s 100 Terawatt-Hour Power Export Estimate
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-22T08:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/statnett-faults-iea-s-100-terawatt-hour-power-export-estimate.html
Statnett SF, Norway’s grid company,
cast doubt on an estimate by the  International Energy Agency ’s
forecasts for annual 100 terawatt-hour power exports from the
Nordic region.  The  Nordic countries  could ship as much as 100 terawatt-
hours of electricity abroad each year by 2050, if the region
expands wind power production and boosts grid connections, the
International Energy Agency said on its website on Nov. 21.  “This differs significantly from our outlook for the next
10 or 20 years,” Kristian Pladsen, senior vice president of
communications at Statnett, said today by e-mail.  For the IEA estimate to materialize, the Nordic region will
need as many as 20 to 25 cross-border cables, since power
generally tends flow from the north to continental Europe two
thirds of the time, and in the other direction the rest of time,
resulting in net power exports using 33 percent of installed
cable capacity, according to Statnett’s calculations.  At present  Norway  is linked to the Netherlands through the
700-megawatt NorNed cable, while  Sweden  is connected to  Poland 
via a 600-megawatt SwePol link, and to  Germany  via the 600-
megawatt Baltic Cable.  Statnett is part of a group that plans to build a 1,400-
megawatt undersea cable from Germany to Norway by 2018, followed
by a 1,400-megawatt link to the  U.K.  in 2020, both of which will
allow Norway to export excess hydropower output and allow
Germany and the U.K. to offset intermittent production from wind
and solar power, according to the  company .  “From a medium-term perspective” the current grid
expansion plans will secure adequate cross-border flows and help
offset variations in regional power demand and supply over days,
seasons and years, according to Statnett.  In the event that Nordic power prices should be lower than
in surrounding countries “all year and around the clock”, it
will attract more local demand from heavy industries, and by
turn limit exports to the continent, according to Statnett.  “We think power will continue to flow in both directions,
due to periods of low prices both in the Nordic region and on
the continent,” Pladsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  