-- U.K. Renewable Energy Expenses to Triple for Consumers 2020
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-22T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/u-k-renewable-energy-expenses-to-triple-for-consumers-2020.html
Britain’s electricity customers will
be paying higher bills by 2020 to cover the costs of expanding
renewable energy supplies such as solar and wind, government
officials said.  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  will allow utilities to triple
the renewable energy levy that comes through in household and
business power bills to 7.6 billion pounds ($12 billion) by
2020, according to a spokesman at the Department of Energy and
Climate Change. The change will come in legislation Parliament
will consider once the details are published on Nov. 29.  The measures are part of the government’s 110 billion-pound
($175 billion) program to replace aging power plants and reduce
 greenhouse gases . The decision helps provide utilities such as
 SSE Plc (SSE)  and  Electricite de France SA  certainty over the scale of
support the government is willing to grant clean energy, a level
of transparency that the industry group RenewableUK has said is
necessary to stimulate investment.  “It’s the most significant change around in the energy
market for more than 20 years,” Gordon Edge, director of policy
RenewableUK, said in an interview in London about the scope of
the legislation.  The deal, to be announced tomorrow by Davey’s office,
represents a compromise between the Liberal Democrat and Prime
Minister David Cameron’s Conservatives. Cameron’s party, which
leads the coalition, has emphasized its concerns about the costs
of reducing emissions from electricity generation.  Energy Jobs  A spokesman for the department said the result would be a
landmark in the once-in-a-generation effort to upgrade Britain’s
electricity infrastructure. The government estimates the
measures may support 250,000 jobs.  Davey for weeks has been negotiating over the package with
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who favors more
natural gas and nuclear energy and is concerned about the cost
and countryside impact of deploying more  wind turbines .  Obsorne repelled Davey’s effort to have an immediate goal
for removing carbon from utility emissions, known as a
“decarbonization target.” He also got Davey’s backing for
measures to support natural gas and shale deposits that will be
announced in the Treasury’s autumn economic statement on Dec. 5.  Instead, the legislation will authorize the government to
set out target for fossil fuel emissions made by utilities in
2016, the year after the deadline for the next general election.
Environmental groups wanted budgets sooner.  Davey and companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  had
called for a target to decarbonize the power sector, which they
said was needed to give certainty for investments.  Carbon Target  “By failing to agree to any carbon target for the power
sector until after the next election  David Cameron  has allowed a
militant tendency within his own ranks to derail the Energy
Bill,” said John Sauven, executive director of Greenpeace.
“It’s a blatant assault on the greening of the U.K. economy
that leaves consumers vulnerable to rising gas prices.”  Under the plan, a Levy Control Framework will set the
maximum amount that can be included in consumer bills to fund
investments in low-carbon power generation.  The increase agreed is below the 8 billion pounds
recommended by the Committee on Climate Change, which advises
the government on environmental matters. Its figures represent
the present value of the money. The government estimates the
increase will swell to 9.8 billion pounds once inflation is
taken into account. Davey said in June there’s a 20 percent
tolerance to overruns under the levy.  Clear Signal  “The investment community is desperately waiting for a
clear long-term signal, that we are serious about reducing our
emissions and therefore green infrastructure is a safe area to
invest in,” Nicolas Molho, head of  energy policy  at the
environmental group WWF said by phone from Godalming south of
London.  Another measure in the package is a price-guarantee for
low-carbon electricity generators through so-called contracts
for difference. Ministers decided to establish a government-
owned private company acting as the single counterparty body
under the arrangements, according to the spokesman. That’s in
step with a proposal from industry.  It would scrap the initial plan to offer a “multiparty”
body, a structure that Parliament’s Energy and  Climate Change 
Committee said may make the contracts legally unenforceable.  Those contracts for difference guarantee a price for power
in a way that supports generators. If wholesale power prices
drop below a government-established level known as the “strike
price,” investors in nuclear power stations and renewable
projects will be compensated by suppliers up to that level. If
prices are higher, suppliers and consumers will be reimbursed by
investors.  “The key is have they managed to find a structure that on
the one hand gives investors confidence there’s a robust,
creditworthy counterparty on the one side, but structured it in
a way that it keeps any liability off government’s balance
sheet,” said Ronan O’Regan, a director at PwC in  London .  The government will also have authority to hold auctions
from 2014 at times of peak demand for power capacity, according
to the officials.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  