-- Ukraine’s Options Wane as Payment Time Nears Amid IMF Freeze
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-11-23T11:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/ukraine-s-options-dwindle-as-payment-time-nears-amid-imf-freeze.html
Ukraine’s government is running out
of options to finance $4.3 billion of outstanding foreign-
currency debt in the first half of next year.  The government, which raised $1.25 billion in a bond sale
on Nov. 20, wants to extend a $15.4 billion IMF loan suspended
in March 2011 that expires this year. To regain access to funds,
the government needs to give up resistance to raising gas prices
and adopting a more flexible  exchange rate .  The economy, among the world’s worst-hit during the 2009
global recession, is slumping as the euro area’s crisis curbs
demand for such export products as steel. President  Viktor Yanukovych , who drew European Union criticism over the jailing
of former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , has struggled to
obtain alternative financing. It’s testing investors’ patience.  “We would like to see more positive movement on the IMF
deal before we would consider increasing our exposure,” Ronald Schneider, who helps manage 700 million euros ($910 million) in
emerging-market debt for Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH in
Vienna, said by phone Nov. 19. “We would like to see more
credible steps.”  Ukraine’s default risk is the sixth-highest among 93
countries tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark Ukrainian Equities
Index has lost 41 percent this year, the world’s second-worst
performance after the Cyprus General Market Index. International
reserves have plunged to $26.8 billion, the lowest since May
2010, as the central bank dipped into the stockpile to prop up
the hryvnia. The hryvnia, which lost 1.4 percent versus the
dollar this year, traded at 8.1540 as of 1:35 p.m. in Kiev from
8.1535 from yesterday.  Russian Gas  Ukraine has been trying to lower price for imported Russian
natural gas, which widened the current-account deficit to $9.3
billion in the first nine months of the year from $5.9 billion
in the same period of 2011.  Russia offered to cut gas price to $160 per thousand cubic
meters of gas from $430 if Ukraine joins the customs union it
formed with Belarus and  Kazakhstan , Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov 
said Oct. 9.  The  economy , which shrank 14.8 percent in 2009, contracted
1.3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. To fight
the shortage of foreign currency, the former Soviet republic’s
exporters will be required to convert half of what they earn
abroad to hryvnia.  Bond Yield  The government this week paid 7.8 percent yield, or 6.187
percentage points above similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, to
attract investors to its junk-rated debt.  Ukraine is the lowest-rated country to have sold debt
abroad this year. The sale, along with other emerging market-
offerings, benefited from stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve
and the  European Central Bank  and investors’ hunt for higher-
yielding assets amid near-zero rates in the developed world.  The yields make the Ukraine’s foreign-currency bonds
attractive even at a time when the the “market is concerned
about the country,” said Sergei Strigo, who helps manage about
$750 million as head of emerging-market debt at Amundi Group in
London, 3 percent of which is invested in the country.  “Ukraine has different means to improve the situation,”
Strigo said by phone yesterday. “The best thing for them to do
is to have an agreement with the IMF or with  Russia  on gas
prices. Both of these scenarios are very feasible.”  ‘This Trick’  The fact that the government was able to tap international
markets this week doesn’t mean that it will succeed in plugging
the financing hole, said Alexander Valchysen, an economist at
Investment Capital Ukraine.  “This trick may work once, but it can’t be repeated all
the time,” Valchysen said by phone. “They won’t be able to
sell a Eurobond every time they face a sizable redemption of
debt to the IMF. The bold solution for Ukraine is definitely the
IMF because the IMF requires them to carry out the policies that
would eliminate deficits. It’s a painful path.”  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the
government’s plan to finance its 2013 debt obligations.  Ukraine’s dollar Eurobond due 2017 fell this month, pushing
the yield up 15 basis points to 7.29 percent yesterday. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Credit-default swaps have widened 59 basis points since the
beginning of November to 660 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
increased spread reflects a worsening perception of risk.  Breathing Space  The bond sale gives Ukraine some breathing space as the
government seeks to secure financing without giving in to the
IMF’s conditions of cutting gas-price subsidies for households
and allowing the hryvnia to trade more freely, according to Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London.  “They will probably be pushed into a deal by the market,
but until something drastic happens it’s unlikely there will be
an improvement at the talks,” Ermolenko said by phone.  The country will have to repay $5.7 billion to the IMF next
year, according to the Washington-based lender’s website. The
first payment of $404 million is due Jan. 30, with a further
$2.4 billion scheduled by May 10.  Risk Appetite  Should global risk appetite abate as the developing world
recovers and central banks end quantitative easing, Ukraine
would be among the first to suffer and might as well be locked
out of markets, said Valchysen. Without an IMF agreement,
Ukraine’s options include turning to Russia or  China  for a loan,
according to Olena Bilan, chief economist at  Dragon Capital (VIETENI)  in
Kiev.  When Ukraine sought to lower prices for imported Russian
natural gas to improve its external balance, Russia urged
Ukraine to join its custom union  “Given Russia’s regional integration ambitions, a new gas
deal can hardly be reached without significant concessions from
Ukraine ranging to a commitment to join the customs union,”
Bilan said.  Ukraine may seek to use the fact that it was able to tap
international bond markets to negotiate better terms with the
IMF, said Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
 Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. in London.  “At the moment I think they are playing for time,” Ash
said in a Nov. 20 phone interview. “They are probably just
keeping their options open and trying to improve their
negotiating position. I doubt that they’ve got an option not to
go to the fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  