-- Mursi Pushed by Public on Economy Brokers Gaza Cease-Fire
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-11-22T15:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/mursi-pushed-by-public-on-economy-brokers-gaza-cease-fire.html
When  Israel  launched air strikes on
the  Gaza Strip  last week,  Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood said the
“Zionist entity” had committed a “criminal aggression.”
President Mohamed Mursi, drawn from the same movement, said only
that it was unacceptable “under any circumstance.”  The contrast showed Mursi’s moderation and efforts to find
a balance by his government that helped broker yesterday’s
cease-fire. Faced with a struggling economy, a public quick to
protest if its demands aren’t immediately met and Egypt’s
dependence on about $1.3 billion in yearly U.S. military aid,
Mursi needs to retain the global credibility that helped his
country this week sign an initial accord for a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan.  “Mursi has turned out to be a much more moderate
politician than everybody expected, so he does have some role as
an honest broker,” said  Jan Techau , head of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace office in Brussels. He’s
“also trying to gain standing by showing he’s not only on the
side of Hamas. Egypt is in turmoil, and the last thing he needs
is a hot war that will inflame the Egyptian masses.”  Mursi has to weigh the Muslim Brotherhood’s support for
Hamas -- considered a  terrorist organization  by the U.S., Israel
and the European Union -- as well as domestic anti-Israeli
sentiment. More than 400 Egyptian activists entered Gaza on Nov.
18 through the Rafah border crossing, followed later by the head
of the Brotherhood’s political party, in a show of solidarity.
Hospitals in Sinai have received Palestinian wounded.  Clinton Praise  He also met with Hamas’s political leader, Khaled Mashaal,
and discussed the conflict with a series of world leaders,
including President  Barack Obama , in a frenetic round of
diplomacy that earned him praise from the U.S.  “I want to thank President Mursi for his personal
leadership to de-escalate the situation in Gaza and end the
violence,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said at the
announcement of the cease-fire yesterday in Cairo. “Egypt’s new
government is assuming the responsibility and leadership that
has long made this country a cornerstone of regional stability
and peace.”  Clinton’s remarks were “effectively an endorsement for the
current Egyptian government and security apparatus and
significantly more supportive than previous statements,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at Religare Hitchens
Harrison, an emerging-market  investment adviser , said in an e-
mailed note.  Shifting Support  Mursi’s approach to the Gaza crisis has been starkly
different than that of his predecessor,  Hosni Mubarak , who was
seen by many Egyptians as collaborating with Israel against
Gaza’s Hamas rulers. The shift is linked to Hamas’s pedigree as
a movement born from the Brotherhood.  The Brotherhood’s leader Mohamed Badie today said “jihad”
was obligatory for Muslims to return Palestinian territories and
that “all possible means” should be used to realize that goal,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Last week, Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh and Mashaal both
applauded Mursi’s dispatch of his premier to the territory,
saying the move showed that today’s Egypt is different. Mashaal
repeated the praise yesterday.  The conflict afforded Egypt’s new government an opportunity
to put to use the Islamist credentials that have been a source
of concern for secularists and others in the country -- allowing
it to play the foreign policy card to win greater legitimacy.  Hamas is shifting its allegiance toward the Egyptian,
Qatari and Turkish camps from its traditional Syrian and Iranian
backers, in a move that “offers real opportunities for
engaging” the Islamist group, said  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center.  Egyptian Balance  The deal puts Egypt in the position of being the party to
which either side will turn in the case of violations of the
terms -- a role that thrusts Mursi’s government into the
limelight as it grapples with domestic challenges, as well.  Faced with an Egyptian public that has, at least on the
surface, been sympathetic to the Palestinian cause, Mursi is
trying to balance safeguarding his nation’s interests with
appeasing the population. Clashes between security forces and
protesters in Cairo continued for a fourth day today, developing
from demonstrations commemorating the anniversary of a fatal
protest last year and sparking calls for mass rallies tomorrow
and for the firing of the government.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil was greeted with insults by
local residents during a visit to the site of a fatal train
collision in southern Egypt on Nov. 17 that killed about 50
children.  Hard Diplomacy  “What he is trying to do is hard, and he has not made any
grave errors,”  Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East
program at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and
International Studies, said by phone about Mursi. “This is not
what the government of Egypt wants to deal with right now, which
is very hard diplomacy when they’re trying to focus on economic
and domestic governance.”  Mursi inherited a nation whose economy was battered after
the uprising against Mubarak and has yet to rebound as near-
daily protests and strikes undercut productivity while curbing
tourism and foreign investments, two key revenue sources. In
addition, international reserves at  $15.5 billion  remain more
than 50 percent below their levels before the start of the
revolution in January 2011.  Officials including Qandil say the $4.8 billion in IMF
funds agreed to on Nov. 20 are necessary to win support from
other donors and help close a  budget deficit  forecast by CI
Capital economist Alia Mamdouh and others to miss the 7.6
percent target estimated by the government for the current
fiscal year.  Top Issue  “The economy is the No. 1 issue in Egypt for people and
for Mursi himself,” said Yasser El-Shimy, a Cairo-based Middle
East analyst at the  International Crisis Group . “Mursi realizes
that he cannot cement his rule” unless “people see some
tangible, real improvements in their standards of living.
Foreign policy becomes dependent on domestic politics in this
scenario.”  Egypt’s domestic debt has rallied since Mursi’s election in
June, sending the yield on one-year notes down from a record
15.97 percent to 12.99 percent at an auction last week. That’s
its lowest level since August 2011. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
of stocks has gained 51 percent this year, making it the world’s
best performer among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  The nation’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated notes due
April 2020 have also surged since Mursi’s win, sending the yield
down 275 basis points, or 2.75 percentage points, to 5.12
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell
to the lowest level since December 2010 after the securities
were raised to overweight Nov. 20 at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch upon the country’s signing of the IMF agreement.  Raise the Ceiling  Gains on the foreign-policy front can also help boost
Mursi’s standing at home, said Omar Ashour, director of the
Middle East program at the U.K.’s University of Exeter.  “He is going to push to raise the ceiling a bit,” he said
of Mursi’s approach to the Gaza conflict and pressure on Israel.
“Mubarak set the bar too low, so anything Mursi will do will
significantly depart from what Mubarak has done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ; 