-- Vestas Competes to Keep Half of Wind Turbine Market in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-22T00:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/vestas-competes-to-keep-half-of-wind-turbine-market-in-australia.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind turbine maker, expects to keep more than 50 percent
of the Australian market even as China and companies such as
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  boost competition.  Vestas forecasts that Australia in a couple of years will
start adding 1.2 gigawatts to 1.5 gigawatts of wind farms
annually in the period to 2020, Morten Albaek, its chief
marketing officer, said yesterday in an interview in Sydney.  Vestas, which is providing turbines to  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) ’s
A$1 billion ($1 billion)  Macarthur wind farm  in Victoria state,
wants to maintain the biggest share of the Australian market as
the country moves toward a target of getting 20 percent of its
power from renewable energy by 2020. Australia in July started
charging polluters a fixed price of A$23 a ton for carbon
emissions and plans a market-based system for 2015.  “Australia is a very important market for Vestas, for sure
a top 10 market,” Albaek said. “You have a price on carbon, an
ambitious renewable energy target and privileged wind resources
that will make Australia a very prosperous market for  wind
energy , not only for Vestas but any turbine manufacturer.
Therefore the competition is going to be fierce.”  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , Siemens and  Acciona SA (ANA)  trail Vestas
with the biggest shares of the Australian wind turbine market,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Chinese Competition  Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas estimates that its technology
will account for about 60 percent of the Australian wind turbine
market after AGL’s Macarthur project and the Musselroe wind farm
in Tasmania begin next year, Albaek said.  Chinese companies also are adding to the competition in
Australia, vying for some of the same projects, Naveen Balachandran, head of public affairs and business development
for Vestas Asia Pacific and China, said in the interview.  “The big conglomerates are competing with us, but the
trend we’ve seen in the last year is the emergence of the
Chinese players in the market,” he said.  Vestas, which last year recorded its first loss since 2005
as overcapacity in the industry squeezed margins, is struggling
to return to profit and said earlier this month that it will cut
3,000 more jobs. Vestas has also been discussing a “strategic
cooperation” with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)   To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  