-- Who’s Standing in the Way of Change? You Are
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-11-22T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/who-s-standing-in-the-way-of-change-you-are.html
Bill Clinton  became U.S. president
on a platform of “change.” Not change in any particular way --
just change in the abstract.  Like characters in a Chekhov play, Americans found daily
life unbearable in some usually unspecified way and dreamed of
escape. But they didn’t have the energy to achieve escape
velocity. Then along came this fast-talking charmer, and
suddenly we’ve left Chekhov behind and are in “The Music Man.”  Modifying Clinton’s formula only slightly,  Barack Obama ’s
campaign mantra in 2008 was “change you can believe in.” This
year, a major part of Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ’s challenge
to President Obama was throwing this formula back in his face.
Where was the change Obama had talked about?  This strategy failed, but not because the voters decided
that, on reflection, maybe they didn’t want change. It was
because Romney is unconvincing in the role of change agent. He
has it pretty good. Why would he want things to change?  Americans certainly have change in our blood. Our
semiofficial national myth -- celebrated this week, on
Thanksgiving -- is of ancestors who uprooted themselves and
crossed the ocean to start a new life. Americans with this basic
story in their past are still a majority of the citizenry,
though just barely.  Nevertheless, it’s hard to take seriously any poll showing
that we all share a desire for change. Imagine that your phone
rings and it’s some guy from the Gallup Organization or the Pew
Research Center wanting to know whether you favor everything
being fresh and new, or everything staying exactly the way it
is. Are you really going to admit that you’re a stick-in-the-mud
who is more or less content with things the way they are?  Change in the abstract is now a fundamental American value,
like liberty or fried chicken. Everyone is for it, in the
abstract. Change in particular is a different story. Apart from
a totally nonspecific call for major change, Obama beat Romney
in part by accusing him of wanting to change something specific:
Medicare.  Romney spent most of his energy on this issue, trying with
increasing desperation to convince people that he came to rescue
Medicare, not to change it. He said, first, that his proposed
changes (basically, turning Medicare into a voucher system)
would reduce the risk of major change by making the Medicare
trust fund fiscally sound. Second, he said his proposed changes
weren’t really his: They were the brainstorm of his running
mate,  Paul Ryan , and he (Romney), not Ryan, would be in charge.
And third, he said that anyone older than 55 would be allowed to
opt out of his proposed reforms, no matter how wonderful they
might be.  The big problem with “change” as a political slogan is that
most people don’t really want change. They just say (and
possibly even believe) that they do. In fighting for the
Affordable Care Act, the administration emphasized that you
could keep your current doctors. (The failure to convince people
that this would be true is one of the big reasons that
“Hillarycare,” the Clinton administration’s health-care-reform
effort, went down.) Premature nostalgia for the present is a big
factor in opposition to immigration reform.  All this isn’t just a problem of what  Kevin Phillips  once
devastatingly labeled “reactionary liberalism”: a tendency among
liberals to circle the wagons around any government program once
it has been established. Republicans do it, too: exaggerating
the perils of some program such as  Social Security , then
proposing a solution (almost always a  tax cut  for wealthy
people) that won’t solve the problem and will make our bigger
fiscal problem worse.  But it’s not the quarreling politicians in  Washington  who
stand in the way of change. It’s the citizenry ourselves. The
change we want is a suspension of the laws of mathematics. We
debate tax increases for the rich to finance middle-class
entitlement programs, versus tax cuts for the rich and “reform”
of entitlement programs. In the end, we will have to raise taxes
on everybody and cut entitlements as well. And that,
unfortunately, is change you really can believe in.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  ease hunger in India 
and how to  improve lives of retail workers ;  Caroline Baum  on
 watching the Fed and other gossip ; William Pesek on  Indonesia’s
failure to sustain reforms ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  accounting
industry’s watchdog committee ;  Whitney Tilson  and Anthony
Scaramucci on  coming together to raise taxes and cut
entitlements .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or @michaelkinsley on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 