-- World’s Best Pub Has Michelin Stars for Beef Bake: Review
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-22/world-s-best-pub-has-michelin-stars-for-beef-bake-review.html
The Hand & Flowers doesn’t look like
the best pub in the world.  It stands beside a busy road on the outskirts of Marlow,
west of  London . With its white walls, red roof and colorful
hanging flowers, it’s a pretty, yet unexceptional place.  What sets it apart from thousands of other country inns is
the food of chef Tom Kerridge, the only pub landlord to hold two
Michelin stars, an accolade normally reserved for fine
restaurants such as Le Gavroche and Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons.  The accolade sets the Hand & Flowers alongside Noma, in
Copenhagen, the establishment that has held the title of World’s
Best Restaurant for the past three years. If sharing two-star
status with Noma has gone to Kerridge’s head, it doesn’t show.  “Great British pubs pushing forward in the Michelin guide
is fantastic,” says Kerridge, 38, beefy arms folded as he sits
for an interview at the Hand & Flowers.  “We’re trying to shake that tag in Great Britain that it’s
a place where food is rubbish. I’d worked in Michelin-star
restaurants pretty much my whole career -- but I’m not really a
Michelin star kind of a guy.  “Michelin-starred restaurants have always had this aura,
especially in the 1990s, of starched tablecloths and having to
order expensive wines. That’s not Michelin’s fault: It’s just
the restaurants where the chefs were cooking.  “And that didn’t necessarily make me feel comfortable as a
person to go to these restaurants. On a day off as a chef, you
work really hard and you want to go somewhere where you actually
enjoy the atmosphere.”  Refreshing Prices  The Hand & Flowers serves a range of beers alongside fancy
wines and cocktails. It’s the price list that is particularly
refreshing for diners used to some of the dizzy prices charged
in some two-star establishments.  The set lunch is 15 pounds ($23.81) for two courses, 19.50
pounds for three. When I visited, the menu was Crown Prince
pumpkin soup with pickled walnut and blue-cheese gougere; salt-
baked beef cheek with mustard mash and beer-pickled shallot;
toasted rice fool with mango sorbet and toffee sauce.  Rebecca Burr, who edits Michelin’s Great Britain and
Ireland guide, and “Eating Out in Pubs,” says she has been
watching Kerridge develop as a chef with a distinct personality
who knows how to marry ingredients perfectly. He is afraid
neither of simplicity nor of employing modern techniques.  Transformed Pubs  “We’re looking for best in each category,” she says in a
telephone interview. “You’re not going to get all the bits and
pieces you will get in a Mayfair restaurant with an army of
waiters, but they more than do their best at the Hand & Flowers,
and they are particularly friendly. Food in pubs has been
transformed since we started the pub guide nine years.”  Kerridge is matter-of-fact about how he won his second
star, putting it down to sustained labor over the years.  “It’s a life-changing achievement and we didn’t expect
it,” he says. “We’ve just tried to get better every day over
the eight years we’ve been here. It shows that with a load of
hard work, and reinvestment of all the money, and a love and a
passion for food: Everyone can achieve it. It’s great.”  Don’t go thinking all the food is simple. Starters may
include blowtorched Scottish scallop with warm roast chicken
bouillon, morels, nasturtium and apple (15 pounds); or for a
main you might choose lobster-baked hake with Hand & Flowers
carrot, pumpkin seeds and lardo, for 25 pounds and 50 pence.  Kerridge serves rustic French dishes alongside seasonal
British food. His culinary debt is as much to pub cuisine as
haute cuisine. If you go expecting the fireworks to be found at
some two-star restaurants, you may be disappointed.  If you are looking for honest, unfussy dishes made with
great ingredients, a lot of care and a bit of humility, you may
be very happy.  Hand & Flowers, 126 West Street, Marlow, SL7 2BP.
Information:  http://www.thehandandflowers.co.uk/  or
+44-1628-482277.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 