-- ‘Never Fabricated Investor,’ ‘Rebecca’ Producer Insists
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-02T23:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/-never-fabricated-investor-rebecca-producer-insists.html
The elusive producer at the center of
Broadway’s biggest drama in memory insisted yesterday that the
$12 million musical he postponed indefinitely on Sunday isn’t
dead.  “ Rebecca’  is moving forward,” Ben Sprecher said in a
brief telephone soliloquy. “I will never give up on this
show.”  Sprecher didn’t take questions. The call was put through by
his lawyer,  Ron Russo , who was also on the line.  “I never made up or fabricated any investor,” Sprecher
said. “I never made up Paul Abrams.”  Abrams is the mystery investor whose sudden death in August
forced Sprecher and his fellow lead producer, Louise Forlenza,
to postpone “Rebecca.”  Sprecher later said that he had never met or spoken with
Abrams, whose contribution of $4.5 million was necessary to
start rehearsals this month. Another attempt to restart the
musical last week failed when a new investor was scared off by
an anonymous e-mail.  Sprecher said he was “very upset” about recent events.
“Thank you for being patient.”  Death by Mosquito  Abrams, who seems to have left no traces of his life or
death, reportedly died of malaria.  A transcript of an anonymous e-mail that Russo forwarded to
reporters accused Sprecher of inventing Abrams to buy time to
raise money for the show. Russo said the e-mail was sent to an
investor on Friday who intended to put up seven figures to save
the musical. Sprecher called that e-mail “vicious.”  Russo said prosecutors are investigating the circumstances
surrounding “Rebecca,” but declined to say which prosecutors.
The lawyer said Sprecher would be “destroyed” should the show
not open. He’d be liable for returning millions to investors
that have already spent on sets and other expenses.  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  