-- ‘Pigeon’ Entrepreneurs Take Hollande Tax Protest to Web
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-03T15:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/-pigeon-entrepreneurs-take-hollande-french-tax-protest-to-web.html
French entrepreneurs have a new
mascot -- the pigeon.  Using the bird’s role in French slang as the “sucker,”
owners of startups have formed a group dubbed “ Les Pigeons ” to
show that President  Francois Hollande ’s new taxes make them the
fall guys for France’s economic woes. They are protesting the
almost doubling of the tax rate on capital gains generated from
selling a business in Hollande’s  budget  for 2013.  The group has gathered more than 34,000 supporters in less
than six days on Facebook Inc.’s social network and spurred more
than 3,600 posts under the “#geonpi” tag on Twitter, with the
founders of  Iliad SA (ILD) , Vente-Privee and  Meetic SA (MEET)  throwing in
their voices of support.  “The government thinks France’s entrepreneurs are
pigeons,” the movement’s initiators wrote on a dedicated
 Facebook page . “Anti-economic policies are crushing the
entrepreneurial spirit and exposing France to a big risk.”  Entrepreneurs have for months called on  France ’s government
to avoid slapping them with more taxes, saying it will dry up
interest in creating new companies or drive startups away.  Socialist President Hollande, seeking to appease his base
in his first annual budget last week, raised taxes on the rich
and big companies and included a minimum of spending cuts to
reduce the deficit. The government introduced a 75 percent tax
for income above 1 million euros ($1.29 million).  Risk Reward  “We should push entrepreneurs to create companies,
products, services, jobs, rather than push them to protest,”
said Jacques-Antoine Granjon, founder of online retailer Vente-
Privee. “It’s de-motivating for young entrepreneurs.”  With growth stalled and unemployment at a 13-year high,
France can’t afford to scare away entrepreneurs and investors,
said Granjon, who argued the fiscal changes betray how little
the government understands risk-taking and business-creation.  “Entrepreneurs create jobs through work and risk-taking
before maybe generating profit,” said Granjon, whose 11-year-
old company had 1.1 billion euros of sales in 2011 and employs
more than 1,500 people. “If you want economic growth you need a
stable backdrop and a just reward for risk and hard work.”  France reconfigured its tax rules to align levies on those
who start a business and sell it with income tax rates. That has
effectively raised the  tax rate  on capital gains for
entrepreneurs to as much as 60 percent from about 30 percent,
said  Jean-David Chamboredon , who heads investment fund ISAI.  ‘Great Consideration’  The tax increase makes France less attractive than
neighboring countries, said Chamboredon, whose fund collects
money exclusively from other entrepreneurs and invests it in
startups in the technology sector. The average European rate is
between 18 and 25 percent, he said.  France could lose out on  job creation  in high-growth
sectors, with Internet businesses, biotechnology, environmental
and medical technology likely to be the first to go, “to  London 
or elsewhere,” Chamboredon said.  “We have great consideration for entrepreneurs who create
jobs in this country,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said
today at the National Assembly. “We’ve taken measures favorable
to small companies and if there is discomfort here and there
among entrepreneurs, we’ll listen.”  Dating website Meetic’s founder Marc Simoncini was among
entrepreneurs who argued the tax change would discourage
investment. It fails to take into account the work, effort and
costs of transforming a startup into a mature company, he told
French television station BFM Business this week.  ‘Not Bothered’  Some business figures criticized Hollande’s tax move by
voicing support for the “Les Pigeons” movement on Facebook.
Xavier Niel -- who created Internet-service company Iliad and
started selling mobile-phone packages this year under the brand
name Free -- was one of them.  France’s small and medium businesses group CGPME said it
has started a petition-signing project against the 2013 budget.  Not all entrepreneurs agree. A group of seven businessmen
dissociated themselves from the “Pigeons.” One of them,  Alain
Assouline , said entrepreneurs who are in a business for the long
haul won’t be slapped with a tax increase to 60 percent.  “If you sell your company 10 years after creating it, the
rate is sliced in half,” said Assouline, who created web
company Les Argonautes 17 years ago and employs 60 people.
“We’re not bothered by the  capital-gains  tax, which we think is
normal, but we’d like to see the government pay more attention
to small companies’ access to financing.”  ‘Flown Away’  Hollande’s 2013 budget had already come under fire for its
so-called millionaire tax last week from French soccer bodies
who said it would have a “disastrous effect” on the
competitiveness of the sport in the country.  Economists have highlighted the risk of piling taxes onto a
slumping economy, while business leaders urged Hollande to cut
taxes and social charges to give  Europe ’s second-largest economy
a “competitiveness shock” when they met in July during a
conference in Aix-en-Provence, France.  Hollande, by showing he will make the rich pay more, has
sought to make good on a campaign promise of “social justice.”
The tax policies may also give him leverage to push through
unpopular labor measures as he faces plunging poll ratings.  For entrepreneurs, fighting against the tax increase has
become a matter of life and death, Pierre Chappaz, the Frenchman
who founded comparative shopping site Kelkoo and sold it to
Yahoo! Inc. for 475 million euros in 2004, wrote on his blog.  “I won’t be part of the protest since I’ve already flown
away,” wrote Chappaz, who lives in  Switzerland . “I do wish
good luck to the birds that are still fighting in Paris.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  