-- ‘Rebecca’ Is Dead; Suspects in $12 Million Fiasco Missing
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-02T01:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/-rebecca-is-dead-suspects-in-12-million-fiasco-missing.html
The lawyer representing a producer of
“ Rebecca ” last night released the transcript of an e-mail that,
he said, was responsible for the collapse of the $12 million
musical.  The story of the alleged e-mail -- and of “Rebecca” itself
-- provided the latest twist in one of Broadway’s most riveting
backstage dramas in memory. Even the legendary flop “Moose
Murders” at least made it to opening night before promptly
closing.  Ronald Russo , a lawyer with  Schlam Stone & Dolan  and a
former federal prosecutor, represents Ben Sprecher, the doomed
show’s lead producer with Louise Forlenza.  Russo said that the e-mail had been turned over to
authorities who are investigating, but the identity of the
authorities has proven to be as elusive as “Paul Abrams,” whose
purported death last summer, the producers said at the time, had
led to a $4.5 million shortfall in the show’s budget.  Evidence of Abrams’s life or death has yet to be found.  “It is a near certainty that the man Paul Abrams was made
up several months ago to defraud other investors as a
placeholder,” according to a transcript of the e-mail released
by Russo, “while Mr. Sprecher continued to try and raise
money.”  No Identity  Russo said the e-mail was sent to someone prepared to
invest an eleventh-hour seven figures to save the show. The text
doesn’t identify the sender or recipient.  “It compromises the investigation” to disclose who’s
conducting it, Russo said, adding that Sprecher is “cooperating
100 percent.”  The alleged e-mail warns the unidentified investor against
putting money in the show, warning that “there will be charges
of fraud, lawsuits, etc.”  Russo said that the recipient of the e-mail, who pulled out
of the show after receiving the electronic missive, was to have
remained anonymous.  “The only way that he could have been learned was hacking
my client’s computer,” Russo said. “There are dozens of
untruths in the e-mail sent to sabotage, it turns out
successfully, ‘Rebecca.’”  “Ben has been terribly victimized and I hope to establish
that,” Russo said.  Reached Monday evening on his cell phone, Philip J. Smith,
chairman of the  Shubert Organization , said it was his
understanding that “Ben turned the e-mail over to the Feds.”  Shubert, an investor in the show as well as its landlord,
would not have any comment on the collapse of “Rebecca,” based
on the 1938 Daphne Du Maurier novel about a young bride haunted
by her predecessor. Nor would he specify how much Broadway’s
biggest landlord had invested in the musical.  New Tenant  Shubert may already have another tenant for the Broadhurst
Theatre, where “Rebecca” was to open, the likeliest one being
“Hands on a Hard Body,” a new musical that has received
excellent reviews in  California .  Producers and lawyers not involved said investors generally
are entitled to a full refund if a show doesn’t open by a set
date, unless they waive that right. Russo said the “Rebecca”
investors did not waive it and the lead producers are liable.  “If this doesn’t go on, Ben will be destroyed,” he said.  The show was to be directed by Francesca Zambello and
Michael Blakemore, following extended runs in various European
cities. A planned opening last spring was canceled when Sprecher
and Forlenza, known legally as general partners, were still
searching for money even after the marquee had gone up.  “It’s every producers’ nightmare,” said producer Stewart 
Lane, who isn’t involved with “Rebecca.” “When you’re the 
general partner, you’re responsible, you’re liable. You are it.”  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  