-- A Referendum on Romney
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-10-02T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/a-referendum-on-romney.html
Whatever happened to, “He’s  a nice
guy , he just isn’t up to the job”?  That was Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s
 initial critique  of President Barack Obama -- employing the
challenger’s usual strategy of making the campaign a referendum
on the incumbent. What a good way to put it. Said more in sorrow
than in anger, this statement allowed Romney to play the father
disappointed in his well-meaning teenage son, who had driven the
family car (or, in this case, the economy) into a ditch. It
displayed no disdain for the president (that can be done at
private fundraisers). It allowed voters to separate the
president, whom many still liked, from his presidency, which
most disapproved of.  With unemployment stuck at more than 8 percent, weak
growth, millions of homeowners still underwater and a general
feeling that no one is better off than he or she was four years
ago, the theory went, voters would be more than willing to take
a chance on the new guy.  But a couple of things happened to that strategy along the
way to Election Day: One was named Paul Ryan, and the other was
named Mitt Romney.  Badly Defined  Romney initially found himself playing defense because of
the Obama campaign’s early advertising. This barrage helped to
define Romney as a founder of Bain Capital LLC, a company that
made profits from firing workers and shutting down companies,
with Romney nonetheless taking his share of those profits, some
of which were stashed in havens in the Cayman Islands, although
we couldn’t be sure how much because he wouldn’t release all his
tax returns.  With the argument no longer viable that Romney would do for
the U.S. what Bain did for the private sector, he looked to
other lines on his resume. They were more trouble than they were
worth: He was governor, sure, but of a blue state where he
dabbled in socialized medicine and was soft on gays, women and
Democrats.  Saving the Olympics? Yes, but because of federal money as
much as management acumen. He became so defensive about that
chapter, he overshot his mark when visiting  London  just before
this year’s games, criticizing them before they even started.
The rest of his trip wasn’t that great, either.  By then, the election was no longer about the lousy job
Obama was doing but about the lousy campaign Romney was running.
The initial strategy -- turning it into a referendum on Obama --
was in tatters, and Romney needed to click the “Refresh” button.  He had two big opportunities to turn the election back into
a referendum -- his choice for his running mate and the
convention. But by choosing Representative Paul Ryan of
 Wisconsin , an archconservative famous for his draconian budgets,
Romney made the race even more about Romney.  Yes, Ryan might help Romney secure his base -- which was
(and still is) suspicious that the flip-flopper has permanently
settled on its side -- and he might help Romney answer critics
who say he is not being specific about what he would do in
office. Yet Romney found himself explaining what Ryan would be
doing in office. The  Ryan Plan  to address the federal deficit
was famous; there was no such famous Romney Plan. Could anyone
name one point of Romney’s  59-point plan ? (Oh, never mind: It
was later replaced by a  five-point plan . At least his campaign
was getting more concise.)  When Romney realized just what was in Ryan’s plan, he
flipped like a seal. He said he and Ryan would be running on the
Romney budget, whatever that is, not the one cooked up by
deficit hawks in Congress, and on his Medicare-reform plan,
whatever that is, not one that would alter Medicare drastically
and cut it by $716 billion.  Poorly Executed  Romney blew his vice-presidential choice. The election was
no more a referendum on Obama than it had been before Ryan’s
selection. Surely Romney could get his campaign back to its core
message at the Republican National Convention, where he would be
executive producer, director and star.  He spectacularly didn’t. The great manager didn’t manage
his convention. As he limped out of Tampa,  Florida , after two
failed attempts to regain control of his campaign, he was hit
with something he couldn’t control: a videotape of remarks to a
gathering of fellow plutocrats. In an impressive display of
efficiency, he insulted 47 percent of Americans in one fell
swoop, some of whom no doubt labor in one of his many houses or
are building his car elevator. To Romney, they are self-
described victims, failing to take responsibility for
themselves, waiting for government handouts.  How could someone whose stock in trade was his very CEO-
ness let things get so bad? Romney has probably been thinking
about running for president for more than four decades, since
his father’s defeat in 1968. He has spent the better part of the
last six years actually running for president. Yet he has
managed to bungle the main message of his campaign.  Now this election is a referendum not on the incumbent, but
on the challenger. And Romney has to show that he is more
competent than his campaign. (“That was me,” he  admirably
admitted  on CBS’s “60 Minutes” when asked about that videotape.
“That’s not the campaign.”) He has to show that he understands
the lives of the people he would lead (or is “likeable enough,”
as Obama said of Hillary Clinton), and that he is the better
person to run the country.  Romney brought this burden on himself. As for Obama? All he
has to do is show that Romney may be a nice guy, but he just
isn’t up to the job.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal cliff 
and on  New York’s lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. ; Clive
Crook on  finding an unextreme path for  Europe ; Michael Kinsley
on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates; Peter Orszag on  the
widening U.S. longevity gap ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  the silver
lining in the Muslim anti-American riots ; Thomas de Waal on
 Georgia’s democratic counterrevolution .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  