-- AIG Says Oversight Panel Weighing Systemic Risk Label
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-02T20:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/aig-says-oversight-panel-weighing-systemic-risk-label.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said a U.S. panel told the insurer it’s under consideration to
be labeled a potential risk to the financial system, the first
non-bank to report such notification in a process that could
lead to tighter capital rules.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council informed AIG of
its status, the New York-based insurer said today in a
statement. The council said last week that it voted to advance
“certain” non-bank financial companies to a third stage of
review for possible designation as a systemically important
financial institution, without publicly identifying the firms.  The “tangible impact of being designated a SIFI, it’s
expected, will be increased capital requirements,” said Howard Mills, chief adviser of Deloitte LLP’s insurance-industry group,
and  New York  State’s former insurance regulator. “That’s less
capital you can deploy.”  The council, led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ,
is evaluating which companies should be subject to Federal
Reserve supervision including stress tests, higher capital
levels and tougher liquidity requirements. U.S. watchdogs are
seeking to prevent further taxpayer bailouts by making sure a
firm’s failure wouldn’t jeopardize the financial system.  AIG became a “poster child” of a too-big-to-fail company
after losses on derivative trades pushed the firm to a U.S.
bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion, said  Meyer Shields , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., in a note today.  ‘Seldom a Positive’  “Additional layers of regulation are seldom a positive,”
Shields wrote, and if AIG is designated a potential risk, the
immediate effect may be that “regulators would prefer more
capital to less, likely limiting AIG’s share repurchase and
eventual dividend-paying ability.”  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the two largest
U.S. life insurers, have questioned the need for increased U.S.
oversight. Insurers are mostly overseen by regulators at the
state level. The two companies have said that bank rules may not
be a good fit for life insurers, which often retain policyholder
funds for decades before paying benefits and may be less
vulnerable to client withdrawals.  MetLife and Prudential, which were among the largest
financial firms in the U.S. to avoid bailouts, “have an
argument that they didn’t cause” the credit crisis, said
 Lawrence Kaplan , a bank regulatory attorney at Paul Hastings LLP
in  Washington . For regulators, “it’s not the last crisis, it’s
the next crisis, and making sure someone is watching over.”  ‘Reduce Returns’  The federal designation could give smaller insurers an
advantage against large companies that “would have to hold more
capital and maintain higher liquidity levels,” William Wheeler,
MetLife’s president of the Americas, told a Congressional
committee in May. Proposed U.S. rules “would reduce  returns on
equity  for shareholders and impose higher prices on customers.”  AIG has been preparing to be regulated by the Fed and isn’t
concerned about the effect on its main businesses, the company
has said. The firm said last month the Fed will become its
regulator after U.S.  ownership  of the bailed-out insurer dropped
below 50 percent. Increased supervision could limit some
securities trading and derivative bets, the company has said.  “We’re putting an enormous amount of effort and cost to
make sure that we are Fed-ready,” Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  said on an Aug. 3 conference call with
analysts.  Benmosche’s firm climbed 0.6 percent to $33.47 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The company has surged 44 percent this year as the
U.S. lowered its stake to 16 percent through share sales.  Bailed Out  AIG’s rescue, which was recouped last month, was among
measures the U.S. government and central bank undertook to
thwart the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression.
As much as $12.8 trillion was spent, lent or committed to
bolster financial firms and automakers.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and Lincoln National
Corp. were other U.S. insurers to be rescued by taxpayers. Both
repaid bailout funds in 2010.  For insurers to “suggest that their business model somehow
renders them immune to another financial crisis is revisionist
history,” said  Neil Barofsky , former inspector general of the
U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, in an e-mail today. “Given
that three major insurance companies participated in the
bailouts, and that one was effectively nationalized because of
the perceived systemic harm that would result from its failure,
today’s arguments will hopefully fall on deaf ears.”  JPMorgan, Prudential  The oversight council was created in the aftermath of the
crisis under the Dodd-Frank law and evaluates leverage and
derivative liabilities of firms with more than $50 billion in
assets. A company under consideration as a SIFI can challenge
the notice within 30 days.  Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets
-- including Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. -- are automatically subject to heightened Fed
supervision under Dodd-Frank. Non-banks designated systemically
important would get Fed oversight similar to that of the large
lenders.  Prudential has said it meets the council’s thresholds for
further evaluation and  GE Capital , the finance arm of  General
Electric Co. (GE) , has said it expects to be named systemically
important.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for the GE unit,
declined to comment on the latest stage of the council’s review.  “The SIFI designation process involves a number of steps,
and we will disclose our designation once the final decision has
been made,” he said in an e-mail today.  Bob DeFillippo , a
Prudential spokesman, declined to comment.  MetLife has been regulated by the Fed because it owns a
bank. The firm is seeking to exit banking to limit oversight,
which has prevented the New York-based firm from boosting its
dividend or repurchasing shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  