-- Air Canada Rallies Amid Debut Plans for Low-Cost Carrier
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-02T20:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/air-canada-says-new-low-cost-airline-will-start-flying-in-june.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  rallied amid plans to
start flights on its low-cost carrier in June, with routes to
holiday destinations in  Europe  and the Caribbean.  The new unit of Canada’s largest airline will begin
operations with four planes and may expand to as many as 50, the
Montreal-based company said today in a statement. The segment
will be combined with the company’s tour-operator, Air Canada
Vacations, to form a new “integrated leisure group.”  The move into low-cost travel follows a July decision by a
government arbitrator that allowed implementation of cost-saving
steps in new employees’ pension plans and the startup of the new
unit. Air Canada had the highest cost to fly one seat a mile
among North American airlines for the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Air  Canada ’s widely traded Class B stock rose 3.1 percent
to C$1.35 today in Toronto, the highest close since Feb. 6. The
stock has gained 36 percent this year.  Last month, Air Canada announced plans to hire 200 flight
attendants and pilots in the next year at the new leisure
carrier and more than 900 additional employees at the main
airline.  Airline Brand  Half of the cost savings compared with Air Canada’s
mainline will come from an increase in the number of seats on
each aircraft, while work rules and wage rates will account for
the other half, Chief Financial Officer Michael Rousseau said
Sept. 19 at an investor conference in  Montreal .  It will take “several years” for the low-cost unit’s
fleet to reach 50 aircraft, he said.  “There are markets that we do not currently fly in
transatlantic, that we believe using the Air Canada brand, the
Air Canada strength, we can be very, very successful at,” he
said.  Michael Friisdahl will lead the new leisure group, Air
Canada said. Friisdahl, who has more than 25 years of experience
in the international leisure-travel industry, previously served
as chief executive officer of  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) ’s North
American unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  