-- Taiwan Visitors Get Visa-Free U.S. Travel, Officials Say
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-02T21:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/taiwan-visitors-get-visa-free-u-s-travel-officials-say.html
Tourists and business executives from
 Taiwan  will be allowed to travel to the U.S. without a visa for
as long as 90 days starting Nov. 1.  Taiwan will join 36 countries already participating in the
Visa Waiver Program, which provides entry without a travel visa,
U.S. officials said yesterday.  China  isn’t among them.  The announcement “is a major step forward in our long-
standing economic partnership with Taiwan,” Secretary of
Homeland Security  Janet Napolitano , said in a statement.  About 290,000 Taiwanese visited the U.S. last year,
spending more than $1.1 billion, according to a U.S. Commerce
Department report.  The decision is likely to bring an increase in Taiwanese
tourism to the U.S., said Frank Wang, a press officer for the
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in
Washington.  “It’s definitely beneficial to both sides,” Wang said in
an interview. “We appreciate the U.S. announcement.”  Unlike other participants in the Visa Waiver Program,
Taiwan isn’t an independent country recognized by the U.S. Since
1979, the U.S. has recognized Taiwan as being part of China and
doesn’t support independence for Taiwan, while pledging to help
maintain its defenses.  An official with the Department of  Homeland Security , who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity, said the 1979
Taiwan Relations Act specifies that the U.S. can treat Taiwan as
it does any other nation or government with regard to laws
concerning international programs.  China’s Aware  China doesn’t enjoy the same visa-free travel privilege
that Taiwan will now receive. A State Department official, who
briefed reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity, said that
while officials in Beijing were aware of the decision on Taiwan,
the U.S. made no special effort to consult China on the
decision.  Geng Shuang and Gao  Yuan , spokesmen for the Chinese embassy
in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail
requests for comment.  The Visa Waiver Program accounted for 18.3 million visits
to the U.S. in fiscal 2011, or more than 60 percent of the
tourists and business travelers entering the U.S. by air,
according to a Homeland Security Department statement.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who hosted a travel and
tourism conference for business leaders and government officials
yesterday at the State Department, said American embassies
around the world are stepping up efforts to promote the U.S. as
a travel destination.  “The number of tourists bound for the  United States  is
growing all the time,” Clinton said at the conference. “So in
addition to trying to ease the way for Americans to travel, we
have matched that commitment with trying to ease the way for
foreigners to travel here.”  Promoting the effort as a jobs initiative, Clinton said the
average tourist from overseas spends $4,000 in the U.S. She said
one American job is created for every 65 international visitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  