-- Take Money and Run Seen as Best Allscripts Bet: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-02T14:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/take-money-and-run-seen-as-best-allscripts-bet-real-m-a.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions
Inc. (MDRX) ’s best hope for shareholders now lies in private equity
after management turmoil and disappointing earnings erased half
of the medical-software provider’s market value.  Allscripts has spoken in recent weeks with firms such as
Blackstone Group LP about a potential leveraged buyout, people
familiar with the matter said last week. The Chicago-based
company is courting buyers after the stock traded on Sept. 27 at
the lowest multiple to sales and net assets among U.S.
application-software providers in health care, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Even after surging on the Bloomberg News
report, the stock is down 40 percent from this year’s peak.  While the $2.2 billion company ousted its chairman and
reduced its  profit forecast  for this year amid struggles to
integrate a 2010 acquisition, Allscripts still could draw
suitors as the U.S. government offers incentives for health-care
providers to digitize records, Maxim Group LLC said. Allscripts
also generated more  free cash flow  per dollar of equity than 91
percent of peers and has less than $500 million in debt. A
takeover could fetch $16 a share, a 25 percent premium,
according to International Strategy & Investment Group LLC.  “Allscripts has had some internal struggles,” Richard Foran, a fund manager at Pittsburgh-based Symons Capital
Management Inc., which oversees about $480 million including
Allscripts shares, said in a telephone interview. After the
stock decline, “private equity is probably more than willing to
buy it for its potential.”  Digital Records  Ariana Nikitas, a spokeswoman for Allscripts, said the
company doesn’t discuss speculation, when asked about the status
of a sale and if it had held talks with private-equity firms or
other buyers.  Allscripts provides software and services to health-care
providers for use in creating and maintaining electronic health
records, managing documentation and prescribing medications
electronically. The company, which sells information systems to
doctors’ offices, bought Eclipsys Corp. for $1.3 billion in 2010
to expand into software for hospitals and health-care networks.  Shares of Allscripts, which peaked this year on Feb. 16 at
$21.47, had their biggest decline in more than three years on
April 27 after the company fired Chairman Phil Pead, the former
head of Eclipsys, prompting three board members to resign in
protest. The company also cut its full-year profit estimate,
saying in a statement that some customers had delayed
commitments as they waited for new product releases and looked
for it to demonstrate “more robust integration” of products.
Allscripts also said its chief financial officer was leaving.  Stumbles, Shortfall  After Allscripts adopted a poison pill in May to thwart
unwanted takeovers,  shareholder  HealthCor Management LP sued the
company over its firing of Pead and protested the process for
filling the three board seats. HealthCor, a $2 billion asset
manager that invests in health and life-sciences companies,
later withdrew its lawsuit after Allscripts agreed to nominate
three independent directors.  Allscripts “stumbled from an execution standpoint and that
has caused the shortfall in the numbers and a recalibration of
their guidance, and then you had the board upheaval and the
senior management turmoil,”  Anthony Vendetti , a New York-based
analyst at Maxim Group, said in a phone interview. “All of
those factors contributed to the significant share-price decline
and has created this opportunity that’s out there.”  Low Valuation  By last week -- when Bloomberg News reported that the
company had hired Citigroup Inc. for advice on talks with
private-equity buyers, according to people familiar with the
matter -- Allscripts’s stock was  trading  about 50 percent below
its February peak.  That left the company valued at 1.37 times its trailing 12-
month  revenue , the lowest multiple among U.S. application-
software providers involved in health-care equipment and
services with a market capitalization of more than $100 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was valued at 1.46
times book value, less than half the median multiple of 3.6
times for the group, the data show.  Even with the company’s recent stumbles, Vendetti said
potential buyers may be attracted to Allscripts because of its
customer base and its technology, which is in demand as doctors
and hospitals seek federal grants for converting to electronic
records.  Given Allscripts’s  stock slump  this year, “it’s one of the
more attractive ways to get involved in the industry,” Vendetti
said. “They have a very large installed base of both
prestigious hospital clients as well as a large installed base
of physicians” using their products.  Turnaround Candidate  While integration issues related to the Eclipsys takeover
have crimped Allscripts’s ability to win new business, “the
potential is definitely there” to turn around the business,
Vendetti said.  Private-equity buyers may also be lured by the company’s
steady revenue from maintenance fees and its cash flow, said
Michael Cherny, a New York-based analyst at ISI.  Cherny said Allscripts could receive $16 to $17 a share in
a buyout. That compares with analysts’ consensus 12-month stock-
price estimate of $12.55, less than yesterday’s closing level of
$12.84.  Today, Allscripts shares rose 1 cent to $12.84 at 10:44
a.m. in New York.  Allscripts’s free-cash-flow yield of 10.8 percent last week
was more than three times the industry median of 3.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has only $489
million in debt, while holding $122 million in cash.  The company is “a solid LBO candidate,” said Steven Soranno, a Bethesda, Maryland-based analyst for Calvert
Investment Management Inc., which oversees $12.2 billion,
including Allscripts shares.  Industry Suitors  In addition to private equity, Allscripts could attract
suitors from within the health-care industry, such as Siemens
AG, General Electric Co. or San Francisco-based McKesson Corp.,
said Sean Wieland, a San Francisco-based analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos.  Representatives for Munich-based Siemens and Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE declined to comment. Representatives for
McKesson didn’t respond to phone or e-mail messages seeking
comment.  Still, Wieland said any potential buyer would have to be
willing to spend time and money integrating Allscripts’s
products onto a single platform.  “They have a lot of the right ingredients to make it all
work,” Wieland said. “It’s just a big challenge to get them to
all work together.”  Allscripts’s  operating margin  of 4.79 percent last quarter
was less than half the median of application-software peers in
health care, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even so, the company offers a private-equity buyer the
opportunity to buoy profits by streamlining expenses, said ISI’s
Cherny.  “There’s a significant amount of opportunity for cost
cutting,” Cherny said. “That’s what would garner significant
interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 