-- Talanx CEO Says Timing ‘Perfect’ for IPO as Rates Rise
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-10-02T11:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/talanx-says-timing-perfect-for-ipo-as-dax-gains-and-rates-rise.html
Talanx AG (TLX) , the German insurer that
began trading on the stock market today, said the timing of its
initial public offering was “perfect” amid a rally in equities
and higher insurance rates.  “The time right now is perfect,” Herbert Haas, Talanx’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “We have
booming capital markets. We also have a perfect environment as
far as the insurance industry is concerned.”  Talanx, based in Hanover, revived the share sale on Sept.
20, a week after calling it off for the second time in three
months. The day after Talanx canceled the IPO, the U.S. Federal
Reserve announced a third round of quantitative easing, sending
benchmark stock indexes to the highest levels since 2007.  Talanx rose 1.6 percent to 18.60 euros as of 1 p.m. local
time in  Frankfurt  from the IPO price of 18.30 euros. That was a
bigger gain than the 0.9 percent increase for the Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index.  “Talanx has a cheaper valuation than its insurance peers
like Allianz, which may prompt a little bit of a rally for the
shares,” said Stefan Bongardt, an analyst with Independent
Research GmbH. “Talanx has a very attractive dividend ratio and
being strongly established in Germany gives them a stable
basis.”  The IPO has a volume of about 817 million euros, including
a 300 million-euro convertible bond held by Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co., the company said. That makes the IPO Germany’s
largest since the port operator Hamburger Hafen und Logistik
AG’s stock sale in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IPO ‘Icebreaker’  “We were the so-called icebreaker for the IPO market in
 Germany ,” said Haas. “If you are the icebreaker after such a
long period, you have to sometimes zigzag to come to your final
destination.”  The shares were priced at 18.30 euros, the company said in
a regulatory statement yesterday, compared with the original
range of 17.30 euros to 20.30 euros. Earlier, the range was
adjusted to 17.80 euros to 18.80 euros apiece, according to a
term sheet obtained by Bloomberg.  Haas cited auto insurance, reinsurance and industrial
business as areas where Talanx and its competitors are able to
raise rates.  The IPO may bode well for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc ’s plans to raise about 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in
the initial stock sale of its Direct Line Insurance Group Plc
unit.  Funding Growth  “Sooner or later there will be further capital increases
at Talanx,” Haas said. While Talanx currently has
“sufficient” capital, the company may sell shares in 24 to 36
months to fund growth, he said. German mutual insurer HDI
Haftpflichtverband der Deutschen Industrie VaG, Talanx’s
majority shareholder, won’t sell shares, according to Haas.  Talanx, which has been considering the share sale for more
than a decade, owns a 50.2 percent stake in Hannover Re, the
world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer.  The company will use some of the funds from the IPO to
consolidate positions in Poland and  Mexico  and fund growth in
 Brazil , the CEO said in the interview. The insurer has said it
will repay loans for recent acquisitions of two Polish rivals.  “What is missing is a true growth story as the markets in
which they operate are more or less stagnating,” said Bongardt,
who is based in Frankfurt. “I would prefer them to invest in
growing markets than to reduce their loans with the proceeds of
the share sale. That would give them an equity growth story.”  Deutsche Bank AG and Berenberg Bank led the Talanx share
sale as joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners, while
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  acted as additional
joint bookrunners. Rothschild advised the insurer on the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  