-- Aldar, Sorouh Rise on Property Market Outlook: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-02T12:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/aldar-sorouh-rise-on-property-market-outlook-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s largest real estate companies which are
in talks to merge, rose to the highest levels since March on an
improved outlook for the United Arab Emirates property market.  Aldar gained 0.8 percent to 1.32 dirhams, the highest close
since March 27, extending yesterday’s rally of 4.8 percent.
Sorouh also climbed 0.8 percent to 1.25 dirhams, the highest
level since March 25. The ADX Real Estate Index rose 0.7
percent, helping lift the  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  up 0.5 percent. In
Dubai,  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s
tallest tower, slipped 0.8 percent after advancing 3.5 percent
yesterday.  “Market sentiment is definitely improving and both Dubai
and  Abu Dhabi  remain major drivers in the regional real estate
market,” Alan Robertson, chief executive officer of Jones Lang
LaSalle,  Middle East  and North Africa, said in an e-mailed
report dated yesterday.  Property companies’ profits are picking up after  house
prices  in Abu Dhabi slumped 50 percent in the aftermath of the
2008 global credit crisis. Aldar, bailed out by the Abu Dhabi
government last year, posted a  second-quarter profit  that more
than tripled. Sorouh may post a  31 percent advance  in net income
for the three months ended Sept. 30 to 88 million dirhams ($24
million), according to the median estimate of three analysts on
Bloomberg.  ‘More Realistic’  The neighboring emirate of Dubai, which teetered on the
brink of a default in 2009 after property prices plunged, is
seeing a recovery in the real-estate market, Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of the Dubai ruler’s court, said
today. “The developers are being more realistic. The banks are
more mature,” he said. Sub-market home rental rates are on an
“upward curve,” in Dubai,  CBRE Group Inc (CBG)  said in a report
today.  Shares of Emaar, the stock with the  heaviest weighting  on
Dubai’s benchmark stock index, surged 24 percent in the third
quarter, making it the  best performer  on the gauge in the
period. The company may post an  18 percent advance  in third-
quarter net income to 479 million dirhams, according to the mean
estimate of five analysts on Bloomberg.  Aldar and Sorouh have rallied 43 percent and 47 percent
respectively this year after Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the
U.A.E.’s oil reserves, said it plans to resume stalled projects
including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums.  The companies said in a joint statement today that a
decision to recommend a merger will follow the completion of
talks, which are at an “advanced stage.”  Seven analysts  recommend investors buy Aldar shares, two
say hold and three have a sell rating, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Six analysts  recommend buying Sorouh’s
shares, five holding them and two selling them. Meanwhile, 12
analysts recommend investors buy Emaar shares while three have a
hold rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  