-- Alvarion Says Reverse Stock Split ‘On Table’ as Deadline Looms
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-02T20:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/alvarion-says-reverse-stock-split-on-table-as-deadline-looms.html
Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR)  is considering a
reverse stock split as the Israeli telecommunications-equipment
maker comes up against a deadline to bolster its share price or
be ejected from the  Nasdaq  Composite Index.  Nasdaq issued the company with a delisting notice after its
shares dropped below the minimum bid requirement of $1, Alvarion
said on May 1. The stock needs to trade at least $1 for a
minimum 10 consecutive business days by Oct. 23 for the company
to remain in compliance with the exchange’s rules, according to
the statement. The shares slid 3.2 percent to 42.6 cents in New
York today.  A reverse stock split, where the number of shares
outstanding in the company is reduced to boost their par value
or earnings-per-share, is one way the company may be able to
maintain the listing, according to Chief Financial Officer Lior Shemesh.  “A reverse stock split is on the table but not something I
would prefer to do,” Shemesh said by phone from  Tel Aviv  today.
The best option for Alvarion would be “to recover the business
of the company and show profitability for a few quarters and
shares will be at the level they should be.”  Alvarion has had discussions with Nasdaq to extend the
deadline by another six months, Elana Holzman, vice president of
 investor relations , said on the call with Shemesh.  The company, which announced the sale of a part of its
patent portfolio yesterday to  Wi-LAN Inc. (WIN)  for $19 million, is in
talks with potential investors interested in buying a stake,
according to Shemesh.  “We have discussions with many parties as the most
important thing is to bring cash to company,” he said. “If we
can bring someone who can be a strategic partner, by all means,
that is even better. With the patent sale we have bought some
time.”  Rob Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  