-- Amerigroup Delays Investor Vote to End WellPoint Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/amerigroup-delays-investor-vote-to-end-wellpoint-deal-suits-1-.html
Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  officials agreed to
delay a shareholder vote on  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s $4.9 billion buyout
offer for the managed-care company to resolve investors’ claims
they were being shortchanged in the deal, the company said in a
securities filing.  Amerigroup will delay the company’s Oct. 9 annual meeting
for two weeks and be willing to “receive and consider in good
faith any inquiries and superior proposals” to WellPoint’s
offer, officials said in a filing with the  U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  yesterday.  The settlement comes more than a month after Angela Braly,
Wellpoint’s embattled chairman and chief executive officer,
stepped down in the face of shareholder criticism over the
health-insurer’s performance. John Cannon, WellPoint’s general
counsel, is serving as interim CEO while the company searches
for a replacement.  Braly, 51, took over the CEO position in June 2007. During
her tenure, she became a high-profile foe of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul and, more recently, sparked the ire
of investors after WellPoint missed earnings estimates and cut
its forecast twice in four months.  Maureen McDonald, an Amerigroup spokeswoman, declined in an
e-mailed statement to comment beyond the SEC filing on the
settlement of investors’ claims. Kristin Bins, a spokeswoman for
Indianapolis, Indiana-based WellPoint, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment yesterday.  Conflicting Interests  The  acquisition , announced July 9, would make WellPoint,
the second-largest U.S. health insurer, the largest private
provider of Medicaid plans for low-income patients. Amerigroup
helps states manage health coverage for the poor.  Amerigroup investors sued the insurer’s board in August
alleging directors, along with financial adviser  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc., put their own interests ahead of shareholders by
backing the WellPoint offer.  Goldman Sachs was “hopelessly conflicted” as an adviser
on the transaction and pushed the board to ignore a more
lucrative deal with a suitor described as Company D, lawyers for
the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System and
the City of Monroe Employees Retirement System in  Michigan  said
in court filings.  Breakup Fee  While the funds weren’t able to win a financial recovery in
the case, Amerigroup and WellPoint officials agreed to cut the
so-called breakup fee in the deal by $49 million, according to
the SEC filing. That means Amerigroup would have to pay $97
million if WellPoint’s bid is topped instead of $146 million.  Amerigroup and WellPoint officials denied any wrongdoing in
connection with the buyout and agreed to the settlement to
“avoid the costs, risks and uncertainties inherent in
litigation,” according to the filing.  Delaware Chief Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine still must
decide whether to approve the settlement before it becomes
final.  Virginia Beach, Virginia-based Amerigroup yesterday said it
would sell its operations in that state to Inova, a nonprofit
health-care system after antitrust questions from the U.S.
Justice Department arose on the pending Wellpoint sale.  The case is City of Monroe Employees Retirement System v.
Capps, CA7788, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  