-- American Express, Deutsche Bank, Taxes: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-10-02T11:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/american-express-deutsche-bank-taxes-compliance.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, will pay $112.5 million to
settle claims it violated consumer safeguards from marketing to
collection in products sold to about 250,000 customers.  “Several American Express companies violated consumer
protection laws and those laws were violated at all stages of
the game -- from the moment a consumer shopped for a card to the
moment the consumer got a phone call about long overdue debt,”
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray
said yesterday in a statement announcing the settlement.  According to the statement, units of New York-based
American Express deceived customers who signed up for a
particular card, leading them to believe they would get $300 and
bonus points. The company also charged illegal late fees,
discriminated against applicants on the basis of age and failed
to report consumer disputes to credit bureaus, regulators said.  The settlement with American Express involves state
regulators from  Utah , where American Express owns banks, and
four federal agencies, according to statements from the CFPB and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Under the
agreement, the company will refund about $85 million to
customers and pay civil penalties totaling $27.5 million to the
four federal regulators, with $14.1 million going to the CFPB.  American Express neither admitted nor denied regulators’
accusations in the settlement, which its board approved on Sept.
24, according to the Fed’s consent order.  “Reserves were established in previous quarters for a
substantial portion of these fines and the estimated customer
refunds,” Michael O’Neill, an American Express spokesman, said
in a statement. “Separately, the company is continuing its own
internal reviews and cooperating with regulators in their
ongoing regulatory examination of add-on products in accordance
with the industrywide review.”  The settlement is the third involving the consumer bureau,
which previously resolved claims against credit card issuers
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Discover Financial Services. (DFS)   For more, click here.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Sued by Schneiderman for Fraud Over Mortgage Securities  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, was sued by
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who alleged that
the Bear Stearns business the bank took over in 2008 defrauded
mortgage-bond investors.  Investors were deceived about the defective loans backing
securities they bought, leading to “monumental losses,”
Schneiderman said in a complaint filed yesterday in New York
State Supreme Court.  “Defendants systematically failed to fully evaluate the
loans, largely ignored the defects that their limited review did
uncover, and kept investors in the dark about both the
inadequacy of their review procedures and the defects in the
underlying loans,” Schneiderman’s office said.  Schneiderman in January was named co-chairman of a state-
federal group formed to investigate misconduct in bundling of
mortgage loans into securities leading up to the financial
crisis. The group includes officials from the U.S. Justice
Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the FBI and
other federal and state officials.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, said the New York-
based bank would contest the complaint, which is “entirely
about” conduct by Bear Stearns. JPMorgan acquired Bear Stearns
in 2008.  “We’re disappointed that the NYAG decided to pursue its
civil action without ever offering us an opportunity to rebut
the claims and without developing a full record -- instead
relying on recycled claims already made by private plaintiffs,”
Evangelisti said in an e-mail.  The state’s complaint names J.P. Morgan Securities,
JPMorgan Chase Bank and JPMorgan’s EMC Mortgage unit as
defendants.  The case is People of the  State of New York  v. J.P. Morgan
Securities, 451556-2012, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  Ex-SAC Capital Manager Tells FBI Fund Used Insider Information  A former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager told the
FBI it was “understood” that those assigned to give their best
trading ideas to founder Steven A. Cohen would provide him with
insider information, according to an agent’s notes of the
conversation.  The former fund manager, Noah Freeman, pleaded guilty to
securities fraud in February 2011 after speaking to Federal
Bureau of Investigation agents and federal prosecutors in New
York in late 2010, in a so-called proffer session. Defendants
use such sessions to determine whether to cooperate with the
government against others.  Freeman, one of five current or former SAC portfolio
managers or analysts implicated in insider trading, isn’t quoted
as saying Cohen, 56, knew the information came from illegally
obtained tips, ordered him to provide them or traded on the
data. Neither Cohen nor  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC Capital,
which manages $14 billion in assets, has been accused of
criminal or civil wrongdoing.  Michael Steinberg, a portfolio manager at SAC’s Sigma
Capital Management unit implicated in insider trading, has been
placed on leave by SAC, a person familiar with the matter said.
He is an unindicted co-conspirator related to the case against
Jon Horvath, a former SAC analyst he supervised, people familiar
with the case said last week.  Horvath pleaded guilty Sept. 28 to being part of a
“criminal club” of fund managers and analysts who made $62
million by swapping nonpublic information about technology
companies. Steinberg hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Freeman and another SAC fund manager, Donald Longueuil,
were accused last year by prosecutors in the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara with being part of an insider-
trading scheme while at SAC.  Freeman, Longueuil and two others charged in the case have
pleaded guilty to criminal insider-trading charges. Longueuil,
36, is serving a 2 1/2-year prison term at the federal prison in
Otisville, New York. Freeman is cooperating with prosecutors and
hasn’t been sentenced.  Benjamin Rosenberg, a lawyer for Freeman, declined to
comment on the memos filed about his client. U.S. Attorney
spokeswoman  Ellen Davis  also declined to comment, as did FBI
spokesman  Jim Margolin .  Steinberg’s lawyer, Barry Berke, declined to comment on his
client’s status at SAC. Steve Peikin, a lawyer for Horvath,
didn’t return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking
comment on Steinberg.  The Horvath case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-00124, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Madoff Workers Face More Charges in Fraud Dating to 1970s  Five longtime employees of  Bernard Madoff ’s former
investment firm are now facing more charges.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan yesterday released
a revised indictment expanding the charges against former Madoff
employees Daniel Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno, Joann Crupi,
Jerome O’Hara and George Perez. The indictment adds to the 17
criminal counts filed against the former employees in November
2010, for a total of 33 counts. The government is now also
alleging that the fraud dates to the early 1970s.  Bonventre, 65, and Bongiorno, 64, worked for Madoff for 40
years, with Bongiorno rising to the level of supervisor and
account manager. Crupi, 51, an employee since 1983, tracked
daily bank account activity, prosecutors said. Perez, 46, and
O’Hara, 49, started at the firm in the early 1990s.  Madoff, 74, pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 for cheating
investors out of $20 billion in principal. He’s serving a 150-
year term in federal prison in North Carolina.  The defendants are scheduled to be arraigned on the new
charges at a hearing today before U.S. District Judge Laura
Taylor Swain, Bharara’s office said in the statement.  The new charges put additional pressure on the former
employees, who have pleaded not guilty in the case. New charges
against Bonventre and Crupi include bank fraud, which is
punishable by as much as 30 years in prison.  Bonventre’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch; Bongiorno’s lawyer,
 Maurice Sercarz ; Crupi’s lawyer, Eric Breslin; O’Hara’s lawyer,
Gordon Mehler; and Perez’s lawyer, Larry Krantz, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages yesterday seeking comment
on the new charges after regular business hours.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Deutsche Bank Broker Among Four Charged in Insider Case  Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  managing director Martyn Dodgson
was among four people charged with insider trading by U.K.
authorities after an investigation spanning two-and-a-half
years.  Dodgson, who was employed by Deutsche Bank at the time of
his arrest in March 2010, as well as Andrew Hind, Benjamin
Anderson and Iraj Parvizi were charged with “conspiracy to
insider deal” between Nov. 1, 2006, and March 23, 2010, the
 Financial Services Authority  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The agency alleges the men made more than 3 million
pounds ($4.8 million) on improper trades.  The charges stem from an investigation into the front-
running of block trades, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for
little tavern. The FSA arrested seven people and raided 16
addresses in  London  and southeast  England  in March 2010 as part
of the crackdown. Two more arrests came later.  Front-running is a practice in which a trader takes a
position to capitalize on advance knowledge of a transaction
large enough to influence the price of securities.  Tabernula, conducted along with the U.K. Serious Organised
Crime Agency, is the “largest and most complex insider dealing
investigation to date,” the regulator said in the statement.
The authority has been cracking down on market abuse and insider
trading ahead of being disbanded next year and having its
enforcement duties taken over by the Financial Conduct
Authority.  Deutsche Bank “cooperated fully with the authorities,”
the lender said in an e-mailed statement. “The investigation
concerned one individual, Martyn Dodgson, and not the bank
itself.”  Those arrested in 2010 include Dodgson, Julian Rifat of
Moore Capital Management LLC, Clive Roberts, the head of
European sales trading at Exane BNP Paribas and Novum Securities
Ltd.’s Graeme Shelley. The agency said yesterday that, “a
number of individuals remain under investigation.”  Parvizi “emphatically denies the charges and is determined
to clear his name,” Peter Hughman, Parvizi’s lawyer, said in a
telephone interview.  Michael Potts at Byrne and Partners, the lawyer for
Anderson, declined to comment. Hind’s lawyer, Miles Herman at
Lewis Nedas Law, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.
Tim Harris, a lawyer at  Bark & Co.  in London who represents
Dodgson, didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail seeking
comment on the charges.  Adoboli’s UBS Co-Worker Says He Used Secret Umbrella Account  John Hughes, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader, testified he made the
same unauthorized trades as his co-worker Kweku Adoboli, who is
being prosecuted for fraud.  Hughes said during his fourth day of testimony at Adoboli’s
fraud and false accounting trial in London that he made trades
that benefited the fund Adoboli had dubbed his “umbrella” --
the first time another worker admitted using that account.  Charles Sherrard, Adoboli’s lawyer, presented evidence of
at least five transactions on the umbrella account made by
Hughes while Adoboli was on vacation in  Greece  in June 2011, and
that accounting firm KPMG LLP had evidence of other such trades.
Adoboli called it the umbrella because it could be tapped on
“rainy days” to cover trading losses, prosecutors have said.  Adoboli was charged in relation to unauthorized trades on
which UBS lost $2.3 billion. The former trader admitted hours
before his arrest in September of last year that he had risked
$5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a further $3.75
billion in the German futures market, a former manager
testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  For more, click here.  Ex-IndyMac CEO Michael Perry Settles With SEC for $80,000  Michael Perry, the former chief executive officer of
IndyMac Bancorp Inc., agreed to pay an $80,000 penalty to settle
the remaining claim against him by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Perry neither admits nor denies the SEC’s allegations,
according to the terms of the settlement filed Sept. 27 in
federal court in Los Angeles.  The single negligence-based claim was all that was left of
the fraud case against Perry that the SEC had brought in 2011,
accusing him of misleading investors about the mortgage lender’s
worsening financial condition before its 2008 collapse. U.S.
District Judge Manuel Real this year threw out the SEC’s other
claims against Perry.  “The court ruled in Mr. Perry’s favor on every claim that
was presented to it,” D. Jean Veta, a lawyer for Perry, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Despite significant reluctance, Mr.
Perry had long tried to resolve this case on reasonable terms.
It just so happens that we needed to score some victories before
the SEC was of a similar mind.”  IndyMac, once the second-largest U.S. independent mortgage
lender, was seized by regulators in July 2008 after a run by
depositors left the Pasadena, California-based firm strapped for
cash. The SEC alleged that Perry failed to warn investors of the
lender’s deteriorating capital and liquidity positions in 2007
and 2008 even though he had regularly received internal reports
detailing the problems.  Donald Searles, a lawyer for the SEC in Los Angeles, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling.  The case is SEC v. Perry, 11-1309, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Compliance Policy  U.S. Households Face $3,446 Tax Increase From Fiscal Cliff  U.S. households are facing an average tax increase of
$3,446 in 2013 if Congress doesn’t avert the so-called fiscal
cliff, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center said in a study
released yesterday.  The top 1 percent of households could face some of the
largest tax increases in 2013 and would see their after-tax
incomes fall by 10.5 percent if Congress does nothing. That
would translate to an average tax increase of $120,537 for that
group.  A typical middle-income household earning between about
$40,000 and $60,000 would face a tax increase of about $2,000.  After the Nov. 6 election, Congress is scheduled to return
to  Washington  to debate the automatic spending cuts and tax
increases starting in January unless lawmakers act. For calendar
year 2013, taxes would increase by $536 billion, or about 20
percent.  The estimated $536 billion tax increase doesn’t include
provisions that expired at the end of 2011, including
miscellaneous corporate tax breaks. The provision that prevents
the alternative minimum tax from expanding also expired last
year.  For more, click here.  Basel Bank Group Attacks EU, U.S. for Capital Rules Lapses  The U.S. and European Union may fail to fully implement
 bank-capital rules  drawn up to prevent a repeat of the financial
crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., global watchdogs warned.  International teams of regulators found weaknesses in the
U.S. and EU draft implementing measures for the so-called Basel
III standards, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said
yesterday in a statement on its website.  “There is now a window of opportunity for the gaps
identified to be closed,”  Stefan Ingves , the Basel group’s
chairman, said in the statement. A related review found  Japan ’s
rule-making to be compliant with Basel III, Ingves said.  The largest global banks would have needed an extra 374.1
billion euros ($482.4 billion) in their core reserves to meet
Basel III had the standards been enforced at the end of 2011,
according to data published by the committee last month. Nearly
200 billion euros of the collective shortfall was at banks in
the 27-nation EU.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said
that he has “reservations” about some of the Basel group’s
findings, “which do not appear to be supported by rigorous
evidence and a well-defined methodology.”  There is a “lack of consistency” in how different
jurisdictions have been reviewed, Barnier said in an e-mailed
statement.  Lawmakers are struggling to meet a January 2013 deadline
set by the Basel committee for implementing new standards, which
more than triple the core capital that lenders must have to
stave off insolvency and require banks to build up buffers of
easy-to-sell assets. The measures were published by the group in
2010.  For more, click here.  Courts  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Sued for $111 Million Over Loans  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC was sued for
at least $110.8 million by a trustee for investors in mortgage-
backed securities.  The Morgan Stanley unit made “numerous and repeated
failures” to comply with promises about the loans underlying
the securities, trustee U.S. Bancorp said in a Sept. 28 filing
in New York State Supreme Court.  The original principal balance of loans sold as securities
was $609 million, and the amount of defective loans is more than
$129 million, according to the filing. U.S. Bancorp said it is
seeking at least $110.8 million in damages.  Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-13ARX
v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC, 653429-2012,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  CFTC Should Appeal Ruling on Speculation Limits, Chilton Says  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission should appeal
a federal judge’s decision blocking Dodd-Frank Act limits on
speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities, said
Commissioner Bart Chilton.  The CFTC should also seek a stay of U.S. District Judge
Robert Wilkins’s Sept. 28 ruling that the agency failed to
assess whether limits were necessary and appropriate under the
2010 regulatory overhaul, Chilton said in remarks prepared for a
speech tomorrow in  Rome  at the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations.  “The struggle isn’t over,” said Chilton, one of three
Democrats on the five-member commission. “I think the court
opinion is deeply flawed.”  The court decision stymied rules from taking effect Oct. 12
that were challenged by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association and International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. The associations represent JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley and other banks
and energy trading firms.  The agency should start drafting another version of the
rule to account for the judge’s objections, Chilton said. The
agency should issue an interim final rule with a 15-day period
of public comment, he said.  LightSquared Extends Bankruptcy Control With Regulatory Plan  LightSquared Inc. won more time to file a bankruptcy plan
after the wireless-broadband venture came up with a new
regulatory strategy and lenders withdrew opposition to an
extension of Philip A. Falcone’s control.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in Manhattan
yesterday granted LightSquared’s request to extend its control
of the bankruptcy case, giving it until Jan. 31 to file a plan
and until April 1 to win creditors’ acceptance. The lenders,
which say they own about $1.1 billion of secured debt of
LightSquared’s LP unit, withdrew an objection to the extension
that had called Falcone’s plan for the company “risky.”  Matthew Barr, a lawyer for LightSquared, told Chapman in
court yesterday that lenders’ objections were resolved. The
company has an application pending before the Federal
Communications Commission to use a new spectrum of airwaves, he
said.  “After months of constructive discussion with regulators
we are now able to make public our steps,” Barr said, citing
the company’s Sept. 28 application with the FCC. LightSquared
proposed sharing airwaves with U.S. government users, and said
it would give up the right to some airwaves near those used by
global-positioning systems.  The FCC blocked LightSquared’s plan to use the GPS spectrum
in February after GPS-device makers and users -- including the
U.S. military and commercial airlines -- said it might interfere
with their navigation.  Barr told Chapman that if the company gets FCC approval, it
will provide wireless coverage across the U.S. The rollout will
be “less than a home run” for the company’s business plan
because there will still be some “small dead-zone areas,”
which LightSquared is seeking to work out, he said.  The timeline for potential approval is in the FCC’s hands,
following an initial 30-day comment period and a 45-day reply
period before the regulator takes the issue under advisement,
Barr said.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt of
$2.29 billion. Harbinger acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for
$1.05 billion in cash and controls 96 percent of its stock.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 