-- Amerindo Cofounders Vilar and Tanaka Win Release on Bail
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-03T01:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/amerindo-cofounders-vilar-and-tanaka-win-release-on-bail.html
Alberto Vilar and Gary Tanaka, the
technology investors convicted of stealing from clients in 2008,
were ordered released from prison on bail while a federal court
considers their appeal.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today ordered a trial
judge to set “appropriate conditions” for Vilar and Tanaka,
the cofounders of Amerindo Investment Advisors Inc., to be
released on bail. Vilar, 71, known for his philanthropy and love
of opera, is serving a nine-year sentence in federal prison in
New Jersey. Tanaka, 69, is serving five years in  California .  A jury convicted Vilar in 2008 of all of the 12 criminal
counts against him, including fraud and conspiracy. Tanaka, who
was tried with his former partner, was convicted of three of 12
counts. The appeals court heard oral arguments in their case in
August.  “I think it bodes well for getting a good result on
appeal,” Vivian Shevitz, a lawyer for Vilar, said today in a
phone interview. “It portends a positive outcome for us,
finally, after all this time.”  Vilar has about four years remaining on his sentence,
according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons  website . Tanaka has
about two years to serve.  Model, Actress  Prosecutors claimed Vilar and Tanaka stole from clients,
including Lily Cates, a former model who is the mother of
actress Phoebe Cates, to keep New York-based Amerindo afloat and
to pay Vilar’s personal expenses after the firm’s investments
plunged in value beginning in 2000. The two men were arrested in
May 2005 and Amerindo was forced out of business.  Before they were charged criminally, Vilar and Tanaka made
and then lost billions of dollars for investors in computer,
Internet and healthcare stocks.  Vilar was one of the world’s top benefactors of opera,
donating millions to companies in the U.S. and  Europe  in
addition to hospitals and educational institutions. He also
failed to deliver on many of his charitable pledges, announcing
new philanthropic plans as previous commitments remained
unfulfilled.  Tanaka, born in a U.S. internment camp during World War II,
was an owner of top-ranked thoroughbred racehorses.  In his appeal, Vilar claimed that his lawyer, Herald Price
Fahringer, failed to adequately prepare for trial. Vilar also
claimed that transactions took place offshore and weren’t
subject to U.S. law. He argued that U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan made mistakes in the trial that require the convictions
be overturned.  Frozen Accounts  Both men claim there is enough money in Amerindo’s
accounts, frozen since 2005, to pay the investors they were
charged with defrauding.  The order granting bail came from the same three-judge
panel that is considering the appeal of Vilar and Tanaka’s
convictions. Sullivan today told prosecutors to tell him by noon
tomorrow whether Vilar and Tanaka should be released on their
own recognizance, or whether additional bail terms should be
imposed.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in  Manhattan , declined to comment on the case.  Earlier in the case, Sullivan denied requests by the
defendants to be released pending appeal. Shortly after the 2008
verdict, he ordered Vilar locked up before sentencing, granting
the request by prosecutors. They said Vilar was a
“pathological” liar who invented stories about fleeing Fidel Castro’s Cuba and lied about his residency to duck jury duty.  The case is U.S. v. Vilar, 10-4639, Second U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 