-- Permira Is Said to Resume Talks With Ancestry.com at $32
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-10-02T20:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/ancestry-said-to-seek-higher-price-from-permira-and-tpg.html
Permira Advisers LLP resumed talks
with  Ancestry.com (ACOM)  Inc. for a takeover of the family-history
research website at about $32 a share after earlier discussions
stumbled over price, said people familiar with the situation.  Talks stalled because Ancestry.com sought at least $38 a
share and Permira wouldn’t bid more than $32, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the discussions are private.
London-based Permira is still seeking financing for a deal,
which might fail to materialize, said one of the people.  Ancestry.com slipped 1.7 percent to $29.69 at the close in
New York, paring an earlier surge of 7.7 percent, amid
disappointment that the company hasn’t secured a higher offer
and on concern that a deal may not happen. Prior talks with TPG
Capital didn’t pan out, and the company has rebuffed a bid of
$35 a share, people familiar with the situation said in August.  “It’s such a long, drawn-out process,” Raghavan Sarathy,
an analyst for Dougherty & Co., said in an interview. Some
investors who bought shares expecting an upside from a sale may
have sold today, he said. “They’re not going to be playing this
for a 10 percent upside.”  Ancestry.com has surged 31 percent since  Bloomberg News 
reported June 5 that it hired Qatalyst Partners LLC to find
buyers. The Provo, Utah-based company has a market value of
$1.28 billion.  Too Expensive  While buyout firms KKR & Co. and Providence Equity Partners
Inc. expressed interest in Ancestry.com early on, they didn’t
submit bids because they considered it too expensive, the people
said in August.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content. Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman for Ancestry.com,
declined to comment. Brooke Gordon, a spokeswoman for Permira,
declined to comment.  Ancestry.com reported second-quarter sales and profit in
July that topped analysts’ estimates, citing user gains and
demand for new products. At the time, the company said it had
passed the 2 million user mark by providing access to more
information, including on DNA and U.S. Census figures, and
raised its sales  forecast  for 2012 to as much as $480 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  