-- Angola, Kenya Among African Nations to Raise Debt, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-10-02T23:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/angola-kenya-among-african-nations-to-raise-debt-moody-s-says.html
Six sub-Saharan African nations
including Angola and  Kenya  may each raise at least $500 million
in debut foreign bond sales in the “next few years” to fund
infrastructure spending, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Rwanda , Tanzania, Uganda and  Mozambique  may also sell their
first foreign-currency bonds, setting a benchmark yield for
companies, including state-owned ones, that may want to borrow
from overseas markets, Aurelien Mali, a senior analyst, wrote
today in an e-mailed report.  “There is significant potential in  Africa  for the
increased use of international capital market finance,” Mali
said. “International debt issuance will likely be led by the
region’s sovereigns, driven by the need to finance a portion of
their infrastructure needs.”  Economies in sub-Saharan Africa excluding  South Africa ,
have traditionally been more reliant on selling securities
maturing in two years or less in domestic markets, which are
often less liquid than developed ones, as well as sourcing donor
aid, commercial bank loans and private credit, he said.  That’s changing as international bond sales over the past
year by Namibia and Zambia, which were oversubscribed by five
times and 20 times respectively, highlight that investors’
appetite for riskier, higher-yielding debt is rising, he said.  Even still, “funding via international debt securities,
albeit growing, will likely remain a limited portion of gross
capital inflows to the region,” Mali said.  Infrastructure Spending  Inadequate road networks, power generation and water
supplies shave at least two percentage points off sub-Saharan
Africa’s  economic growth  annually, according to the  World Bank .
Infrastructure development in the region requires an estimated
$93 billion a year of investment to overcome capacity shortages,
the Washington-based lender said on its website.  Thirteen of 54 countries in Africa have issued foreign-
currency denominated debt on international markets, Mali said.  Overseas debt issuances from African nations have been
hampered by the fact that some have no sovereign  credit rating ,
are contending with political instability or lack the resources
to go through the process, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  