-- Manhattan Office Vacancies Rise the Most in Three Years
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-02T18:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/manhattan-office-vacancies-rise-the-most-in-three-years.html
Manhattan ’s office vacancy rate
jumped the most since 2009, when the market was reeling from the
U.S. credit crisis, as financial companies cut jobs and tenants
held back from taking space amid concern the economy will slow.  The rate reached 9.6 percent in the third quarter, an
increase of 0.6 percentage points from the previous three
months, Cushman & Wakefield Inc., a New York-based commercial
real estate services firm, said in a report today. That was the
biggest jump since the third quarter of 2009, when the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its aftermath
spurred a surge in vacancies in the largest U.S. office market.  The recent increase in empty space reflects job cuts in
banking and finance, the city’s biggest private office-using
industry, according toKen McCarthy, senior economist at
Cushman. Financial-services companies eliminated about 9,600
jobs in  New York  from May to August, he said in an interview,
citing data from the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  “It’s a function of the overall economic climate we’re in,
with a lot of uncertainty,” he said. “Financial-services firms
are not expanding right now. In that environment they’re not
about to go out and lease more space.”  The U.S. elections and the so-called fiscal cliff -- tax
increases and spending cuts set to take place at the end of the
year unless Congress acts -- along with  Europe ’s debt crisis,
are “causing what I would call the large corporate user to be
risk-averse,” McCarthy said.  San Francisco  The rise in vacancy was enough to push New York to second
behind  San Francisco  for the tightest U.S. office market. It was
the first time since 2000 that Manhattan had a larger share of
empty space than the West Coast city, which had a third-quarter
vacancy rate of 9.1 percent, Cushman said.  In Midtown, the most expensive U.S. office submarket, the
vacancy rate rose to 10.5 percent in third quarter from 9.8
percent in the previous three months, according to Cushman. The
increase was driven in part by the bankruptcy of law firm Dewey
& LeBoeuf LLP, which left about 400,000 square feet (37,000
square meters) at 1301 Avenue of the Americas, just north of
Rockefeller Center, McCarthy said. In  lower Manhattan , the rate
rose to 9.3 percent from 8.9 percent.  Midtown South  In  midtown south , the area roughly between 30th and Canal
streets that’s popular with media and technology companies, the
vacancy rate climbed to 6.6 percent from 6.1 percent in the
second quarter, according to Cushman. It remains the tightest
office market in the U.S., the company said.  The increase in empty space is an “anomaly” that doesn’t
mean midtown south is cooling off, McCarthy said.  “As renewals occur, what we’re seeing is probably some
space coming back to the market, either because the tenant can’t
afford it or the landlord wants to raise the rent,” he said.  Cushman’s vacancy data include both empty space and offices
that will become available in the next six months. The uptick in
midtown south’s vacancy rate stemmed from about 425,000 square
feet mainly in four buildings that are poised to have
availabilities. Those properties are 770 Broadway, 350 Hudson
St., 110 Fifth Ave., and 11 Madison Ave., the brokerage said.  The information companies that have been flocking to
midtown south have a different perspective from banks and more
traditional corporations on their office needs, McCarthy said.  Healthy Demand  “Tech firms, in their space, the demand is healthy and as
a result they’re growing,” he said. “They’re in in a world
right now that is more willing to take on risk, more willing to
take on new employees and therefore to lease more space.”  Landlords with large vacancies or developments in progress
-- such as  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , Silverstein
Properties Inc. and Related Cos. -- would be wise to cater to
the demand from so-called creative companies, which have started
to shop for space outside midtown south, said Steve Coutts,
senior vice president for research for brokerage Studley Inc.  The new projects are “needed even though the availability
is increasing,” said Coutts, whose company specializes in
representing tenants. “It’s very important to these tech and
creative companies to the extent that these spaces offer open
floor plans that they’re looking for.”  Brookfield is offering about 3 million square feet at
downtown’s World Financial Center, including much of what was
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s former world headquarters. Across the
street,  Silverstein  has about 1.2 million square feet available
at 4 World Trade Center, slated for completion by early 2014.
The  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  has about 1.4
million square feet available at 1 World Trade Center, and
Related has plans to build about 6.3 million square feet of
offices at its Hudson Yards project on Midtown’s far west side.  Manhattan rents sought by landlords were little changed in
the third quarter, declining to $58.83 a square foot from $58.86
in the second quarter, Cushman said. Asking rents in Midtown
were $66.42 a square foot, compared with $66.44 the previous
three months. In  midtown south  they fell to $49.12 a square foot
from $49.43, and  downtown  they dropped to $39.83 from $40.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  