-- Tanzania Appeals for More Help to Combat Maternal Deaths
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-02T19:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/tanzania-appeals-for-more-help-to-combat-maternal-deaths.html
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
today said his government needs more help to combat one of the
world’s highest rates of maternal deaths and meet a goal set by
the United Nations.  “For sure, we need more money,” Kikwete told reporters
today in New York at a joint news conference with New York City
Mayor Michael Bloomberg and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  To deal with the issue, a maternal-health program in
 Tanzania  seeks to reach at least 50,000 mothers and children by
2016, according to a statement today by Bloomberg
Philanthropies, which announced new funding for the program.  Tanzania suffers from a shortage of doctors, nurses, drugs,
equipment, roads and transportation. Many deaths, provoked
mostly by bleeding and infection, are preventable by having
better facilities in remote areas and training non-physicians to
carry out life-saving procedures such as a cesarean section.  Twenty-three women die every day in Tanzania because of
birth-related complications, Kikwete said. The  World Bank  says
47.8 women die for every 1,000 live births.  One of the pillars of the UN poverty and hunger reduction
aims, known as the Millennium Development Goals, is to reduce
the number of women who die during pregnancy or while giving
birth by 75 percent by 2015.  Additional Aid  Bloomberg Philanthropies , the mayor’s charitable
foundation, joined with the Geneva-based H&B Agerup Foundation
and announced an additional joint investment of $8 million for a
maternal-health program in Tanzania. The $15.5 million now
committed since 2006 aims to bring basic obstetrical care to
isolated rural communities and train more clinicians.  Previous spending has been used to upgrade remote health
centers, to train more than 100 non-physician clinicians in
emergency obstetric care or anesthesia and other purposes,
according to the statement.  Mayor Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP. In 2011, Bloomberg Philanthropies
distributed $330 million worldwide, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  