-- Apple Maps Fiasco Sinks AutoNavi; Ctrip Gains: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-02T20:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/apple-maps-fiasco-sinks-autonavi-as-ctrip-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose in  New York  on
prospects shrinking manufacturing will spur the government to
take further steps to bolster the economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent to 92.3 in New
York yesterday. Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd. rallied the most
since August after Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. reiterated a
forecast for the shares to climb 60 percent in the next year.
 Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  jumped the most in two weeks as
 Raymond James  & Associates upgraded the stock.  AutoNavi Holdings
Ltd. (AMAP)  sank to a four-month low and  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) 
dropped to the weakest level this year.  An index of manufacturing in China, the world’s largest
exporter, rose to 49.8 in September, data released on Oct. 1
showed, the second month the gauge has stayed below the 50 level
that is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.
China’s government is striving to ignite growth in an economy
expanding at the slowest pace since 2009 as it prepares for a
once-in-a-decade leadership transition at the Communist Party
congress on Nov. 8.  “The market is still expecting more stimulus from the
government, more in fiscal policy,” Michael Ding, lead
portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund at U.S. Global
Investors, said by phone from  San Antonio  yesterday. “The party
congress date also reduces political risk for investing in
China.”  China ETF Slips  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $34.92
after rising 1 percent on Oct. 1. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  closed little changed at 1,445.75.  Qihoo, which started a new search engine in August, surged
4.9 percent to $22.87, the biggest jump since Aug. 22.  Jefferies analyst Cynthia Meng maintained a price target of
$35 for Qihoo in an Oct. 1 note, 60 percent higher than its
closing level that day.  Beijing-based Qihoo has the potential “to be a disruptive
force in search,” Meng wrote in the report. It dominates 10
percent of China’s online search market and will probably
maintain that share in 2013, according to Meng.  Ctrip, China’s biggest online travel company, advanced 4.2
percent to $17.45, the largest one-day gain since Sept. 19.  Analyst  Aaron Kessler  at San Francisco-based Raymond James
raised Ctrip to a strong buy yesterday and said the stock will
advance as much as 55 percent on speculation competition with
competitor  Elong Inc. (LONG)  will ease this quarter. Kessler expects
Shanghai-based Ctrip to buy back as much as $400 million of
outstanding shares under an ongoing share purchase plan.  E-Commerce, China’s largest online book retailer, plunged
3.4 percent to $4.51, the lowest level this year.  Apple Link  AutoNavi, a Chinese digital map provider, slid 1.3 percent
to $10.76, the lowest level since June 4.  Apple Inc.’s shares have fallen 1.6 percent since Sept. 28,
when Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said the Cupertino,
California-based company was “extremely sorry” for flaws in
its map application such as misrouted directions and
inaccurately located landmarks. Beijing-based AutoNavi, which
traded at its  cheapest level  since June yesterday, was selected
by Apple to offer map services for users of the iOS 6 operating
system in  China , two people with knowledge of the matter said in
July.  Initial problems with Chinese maps on iOS6 weren’t caused
by AutoNavi, Yongqi Yang, an executive vice president at the
company, said last week, according to a  report  by Tencent
Holdings Ltd.’s news service. AutoNavi’s partnership with Apple
started as early as February 2010, Yang said, according to the
Tencent report.  Hong Kong Resumes  An e-mail and two phone messages to Apple spokeswoman Trudy Muller weren’t returned yesterday. A phone message and e-mail
sent to Jessica Barist Cohen of Ogilvy Financial in New York,
which represents AutoNavi, also weren’t immediately returned.
Serena Shi, a communications manager at AutoNavi, couldn’t be
reached by phone after normal business hours yesterday in
Beijing.  The  Hong Kong  stock market resumes trading today after
closing over the past two days for a holiday. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies advanced 0.6
percent to 9,831.62 on Sept. 28. Markets in mainland China are
closed this week for a week-long holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  