-- Apple’s IPhone 5 Infringes Patents, Samsung Says in Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-02T03:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/apple-s-iphone-5-infringes-patents-samsung-says-in-suit.html
Samsung Electronics Co. said  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 infringes its patents, escalating a global fight
over mobile devices after winning a court order lifting a ban on
U.S. sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer.  The world’s largest mobile-phone seller, based in Suwon,
 South Korea , added claims about the iPhone 5, which was released
last month, to an existing patent-infringement lawsuit between
the two companies in federal court in  San Jose , California.
Apple won a $1.05 billion jury verdict against Samsung on Aug.
24 in a separate patent case in the same court.  “As soon as the iPhone 5 was available for purchase,
Samsung began its investigation of the product,” the company
said in its court filing yesterday. The iPhone 5 infringes two
standards patents and six features patents, Samsung said.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who is presiding over the
litigation in  California , yesterday rescinded a ban on U.S.
sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 that she imposed in June. Koh said
there were no grounds for keeping the preliminary injunction in
place after jurors concluded in their Aug. 24 verdict that
Samsung didn’t infringe the Apple design patent that was the
basis for the injunction.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, contended the ban
should remain in place because the jury found the Galaxy Tab
infringed other patents at issue in the case.  2014 Trial  The case in which Samsung added the iPhone 5 claims is
scheduled for trial in 2014. Samsung’s original complaint
identifies the same eight patents as the basis for alleging
infringement by earlier iPhone models, as well as the iPad and
iPod Touch.  Apple already has won a preliminary order from Koh blocking
U.S. sales of Samsung’s Nexus smartphone. In August, Apple added
the Galaxy S III smartphone to its list of products that it says
infringe its patents. Apple said in a Sept. 19 filing that it
expects to add infringement claims about “recently released
Samsung products, including the Android 4.1 Jelly Bean operating
system and the Galaxy Note 10.1 device.”  In the previous patent lawsuit between the two companies
that went to trial in July, the jury found that Samsung
infringed six of seven Apple patents at stake.  Koh has scheduled December hearings in that case to
consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight
Samsung smartphone models and the Tab 10.1. She will also
consider Samsung’s bid to get the August verdict thrown out
based on claims of juror misconduct.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on the court’s order rescinding the Galaxy Tab 10.1
sales ban and Samsung’s filing adding the iPhone 5 infringement
claims.  Samsung shares rose 1.7 percent to 1,369,000 won at 12:54
p.m. in  Seoul .  The case is Apple v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 12-
cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 