-- Marcus Says Holding Rate as Difficult as Earlier Decisions
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-02T14:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/marcus-says-last-south-african-rate-decision-wasn-t-easy-one-.html
South African  Reserve Bank  Governor
Gill Marcus said the decision to keep interest rates unchanged
last month was as difficult as any of the central bank’s recent
policy announcements.  “The global economy remains a source of extreme
uncertainty, while the domestic economy is beset by its own
challenges,” Marcus said in a speech to the Nordic-South
African Business Association in Johannesburg today.  The Reserve Bank, which cut its benchmark  repurchase rate 
for the first time in 20 months in July to spur the economy,
held the rate at 5 percent last month as price pressures gained.
Economic growth is coming under pressure as a debt crisis in
 Europe  and mining strikes cut exports in  Africa ’s biggest
economy.  “As with all of our deliberations on the Monetary Policy
Committee, this decision to keep rates at the current level was
not an easy one,” Marcus said.  Inflation expectations are “anchored” at the upper end of
the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range, with
rising food and fuel costs the main risks to inflation, Marcus
said. The inflation rate rose to 5 percent in August from 4.9
percent in the previous month.  “We expect consumer prices in  South Africa  to remain
contained within the target range over the forecast period,”
Marcus said.  Bonds climbed after Marcus’s comments. The yield on the
R157 bond due 2015 fell 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 5.37 percent. The rand was at 8.3883 against the
dollar as of 4:27 p.m. in Johannesburg from 8.3349 before the
governor began speaking.  Investors had pared bets the central bank will lower
 interest rates  again after a report on Sept. 11 showed the
 current account deficit  posted its biggest deficit in almost
four years in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  