-- Market Computer Errors Manageable by Industry, Traders Say
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-02T20:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/market-computer-breakdowns-manageable-by-industry-traders-say.html
Eliminating every trading error is
impossible and the way to address malfunctions that have plagued
equity markets this year is to improve testing and oversight,
 industry executives  said at a meeting in Washington.  Making risk measures redundant, designing systems that
operate independently of each other and making frequent,
incremental changes to software will limit the inevitable
mistakes by humans and computers, Getco LLC said in written
testimony. Assertions that markets were more orderly in the past
are baseless and inflexible regulation won’t automatically
improve the performance of trading systems, Citadel LLC said.  Spurred into action after  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
bombarded exchanges with erroneous orders on Aug. 1, the
Securities and Exchange Commission called today’s meeting to
explore ways to avoid technology malfunctions and limit the
disruption they cause. SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said the
Knight event was “unacceptable” in August and promised to
issue regulations to help prevent similar mishaps.  “We believe that a firm’s systems, protocols and
procedures should be designed with the knowledge that there will
be human mistakes and technology breakdowns that lead to trading
errors and system failures,” Jonathan Ross, chief technology
officer for Chicago-based Getco, wrote. “Good testing protocols
increase the likelihood that errors are identified and
corrected.”  Knight Mishap  Knight, one of the biggest market makers in U.S. stocks,
lost $440 million and avoided bankruptcy only after a cash
infusion from investors following its software breakdown. The
error followed mishandled initial public offerings by Facebook
Inc. and exchange-operator Bats Global Markets Inc.  “Technology has pitfalls,” Schapiro said today. “And
when it doesn’t work quite right, the consequences can be
severe. Trading can be disrupted, investors can suffer financial
loss, firms can be imperiled and confidence in our markets
broadly can erode.”  She compared the potential consequences of trading errors
to traffic lights that flash the wrong color or railroad track
switches that send a train to the right instead of left. When
trading goes awry it doesn’t take long for an “enormous amount
of damage” to occur, she said.  Market Makers  Getco, which makes markets on the floor of the  New York 
Stock Exchange and on other venues across asset classes,
outlined a set of programming values it said would minimize
trading disruptions.  It said systems should be independent of each other to keep
errors from affecting other programs, firms should prefer
smaller changes over larger ones so that when errors occur they
can be easily fixed, and risk controls should be layered and
redundant, according to its written testimony.  “There is not a specific testing discipline that is
appropriate for all firms,” the firm wrote. “Instead, the
specific procedures will vary depending on the size, scope,
trading strategies and business lines of that firm.”  Software testing protocols vary across brokers and trading
firms, Lou Pastina, executive vice president for NYSE operations
at exchange operator NYSE Euronext, said at the meeting. The
cycle of coding, testing and implementing software may encompass
anything from specifications written on a napkin in a bar to a
“more disciplined approach where an idea has to pass through a
set of filters,” he said.  Testing Frequency  An approach to testing should be implemented where
exchanges make so-called test symbols available to firms so they
see how the tactics work, according to Chris Isaacson, chief
operating officer of Bats. While testing individual components
of software and how entire programs operate after changes are
made is critical, it remains difficult to “simulate the
market” and the complexity of trading, he said.  NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  Pastina said regulators may want to review
the frequency with which brokers and other firms use exchanges’
systems to test their algorithms and trading.  “It’s amazing to me how many times software gets
introduced and firms don’t test with you,” he said. “Whether
we have test symbols in production or we run industry tests,
it’s always the same firms that come in and test and those are
the firms that generally don’t have issues. There’s a long list
of firms that never show up.”  Judgment Call  While Knight’s mishap started on Aug. 1 with a software
error, it lingered for another half hour because of a “risk-
management and control and management processes problem,” Jamil Nazarali, head of Citadel Execution Services, said today. The
unit of Citadel, the hedge fund founded by Ken Griffin, competes
in electronic market making with Knight, where Nazarali worked
before joining the Chicago-based firm.  Deciding when enough testing has been done for a strategy
or program to be deployed is a judgment call, he said.  “You never really know if the testing is enough,”
Nazarali said. “It’s really just a business judgment where you
look at the cost-benefit of a potential error.” Larger firms
like his, which are more likely to be affected if a problem
hurts the broader market and investor confidence, tend to be
more careful than smaller brokers, he said.  ’Double Failures’  Beyond testing a new version of software, firms should
examine what may happen if it fails, said Sudhanshu Arya, a
managing director at broker Investment Technology Group Inc.
They should test whether a previous version can be reinstated if
a mishap occurs and build into software ways to address “double
failures” such as risk controls or shutdown mechanisms that
don’t work, he said.  While the panel focused on testing software and processes
for trading firms, Getco’s Ross said internal operations
departments need more standards and rules for when and how
individuals can implement shut-downs or halts.  “Operations are really where the rubber hits the road,”
Ross told the SEC. “Their ability to shut off their system and
not face their feet being held to the fire is incredible. That’s
a command and control thing. It’s absolutely important.”  The SEC fueled the march to electronic trading when it
passed rules starting in the 1990s designed to drive down costs
for investors. In 2005 it approved rules to increase competition
with the then-dominant New York Stock Exchange. Now more than 50
venues get trades that are mostly handled by computers.  Trading Venues  Critics say the policy may have worked too well, fostering
so much fragmentation that the SEC and other regulators can’t
get a handle on what is happening in far-flung trading venues
until it’s too late. Knight’s loss is a “wake-up call”
highlighting the connectedness of markets, Schapiro said.  “Our multi-venue, interlinked market structure also means
that an infrastructure failure by one party or at one venue may
cascade into other venues and affect many other participants,”
Schapiro said. “And of course the inherent speed of trading,
which itself is partly a result of the competitive nature of our
markets, means that even small, short-lived infrastructure
issues can cause drastic harm.”  Citadel said in its written testimony that computerized
trading has lowered costs, improved transparency and increased
competition. Critics of today’s structure are wrong when they
say the old days were better, Nazarali wrote.  ‘Notoriously Opaque’  “Before widespread computerized trading, markets were
notoriously opaque and errors and control breakdowns were the
norm,” the firm wrote, saying profits were larger for market
makers and trade breaks and delays more frequent. “Although
some choose to reminisce fondly about the past, the reality was
much different.”  Minimizing the effect of technology breakdowns requires
regulators to define and enforce “minimum frameworks” for
system controls and to give exchanges the authority to halt
activity that is erroneous, Citadel said.  “Nonetheless, we caution against adopting recommendations
based on an overly simplistic ‘one size fits all’ perspective,”
the firm said. “Trading systems are necessarily complex and
malfunctions are inherent in complex automated systems.
Therefore, markets will be best protected by multiple,
effectively designed layers of protections that reduce the
frequency and impact of malfunctions.”  After trading errors occur, it would be useful if a central
clearinghouse of information existed to tell other firms about
the details and circumstances, according to testimony signed by
Richard Gorelick of RGM Advisors Inc., Cameron Smith of Quantlab
Financial LLC and Peter F. Nabicht of Allston Trading LLC.  “This would help to avoid future errors, in part, by
industry participants learning from each other,” they wrote.
“The reporting system would be voluntary and anonymous, yet
contain enough information about the nature of events that other
participants can learn something from the disclosure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  Washington  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  