-- ArQule Falls After Ending Cancer Drug Study: Boston Mover
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-02T20:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/arqule-falls-after-ending-cancer-drug-study-boston-mover.html
ArQule Inc. (ARQL) , a maker of experimental
cancer drugs, plunged the most in 16 years after it halted a
study of a lung-tumor treatment that failed to meet goals for
improving survival rates.  The drugmaker, which has no products on the market, fell 56
percent to $2.18 at the close in New York, for its biggest drop
since October 1996 when the Woburn, Massachusetts-based company
first offered shares to the public. A panel of scientific
advisers recommended an early end to the trial of tivantinib,
the cancer medicine ArQule is trying to develop with Tokyo-based
 Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) , the companies said today in a statement.  The announcement was the second setback since August for
tivantinib, which ArQule called its “lead product candidate”
in the statement. In an Aug. 29 regulatory  filing , the company
said another partner, Tokyo-based  Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. (4151) , had
temporarily suspended enrollment in a second trial, dubbed
Attention, because of safety concerns. ArQule today said the
newly halted trial, known as Marquee, found no safety issues.  “We were waiting for a ‘clean’ safety signal from the
Marquee study to lift the overhang created by the partial halt
from the Attention study,” Adnan Butt, an RBC Capital Markets
analyst in  San Francisco , said today in a note to clients.
Resuming enrollment in the Attention trial “would have been a
positive but is now questionable, in our view.”  No Safety Issues  Still, the lack of safety issues in the Marquee study was
important and indicates studies of tivantinib are likely to
continue, he said.  The Marquee trial was testing the drug in patients with
non-small cell lung cancer, ArQule said. The drug is in the
third of three stages usually required for U.S. regulatory
approval, the company said.  “We are disappointed that the Marquee trial did not
provide statistically significant results for overall survival
in a disease and treatment setting which remains a major unmet
medical need,” Paolo Pucci, ArQule’s chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  ArQule shares have fallen 61 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  