-- U.S. Stocks Recover With Apple as Treasuries Advance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-10-02T21:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/asian-stocks-ringgit-gain-on-u-s-data-stimulus-soybeans-fall.html
U.S. stocks erased losses in the
final hour of trading as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rebounded from a six-week
low, helping the market recover from a drop triggered by concern
about  Spain ’s finances. Treasuries rose and the dollar fell.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added less than 0.1 percent
to close at 1,445.75 after retreating 0.4 percent in early
trading. Ten-year Treasury yields decreased one basis point to
1.62 percent, declining for the 11th time in 12 days. The Dollar
Index slipped for a second day, with the euro up 0.3 percent at
$1.2920. Australia’s currency weakened at least 0.7 percent
against all 16 major peers after the central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate to the lowest since 2009.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value,
reversed its loss in the final hour of the session after briefly
dipping below a technical level watched by traders as a
potential buying opportunity. Stocks  turned lower  earlier after
Spanish Prime Minister Rajoy said he has no plans to request
rescue funds in the near term, defying market speculation that
the nation would ask for a bailout which would pave the way for
the European Central Bank to buy its debt.  “Spain took down the market, but people looked past it and
found some good entry points in technology stocks,”  Frank
Ingarra , who helps manage $1.4 billion at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “Apple is such a big part of the market
and it’s been on a downtrend for a couple of days, so it makes
sense for the stock to get some relief and rebound which would
translate into the indexes.”  Market Leaders  Apple rose $1.92, or 0.3 percent, to $661.31. The stock
rebounded after 3 p.m. after dropping as much as 1.3 percent to
$650.65, below its average price from the past 50 days. The
shares, which slumped 4.7 percent last week after sales of the
iPhone 5 started, contributed the most to the  S&P 500 ’s rebound
in the final hour, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Technology companies in the S&P 500 reversed a 0.7 percent
retreat to end the session up 0.1 percent.  Health-care, utility and financial shares led gains among
10 groups, while commodity producers and consumer-discretionary
stocks fell the most.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. slid 4.2 percent after hedge
fund manager  David Einhorn  recommended betting against the
restaurant chain. Mosaic Co. dropped 3.9 percent after reporting
earnings that missed estimates. Citigroup Inc. increased 1.6
percent as its rating was raised by KBW. MetroPCS Communications
Inc. rallied 18 percent as Deutsche Telekom AG was said to be
nearing a deal with the wireless carrier.  MSCI Plunges  MSCI Inc. fell the most on record after being dropped as
benchmark provider for 22  index funds  by Vanguard Group Inc.,
the largest U.S. mutual-fund company. MSCI declined 27 percent,
the most since it went public in November of 2007, after
Vanguard said funds with about $537 billion in assets will
replace New York-based MSCI to cut costs for fund shareholders.  Investors are proving skeptical that the  Federal Reserve ’s
announcement of additional quantitative easing will get
Americans to spend more.  The Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund -- which
includes Amazon.com Inc. and Macy’s Inc. -- has lagged behind
the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR Fund by 2.8 percent
since Sept. 14, the day after the Fed unveiled plans to buy
mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion a month
until the labor market improves. During the preceding six weeks,
the discretionary exchange-traded fund outpaced its defensive
counterpart, which includes  Procter & Gamble Co . and Coca-Cola
Co., by 9.2 percent.  European Markets  Rajoy’s remarks followed the close of European markets,
where Spanish bonds and stocks rallied in anticipation of a
bailout request that would pave the way for the  European Central
Bank  to buy the nation’s debt.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent. PostNL NV,
the Dutch mail service with operations in the U.K.,  Germany  and
 Italy , jumped 4.4 percent after saying it will raise postage
stamp rates in 2013.  Banks in the index declined 0.6 percent as a group. Spain’s
banks face a capital shortfall that could climb to 105 billion
euros ($135 billion), almost double the estimate the government
provided last week, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Spanish  registered unemployment  rose for a second month in
September amid a worsening recession. The number of people
registering for jobless benefits increased 79,645 from August to
4.7 million, according to data released today by the Labor
Ministry in  Madrid . That compares with an increase of 95,817 in
the same month last year.  Rajoy Speaks  Asked at a press conference in Madrid today if a bailout
request was imminent, Rajoy said: “No.” Rajoy is weighing the
terms of a Sept. 6 proposal by the ECB president to buy bonds of
cash-strapped nations including Spain if they make for a formal
aid request from the euro region’s government-run rescue funds.
Reuters news agency yesterday reported that Spain is ready to
seek a bailout as soon as this weekend.  “This continues to show the fact markets remain much
headline driven,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of U.S.
equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said
in an interview. His firm oversees $250 billion in assets.
“Rajoy’s comments today really shouldn’t come as any surprise
to the market. It seems very consistent with what he reiterated
over the last several weeks,” he said. Early declines were
“probably a little bit of over-reaction from the market.”  Alstom SA (ALO)  plunged 4.9 percent after Europe’s second-largest
power-equipment maker sold 350 million euros ($452 million) of
stock to help finance an acquisition it announced in 2009. Erste
Group Bank AG slipped 2.8 percent after the Austrian bank’s
largest shareholder sold a 235 million-euro stake.  European Yields  The yield on German 10-year bunds climbed one basis point
to 1.46 percent, while Spain’s 10-year rate lost 13 basis points
to 5.75 percent and Italy’s decreased five points to 5.03
percent.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities declined 0.4 percent
as wheat, nickel, gasoline and soybeans declined at least 1.5
percent, while coffee and lean hogs and sugar gained more than 2
percent.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.1 percent for a
fourth day of gains. Turkey’s benchmark index climbed 1.1
percent while Russia’s Micex Index slipped 0.4 percent for the
first decline in four days.  The dollar weakened against nine of 16 major peers, while
strengthening 0.9 percent to $1.0266 per Australian dollar.  The RBA’s  interest-rate  cut was predicted by nine of 28
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The ECB will probably
keep its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent when
council members meet on Oct. 4, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Central bankers have revealed their hands,” said Jeremy
Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley Group Plc in
 London . “Open-ended monetary policy will to some extent
backstop risk, and thus limit the downside. We can expect a
protracted period of sideways churn in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  