-- AstraZeneca, Kraft, Reggae, Facebook: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/astrazeneca-kraft-reggae-facebook-intellectual-property.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  suspended share
buybacks as the board and new Chief Executive Officer Pascal
Soriot review strategy at the U.K. drugmaker, prompting renewed
speculation that the company will embark on larger takeovers.  The decision to stop repurchasing shares gives the
drugmaker more flexibility to undertake a big acquisition, said
Brian Bourdot, an analyst at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking
unit in London. Under Soriot’s predecessor,  David Brennan ,
AstraZeneca stuck to smaller purchases and licensing agreements
to replenish sales as its best-selling drugs lose patent
protection and face generic competitors.  AstraZeneca has repurchased $2.3 billion of stock this
year, compared with an initial target of $4.5 billion, the
London-based company said in a statement yesterday. The company
confirmed its forecast for profit excluding some items this year
of $6 to $6.30 a share.  “It’s a bit of a surprise that they changed course mid-
year, but a new chief executive likes to take control and see
what the options are,” Bourdot said in a telephone interview.
“It would increase their ability to do a deal, that’s something
we have to bear in mind.”  AstraZeneca is undergoing its annual strategy review, and
has said it plans to announce the results in January, when it
reports 2012 earnings. The company also will provide a forecast
for 2013 at that time, according to today’s statement.  “As I assume my new responsibilities at AstraZeneca, I
believe this is a prudent step that maintains flexibility while
the board and I complete the company’s ongoing annual strategy
update,” Soriot said in the statement.  Soriot, 53, took over yesterday at AstraZeneca. Brennan
stepped down June 1 after setbacks in drug research.  Under Brennan, AstraZeneca focused on paying dividends and
buying back shares to provide a return for investors while the
company waited for experimental drugs to make it to the market
and boost earnings. Brennan told investors not to judge the
company by its earnings as it went through patent expirations on
some the company’s key drugs.  Brennan said repeatedly the company wouldn’t do any deals
on the scale of AstraZeneca’s purchase of MedImmune Inc. in 2007
for about $15.2 billion. Analysts criticized the company for
overpaying for MedImmune. Since then, the company has done only
one acquisition of greater than $1 billion, the purchase of
Ardea Biosciences Inc. for $1.1 billion this year.  Repeated failures in  drug development  undermined that
approach, and Brennan retired this year. AstraZeneca pays an
annual dividend equal to 6.2 percent of the share price, the
highest yield among the world’s 10 biggest drug companies. Last
year the company paid out $3.68 billion in dividends, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s Wi-Lan to Acquire Patent Portfolio From Alvarion  Wi-Lan Inc., a Canadian patent-licensing firm, acquired a
patent portfolio from an Israeli provider of wireless access
solutions.  Tel Aviv-based Alvarion Ltd. said in an Oct. 1 statement
that it sold a portion of its patent portfolio to Wi-Lan. Terms
of the sale included $8.5 million at closing, with the balance
of the total selling price of up to $19 million due after the
transaction is approved by Israel’s Office of the Chief
Scientist.  Alvarion received a royalty-bearing license for the
portfolio it sold, the company said in its statement. Specific
patents that were sold weren’t identified by the Alvarion, which
also didn’t say how many patents were involved in the
transaction.  Alvarion President Hezi Lapid said the sale is “an
important milestone in our turnaround plan,” to bring cash into
the company without undermining future growth.  Wi-Lan has filed more than a dozen patent infringement
cases since 2007, mainly against high technology companies in
the computer and telecommunications sectors, according to
Bloomberg data.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Kraft’s Cadbury Wins Ruling in Nestle Suit Over Color Purple  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s Cadbury unit won a trademark case
brought by  Nestle SA (NESN)  over purple packaging for chocolate, after
a London judge found the color was distinctive to the maker of
Dairy Milk bars.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, challenged a
trademark ruling from December 2011 covering chocolate bars and
drinks, saying a color shouldn’t be protected.  “The evidence clearly supports a finding that purple is
distinctive of Cadbury for milk chocolate,” Judge Colin Birss
wrote in rejecting Nestle’s appeal. Cadbury has used purple for
its Dairy Milk bars since 1914, he said in yesterday’s ruling.  Kraft became the world’s largest producer of chocolate
candy when it bought Cadbury, based in the London suburb of
Uxbridge, in 2010. The company had a 20.2 percent share of the
Western Europe chocolate confectionery market in 2011, according
to Bloomberg Industries data. Nestle, which makes KitKat and
Baby Ruth bars, has an 11.1 percent market share for the region.  The dispute dates back to 2008, when Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle opposed Cadbury’s initial application for a color
trademark.  Yesterday’s decision is a partial victory for Nestle as it
“protects our brands by further limiting the range of goods for
which Cadbury’s application may be registered,” Nestle
spokesman James Maxton said in an e-mailed statement.  Birss said the trademark wouldn’t apply to boxes of
chocolates, or other products such as white or dark chocolate.
“In my judgment it would not be right to say that the color
purple is distinctive of chocolate generally.”  Cadbury said that the ruling “allows us to register as a
trademark and protect our famous color purple across a range of
milk chocolate products.”  The “color purple has been linked with Cadbury for more
than a century and the British public have grown up
understanding its link with our chocolate,” the company said in
an e-mailed statement.  Dominican Republic Mulls Next Step in WTO Dispute With Australia  The  Dominican Republic  said it held consultations with
Australia over its World Trade Organization complaint about
Australia’s measures mandating the plain packaging of tobacco
products and “remains concerned that Australia’s measures are
not consistent with its WTO obligations regarding  intellectual
property  rights and trade in goods.”  The Dominican Republic said in a statement yesterday that
it will “now carefully consider the next steps in its
dispute.”  Music Industry Official Calls for Jamaican Reggae Trademark  Jamaica needs to establish a trademark for its indigenous
reggae music, an official of the Jamaica Reggae Industry
Association said at a copyright-management workshop co-sponsored
by the  World Intellectual Property Organization  and the Jamaica
Intellectual Property Office, the Jamaica Observer  reported .  Charles Campbell, vice chairman of the reggae group, said
that it’s important to “set the record straight” that the
island country is the birthplace of reggae, according to the
Observer.  He said European bands are using token Jamaican musicians
“so they can give the illusion to the marketplace that this is
authentic reggae,” the newspaper reported.  An unnamed workshop attendee differed with Campbell, saying
that if performers from other countries want to play reggae
music “I think it is a benefit to us because Jamaica is a small
pond as it relates to reggae,” according to the Observer.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Facebook’s Zuckerberg, Russia’s Medvedev Talk IP Issues  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s founder  Mark Zuckerberg  met Russian Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in Moscow to discuss intellectual
property issues, the Voice of  Russia   reported .  Medvedev told Zuckerberg that the right to set limits on
intellectual property belongs to owners, according to Voice of
Russia.  The prime minister said the use of new forms of
communication such as the Internet must be balanced with the
traditional approach to copyright, Voice of Russia reported.  Zuckerberg told Medvedev that  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , the world’s largest social-media site, is so serious
about intellectual property rights that it has invested a great
deal in copyright protection, according to Voice of Russia.  Japan’s New Copyright Infringement Penalties Opposed by the Bar  Japan’s criminalization of copyright infringement has drawn
opposition from the Japan Federation of Bar Associations, the
 umbrella organization  for lawyers in that country, the BBC
 reported .  In response to requests from the Recording Industry
Association of Japan, lawmakers enacted punishments of as many
as two years in prison or fines of up to 2 million yen ($25,700)
for copyright infringement, according to the BBC.  The lawyer’s group issued a statement saying that the
damage done by private individuals who download content without
permission is “highly insignificant” and that imposition of
criminal penalties “must be done very cautiously,” the  BBC 
reported.  The music-industry group has estimated that the ratio of
illegal downloads to legal ones in Japan is 10 to one, the BBC
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Sheppard Mullin Expands IP Practice With Hire From Foley  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP hired Laura L.
Chapman for its IP practice group, the Los Angeles-based firm
said in a  statement .  Chapman , a litigator, joins from Milwaukee’s Foley &
Lardner LLP. She has represented clients in trade secret, non-
compete, employee and customer-solicitation, patent, trademark,
false-advertising and copyright cases.  She has an undergraduate degree from  Smith College  and a
law degree from the University of  Southern California .  Holmes Weinberg Snares Ex-Baker & McKenzie Partner Krasny  Holmes Weinberg PC  hired Paula Jill Krasny, the Malibu,
California-based entertainment and IP specialty firm said in a
 statement .  Krasny , who joins from Baker & McKenzie LLP, has also
previously practiced at Chicago’s McDermott, Will & Emery LLP.
Her area of IP expertise is transactional, with an emphasis on
trademark law and licensing.  She has an undergraduate degree from Vassar College and a
law degree from  Northwestern University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 