-- Euro Advances for Second Day as Spanish Bailout Wagers Persist
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-02T21:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/aussie-weakens-to-lowest-in-3-weeks-against-dollar-on-rates-cut.html
The euro gained versus the dollar for
a second day as speculation persisted that Spain will eventually
seek a bailout even after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said a
request for rescue funds is not imminent.  The yen fell versus most major currencies on bets Japan may
act to weaken the currency, while the euro rose against most
peers as Spanish bonds advanced before the  European Central Bank 
meets Oct. 4. South Africa’s rand gained versus the greenback
for the first time in three days. The Australian dollar slid to
a three-week low against its U.S. peer after the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate .  “There seems to be a lot of confusion about the actual
future stability of Spain,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “Rajoy’s
comments are belying this idea in the Spanish government that
they’ll be able to weather the storm” without help, he said.  The euro appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.2920 at 5 p.m.  New
York  time after climbing as much as 0.6 percent, its biggest
intraday increase since Sept. 21. The 17-nation currency rose
0.5 percent to 100.97 yen. The Japanese currency declined 0.2
percent to 78.16 per dollar.  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, was almost at a five-year low. It was 7.83
after touching 7.73 on Sept. 28, the least since October 2007, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index  for the currencies of Group of Seven
nations showed. Lower volatility makes investments in currencies
with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profit.  Rand Rallies  South Africa’s rand strengthened as foreign buying of the
country’s government bonds increased after they were included in
a key index. The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent before
trading 0.2 percent stronger at 8.3637 per dollar. Yields on
6.75 percent notes due 2021 fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 6.58 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar gained as much as 0.7 percent,
approaching a six-month high, after a report showed commodity
export prices advanced last month, buoying the currency. ANZ
National Bank Ltd.’s price index advanced 3.5 percent to 263 in
September, its highest level since April.  The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, reached 83.37 U.S. cents
before trading little changed at 82.75 cents. It touched 83.57
cents on Sept. 28, the highest level since March 2. The kiwi
rose 0.2 percent today to 64.68 yen.  Danish Krone  Denmark’s krone rose against most major peers after the
country’s central bank purchased the currency to support its peg
to the euro for the first time in 1 1/2 years. Weaker demand for
haven assets and negative policy rates had left their mark on
the  exchange rate . Danish policy makers had sought until last
month to weaken the krone in response to a capital influx.  The currency was up 0.3 percent to 5.7709 per dollar and
rose as much as 0.6 percent, its biggest gain since Sept. 14.  The Norwegian krone gained versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, climbing 0.5 percent to 5.7066 per dollar. It
advanced 0.2 percent to 7.3727 per euro.  Spain’s Rajoy said today he had no plans to request a
bailout soon, fending off mounting speculation that a bid was
near. Asked at a press conference in Madrid if a bailout request
was imminent, Rajoy said: “No.”  Weighing Terms  Rajoy is weighing the terms of a Sept. 6 proposal by the
ECB to buy bonds of cash-strapped nations including  Spain  if
they make for a formal aid request from the euro region’s
government-run rescue funds. The program was designed to help
contain the bloc’s debt crisis.  Uncertainty “will persist until an official Spanish
request mid-month,” Adam Myers, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist in  London  at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , wrote today in a
note to clients.  Gains in the euro were limited before data tomorrow that a
Bloomberg survey forecast will show European  retail sales  fell
0.1 percent in August from July, when they slipped 0.2 percent.
Figures yesterday showed unemployment in the euro area climbed
to a record 11.4 percent in August.  The ECB will keep its main refinancing rate unchanged at a
record low 0.75 percent at this week’s meeting and will cut it
by year-end, a Bloomberg survey of economists forecast.  ‘Rocky Road’  “The euro is not a currency you want to own with too much
weight in your portfolio,”  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of G-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money”
with Sara Eisen. “We anticipate a rocky road and potential for
a Greek exit over the next three to six months. Markets are
getting back into euro shorts that they will carry through the
end of the year.” Shorts are bets a currency will weaken.  The currency bloc’s sovereign-debt crisis began three years
ago in  Greece .  The euro lost 2.7 percent over the past six months, the
biggest drop after the Swiss franc among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
The dollar fell 0.1 percent and the yen jumped 6.6 percent. The
Aussie depreciated 0.8 percent, the indexes showed.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board cut Australia’s
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25
percent, the central bank said in a statement in Sydney today.
It’s the lowest level since 2009.  Aussie Falls  The Aussie dropped 0.9 percent to $1.0267 and touched
$1.0252, the lowest level since Sept. 6. It was the worst
performer among major currencies.  The yen slid after the nation’s new finance minister,
Koriki Jojima, said the government will “take bold actions
against the currency’s excessive moves, if necessary.” His
comments echoed those used by predecessor  Jun Azumi .  “Japan will eventually move to something like an
intervention in the  currency markets ,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in  Chicago , said in a
phone interview. “Their focus is on their exporters, and they
need to stabilize that currency. They need to get dollar-yen
above 80, throw a line in the sand and say they’re going to
intervene.”  Nations intervene by selling or buying currencies to
influence prices. Japan hasn’t done so since November, according
to the  finance ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  