-- Australian Home Prices Jump by Most in 30 Months in September
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-02T00:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/australian-home-prices-jump-by-most-in-30-months-in-september.html
Australian  home prices  climbed by the
most in 30 months in September as the central bank’s rate
cutting measures took effect, according to RP Data.  House and apartment prices across  Australia ’s eight state
and territory capitals rose 1.4 percent in September from the
previous month, the most since March 2010, the RP Data-Rismark
Home Value Index showed. They also rose 2 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30 from the prior quarter, the Brisbane-based
researcher said.  “It’s no coincidence that housing market conditions
bottomed out at the end of May, after the  Reserve Bank  cut the
official cash rate by 50 basis points,” Tim Lawless, research
director at RP Data, said in an e-mailed release. “A further
cut of 25 basis points in June and the anticipation of further
rate cuts in the pipeline appear to have instilled renewed
confidence in the housing market.”  Traders are pricing in a 79 percent chance the central bank
will cut its overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage
point to 3.25 percent today, after reducing it by  125 basis
points  since November. That has helped push three-year fixed
 mortgage rates  as low as 5.39 percent, compared with 5.6 percent
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Ben
Skilbeck, chief executive officer of Rismark International, said
in the release.  Adelaide and Perth had the biggest monthly increase, rising
by 2.4 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively. Darwin and
Canberra posted the biggest declines, falling 2 percent and 0.6
percent, the figures show.  Prices across the eight cities will climb as much as 3
percent in 2012 and between 4 percent and 7 percent next year,
as rate cuts, both past and anticipated, boost  home prices ,
Sydney-based SQM Research forecast last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  