-- Australian Open Boosts Prize Money to Tennis Record A$30 Million
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-02T03:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/australian-open-boosts-prize-money-to-tennis-record-a-30-million.html
The Australian Open boosted prize
money for the 2013 edition to A$30 million ($31.1 million), a
record for a tennis tournament.  The fund is A$4 million more than this year’s, the biggest
single increase for any tennis tournament, Melbourne-based
Tennis  Australia  said today in a news release.  “We’ve led the world in prize money for these incredible
athletes and we want to ensure that the Australian Open
continues to make a major contribution to the financial well-
being of professional tennis players,” Tennis Australia Chief
Executive Officer Steve Wood said in the statement.  The  Association of Tennis Professionals  last month denied
it was organizing a boycott of the Australian Open, the first of
four annual Grand Slam tournaments, as part of a push by male
players to get a bigger slice of revenue at major championships.  Tennis Australia said today that its CEO will “seek
further input from the playing group regarding a more equitable
distribution of prize money to help ensure financial viability
for lower-ranked players.”  In 2012, the Australian Open increased prize money for
first-round losers by 4 percent to A$20,800. The French Open,
Wimbledon and the U.S. Open raised payments to those players by
20 percent, 26 percent and 21 percent from the previous year to
about $23,000 each, around $1,500 more than the Australian Open
at current exchange rates.  By contrast, prize money for the men’s and women’s singles
champions at the four majors rose by 4.7 percent on average this
year from 2011.  “We welcome the increase in prize money for the 2013
Australian Open and acknowledge the ongoing efforts of Tennis
Australia to recognize the role of the players in the success of
the tournament,” the ATP said in a statement. “We also look
forward with confidence to continuing these successful
discussions with a view to a longer-term understanding.”  The Australian Open’s $31.1 million fund compares with
$25.5 million at the U.S. Open, $26 million at Wimbledon and
$24.1 million at the French Open this year.  The women’s WTA Tour said in a statement it applauded
“Tennis Australia’s commitment to equal prize money.”  The Australian Open is scheduled for Jan. 14-27 in
 Melbourne .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 