-- Avert Fiscal Cliff With Entitlement Cuts, Tax Increases
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-02T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/avert-fiscal-cliff-with-entitlement-cuts-tax-increases.html
How long does the U.S. have before
the bond market demands much higher interest rates on
Treasuries, forcing a sudden and painful belt-tightening on
every American? For a sense of the answer, tune in a week or so
after the presidential election.  That’s when Congress reconvenes to decide what to do about
the expiring tax breaks and across-the-board spending cuts that
take effect in January. Combined, they equal about 5 percent of
the economy.  This time, the capital markets may be in no mood for a
solution that merely postpones everything. Failure to modify the
tax increases and spending cuts, however, would almost certainly
induce a recession. And if all the scheduled tax increases take
effect, consumers would get crushed. The Tax Policy Center
 reported  this week that the average increase for middle-income
households would be almost $2,000.  Luckily, a bipartisan coalition of people in and out of
government has been trying to figure a way out. The outlines of
a consensus are emerging. With the business community providing
political cover, some Republican lawmakers are willing to split
with their party’s no-tax-increase dogmatists, but only if they
get entitlement reforms in return. Democrats in the group seem
willing to slow the growth of Social Security and Medicare --
programs the party tenaciously protects -- so long as they get
tax increases in return.  You can see where this is going: Tax revenue in exchange
for entitlement cuts offers the best hope. The challenge is to
give each side enough incentive to withstand a backlash from its
partisans.  There are many ways to do this. The plan by the president’s
Simpson-Bowles deficit commission is one. But Paul Ryan, the
Republican vice presidential nominee, is right: It doesn’t
contain enough health-care savings. President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker John Boehner cobbled together a $2.3 trillion
package, before their talks fell apart last summer, with $800
billion to $1.2 trillion in new taxes and $400 billion in
Medicare and Medicaid savings. It might be a better starting
point.  Any deal must slow the growth of entitlements. Program cuts
should be phased in, allowing short-term increases for
education, public works and research -- programs that improve
the U.S.’s competitiveness. The savings should add up to $3
trillion over 10 years ($4 trillion when already-enacted savings
are included).  The mix should be about 3-to-1 spending cuts to tax
increases. Congress needn’t come up with the whole enchilada in
a post-election session. Before leaving for the holidays,
however, it should at least pass a down payment -- and a
timeline for completion of the hard work.  Finally, members should swallow a poison pill if they don’t
adopt a package by August 2013. One option: Let the Simpson-
Bowles plan take effect if Congress misses its deadline.  Revenue Neutrality  Can it be done? As always, the hardest part will be getting
Republicans to raise taxes. But even  Mitt Romney , the party’s
presidential nominee, says he might tax the rich more. Romney
recently mused out loud that he would limit taxpayers to $17,000
in deductions; that could mean a hefty tax increase for the
rich, depending on the details. With that in mind, here is a
suggested 10-year road map:  -- Raise the retirement age to 69 from 66 by indexing it to
longevity. Adding one month every two years would bring it to 69
in the year 2075. Eligibility for Medicare benefits should also
rise. Savings: $249 billion.  -- Require more Medicare cost-sharing. Congress could
discourage overuse by increasing deductibles and co-payments. It
could also means-test Medicare benefits so that the well-to-do
elderly pay more. Savings: $353 billion.  -- Shrink COLAs. The Consumer Price Index overstates the
cost of living by not accounting for the cheaper product
substitutions consumers make when prices rise. A better index,
the “chained CPI,” captures such behavior. Savings: $232
billion.  -- Raise taxes on the wealthy. The Bush tax cuts should be
allowed to lapse for household earnings above $250,000,
returning the top marginal rates to those under President Bill Clinton. Congress should also adopt the Buffett rule, requiring
millionaires to pay at least 30 percent in income taxes.
Savings: $740 billion.  -- End corporate tax breaks. Many deductions and exclusions
serve no public purpose. We would end the 15 percent rate on
profits earned by managers of private-equity firms. Other
options include abolishing a tax break for last-in, first-out
inventory accounting and cutting oil and gas subsidies. Savings:
$160 billion.  -- Overhaul other government programs. Congress should
eliminate some farm subsidies, reform the military pension
system, require federal employees to contribute to their
pensions at levels similar to private-sector workers, and have
the U.S. Postal Service go to five-day delivery. Savings: $213
billion.  These actions alone would produce two-thirds of what is
needed. They would cut $470 billion from Medicare and $570
billion from other domestic programs. The tax increases equal
$900 billion. Closing more tax loopholes, raising rates on
investment income, extending Medicaid drug rebates to the
Medicare drug program and revamping the Defense Department could
produce the remainder, and possibly leave enough room to lower
tax rates.  The U.S. has paid extremely low rates on its debt for
several years now. Net interest last year totaled 1.5 percent of
gross domestic product, half what it was in 1997. The U.S.
benefits from its status as the healthiest horse in the glue
factory. But with $11 trillion in public debt, or about 73
percent of output, that privilege won’t last. It wouldn’t be
prudent to test the market’s patience.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  New York’s lawsuit against
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ; Margaret Carlson on the election as  a
referendum on Mitt Romney ; Clive Crook on  finding an unextreme
path for  Europe ; Michael Kinsley on  which gaffes will matter  at
the debates; Peter Orszag on  the widening U.S. longevity gap ;
Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  the silver lining in the Muslim anti-
American riots ; Thomas de Waal on  Georgia’s democratic
counterrevolution .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 