-- Lawmaker Presses Army to Punish Missile Defense Chief
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-02T19:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/lawmaker-presses-army-to-punish-missile-defense-chief.html
The Army should punish the three-star
general who heads the U.S. Missile Defense Agency before he
retires because of his abusive treatment of his staff, a
Republican lawmaker said.  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly will retire this year
after 38 years of Army service, including four as a West Point
cadet, although the date for a retirement ceremony hasn’t been
set, according to agency spokesman  Richard Lehner . President
 Barack Obama  has nominated Navy Rear Admiral James Syring to
replace him.  O’Reilly’s treatment of subordinates hurt the agency,
according to a May 2 report by the Pentagon’s inspector general
that said witnesses testified his “leadership style resulted in
a command climate of fear and low morale.”  Before O’Reilly leaves, the “focus must now turn back to
how to resolve” the inspector general’s conclusions about
O’Reilly and the “damage he did while head of the agency,”
Representative  Michael Turner , an Ohio Republican, wrote in a
letter dated Sept. 21 to Army Secretary John McHugh.  The Missile Defense Agency is responsible for developing,
fielding and upgrading the nation’s ground- and sea-based
missile defense programs. Its top contractors are  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Orbital Sciences (ORB)  Corp. The Pentagon is seeking $7.7 billion for
the agency in fiscal 2013.  Turner heads the House Armed Services Committee’s strategic
forces subcommittee, which oversees the agency.  Message Sent  “I am deeply concerned that if no disciplinary action is
taken -- for example, Lt. Gen. O’Reilly is allowed to retire at
current rank -- the message that will be sent throughout the
Army, and at MDA” is that the Pentagon “and the most senior
Army leadership saw nothing wrong with his conduct,” Turner
wrote.  “I do not believe you intend to send that message.”  Army spokesman George Wright said in an e-mailed statement
that “a final decision regarding Lt. Gen. O’Reilly’s retired
grade has not been rendered.”  Reilly has defended his leadership of the  Missile Defense
Agency . A presentation he sent to Turner’s panel on May 30 said
his office had “significantly higher satisfaction scores than
the rest of federal government in training, salary, ethical
conduct and diversity,” according to the summary of an employee
survey sponsored last year by the White House Office of
Management and Budget.  Demoting O’Reilly from three-star to two-star status would
be a career embarrassment and reduce his retirement pay.  The law requires that in order to retire at the three- and
four-star level the secretary of defense must certify to
Congress that “the officer has served on active duty
satisfactorily in that grade,” Wright said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  