-- Baidu.Com Seeks to End Suit by Chinese American Writers
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-02T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/baidu-com-seeks-to-end-suit-by-chinese-american-writers.html
Baidu Inc., (BIDU)  owner of  China ’s most
popular search engine, asked a U.S. court to dismiss a lawsuit
by Chinese-Americans who said the  Internet company  “censored”
their articles on the pro-democracy movement in China.  Baidu, in its first legal motion in response to a May 2011
lawsuit by eight residents of  New York  City, said the case
should be dismissed because the complaint wasn’t properly served
on the Beijing-based Internet company, according to a filing
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  The People’s Republic of China, another defendant in the
case, hasn’t responded to the lawsuit. Baidu’s lawyers said in
the court filing that the Chinese government also wasn’t
properly served under international law, citing a letter from
the Chinese Ministry of Justice.  “The Hague Convention is the exclusive means of serving
judicial documents” on the Chinese government, Baidu’s lawyers
said in their motion to dismiss. Referring to the plaintiffs’
delivery of the complaint to Baidu and the People’s Republic
through  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  mailings, the lawyers said, “The Hague
Convention does not authorize service by FedEx.”  The writers claimed that Baidu.com, “in conjunction with
and as an agent and enforcer of the People’s Republic of China,
purposely designed its search engine algorithm to exclude” pro-
democracy topics. They said Baidu and China violated free speech
provisions of U.S. and New York State law.  Damages Request  The plaintiffs filed a request in July for a default
judgment against Baidu.com because it hadn’t responded to the
suit. They are seeking $16 million in damages plus interest.  Stephen Preziosi, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a
telephone interview today that it was the motion for a default
judgment that prompted Baidu’s response.  “All of a sudden Baidu is very concerned and hired a
lawyer in New York to claim I didn’t serve them properly,” said
Preziosi, who runs his own  law firm . “This is just more
rhetoric, to try to avoid being sued in New York, when they do
so much business in New York.”  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  is representing
Baidu.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts trade on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. They fell 43 cents to $112.34.  The case is Zhang v. Baidu.com Inc., 11-cv-3388, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  