-- BATE Upsets Bayern in Champions League; Chelsea, Man. United Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-02T23:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bate-upsets-bayern-in-champions-league-chelsea-man-united-win.html
BATE Borisov beat Bayern Munich 3-1
in soccer’s Champions League as Chelsea, Manchester United and
 Barcelona  won away.  Aleksandr Pavlov, Vitali Rodionov and Renan Bressan scored
last night as Belarusian champion BATE posted its first home
victory in the group stage of  Europe ’s elite club competition.  “They fought till they dropped, especially when we applied
pressure,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes said in comments on his
team’s website.  Juan Mata’s two goals led last season’s winner Chelsea to a
4-0 win at Nordsjaelland, while Robin van Persie scored twice in
Manchester United’s 2-1 win at Cluj. Barcelona, seeking its
fourth European Cup in eight seasons, defeated Benfica 2-0.  Celtic got its first road win in the competition at the
21st attempt with a 3-2 victory at Spartak Moscow, while
Valencia and Braga also won as the second round of group stage
games got under way. Juventus and Shakhtar Donetsk tied 1-1.  Among tonight’s eight games, Manchester City hosts Dortmund
in a matchup of English and German champions, Real Madrid visits
Ajax as two former winners meet, and Olympiacos visits Arsenal.  BATE is the surprise Group F leader after its second
straight 3-1 win. Pavlov put the home team ahead midway through
the first half and Rodionov made it 2-0 in the 78th minute.  Franck Ribery scored in stoppage time for Bayern, last
season’s runner-up to Chelsea, before Bressan sealed the win
just before the final whistle.  Jonas scored a goal in each half as Valencia beat Lille 2-0
to move into a tie with Bayern for second place in the group.  Late Goals  Chelsea broke open a close game with three goals in the
final 11 minutes against Danish champion Nordsjaelland, with
 David Luiz  and Ramires also finding the back of the net either
side of Mata’s second goal.  “They were a bit of an unknown and we had to bide our
time,” Chelsea midfielder Frank Lampard told Sky Sports. “We
put the hard work in and all the goals came at the end.”  Mata opened the scoring in the 33rd minute by guiding in
Lampard’s pass. Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech kept the Blues in
front in the second half by pushing Joshua John’s shot off the
crossbar, with Ashley Cole blocking Mikkel Beckmann’s rebound.  Luiz doubled the lead moments later off a free kick and
Mata scored his second three minutes later. Ramires added a goal
in the final minute.  The win leaves the Blues even atop Group E with Shakhtar
Donetsk on four points. Alex Teixeira scored for Shakhtar, with
Leonardo Bonucci answering for Juventus.  Van Persie’s Double  Manchester United fell behind at Romanian champion Cluj to
a Pantelis Kapetanos goal after 14 minutes.  United drew even in the 29th minute as Van Persie, starting
up front with Wayne Rooney for the first time, guided a free
kick from his strike partner over goalkeeper Mario Felgueiras
with his shoulder.  The two combined for the winner four minutes after halftime
as Van Persie steered a pass off the right from Rooney into the
bottom corner of the net. United goalkeeper David De Gea then
preserved the victory when he pushed away a header from Rafael
Bastos in the closing minutes.  “We know it was a silly goal to give away but thankfully
we managed to get back in the game and win,” Rooney told ITV.  United leads Group H with the maximum six points, three
more than Braga and Cluj. Braga also won away at Galatasaray 2-0
on goals from Ruben Micael and Alan.  Barcelona also made it two straight wins to open the
competition by beating Benfica 2-0 in  Portugal . Alexis Sanchez
and Cesc Fabregas got the goals off assists from Lionel Messi.  Dislocated Elbow  Barcelona defender Carles Puyol, 34, left the field on a
stretcher with a dislocated elbow about 15 minutes from the end
of the game. Puyol sustained the injury when he fell after
jumping for a header from a corner kick.  Celtic is second in Group G with four points after Georgios Samaras scored in the final minute to give the Scottish league
leader its first away win in the Champions League.  Gary Hooper put Celtic ahead after 12 minutes before
Emmanuel Emmenike scored twice for the home side.  Spartak’s Juan Insaurralde received a red card in the 63rd
minute and Celtic tied the score eight minutes later as James
Forrest’s shot was saved by goalkeeper Sergei Pesyakov and the
rebound deflected off defender Dmitri Kombarov into the net for
an own goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 