-- Billionaire Gupta Chases Beauty to Boost Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-10-03T10:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/billionaire-gupta-chases-beauty-to-boost-profit-corporate-india.html
Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , the world’s biggest maker
of drugs to treat tuberculosis, plans to add prescription skin
treatments for the Indian market to help revive profit that
expanded at the  slowest pace  in at least a decade.  The drugmaker controlled by billionaire Desh Bandhu Gupta
aims to sell about 20 products by 2015 including treatments for
psoriasis, steroidal ointments, dermal fillers and scar
removers, Shakti Chakraborty, group president for India, said in
an interview in Mumbai, where Lupin is based. The first product
may be marketed early next year, he said.  Lupin, which gets almost 30 percent of its local revenue
from drugs to cure infections, is turning to skin treatments in
a country where more than half the population is below the age
of 35, to help lift margins. Increased beauty awareness among
the middle class in  Asia ’s third-largest economy has spurred
demand for specialized products and cosmetic surgeries,
according to Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at ICICI Direct.  “This is for people who want to look better and the number
of these people is going to increase,” Chakraborty said. “With
economic growth, this market is going to really expand.”  The drugmaker may also acquire companies and brands to
widen its dermatology portfolio, Chakraborty said. The skincare
market, worth about 36 billion rupees ($687 million), is
dominated by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Indian unit ,  Glenmark
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GNP)  and  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , and there is
scope for other players, Khandekar said.  Lupin, which has climbed 33 percent this year, fell 0.3
percent to 597.60 rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The BSE
Healthcare Index has advanced 30 percent in the period.  ‘Emerging Segment’  “It is an emerging segment and its currently growing
faster than the pharmaceutical market,” Mumbai-based Khandekar
said. Sales of skincare products have grown at least 17 percent
in the last couple of years, outpacing the industry average of
about 15 percent, according to Khandekar.  Lupin may need to boost spending to create awareness about
its cosmetic skincare products, according to Surya Narayan Patra, an analyst at Systematix Shares & Stocks Ltd. in  Mumbai .  “As a lifestyle choice rather than a critical condition-
related treatment, like say a medicine for psoriasis, it will be
difficult to ensure stickiness,” said Patra, who rates Lupin
fairly valued. This segment is like a consumer business and
“requires a higher level of spending,” he said.  Net income  at Lupin increased 0.6 percent to 8.68 billion
rupees in the year ended March 31, the slowest pace of growth
since at least 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales climbed 22 percent to 69.6 billion rupees in the period.  Lupin expects profitability to improve this year, President
Finance and Planning Ramesh Swaminathan told analysts on a
conference call in July.  Cosmetic Dermatology  “It’s a profitable business and the prices are very
high,” Chakraborty said. “I think there are lots of drugs
coming in cosmetology, so that’s an area we want to be.”  The bulk of  India ’s prescription dermatology market is
comprised of anti-infective creams and lotions, that are acute
therapies -- meaning patients only use them for about a week or
less, Chakraborty said. Specialist skincare treatments for
cosmetic usage will generate greater  revenues , because people
have to use them for longer, he said.  “You are going to use an emollient for skincare which is
prescribed by the doctor for two to five months by people who
want to be looking smarter and better,” Chakraborty said. The
target is to get about 1.5 billion rupees from the dermatology
business in three years, he said.  Chronic Treatments  Lupin, established in  1968  by Chairman Gupta, a masters-
degree holder in chemistry, will operate the skincare business
mainly by  outsourcing  production,, Chakraborty said.  “You give the formula, people are there who will
manufacture it for you,” he said. “I won’t be manufacturing
anything in my own stable, in my own company.”  Among the dermatology offerings the drugmaker is
considering, include a possible new treatment for  psoriasis  and
acne medicines that may involve different drug delivery systems
to improve the efficacy.  The move would be part of the company’s strategy to focus
on chronic diseases and treatments that require patients to take
medicines for months or even years, as opposed to acute
therapies that are needed only for a few days. Among the
nation’s five biggest drugmakers, Lupin is second only to  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , in the percentage of the revenue
it gets from chronic therapies, according to a Sept. 24 report
by Edelweiss Securities Ltd.  Leguminous Flower  Sun, India’s biggest drugmaker by market value, gets 63
percent of its sales from such medicines, while they fetch Lupin
37 percent.  Lupin, which last year agreed to a collaboration with Eli
Lilly & Co.’s India unit to promote and sell Lilly’s Huminsulin
range of products in the local market, expects revenue from the
diabetic treatments business to increase to at least 3.5 billion
rupees, Chakraborty said.  The Indian drugmaker, named after a leguminous flower, is
considering dermatology businesses with about 2.5 billion rupees
in sales for acquisition, he said, without elaborating.  “It’s definitely ambitious, we keep ambitious targets,”
Chakraborty said. “Because I know dermatology will be a big
business tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  