-- Blackstone’s Vivint Aims at Top Home-Solar Spot, CEO Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-10-02T20:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/blackstone-s-vivint-aims-at-top-home-solar-spot-ceo-says.html
Vivint Inc., the home automation and
security company that agreed last month to sell itself to
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for $2 billion, is seeking to become the top
U.S. installer of consumer rooftop solar systems in 2013, its
chief executive officer said.  Vivint expects to install panels at atop least 10,000 homes
next year, up from about 1,500 to date, founder Todd Pedersen
said.  The company provides security and power management services
to almost 700,000 customers in the U.S. and  Canada , creating a
ready-made customer base, Pedersen said. Clients’ homes are
already connected to Vivint’s network, and photovoltaic panels
are an easy add-on feature.  “We went from installing about one a day in January to
about 20 a day now,” he said in an e-mail yesterday. “Forty-
five to 50 installs a day gets us to that number. It’s not that
big of a stretch.”  Vivint, based in Provo,  Utah , is at heart a technology
services company, he said. It operates an electronic hub that
connects a variety of services, such as automatically switching
on light and heaters, monitoring entry and managing appliances
to conserve electricity.  Being owned by Blackstone will give the company access to
capital to expand its solar operation, Pedersen said. Vivint
will own the power systems and homeowners pay the company a
monthly fee for the electricity. The purchase is expected to
close by the end of the year.  Big Gap  Vivint has a big gap to close with SolarCity Corp., the top
U.S. residential solar installer with about 16 percent market
share in the second quarter, according to Shayle Kann, vice
president at Boston-based consulting company GTM Research.
Vivint had about 1 percent share.  “It’s hard to imagine anyone unseating them in a year,”
Kann said in an interview. Vivint “would have to grow
enormously. SolarCity is also growing very fast.”  Jonathan Bass , a spokesman for  San Mateo , California-based
SolarCity, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  