-- Blackburn May Sign Henrik Larsson as New Manager: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-02T10:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/blackburn-may-sign-henrik-larsson-as-new-manager-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Larsson Coming?  Former Sweden international Henrik Larsson may take  Steve Kean ’s place at Blackburn Rovers, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Kean resigned as Blackburn manager last month. The club has
had its approach for Tim Sherwood, technical coordinator at
Tottenham Hotspur, blocked by his present employer. Although the
team also has Indian coach Judan Ali on its list, the owners
would prefer a high-profile name to appease fans, the paper
said.  Larsson’s stint at Landskrona in Sweden - where he kept the
second division club out of relegation on a tight budget - has
impressed Blackburn’s Indian owner Venky’s.  Larsson, who won the Champions League with Barcelona in
2006, has told Landskrona he won’t be staying on when the
Swedish season ends next month.  Chasing Tavares?  Fulham manager  Martin Jol  is keen to sign Senegal
midfielder and free agent Mickael Tavares, 29, after losing some
of his key midfield players this season, the  Sun  reported.  Sunderland Target?  James McFadden, who was released by Everton this summer,
may be signed by Sunderland after training with the squad, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  “We’ll see how it goes, but he has done well and we’ll
talk,” the paper quoted Sunderland manager  Martin O’Neill  as
saying.  McFadden, 29, has played more than 150 Premier League
matches and has represented Scotland 48 times.  Rio Out?  Rio Ferdinand may be left out of the England team for next
week’s World Cup qualifying matches against San Marino and
Poland, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The paper cited  Gary Neville , a coach with the England
national team, as saying on U.K. television that the 33-year-old
Manchester United player “has lost a yard of pace,” but was
“still quicker than  Steve Bruce , Tony Adams and  John Terry .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  