-- Boeing Lowers Growth Forecast for Global Air-Cargo Market
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-02T23:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/boeing-lowers-growth-forecast-for-global-air-cargo-market.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  lowered its long-term
forecast for global air-cargo market expansion, adding to
evidence of a slowdown in the industry.  Growth will run at a 5.2 percent annual rate over the next
20 years, Boeing said yesterday in a statement. That’s down from
the 5.9 percent rate it forecast in 2010, the last time the
Chicago-based planemaker issued its annual projection.  “Air-cargo traffic will grow over the long term despite
current near-term market weakness and worldwide economic
uncertainty,” Boeing said in the statement. “The industry
languished following the 2010 recovery posting slight declines
in traffic in 2011 and thus far in 2012.”  Boeing, the world’s largest maker of jet freighters, issued
its forecast a day after the  International Air Transport
Association  said global air-cargo traffic in 2012 would fall 0.4
percent from 2011 levels. That marked a reversal from the trade
group’s June projection for growth of 0.3 percent.  The world freighter fleet will increase to 3,198 planes by
2031 from 1,738 now, while large freighters will represent 36
percent of the fleet compared with the current 31 percent,
Boeing estimated.  The forecast reflects global trends in the industry that
have changed from two years ago, said  Howard Rubel , an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in  New York .  “The world’s slowing down,” Rubel said in an interview
yesterday. “Global economies are not growing as fast. It’s
another benchmark that confirms what everybody else has seen or
experienced.”  Boeing said markets connecting the Asia-Pacific region will
continue to lead growth in the air-cargo industry, though it
lowered the growth rates for domestic China and intra-Asia
traffic to 8 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively, from 9.2
percent and 7.9 percent in 2010.  Fuel Costs  The company said it doesn’t expect fuel costs to move
significantly higher than current levels. More efficient planes
and infrastructure improvements will also lower the cost of air
cargo, the company said.  Freight carriers  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service (UPS)  Inc.
have struggled with sales growth that has slowed from more than
10 percent in mid-2010 to less than 5 percent in the most recent
quarter, and both companies have trimmed full-year profit
forecasts.  Boeing in July said growth in industry plane deliveries
will slow in the next two decades as demand for jumbo jets and
freighters declines. The global fleet will expand at less than a
fifth of the rate predicted in 2011, Boeing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  