-- BofA Says Chavez Defeat Bets Are Overdone in Bond Market
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-10-02T16:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bofa-cuts-venezuela-bonds-as-chavez-odds-of-defeat-overestimated.html
Bank of America Corp. recommended
selling Venezuelan bonds, saying that their rally shows
investors are overestimating the chances that President  Hugo Chavez  will lose this month’s election.  Bank of America cut Venezuelan bonds to underweight two
weeks after JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered the country’s debt to
marketweight from overweight. Bank of America told clients to
sell dollar bonds due in 2028 and 2034, saying they’ve become
expensive. Yields on the bonds due 2028 have plunged 2.25
percentage points since the end of June to 10.62 percent and
touched a four-year low of 10.54 percent yesterday.  Chavez is likely to defeat opposition candidate Henrique
Capriles Radonski in the Oct. 7 vote and could win by a wide
enough margin to give him room to pursue “more radical
policies,” Bank of America analysts led by Jane Brauer wrote in
a report. Chavez’s nationalizations of utilities, banks and
other companies as well as his implementation of currency and
price controls have helped make Venezuelan bonds the highest-
yielding securities among major Latin American countries.  “We see many investors holding overweight or market weight
positions going into the election, believing that the upside is
very large if Capriles wins and that the downside is manageable
if Chavez wins,” the analysts wrote. “A selloff could occur if
President Chavez wins re-election by a wide margin.”  Poll Results  Polls ahead of the vote have varied. A Datanalisis poll
from Aug. 25 through Sept. 5 of 1,600 people who said they’re
certain to vote showed Chavez led Capriles by 10.4 percentage
points. A Consultores 21 poll of 1,500 people taken from Sept.
7-18 showed the two candidates in a statistical tie, with
Capriles supported by 46.5 percent and Chavez by 45.7 percent.  Bank of America said its “central scenario” is Chavez
winning by between seven to 10 percentage points.  JPMorgan Chase cut Venezuelan bonds on Sept. 17, saying
that the securities were “adequately” priced after the rally.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
government dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 17 basis points
to 951 basis points at 12:38 p.m.  New York  time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBIG index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  