-- Bon Iver’s Lush Sound Ends Tour at Radio City: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bon-iver-s-lush-sound-ends-tour-at-radio-city-nyc-music.html
From the Wisconsin cabin where he
created Bon Iver’s 2007 debut album five years ago to the
majestic  Radio City Music Hall , Justin Vernon has made a few
strides.  Almost 6,000 fans eased into the hall’s plush red-velvet
seats on Sept. 21 as Vernon transformed the iconic and
acoustically gifted venue into an enchanted place.  He and his eight-piece band began with the feel-good melody
of the hit “Perth.” After a soft guitar intro, Vernon’s
choirboy voice moved in over rolling drums. The high, passionate
vocal was met with muscular horns and flickering lights.  From there we got a flawless segue as tapping percussion
signaled the beginning of “Minnesota, WI.” The keys stretched
out, horns swirled, finger-picking animated the guitar.  The stage was hung with serrated, intertwined pieces of
canvas displaying psychedelic images and colors. Green lights
beamed from all heights.  The set featured the 2011 self-titled sophomore album with
a few treats from elsewhere, like the bone-chilling version of
“Creature Fear” off the debut record, “For Emma, Forever
Ago.” A warm trumpet and delicate guitar notes gave away to
knee-rattling work from a double set of drums and an all-out
jam.  For 31-year-old Vernon, the past year has brought the 2012
Grammy Award for Best New Artist and Best Alternative Album (the
award went to Bon Iver, a band name that has covered several
configurations led by Vernon). He appeared on several tracks of
Kanye West’s “My Dark Beautiful Twisted Fantasy.” The four
shows at Radio City  Music Hall  closed out the North American leg
of a worldwide tour.  Fatter Sound  Vernon has kept his original core of drummer Sean Carey and
guitarist Michael Noyce, as well as much of his stripped-down
sound, even while expanding into the eight-piece ensemble. He
can fatten the sound when desired, as in the rocking version of
“Blood Bank.” Vernon shredded the guitar solo while the crowd
did its best bobble-head.  Left alone and without instruments, Vernon manipulated his
voice with Auto-Tune and looped it into sections and harmonies
for a jaw-dropping version of “Woods.”  He closed out the main set with “Beth/Rest,” full of a
dramatic 1980s-feel, with abundant horns and high-pitched guitar
work.  The encore’s three songs all came from his 2007 debut. The
minimal yet intense “Skinny Love” offered commanding
harmonies. The call and response of “The Wolves (Act I and
II)” had the crowd singing the chorus zealously.  The closer was a breezy “ For Emma ” with horns escalating
over steady rhythm. Cheers, bows and exit stage left.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in October.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund and Jorg von Uthmann
on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 