-- BP Spill Judge Rejects Claims for Loss of Recreational Use
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-02T00:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bp-spill-judge-rejects-claims-for-loss-of-recreational-use-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  won’t face damages claims over
the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill brought by recreational users,
company-branded gas station owners and businesses alleging loss
of reputation, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans pruned
these categories of claims from more than 500 lawsuits brought
by coastal property owners, businesses and individuals alleging
harm from the worst offshore spill in U.S. history. The suits
are consolidated for pretrial processing before Barbier.  The estimated $7.8 billion pending settlement between BP
and lawyers, which is intended to compensate economic damage
claims by thousands of real estate, tourism and fishing
interests, didn’t include these claims and won’t be affected by
Barbier’s ruling.  Barbier dismissed the three categories of claims because
applicable U.S. law allows for the recovery of damages only for
the “loss of profits or impairment of earnings capacity,” he
said in a 26-page ruling. He said the law doesn’t compensate
“this type of emotional, non-pecuniary damage.”  Barbier said he would permit those stigma claims by owners
of properties that were physically oiled by the spill or which
sold at reduced prices in the months immediately afterwards.  Vacation Home  “Other claims for loss of non-commercial recreational
expectations, such as a claim for loss of recreational use and
enjoyment of a beachfront vacation home, are not viable under
general maritime law,” he said.  Barbier threw out claims by owners of BP-branded gas
stations who complained they lost business because of “customer
animosity towards BP” following the spill. He said these claims
also weren’t entitled to recovery under the prevailing law.  Ellen Moskowitz , BP’s litigation spokeswoman, declined
comment on the ruling. David Falkenstein, a spokesman for the
committee representing victims in the spill litigation, also
declined to comment.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net 
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  