-- Brazil’s Sugar Export Profitability Rises as Local Price Falls
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-02T09:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/brazil-s-sugar-export-profitability-rises-as-local-price-falls.html
Sugar exports from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, were more profitable last week as
domestic prices dropped while the harvest advanced, according to
Cepea, a University of  Sao Paulo  research group.  Shipments of the sweetener were about 11 percent more
advantageous than sales in the domestic market, up from 6.9
percent the previous week, Cepea said in a report yesterday.
Local prices for crystal sugar, which accounts for 68 percent of
all the sweetener sold within Brazil, declined 3.1 percent in
the week ending Sept. 28 to 47.28 reais ($23.30) a 50-kilogram
(110 pounds) bag, according to the report.  Sugar output in Brazil’s Center South, the country’s main
growing region, rose 14 percent to 3.14 million metric tons in
the first half of September, according to data from industry
group Unica. Mostly dry weather has allowed the harvest to
advance after rains in May and June delayed the crop there.  “Crystal sugar prices traded in the  spot market  in Sao
Paulo decreased in almost all September,” Heloisa Lee
Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea, wrote in the report. “Advances
of crushing activities of sugar cane in Sao Paulo state and the
low demand of part of purchasers have led to this scenario.”  In the international market, raw sugar futures climbed 1.7
percent in the week ended Sept. 28 on speculation that rain
would return to the center south and disrupt harvesting again.
Prices also gained as demand in  India , the world’s biggest
consumer, may be higher than initially thought.  “A potential shortfall in the Brazilian crop owing to
weather and downside to Thai production, combined with recently
reduced estimates of Indian production and higher Indian
consumption should keep prices supported,” Deutsche Bank AG
said in a quarterly report e-mailed today.  Domestic Market  Sugar sales in the domestic market were 25 percent more
profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used to blend into
gasoline, and 32 percent more advantageous than hydrous ethanol,
used in flex-fuel cars, Cepea said. Both the sweetener and the
biofuel are made from raw material sugar cane.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. The refined variety traded on NYSE
Liffe calls for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 