-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall to Record on Output; Real Little Changed
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-10-02T21:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/brazilian-swap-rates-fall-to-record-as-output-misses-forecast.html
Brazilian swap rates dropped to a
record after industrial output grew less than economists
forecast in August, spurring bets lackluster growth will prompt
policy makers to keep borrowing costs low.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.62 percent at 6
p.m. in Sao Paulo, a record low on a closing basis. The real
closed little changed at 2.0259 per dollar.  “The industrial output result was disappointing,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in
Sao Paulo, said by phone. “This feeds bets that rates will
remain low for longer and on the margin supports another cut.”  Industrial output rose 1.5 percent in August from the
previous month, the national statistics agency said today in Rio
de Janeiro. While the increase was the largest in 15 months, it
was smaller than all except one estimate from 39 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for a 2 percent
gain. Production fell 2 percent from a year earlier, steeper
than the median estimate, which called for a 1.6 percent
decline.  “The important industrial production expansion recorded in
August should not be seen as the beginning of a new, bright era
for the manufacturing sector as a series of competitiveness
problems remain in place challenging both producers and the
government,” Enestor Dos Santos, a  Brazil  economist at Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in  Madrid , wrote in an e-mailed
report.  Automobile Output  Manufacturing growth in August was led by vehicle
production, which expanded 3.3 percent from a month earlier.
Vehicles sales rose 28 percent in August to a record 420,000
units, supported by tax cuts and lower borrowing costs. Brazil’s
National Vehicle Manufacturers Association in Sao Paulo will
release September vehicle sales data Oct. 4.  The central bank has cut the target lending rate by 5
percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 7.5 percent.
The government has reduced bank reserve requirements and
extended tax cuts on payrolls and consumer goods to spur
Brazil’s economy.  Industrial production growth is proof of a gradual economic
expansion after the country “left behind” a period of weak
activity, Brazil Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters
in Brasilia today.  Brazil’s trade surplus was smaller than analysts forecast
in September, as both exports and imports declined in an economy
struggling to recover from a yearlong slowdown. The surplus of
$2.6 billion in September was down from $3.2 billion in August,
a trailed a forecast of $2.7 billion, according to the median
estimate from 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks in  Europe  fell as Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy told reporters in Madrid today that a bailout request
wasn’t imminent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  