-- Brown Trades Blows With Warren Without Knockout in Debate
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-10-02T15:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/brown-trades-blows-with-warren-without-knockout-in-debate.html
In the second debate in the
Massachusetts race for  U.S. Senate , Republican incumbent Scott Brown elicited boos from the audience when he cited Supreme
Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  as his model jurist.  His Democratic opponent,  Elizabeth Warren , beamed as the
jeers overshadowed the cheering when Brown mentioned Scalia, who
opposes abortion and gay-marriage rights. Brown quickly rounded
out his answer with three other choices, including Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who was appointed by President  Barack Obama . When
pressed by moderator David Gregory of NBC News to select only
one, he declined.  “That’s the beauty of being an independent,” Brown said.
“I don’t need to pick one.”  The forum, the first before a live audience, had Brown and
Warren sitting at a table with Gregory before a crowd of more
than 4,500 at the University of Massachusetts Lowell. The
moderator often interrupted the candidates, who returned the
favor, as both sought to distance themselves from one another’s
characterizations.  Warren’s campaign jumped on the Supreme Court answer after
the debate ended, calling out Brown for the remark and
highlighting some of Scalia’s past comments on abortion, birth
control and gender equality. Scalia’s positions “speak loudly
about  Scott Brown ’s values,” Mindy Myers, Warren’s campaign
manager, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lugar Cited  Warren named  Richard Lugar  as the Republican senator she
could see herself working with, before it was pointed out that
the Indiana lawmaker’s 36-year tenure expires three months from
now. She said she’d work with anyone to change how mortgage
giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  operate, without naming names.  That played off one of Brown’s themes that he’s pushed on
the campaign trail: that Warren would vote “100 percent” of
the time with her party at a time when a “dysfunctional”
Washington needs people who compromise.  Brown said he’d fight for unions and called his consumer-
advocate opponent a “hired gun” for corporations, while Warren
said Brown’s portrayal of bipartisanship didn’t square with his
fundraising for Republican control of Congress. Warren charged
that Brown votes in lockstep with the “extremist” agenda of
the national  Republican Party , which is unpopular in Democratic-
leaning Massachusetts.  Janitor’s Daughter  Brown wavered when asked if he’d be a “reliable ally” for
 Mitt Romney  if the Republican nominee is elected president, and
whether he’d vote for Senator  Mitch McConnell  as majority leader
should Republicans take control of the chamber.  “I work for the people of Massachusetts,” he said.  The equivocation reflects the fine line Brown walks as he
campaigns to remain the only Republican in Massachusetts’
congressional delegation. Less than 12 percent of the state’s
electorate is registered with the party. Obama crushed
Republican  John McCain  in 2008, 61 percent to 36 percent, and
polls show he’ll do the same this year even as Romney, the
state’s former governor, tops the ticket.  “I’m the daughter of a janitor who ended up as a professor
at  Harvard Law School  and working for the president of the
United States,” Warren, 63, said. “I have worked hard for 30
years to make the legal system just a little more fair for
people. I think that’s a good test of character.”  Both Improved  The race is one of the most closely watched and expensive
in the Senate, where Democrats are fighting to hold a majority.
Seven of nine polls taken last month showed Warren leading.  “We’re going to have some very, very real challenges right
now -- the challenges are getting our economy moving, getting
our debt, our deficit, taxes, spending, jobs, national
security,” said Brown, 53. Washington needs politicians “who
will actually work together, and that’s what I’ve been doing and
I need your vote. I can’t do this alone.”  While no clear winner emerged, both candidates improved on
their performances in the first debate, said Peter Ubertaccio,
director of the Martin Institute at Stonehill College in Easton,
 Massachusetts .  Brown came off as less aggressive and more senatorial, and
he more clearly explained his policy positions, while Warren
responded better to some of Brown’s attacks, Ubertaccio said.  On the Dream Act, which would provide a path to legal
residency for some people who are in the U.S. illegally, Warren
said she’d back Obama’s efforts to pass it. Brown called it “a
form of back-door amnesty.”  On the war in Afghanistan, Brown said he would defer to
generals on the ground to determine when to bring troops home.
Warren called for a speedier withdrawal and the domestic re-
appropriation of the $2 billion a week spent fighting there.  Brown revived and tweaked one of the most memorable lines
he used in his debate with Attorney General  Martha Coakley , the
Democrat he beat in the 2010 special election for the seat held
by the late  Ted Kennedy .  “Excuse me, I’m not a student in your classroom, please
let me respond,” Brown said at one point to Warren, who was
trying to interject.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Lowell, Massachusetts at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  