-- Bumi Seeks to Raise Cash to Cut Debt as Governance Probed
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2012-10-03T09:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bumi-seeks-cash-to-cut-debt-as-governance-probed-southeast-asia.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , Indonesia’s
biggest exporter of thermal coal, is seeking to raise cash by
selling a unit and issuing shares after the start of a corporate
governance probe prompted concern it may struggle to repay debt.  The company, an affiliate of Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , is considering a sale of PT Fajar Bumi Sakti,
Corporate Secretary Dileep Srivastava said yesterday at a
Jakarta briefing where President Director Ari Hudaya said it may
also sell stock. The nation’s bourse had requested that the
company hold a public presentation on its finances after Bumi
Plc initiated the probe.  The Indonesian coal company has faced pressure to reassure
investors since Sept. 24, when Bumi Plc began the investigation
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at Bumi
Resources and hired lawyers to examine a $637 million writedown
of development funds and exploration assets. Moody’s Investors
Service changed its outlook on Bumi Resources to negative the
next day and  Standard & Poor’s  cut its long-term rating.  Asset sales were “always part of the plan, but I think now
it’s being accelerated because of the issue at the Bumi Plc
level,” said Riaz Hyder, a Jakarta-based analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. who reduced his rating on the stock to neutral from
outperform last week. “If they actually move ahead on asset
sales, that would be positive.”  Bumi Borrowings  Bumi Resources is 29 percent held by London-traded Bumi Plc
and has $3.95 billion of debt, with $300 million due in the next
year, according to Moody’s. S&P put the figure at $400 million.  Bumi Resources fell 4.2 percent to 680 rupiah at the close
of trading in Jakarta. The stock has plunged 69 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent gain for the benchmark Jakarta
Composite Index.  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU) , a Bumi-controlled company
that’s also subject to the probe, dropped 7.9 percent to 152
rupiah.  The investigation will focus on “extensive” development
funds at Bumi Resources and an asset at Berau Coal, which were
marked down to zero in the accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31,
according to the holding company, which gave no figures for the
writedown in its Sept. 24 statement.  Bumi Resources is still unclear about Bumi Plc’s statement
and has always abided by Indonesian rules, Srivastava said at
the briefing.  Berau Coal hasn’t been informed by Bumi Plc nor involved in
its investigation, Berau President Director Rosan P. Roeslani
said at a separate press conference in Jakarta yesterday.  Roeslani said the investigation wouldn’t affect the
company’s performance and that it doesn’t plan to make early
debt repayments. The company said its total debt outstanding is
about $950 million. Roeslani said its cash reserves stand at
$512 million.  Relations Sour  The probe is the latest episode in a dispute involving
Rothschild and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family since they agreed to a
$3 billion deal in 2010 that gave Bumi Plc stakes in the two
coal producers. Relations between Rothschild and Bumi Co-
Chairman Indra Bakrie soured last year after the U.K.-based
financier made public a letter to then-Chief Executive Officer
Hudaya urging a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources.  Bumi Plc fell as much as 4.3 percent to 152.60 pence and
traded at 153.10 pence as of 10:49 a.m. in  London . A spokesman
for Bumi Plc declined to comment on the plans of its affiliate.  None-Preemptive Rights  Bumi Resources is “looking into a possible non-preemptive
issue without rights to strengthen  capital structure  as
permitted under regulation,” Srivastava said in an e-mailed
statement today. A rights offer is “not on the table but merely
a far term option available to us.”  A non-preemptive rights offer excludes the right of
existing shareholders to buy a company’s new shares, according
to Indonesia’s capital market regulation. Companies may sell new
shares amounting to as much as 10 percent of their capital
through a non-preemptive rights offer, according to the rules.  “There’s a probability that a new investor will enter
Bumi,”  Lanang Trihardian , an analyst at PT Syailendra Capital
said by telephone in Jakarta today. “A non-preemptive rights
offer is one of the options Bumi may take to reduce their debt
but given the size of the debt it’s not enough.”  Bumi Resources said Sept. 26 it hadn’t received any advance
notice of the investigation or of Bumi Plc’s announcement.
Srivastava subsequently said the probe and “leaks” on the
matter were an attempt to damage the company.  ‘Unfortunate’ Situation  “The present situation is unfortunate and is an internal
issue between a few shareholders who have chosen to go external,
managing media through innuendo,” Srivastava said in a Sept. 27
statement. “This appears to be an attempt to damage the
inherent value of our business by orchestrating internal issues
and leaking them publicly, for motives which appear dubious.”  The Indonesian capital markets regulator has said it will
wait for the results of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s probe before taking any
action. Indonesia’s stock exchange sent letters to Bumi
Resources and Berau on Sept. 27 asking them to provide details
of the matter to shareholders, according to Uriep Budhi Prasetyo,
a compliance director at the bourse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  