-- Bumi Resources to Raise Cash to Accelerate Debt Repayment
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2012-10-02T04:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bumi-resources-to-raise-cash-to-pay-debt-after-exchange-query.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  said it will raise
cash from non-core assets to accelerate debt repayment,
responding to an  Indonesia  Stock Exchange request to conduct a
public presentation on its finances. Shares climbed.  Bumi Resources and PT Berau Coal Energy posted statements
late yesterday to the Indonesia Stock Exchange, following a
probe initiated by London-listed Bumi Plc. The presentations are
scheduled for later today.  Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild  and owner of 29
percent of the Jakarta-based miner, said Sept. 24 it began
investigating “potential financial and other irregularities”
and hired lawyers to look into a $637 million writedown of
development funds and exploration assets. Moody’s Investors
Service changed its outlook on Bumi Resources to negative from
stable on Sept. 25, while  Standard & Poor’s  cut its long-term
rating by a step to BB- the next day.  “There were some concerns over the company’s debt
repayment issue and the statement brought back some confidence,” 
John Teja, a director at PT Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta, 
said by phone.  Bumi shares rose as much as 5.5 percent before trading 1.4
percent higher at 740 rupiah apiece at 11:18 a.m. in Jakarta,
the highest price since Sept. 21. The stock has plunged 66
percent this year, compared with the 11 percent gain on the
benchmark  Jakarta Composite index .  The investigation will focus on “extensive” development
funds at Bumi Resources and an asset at PT Berau Coal Energy,
another coal holding, which were marked down to zero in the
accounts of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  as of Dec. 31, Bumi Plc said. It gave no
figures for the writedown at that time.  The probe is the latest turn in a dispute involving
Rothschild and Indonesia’s Bakrie family since they agreed to a
$3 billion deal in 2010. Relations between Rothschild and Bumi
Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie soured last year after the U.K.-based
financier made public a letter to then-Chief Executive Officer
Ari Hudaya urging a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net 
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  