-- Bumi Considering Asset Sale, Rights Offer to Speed Debt Payment
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i ,   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-10-02T10:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/bumi-considering-asset-sale-rights-offer-to-speed-debt-payment.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  may sell a
subsidiary and conduct a rights offer as part of a plan to
accelerate debt repayment, company executives said.  Indonesia ’s biggest exporter of thermal coal is considering
a sale of PT Fajar Bumi Sakti, Corporate Secretary Dileep Srivastava said at a briefing in Jakarta today, after the
Indonesia stock exchange directed it and PT Berau Coal Energy to
hold public presentations on their finances amid a probe
initiated by London-listed  Bumi Plc. (BUMI)  Bumi Resources may sell
shares, President Director Ari Hudaya said at the briefing.  Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild  and owner of 29
percent of the Jakarta-based miner, said Sept. 24 it began
investigating “potential financial and other irregularities”
and hired lawyers to look into a $637 million writedown of
development funds and exploration assets. Moody’s Investors
Service changed its outlook on Bumi Resources to negative from
stable on Sept. 25, while  Standard & Poor’s  cut its long-term
rating by a step to BB- the next day.  Bumi Resources is still unclear about Bumi Plc's statement 
and has always abided by Indonesian rules, Srivastava
said at the press briefing. PT Berau Coal Energy has not been
informed of nor involved by Bumi Plc in an investigation of
Berau Coal, its president director Rosan P. Roeslani said at a
separate press conference, also in Jakarta.  Share Moves  Bumi  shares  fell 2.7 percent to 710 rupiah apiece at the
close in Jakarta, erasing an earlier advance of as much as 5.5
percent. The stock has plunged 68 percent this year, compared
with the 12 percent gain on the benchmark Jakarta Composite
index. Bumi Plc advanced as much as 13 percent in  London .  The investigation will focus on “extensive” development
funds at Bumi Resources and an asset at  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU) ,
another coal holding, which were marked down to zero in the
accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31, Bumi Plc said. It gave no
figures for the writedown at that time.  The probe is the latest turn in a dispute involving
Rothschild and Indonesia’s Bakrie family since they agreed to a
$3 billion deal in 2010. Relations between Rothschild and Bumi
Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie soured last year after the U.K.-based
financier made public a letter to then-Chief Executive Officer
Ari Hudaya urging a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  