-- California Gasoline Jumps a Second Day to Record on Exxon Flare
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-02T19:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/california-gasoline-jumps-a-second-day-to-record-on-exxon-flare.html
Spot gasoline in  California  advanced
for a second day to a record against futures after  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  said the Torrance oil refinery may flare gases for a week
after losing power yesterday.  The 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance plant may flare sulfur
dioxide from tomorrow through Oct. 9 unrelated to a breakdown, a
filing with the  South Coast Air Quality Management District 
showed. The refinery had an “external power interruption” at
about 7:30 a.m. local time yesterday, Gesuina Paras, an Exxon
spokeswoman in Torrance, said by e-mail. She declined to comment
on operations once service was restored.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  gained
10 cents to 85 cents a gallon above gasoline futures traded on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:45 p.m. East Coast time,
the highest premium since at least November 2007, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The fuel surged 30 cents a gallon yesterday
after the  power failure  in Torrance.  Carbob in San Francisco jumped 17 cents to 89 cents a
gallon over futures, also the highest level since at least 2007.
The fuel rose 20 cents a gallon yesterday.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Kettleman-Los Medanos pipeline, which
carries crude from Kern County to Northern California refineries
operated by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO) , remained shut yesterday after elevated levels of
organic chloride were detected in the oil.  Work Planned  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is scheduled to perform maintenance on
hydrocrackers at the 76,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo and 139,000-
barrel-a-day Los Angeles refineries this month, according to
people familiar with the schedules.  Planned work at the San Francisco refinery, consisting of
Rodeo and another plant in Arroyo Grande, California, has begun,
 Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the headquarters in Houston, said
by e-mail yesterday.  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond plant, the largest
refinery in Northern California, has been running at reduced
capacity since a fire Aug. 6.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles climbed
0.5 cent to 13.75 cents a gallon above heating oil futures on
the Nymex. The fuel in San Francisco was unchanged at a premium
of 15 cents a gallon versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a premium of 50 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures, the highest level since May. Low-sulfur diesel in
Portland was unchanged at 4 cents a gallon over heating oil
futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  