-- California Hispanics Hold Key as Democrats Target Congress Seat
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/california-hispanics-hold-key-as-democrats-target-congress-seat.html
Mark Takano, a 51-year-old gay
Japanese-American, is counting on a new Hispanic-majority
district to make him the first Democratic congressman from
 Southern California ’s Riverside County in two decades.  His opponent, who’s also non-Hispanic, is likewise wooing
the Latino vote and independents. John Tavaglione, 64, is a pro-
choice Republican who plays in a  rock band  and refuses to
promise not to raise taxes.  The district 50 miles east of  Los Angeles , redrawn last
year by an independent commission, is about 56 percent Hispanic,
according to data  compiled  by Meridian Pacific Inc., a political
consulting firm in  Sacramento . The race offers one of the few
opportunities for California Democrats to pick up a seat in the
U.S. House of Representatives.  “This is emerging as an urban area,” Takano said. “It’s
no longer the Republican stronghold it has been seen as.”  Hispanics have played a large role in the area’s
transformation from a citrus-growing region into suburbs ringed
by brown, boulder-strewn hills. While Riverside County’s
population grew 42 percent to 2.2 million in the decade that
ended in 2010, its Hispanic population surged 78 percent to 1
million, according to U.S. Census  data .  Hispanic Clout  Hispanic growth in population and political clout in
California mirrors a national trend. In 2010, Latinos
represented 8 percent of eligible voters and 7 percent of actual
voters, according to the  William C. Velasquez Institute  in  San
Antonio ,  Texas , which tracks Latino voting patterns. Latinos now
make up 11 percent of eligible voters, the Washington-based Pew
Hispanic Center said in a report.  In 2008, Latino voters backed  Barack Obama  over Republican
 John McCain , 69 percent to 29 percent, according to polling data
cited by the Velasquez Institute. With Hispanics alienated by
Republican policies on border issues, Republican  Mitt Romney  is
struggling to match or beat McCain’s share of the 2008 Hispanic
vote.  Arizona ’s “show me your papers” law, which requires local
police to check the immigration status of anyone they suspect is
in the country illegally, helped fuel a 51 percent jump in
Hispanic voter registration since 2008, according to the state
 Democratic Party .  In the 2010 midterm elections, 60 percent of the Hispanic
vote went to Democratic House candidates, with 38 percent voting
Republican, the Pew center said in a report.  Beats Pittsburgh  The 41st Congressional District is centered on the city of
Riverside, whose estimated  population  of 311,651 last year made
it bigger than Pittsburgh.  The lack of a Hispanic candidate in the race may reflect a
shortage of qualified contenders. Just one of the seven
Riverside City Council members and none of the five county
supervisors is Latino.  Gilberto Esquivel, the local chapter president of the
League of United Latin American Citizens, a civil-rights
advocacy group based in  Washington , said he’s not especially
distressed about the absence of a Latino on the ballot.  The league backed the new boundaries because it was more
interested in the partisan makeup, said Esquivel, a 72-year-old
Democrat. Latino votes are key to capturing the district for
Democrats, and demographics suggest a Hispanic could be on the
ballot in the future, he said.  “One thing about the Latino community is that we keep
growing and growing,” Esquivel said.  Hispanic Demographics  Latinos make up 37 percent of eligible voters in the 41st
district, less than their share of the population because many
aren’t old enough to vote or aren’t citizens.  The boundaries should have been extended into Hispanic-
majority areas of neighboring San Bernardino County to boost
Latino voters to 50 percent, said Thomas Saenz, president of the
Los Angeles-based Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund.  “We still feel this is a district where the Hispanic
community will not elect its candidate of choice,” Saenz said
in a telephone interview.  Takano, who was elected to the Riverside Community College
District board in 1990, lost campaigns for Congress in 1992 and
1994. After 18 years, he’s running again because the new
boundaries put the district in play, Takano said.  If elected, Takano would be the first openly gay Asian
American elected to Congress. He said his ethnicity and sexual
orientation aren’t issues in the race.  ‘Different Time’  “I’m a longtime elected official here,” he said. “People
know me and they’ve watched me govern at RCC. I personally feel
it’s a different time. Riverside County and the country have
moved to a different place.”  Takano said his work as a teacher and his support of the
Dream Act, which would provide a path to legal residency for
some people who are in the U.S. illegally, enhance his appeal to
Latinos.  “I have been a teacher for 23 years, serving a largely
Latino student population,” he said. “At the community  college
board , we’re a Hispanic-serving institution.”  Takano’s opponent is a veteran county supervisor who
moonlights as a vocalist and guitarist in a 1960s classic-rock
band, the Legendary Mustangs. While Tavaglione’s campaign
 website  twice mentions working across party lines, it doesn’t
contain the word “Republican.”  Tavaglione said his appeal to Latinos mirrors his pitch to
all voters in the district: He’s a pragmatist who understands
the needs of the area after serving as a member of the county
Board of Supervisors and Riverside City Council, both officially
nonpartisan posts.  Party Split  “In 18 years in a nonpartisan office, I’ve never looked at
people’s party, I’ve never looked at their color or their
race,” Tavaglione said. “You just do your best to represent
everybody. My record speaks for itself.”  Tavaglione said he disagrees with the Republican Party
platform on several counts. He is pro-choice on abortion and
refused to sign  Grover Norquist ’s pledge not to raise taxes, he
said. Tavaglione said his pledge is to his constituents.  A fourth-generation county resident, Tavaglione was
endorsed by Riverside Mayor Ron Loveridge, a Democrat who has
led California’s 12th-largest city since 1994.  “It was only when people started moving here from Orange
County that it became Republican,” said Mary Violasse, 61, at
an outdoor performance by Tavaglione, who wore jeans and flip-
flops as he played on stage with his sextet.  As Tavaglione sang, Takano worked the crowd in a pinstriped
suit.  “Republicans are under attack just demographically here,”
said Violasse, who described herself as a lifelong Democrat.
“Mark Takano enjoys a broad base of support from a lot of
populations, but John Tavaglione is practically a native son.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Riverside,  California  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  