-- Cambridge University Considers Debut Bond as It Gains Top Rating
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-02T11:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/cambridge-university-considers-debut-bond-as-it-gains-top-rating.html
Cambridge University  said it may sell
bonds for the first time in its 800-year history after winning a
top credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  The university has been authorized to borrow as much as 350
million pounds ($566 million) to invest in research facilities
and accommodation, Moody’s said in a report, citing the school’s
“extraordinarily strong market position,” stable revenues and
ability to fund capital spending. Cambridge said today it will
embark on a series of meetings with bond investors later this
month, with a possible fundraising to follow.  “Right now, we’re exploring our options and we have
several open to us,” Andrew Reid, the university’s director of
finance, said in an interview. “There’s no urgency.”  While top U.S. universities including Stanford and Columbia
have access to bonds markets to supplement income from
endowments, only one British college, De Montfort University,
has issued debt this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Leading U.K. schools typically have less cash than
their American peers and rely on revenue from publishing,
examinations, research grants, fees and government grants.  Investment managers would be attracted to a Cambridge bond
sale, said Christopher Bullock, an analyst at Henderson Global
Investors Ltd. in London, which manages about $23 billion.  ‘Tick Boxes’  “If it has the right guarantee and security then it will
tick boxes,” Bullock said. “There’s significant investor
demand for high-rated corporate securities that offer a premium
over sovereign and agency paper.”  The U.K. is rated Aaa with a negative outlook, a signal
Moody’s is inclined to cut. The university has a stable outlook.  Cambridge has its 1.6 billion-pound Cambridge University
Endowment Fund, which it can draw for a long-term rate of about
4.5 percent a year, according to Reid. The fund is run by Nick Cavalla, who until 2006 was the chief investment officer at
hedge-fund manager  Man Group Plc. (EMG)   “The U.S. universities’ funding structure is different,”
Reid said. “We are not, and we don’t want to be, as dependent
on the endowment as they are.”  Cambridge University, which educated Isaac Newton and
Charles Darwin, mandated HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to arrange the investor
meetings starting Oct. 5, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be named.  Leicester, England-based De Montfort University issued 110
million pounds of senior, unsecured 5.375 percent bonds due 2042
in July that were priced with a zero yield premium to
equivalent-maturity gilts, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
school is rated Aa1 by Moody’s, one level below Aaa.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold De Montfort’s
notes instead of benchmark government securities narrowed to a
record 115 basis points, from as much as 275 in July, Bloomberg
generic prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  