-- Capitec CEO Defies Buy Ratings to Sell Stock Before Offer
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-10-03T16:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/capitec-ceo-defies-buy-ratings-to-sell-stock-before-offer.html
(Corrects story published Oct. 2 to show CEO sold direct
holdings in first paragraph and adds value of trust holding in
second paragraph.)  Riaan Stassen, chief executive
officer of South Africa’s  Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , sold
almost all his direct holdings in the company in the 12 months
ahead of a discounted rights offering as bad debts increased.  Stassen divested 422,780 shares for 88.4 million rand
($10.8 million) in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange . A further 170,000
shares were sold through his trust company DSE Ventures Ltd.,
which retains a 1.87 percent stake in Capitec valued at 413
million rand, from July through August for 36.2 million rand. In
August, Stellenbosch, South Africa-based Capitec published a
trading update that missed analyst estimates.  “Riaan is 59 and it’s not healthy to have all your assets
in one basket -- his exposure to Capitec is over 400 million
rand,” Capitec Financial Director Andre du Plessis said by
telephone from Johannesburg on Sept. 28. The sales were “purely
because of diversification and his age,” Du Plessis said.  The bank, which specializes in unsecured loans for low-
income earners, said last week it planned to raise 2.2 billion
rand through an offering at a 22 percent discount to boost
capital and fund growth. It will be the bank’s second rights
issue in two years and comes as bad loans increased 66 percent
to 1.1 billion rand in its fiscal first-half ending August from
a year earlier.  ‘Red Flag’  “Big sales by directors always raise a red flag,” Craig Pheiffer, general manager of investment at Absa Asset Management
Private Clients in Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview
on Sept. 28.  More than 70 percent of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg rate
the stock a buy. Stassen still has a direct holding of 2,539
shares.  Stassen will definitely participate in the rights issue and
followed his rights in total in 2011, according to Du Plessis.
As in previous years Stassen has also exercised all of his share
options and share appreciation rights, he said.  Capitec,  South Africa ’s seventh-largest listed  bank by
assets , announced a first-half  dividend  of 1.69 rand on Sept.
26, an increase of 35 percent from a year earlier as profit rose
43 percent to 700 million rand, the company said.  It “makes no sense” paying dividends with the one hand
and raising cash with the other, Pheiffer said.  Absa Asset
Management Private Clients  doesn’t own the stock on behalf of
clients and won’t consider buying Capitec right now, he said.  More Sales  “Even if we missed the dividend, we’d save 170 million
rand and that’s not enough,” said Du Plessis, who has sold more
than 100,000 Capitec shares this year according to stock
exchange information. “In the South African market it’s
expected that you issue a dividend, especially when you go to
the market often and the profit we make is cash.”  The  bank ’s capital adequacy ratio at 38 percent in the
first half and its 28 percent return on equity outstripped South
Africa’s four biggest banks which recorded an average capital
adequacy ratio of 15 percent and an average return on equity of
16 percent, according to data compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP’s Johannesburg unit.  “With the additional shares we will have a capital
adequacy ratio of about 48 percent and that will decline over
time because of Basel III and our own use of capital,” Du
Plessis said. “We should be OK for about three years before
having to go to the market again. We said to the  bond market  we
wouldn’t drop below 25 percent and that gives investors
additional comfort.”  Capitec’s investors may include the  African National
Congress , South Africa’s ruling party, the Johannesburg-based
Mail & Guardian newspaper said on Sept. 28.  Capitec shares rose 0.9 percent to 218 rand by the close in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  