-- Capriles Tries to Shed Chavez ‘Rich-Boy’ Tag Courting Poor
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-10-02T15:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/capriles-tries-to-duck-rich-boy-taunt-courting-venezuela-votes.html
The battle for Venezuela’s presidency
is focused on undecided voters like Beatriz Damas, a 42-year-old
porter at a Caracas apartment building.  Damas, a mother of four who twice voted for President  Hugo Chavez , says she is angry about worsening crime and the high
cost of living, yet skeptical that opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski will care about the poor if he wins the Oct. 7
election.  “The country is slipping out of the president’s hands,”
Damas said of Chavez during a Sept. 27 interview in central
Caracas. As for Capriles, she said the 40-year-old former
governor of Miranda state “doesn’t know what it is to be poor.
He’s never wanted for anything.”  Capriles, whose family founded the local unit of Nabisco
Inc. and owns the country’s biggest movie theater chain, is
looking to unseat Chavez after 13 years in office by wooing
Venezuelans fed up with power cuts, crumbling infrastructure and
 18 percent inflation . Capriles has visited more than 260
communities over eight months promising not to eradicate social
programs popular with the poor. It’s a hard sell, said David
Smilde, a sociologist at the  University of Georgia  who lived in
Venezuela for 10 years and wrote a book about Chavez’s rule.  “He doesn’t look, act or have the background of an average
Venezuelan like Chavez does,” Smilde, who also works for the
Washington Office on  Latin America , said in a phone interview
from  Athens ,  Georgia . “People may think he’s a well-intentioned
young guy with lots of good ideas, but to really have the trust
that he’ll be there for you is difficult for the average
Venezuelan.”  Austerity Measures  Chavez has sought to exploit Capriles’ upbringing,
regularly referring to the Caracas-born lawyer as a member of
Venezuela’s “bourgeoisie.” He’s also stoked concern Capriles
will implement austerity measures similar to those introduced by
former President Carlos Andres Perez that sparked riots in
Caracas in 1989 over transport costs and gasoline-price
increases that left hundreds dead.  “He’s a little rich boy dressed up as a poor kid from the
barrio,” Chavez said Sept. 10 in comments broadcast on state
television. “For an upper class bourgeois to disguise what he
is just doesn’t sit well with anybody. He’s got a group of
advisers trying to transform him.”  Chavez won presidential elections in 1998, 2000 and 2006
with a margin of at least 16 percentage points. While Capriles
has said the country’s electronic voting system is fair, he’s
criticized Chavez’s use of government institutions and state
funds backed by  oil revenue  in the campaign, comparing his task
to the Biblical fight of David against Goliath.  Crime Wave  Chavez has been undermined by rising violent crime. The
homicide rate tripled last year to 67 per 100,000 inhabitants,
the highest in  South America  according to the Venezuelan
Violence Observatory. The government says the rate is about 50
per 100,000.  Some polls show Capriles gaining ground on the 58-year-old
Chavez, even among the poor that have until now tended to side
with the incumbent because of programs that include subsidized
supermarkets and health clinics.  In a Sept. 7-18 survey of 1,500 people by Caracas-based
Consultores 21, the two candidates were in a statistical tie,
with Capriles supported by 46.5 percent and Chavez by 45.7
percent. The poll, which had a margin of error of 2.58
percentage points, showed that while Capriles leads Chavez in
votes among the upper and middle class, he trails him by about 6
percentage points among the poor.  Narrowing Lead  Chavez had 49.4 percent support among likely voters against
39 percent for Capriles in a Datanalisis poll of 1,600 people
taken between Aug. 25 and Sept. 5. The survey had a margin of
error of 2.4 percentage points. The company’s July poll showed
Chavez with a 15-point lead.  Capriles said 70 percent of Miranda state, where he served
as governor from 2008 until June, is poor and he wouldn’t have
been elected governor if he couldn’t connect with such voters.
He said his grandparents, who escaped from Nazi persecution in
 Poland  during the Second World War, made their money by working
hard after arriving in Venezuela “with just a suitcase full of
clothes.”  “What am I in government for - to defend the rich?” he
said in a Sept. 22 interview in Valencia, Venezuela’s third-
largest city. “The rich don’t need me to defend them. We need
to get the rich to pay their taxes, generate  employment , invest
in the country and not take away the profits.”  Bond Rally  Investors have boosted demand for Venezuelan debt on
speculation that Chavez’s health may force him from office even
if he beats Capriles, said Marcela Meirelles, an emerging-market
strategist with TCW Group Inc. in  Los Angeles . The country’s
 dollar bonds  have returned 30 percent this year through
September, the second-highest in  emerging markets  after the
 Ivory Coast , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 rose 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 10.41
percent at 10:44 a.m. Caracas time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 0.61 cents to 91.29 cents on
the dollar.  During a five-hour caravan to rally support through
Valencia, Capriles drew crowds and screams in poor neighborhoods
while waving from the back of a pick-up truck and tossing
baseball caps bearing the colors of the Venezuelan flag to
supporters. The crowds grew denser as the caravan approached
more affluent areas, with as many as 10 rows of people lining
the road on either side to wave him on.  Dressing Down  Capriles campaigned that day in a pastel blue shirt made by
a woman who received a small loan from Miranda state to set up
her business. He retreated into his campaign bus at the end of
the day to change into a new shirt from the same workshop when
it became soaked with sweat.  Capriles said that while he’ll make moves to unwind some of
Chavez’s economic policies such as currency and price controls
and nationalizations, the measures will be gradual to avoid
affecting ordinary Venezuelans.  “The process of stabilizing the economy and the decisions
we’ll have to take, which will be gradual, won’t have any impact
on the poor,” he said.  Chavez, who says he was born poor and sold homemade candies
to help his parents in the cattle-raising state of Barinas,
boosted public spending by an inflation-adjusted 30 percent this
year as he seeks another six-year term, according to estimates
by Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. The government has handed out
more than 250,000 homes to the poor in the past two years.
Chavez also started giving mothers living in extreme poverty a
monthly payment of as much as 600 bolivars ($139.71), a program
the government said will benefit one million children.  Inflation Rate  The spending boom fueled economic growth of 5.4 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier. While inflation slowed
for nine straight months to 18.1 percent in August, it’s still
the highest annual rate of 102 economies tracked by Bloomberg
after Belarus,  Iran  and  Argentina , where economists say prices
are rising at more than double the government’s estimate of 10
percent.  Like Capriles, Chavez was an outsider when he started in
politics. In 1998, he broke the 51-year hold that the two ruling
parties had on the country. Venezuelans still associate the
1990s, and the parties that ran the government, with corruption,
a view that Chavez exploited to gain power, said Steve Ellner, a
political scientist at the Universidad de Oriente in Puerto La
Cruz.  ‘My Doubt’  Capriles has to convince voters that he can channel the
same frustration for reform that Chavez first tapped into
without being contaminated by the reputation the political
parties backing him had, Ellner said. That’s the dilemma Ivonne
Torrealba, a 36-year-old hairdresser, is weighing.  In 2002, Torrealba left her barrio by the side of the
Panamerican Highway in Coche to clamor for Chavez’s return when
his opponents briefly unseated him in a coup. Her mother even
visited Chavez in prison when he was held after staging his own
failed coup in 1992.  She’s now thinking of voting for Capriles, citing his
pledges to invest in education and tackle crime. Yet loyalty to
what Chavez represents and concern about the alliances Capriles
has made with opposition parties give her pause for thought
before election day.  “That’s my doubt -- that we’ll return to the  Venezuela 
before Chavez.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 