-- Cargill Plans 18% Speed Cut for Ships on Record Fuel Cost
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-10-02T13:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/cargill-plans-18-speed-cut-for-ships-on-record-fuel-cost.html
Cargill Inc., the biggest charterer
of dry-bulk ships, plans to reduce vessel  speeds  to the lowest
possible in an effort to limit spending on fuel as prices reach
all-time highs.  The commodity trader is looking at how to extend existing
speed cuts by a further 18 percent to 9 knots, Jonathan
Stoneley, environment and compliance manager of  Cargill Ocean
Transportation , said yesterday by phone from London. He declined
to say how much the company is already saving from slow
steaming, as the practice of operating a merchant vessel at less
than its design speed is known within the industry.  “We’re looking at every ship to see if the investment
makes sense,” Stoneley said, adding that Cargill operates about
400 vessels and spends $2 billion a year on marine fuel. Ships
must be new or have engine modifications to manage the lowest
possible speeds, he said.  Fuel’s average  price  in  Singapore  this year would be an
annual record for data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
August 2002. The share of operating costs devoted to powering
ships surged to 70 percent from 30 percent because of higher
fuel prices, according to Copenhagen-based vessel owner D/S
Norden A/S. Increased fuel prices added to pressure on the
industry as an expanding fleet and weaker demand for seaborne
commodity imports reduced returns to a 14-year low.  “In the current market, the only way you can make money is
excellence in execution,” Stoneley said. “There’s going to be
a lot more pain before it gets better.”  200 Million Tons  Talks are under way with owners of vessels hired by
Minneapolis-based Cargill to see what’s required to slow them
further, according to Stoneley. The company transports 200
million metric tons of minerals, grains, and energy commodities
by sea a year, he said.  Vessel fuel, known as bunkers, averaged $679 a ton in
Singapore since the end of December, figures compiled by
Bloomberg showed. A Panamax dry-bulk ship proceeding at 14 knots
burns fuel worth $18,450 daily at current prices, according to
the  Baltic Exchange  in London.  The dry-bulk fleet averaged 12.3 knots in August, data from
Oslo-based RS Platou Economic Research showed. Slowing an
unloaded tanker to 8.5 knots from 14 to 16 knots cut bunker
costs by 50 percent while adding 11 days to an average round
voyage,  according  to the website of Copenhagen-based A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S’s tanker unit. The plan was approved by the
two leading makers of tanker engines, it showed.  A further reduction of vessel speeds to 9 knots would be
known as super-slow steaming. Container lines and owners of
tankers started using the practice from 2009 to help manage
overcapacity. Speed cuts also lengthen the time needed for a
ship to complete a voyage, curbing excess capacity.  Daily average returns for all dry-bulk ships are $6,617 so
far this year, the lowest level since 1998 and a 40 percent drop
from last year, according to a weighted average gauge from
Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. The year-to-date
average for Capesizes, the biggest iron-ore carriers, is the
lowest for data going back as far as 1990, it says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  