-- Cargill, Huntsman to Stop Using Fuel-Inefficent Vessels
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-10-02T07:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/cargill-huntsman-to-stop-using-fuel-inefficent-vessels.html
Cargill Inc., which says it hires
more commodity carriers than any company worldwide, and two
other industrial shippers, will stop using the most fuel-
inefficient vessels to reduce their  carbon emissions .  Cargill, which transports 200 million metric tons of
minerals, grains and energy commodities each year, won’t use
ships ranked in the lowest two of seven categories as rated by
the Carbon War Room, the Richard Branson-led nonprofit said by
e-mail today. Unipec U.K. Co., a unit of  China ’s biggest oil
trader, and  Huntsman (HUN)  Corp., a chemical shipper and manufacturer,
also won’t charter ships with the two lowest classifications,
according to the statement.  Cargill spends $2 billion a year on fuel for its vessels
and operates a fleet of about 400 ships at any one time,
according to Jonathan Stoneley, environment and compliance
manager of Cargill Ocean Transportation. Fuel prices at
 Singapore  averaged $679.32 a ton so far in 2012, which would set
an annual record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It makes commercial sense as in the current market the
first thing we look at when we charter a ship is its performance
and fuel consumption,” Stoneley said by phone yesterday. “If
we don’t act ourselves we’re going to have regulation put on top
of us and it’s better if we can drive regulation the way we want
it.”  The Carbon War Room and Rightship, a ship-vetting provider
in which Cargill holds a 33 percent stake, categorized 60,000
vessels from A to G according to their  energy efficiency . Until
now, fewer than 1 percent of the ships Cargill booked were rated
G and about four or five vessels had an F classification,
Stoneley said.  350 Million Tons  Cargill, Unipec and Huntsman haul a combined 350 million
tons of goods by sea each year and are the first shippers to
commit to cutting their fleets’ carbon emissions, Peter Boyd,
chief operating officer of the nonprofit said by e-mail.  All Cargill traders must now seek his permission if they
want to hire the two least-efficient ship types, Stoneley said.
Some lower-ranked ships with large engines achieved lower
emissions than more efficient ones with smaller engines when
sailed at slower-than-average speeds, which may “very rarely”
permit their use, he said.  International shipping accounted for 2.7 percent of global
carbon dioxide emissions, according to a United Nations study.
The industry needs to voluntarily cut its greenhouse gas gases,
Stoneley said.  Rightship is used by 150 marine companies worldwide,
including charterers, banks, ports and insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  