-- Carlyle’s M&A Hunt Targets Middle Class: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-10-02T16:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/carlyle-s-m-a-hunt-targets-middle-class-corporate-brazil.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the U.S. private-
equity firm that acquired three Brazilian retailers in the past
year, is hunting for more after investing $1.7 billion in the
country since 2009.  “Our focus will keep being companies related to
consumption, rising income and the growing middle class,”
Fernando Borges, head of the Washington-based firm’s South
American buyout team, said in an interview in Sao Paulo. He said
he sees a “great need for capital and space for
consolidation.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and local private-equity firms BTG
Pactual Participations Ltd. and GP Investments Ltda. are also
searching for consumer-goods targets after Brazil President
 Dilma Rousseff  expanded access to credit to fuel growth in the
world’s second-largest emerging market. Of 80 deals announced in
the past year involving private-equity firms, 34 were consumer-
related, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail sales will grow at a faster pace than the economy,
said Borges, who was hired in 2008 to build Carlyle’s Brazil
office. Retail sales through July beat economists’ forecasts and
surged 8.8 percent even as this year’s economic growth is
expected to slow to 1.57 percent, the median estimate in a
central bank survey released this week, from 2.7 percent last
year.  Carlyle announced last month it would acquire 60 percent of
Estok Comercio & Representacoes Ltda., owner of the Tok&Stok
brand, Brazil’s largest furniture retailer. In March, it bought
an 85 percent stake in Ri Happy Brinquedos Ltda., Brazil’s
largest toy retailer, which took over its smaller rival, PBKids
Brinquedos Ltda., in June.  Durable Goods  Retail stocks have outperformed the benchmark Bovespa index
this year after Rousseff cut taxes on durable goods from cars to
furniture and pressured banks to cut  interest rates  on credit
cards. The central bank has reduced borrowing costs by 500 basis
points since August 2011 to a record low of 7.5 percent. The
consumer-discretionary sector posted the best performance in the
 MSCI Brazil Index (MXBR)  in the third quarter, gaining 20 percent,
compared with a 9 percent increase for Brazil’s Bovespa index.  While Carlyle didn’t disclose terms of the deals, Borges
said the firm has spent $1.7 billion in the past three years in
Brazil. His team made its first investment with the takeover of
CVC Brasil Operadora & Agencia de Viagens SA, the largest tour
operator in  Latin America , in January 2010. A deal for a
controlling stake in health-insurance brokerage Grupo Qualicorp,
valued at $1.2 billion, followed in September of that year.  JPMorgan’s Gavea  JPMorgan’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda., the New York-based
company’s private-equity arm in Brazil, sees the same
opportunities, announcing last month it would purchase 30
percent of Chilli Beans, the biggest sunglass chain in  Brazil ,
for an undisclosed amount, according to an e-mailed statement.  On Sept. 20, BTG Pactual Participations, the private-equity
arm of Sao Paulo-based Grupo BTG Pactual, announced the purchase
of an additional stake of about 30 percent of Leader
Participacoes SA, a furniture and clothing retailer. BTG
previously bought about 40 percent of the Rio de Janeiro-based
company in May.  BTG completed the Leader acquisition only after outbidding
GP Investments, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the matter, in a sign that competition for takeovers in the
industry is heating up. BTG paid 990 million reais ($489
million) for 70 percent of Leader, valuing the company at about
10 times its 2011 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, said a person familiar with the deal. BTG and
GP declined to comment.  Tok&Stok Sales  Carlyle acquired its 60 percent stake in Tok&Stok for about
700 million reais, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the matter who asked not to be named because the figure
hasn’t been disclosed. Tok&Stok’s total sales were about 1
billion reais last year, according to a company statement.  On average, publicly traded retail companies in Brazil are
valued about 14 times Ebitda in the past 12 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a ratio of 10.7
for companies included in the benchmark Bovespa index.  Rothschild, the family-owned bank, is trying to sell a
minority stake in SBF Group, owner of the Centauro sports-
equipment chain, which has an agreement to open stores in Brazil
with Nike Inc., according to four people with direct knowledge
of the matter. GP Investments is one of the investors looking at
the company, two of the people said.  Rothschild declined to comment. SBF Group said they are
studying the possibility of having a minority private-equity
partner.  Household Concern  Much of the increase in  consumer spending  has been financed
with credit, with consumer loans rising 13 percent to 678.8
million reais in August, the central bank said on Sept. 26.
 Default rates  have also climbed, holding at a three-year high of
7.9 percent in August.  “We still see opportunities, but we’re concerned about the
increase in household leverage and in the delinquency rates,”
Patrice Etlin, a managing partner for Latin America at Advent
International Corp., said in an interview. “Both could reduce
or slow the growth in family consumption in Brazil.”  Advent, the Boston-based buyout company, bought Viena,
Brazil’s largest casual-dining chain, in 2007 for more than $300
million, and made it part of its  International Meal Co Holdings
SA. (IMCH3)  Advent also acquired a stake in Quero-Quero, a furniture and
home-appliances retailer, in September 2008 to capitalize on
sales to home builders.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s Kinea private-equity firm is
also seeking to acquire stakes in consumer-related companies,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. They have 1.3
billion reais to invest and are targeting seven or eight deals,
director Cristiano Lauretti said in the e-mail.  ‘Positive Push’  B2W Companhia Global do Varejo lead gains among retailers
included in the benchmark Bovespa index today, rising 1.9
percent to 11.94 reais at 12:55 p.m. in Sao Paulo. Lojas Renner
SA rose 1.3 percent to 70.66 reais, while Lojas Americanas SA
advanced  0.7 percent to 16.32 reais. The Bovespa was down 0.6
percent to 59,224.69.  Solange Srour, chief economist at BNY Mellon Arx
Investimentos in  Rio de Janeiro , said retail companies will
maintain a “good growth pace” as access to credit improves.  “The worst is over and the outlook is for delinquency
rates to fall,” Srour said. “The outlook is for incomes to
grow less than last year, but it continues to be a positive push
for retail sales.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  