-- Chesapeake Testing ‘Green’ Fracking Fluids in Shale Wells
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-10-02T20:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/chesapeake-testing-green-fracking-fluids-in-u-s-shale-wells.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. natural gas producer, is testing hydraulic-
fracturing fluids composed solely of environmentally-benign
components in wells.  Chesapeake plans to develop a 100 percent green mixture of
fluids used to fracture gas and oil formations underground, Jody
C. Jones, the company’s manager of environmental and regulatory
affairs, said today during a gathering of energy-industry
executives in Columbus,  Ohio .  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, involves using high-
pressure jets of water, sand and chemicals to smash fissures
into rocks so gas and oil may flow. Current fluid formulations
often include hazardous components such as hydrochloric acid or
diesel fuel and environmentalists say the practice poses a
threat to water supplies. Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, is
testing various green recipes in several shale formations that
Jones declined to identify.  “It’s not quite there yet,” Jones said at the Utica Shale
Development & Growth Forum sponsored by IQPC Ltd. “The main
concern with testing something like this is you just spent $4 to
$6 million to drill a well and taking an untested frack system
and shooting it down a well could ruin a reservoir and you’d be
throwing away all that money.”  Chesapeake is experimenting with green fracking fluids to
minimize threats from surface spills near lakes, creeks and
rivers that abut drilling sites, Jones said. Such formulations
also would reduce workers’ exposure to potentially harmful
substances, he said.  Bacteria Slime  Some of the world’s largest fracking-service providers have
been working on ways to offer more environmentally friendly
fluids.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest fracking company,
now offers “CleanStim,” which uses food-safe ingredients to
stifle the growth of subterranean bacteria that can form a thick
slime and impede oil and gas flow.  Halliburton has also developed a process using ultraviolet
light to kill bacteria in the fracking fluid, pairing the
technology with a recycling process called “CleanWave” that
uses an electrical charge to separate contaminants and clean the
water.  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s third-largest provider of
fracking services, offers a fluid called “VaporFrac” that
replaces almost all of the water used in fracking with nitrogen-
based foam.  Chesapeake rose 1.3 percent to $19.54 at the close in New
York.  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  is the biggest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  