-- Chile Peso’s International Investor Shorts Fall to Six-Week Low
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-02T18:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/chile-peso-s-international-investor-shorts-fall-to-six-week-low.html
International investors had their
smallest bet against the Chilean peso in six weeks as the
central bank said the currency wasn’t yet strong enough for it
to intervene.  Global investors had an $8.2 billion  short peso  position
Sept. 28, the lowest level since Aug. 14, data published today
by the central bank showed. They cut their short position from
$10.1 billion on Sept. 13. A short is a wager a currency may
decline.  Foreign investors reduced their bets against the currency
as central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said last week that
while policy makers were prepared to enter the market against
the currency, the peso wasn’t yet strong enough to justify such
a measure. Intervention in the currency would be exceptional,
policy maker Sebastian Claro said at a conference today.  “There has been about $2 billion coming in,” said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in
Santiago. “They are betting again after the excellent data of
last week, betting on the economy and that the central bank
won’t intervene until December.”  Chile’s  manufacturing index  rose more than analysts
forecast in August and unemployment unexpectedly fell, the
National Statistics Institute reported Sept. 28. The economy
grew 6 percent in August from a year earlier after a 5.3 percent
advance in the prior month, according to the  median forecast  of
12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a report Oct. 5.  The currency is approaching a level at which the central
bank would consider intervening to stem its advance, Vergara
told a conference in Santiago on Sept. 28.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 473.15 per dollar
today. It has rallied 9.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  