-- China’s Corn Harvest Curbed by August Typhoon, Limiting Supplies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/china-s-corn-harvest-curbed-by-august-typhoon-limiting-supplies.html
China, the world’s second-largest
corn producer, may have a smaller increase in its harvest than
earlier estimated after a typhoon in August damaged fields in
the northeast, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Output is set to increase 2.2 percent this year from 2011,
according to the median of estimates from four researchers and
one industry group. That compares with a gain of 3.7 percent
predicted by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The  harvest 
will be 171 million metric tons from 167 million tons in 2011,
says Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. Independent researchers in
China have historically worked with smaller numbers than
official statistics. The USDA estimate is 200 million tons.  World corn supplies are declining after the worst U.S.
drought in half a century and dry weather in  Europe  destroyed
crops. Futures in  Chicago  have climbed 27 percent in the past
year as prices rose 1.9 percent on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange . The smaller harvest gain may spur imports of about 4
million tons in 2012-2013, compared with 2 million tons
predicted by the USDA, according to the survey.  “Corn supply and demand in China will continue to
tighten” even with the increase in output, said  Li Qiang ,
chairman of Shanghai JC. Rising domestic demand and a gain in
South American supplies may narrow the price gap between local
and global markets next year, making imports more likely, he
said in an interview Sept. 28.  Corn imported from the U.S. would cost 2,682  yuan  ($424) a
ton compared with 2,555 yuan for domestic  supplies  as of Sept.
28, Shanghai JC data show. A smaller harvest may prompt the
government to sell stockpiles of corn and feed wheat, boosting
the need for imports to replenish inventories. China’s market is
closed this week for a national holiday.  Typhoon Damage  There are “large disparities” in crop conditions in the
different regions, Zhang Zhixian, analyst at Cngrain.com, a
researcher based in Zhengzhou, said by phone Sept. 28. Output in
the northeast, the top supplier to the southern consuming
regions, may hardly increase because Typhoon Bolaven felled
crops at the end of August, he said. Fields in the north China
plain, including Hebei and Henan, were in better shape, he said.  “All my crops were blown down by Bolaven,” Wei Guozhi, a
45-year-old farmer of Yushu city in northeastern  Jilin province ,
said Sept. 27 as he picked ears from reaped plants that had lain
flat since the August storm. Some were killed while growth of
surviving plants was slowed, he said.  The year had “timely wind and rain” until the storm,
which will likely cut output from his 400 mu (27 hectares) to 70
percent of the average in past years, Wei said.  Livestock Demand  The typhoon lodged or felled crops in the northeastern
provinces of Jilin, Liaoning and Heilongjiang, and in northern
Shandong, destroying 217,600 hectares, the China National Grain
and Oils Information Center said Sept. 12. Grain from lodged
plants will be lower quality with more pest damage, it said.  A gain in production will be exceeded by increase in
demand, so the country will still need more imports, said the
five respondents including Shanghai JC and Cngrain.com.  Consumption of corn by livestock alone is set to expand 6.1
percent to 139 million tons, the USDA says. That compares with
about 5 percent growth predicted by the respondents.  “Consumption is increasing: there’s no doubt about it,”
Bryan Lohmar, the  China  country director for the U.S. Grains
Council, said Sept. 28. The amount of imports will depend on
prices, so “if international prices go down, there will be
demand for corn” from China to build inventories, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  