-- Toyota’s Gain Paces U.S. to Best Sales Rate Since 2008
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-03T01:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/chrysler-sales-gain-12-as-ceo-sees-best-month-in-4-years.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  led major
automakers with the biggest gain in September deliveries in the
U.S., where sales ran at the fastest rate in four years as
buyers took advantage of cheap financing for cars and trucks.  Toyota sales surged 42 percent in September, topping the 36
percent gain that was the average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, even as it cut incentive spending by the
most. Chrysler Group LLC and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  also beat estimates,
as the recovery of the U.S. auto industry continued to bolster
the nation’s economy.  Automakers sold cars and light trucks at an  annualized rate 
of 14.94 million, adjusted for seasonal adjustments, the best
pace since March 2008, before the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. fueled a global credit crunch. Banks are now
charging auto buyers record-low interest rates and carmakers
have offered zero-percent financing to attract customers who may
not have been able to afford new cars otherwise.  “This notion of the buyer being resilient is certainly
there,” said Jeff Schuster, senior vice president for
researcher LMC Automotive. “You’ve got favorable conditions
with credit available, interest rates that are extremely low.
The conditions for the pocketbook are pretty favorable.”  Industrywide light-vehicle deliveries climbed 13 percent to
1.19 million in September, according to Autodata Corp. The U.S.
sales rate exceeded the 14.5 million pace that was the average
estimate of 16 analysts in Bloomberg’s survey.  Honda Sales  Honda, rebounding along with Toyota from last year’s supply
shortages caused by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , boosted
sales in September by 31 percent, topping the 26 percent average
estimate of eight analysts.  Toyota’s shares rose 1.7 percent at 9:29 a.m. in Tokyo
trading, Honda gained 0.6 percent and Nissan advanced 0.9
percent. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed less
than 0.1 percent.  Chrysler sales last month rose 12 percent to 142,041
vehicles, the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The automaker beat the 6.3 percent
gain that was the average estimate of 11 analysts and extended
to 30 months its streak of consecutive sales gains from a year
earlier. Deliveries of the Dodge Dart sedan, introduced in June,
climbed 72 percent from August to 5,235.  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Chrysler and
its majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , said last month that U.S.  consumer
confidence  was robust regardless of election-year “bantering.”
Marchionne’s views contrast with those of Jim Lentz, Toyota’s
U.S. sales chief, who said in August that auto demand would slow
until consumers had a “sense of stability in the future” after
the November presidential election.  ‘Political Kerfuffle’  “In the midst of all this political kerfuffle, the
underlying economics of the U.S. are quite strong,” Marchionne
told reporters Sept. 14 in  Detroit . “The U.S. is well poised to
take a big piece of the action in terms of economic recovery on
a global scale.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  deliveries rose 1.5 percent, less than
analysts’ average estimate for a 2.8 percent increase.  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s light-vehicle sales slipped 0.2 percent, missing the
2.3 percent gain that was the average estimate of 11 analysts.
Nissan Motor Co.’s deliveries dropped 1.1 percent, better than
the average estimate of a 2.1 percent decline.  The recovery in the U.S. is countering sales declines in
 Europe ’s auto market, which is headed for a 17-year low.
Industry deliveries in  Italy  plunged 26 percent in September,
Turin-based Fiat said yesterday in a statement. GM shares rose
yesterday after hedge-fund manager David Einhorn said the stock
was inexpensive and that the automaker’s European operations may
break even in 2015.  Industry Comeback  “When you compare it to Europe, obviously it looks more
positive,” Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry researcher
Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan , said of U.S.
auto sales in a phone interview. “The auto industry has
completed its comeback.”  Banks, bolstered by loose monetary policy, are charging U.S.
consumers the lowest interest rates on new-car loans since the
Federal Reserve began surveying them in 1971. Chrysler, GM, Ford,
Toyota and Nissan also offered zero-percent financing on some
models, according to researcher Edmunds.com.  Toyota’s Incentives  Toyota offered buyers zero-percent financing in September
on seven models including the Corolla compact car and RAV4
sport-utility vehicle. Corolla deliveries climbed 43 percent to
23,026 and RAV4 sales surged 80 percent to 13,796, the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker said in a statement.  Toyota reduced spending on discounts and promotions in the
U.S. in September by 15 percent to $1,908 per vehicle, Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Automakers reduced incentive spending in the market
last month by 9.6 percent to an average of $2,405 per vehicle,
Autodata said.  GM offered no-interest loans on the 2012 Chevrolet Cruze,
Cadillac SRX, Buick Enclave and several other models, according
to Edmunds. The Detroit-based automaker boosted Cruze sales by
42 percent to 25,787. Deliveries of the Cruze and new Sonic and
Spark small cars helped drive a 29 percent increase in the
automaker’s passenger-car sales.  Ford offered no-interest loans on 2012 F-150 pickups as
well as Mustang and Focus car models. Deliveries of Ford’s Focus
compact car surged 91 percent to 19,736, and sales of F-Series
pickups, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s top-selling
line of vehicles, rose 1.2 percent to 55,077.  Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, offered free financing on
models including the Altima sedan and Pathfinder SUV. Altima
deliveries increased 0.4 percent to 24,448 and Pathfinder sales
rose 39 percent to 3,205.  Hyundai, Kia  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , both based in  Seoul ,
combined to sell 23 percent more vehicles in September, better
than the 9.1 percent gain that was the average of six analysts’
estimates. Hyundai’s deliveries gained 27 percent to 18,305 for
the Elantra model line, according to a statement. Its affiliate
Kia, which operates separately, more than doubled sales of the
Optima sedan, the carmaker said in a statement.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which is targeting more than 500,000 vehicle
sales in the U.S. this year, increased combined deliveries of
its Volkswagen and Audi brands by 32 percent, topping four
analysts’ average estimate of 30 percent. Deliveries of the
Passat sedan almost tripled to 9,500.  The industry selling pace was 14.5 million in August, the
best since August 2009, when the U.S. government offered
incentives for buyers to exchange older vehicles for new models,
according to Autodata.  Ford Sales  Ford said it missed analysts’ estimates because it was
short of inventory of the Fusion and the Escape SUV, which are
each being replaced by redesigned models. Escape sales rose 14
percent to 23,148 vehicles last month, while Fusion fell 37
percent to 12,300 models.  “We are changing over to Escape and Fusion and we continue
to ramp those vehicles up and get more inventory on dealer
lots,”  Erich Merkle , Ford’s sales analyst, said yesterday on a
conference call. The Fusion represents 13 percent of Ford’s
vehicle sales, so any decline creates “quite a difference” in
the company’s sales total, he said.  Ford fell 1.4 percent to $9.79 at the close in New York.
The shares have slid 9 percent this year.  GM shares rose 2.6 percent to $23.68, extending the
automaker’s gain to 17 percent this year through yesterday’s
close. Einhorn, speaking yesterday at the Value Investing
Congress in New York, said GM traded at a cheap valuation.  “We expect GM’s international operations to improve,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  