-- CIFG Sues Greenpoint Over $277 Million in Mortgage Loans
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-02T18:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/cifg-sues-greenpoint-over-277-million-in-mortgage-loans.html
CIFG Assurance North America Inc.
sued GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc., claiming the shuttered
company provided false information and made material omissions
about loans it originated.  CIFG accuses GreenPoint of fraud and breach of contract
over a February 2007 transaction that resulted in the sale of
$277 million in mortgage pass-through certificates, one class of
which was insured by CIFG, according to a filing yesterday in
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  GreenPoint originated about $58 million in residential
mortgage loans in connection with the securitization that were
sold to a trust under an agreement with a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. unit, according to a court filing.  “GreenPoint provided false information, and made material
omissions, about, among other things, the quality and
characteristics of the loans that it originated and sold to be
securitized,” CIFG said in the court filing. CIFG seeks
unspecified damages and a declaration that GreenPoint is
obligated to repurchase defective loans sold to the trust.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  shut Novato, California-based
GreenPoint in August 2007, less than a year after acquiring its
parent company, Long Island’s North Fork Bancorp.  Julie Rakes , a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, didn’t immediately reply to telephone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Motion Denied  CIFG originally sued GreenPoint in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan in 2009, accusing the company of violating
its mortgage-underwriting guidelines. Justice Bernard Fried
threw out that lawsuit in 2010. In February, Fried denied a
motion by CIFG and fellow bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc. to
bring new claims against GreenPoint in a lawsuit over the
quality of $1.8 billion of home loans they guaranteed.  CIFG in April asked a judge to let it add GreenPoint to a
lawsuit it filed against Goldman Sachs in August 2011, accusing
the New York-based investment bank of making misrepresentations
in connection with $275 million in mortgage-backed securities.  Goldman Sachs last year asked the court to throw out the
lawsuit, saying CIFG was informed of the risks associated with
the investments, failed to conduct its own due diligence and
hadn’t sought “clear contractual remedies” that would allow it
to seek the repurchase of specific loans.  Counts Dismissed  Justice O. Peter Sherwood in May granted Goldman Sachs’s
motion to dismiss three counts in the suit, including one for
fraudulent inducement. He refused to dismiss three other claims
for breach of contract.  CIFG and Goldman Sachs have both appealed the decision.
Sherwood in July ordered the two sides to engage in mediation,
which is scheduled for Oct. 26, according to a Sept. 13 court
filing.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v GreenPoint
Mortgage Funding Inc., 653449/2012,  New York  State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  