-- Colombia’s Santos to Have Surgery to Remove Prostate Tumor
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-10-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/colombia-s-santos-to-have-surgery-to-remove-prostate-tumor.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  announced yesterday that he had been diagnosed with
prostate cancer and will undergo surgery tomorrow.  Santos, in a  speech  posted on the presidency’s website,
said the procedure to remove the small, non-aggressive tumor
will be conducted while he is under local anesthetic so that he
won’t lose consciousness. Vice President Angelino Garzon spent
time in intensive care in June following a stroke.  “This surgery is annoying, but easy and routine.
Fortunately the tumor was discovered very early,” Santos  said .  The 61-year-old president said he will continue to work
while he remains hospitalized for “some days.” He said that he
has a 97 percent chance of a complete cure and that his life
isn’t in danger.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  was treated for lymphoma
in 2010 and declared herself completely recovered last year. Her
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , was diagnosed with
throat cancer last October and declared himself fully recovered
in March.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  has had three operations
related to an unknown cancer in the past 15 months.  Region, Approval Rating  Chavez in December hinted that the U.S. may be behind a
“very strange” bout of cancer affecting several leaders in
 South America .  The Venezuelan leader, speaking a day after Argentine
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  announced she had
thyroid cancer, said the Central Intelligence Agency was behind
chemical experiments in Guatemala in the 1940s and that it’s
possible that in years to come a plot will be uncovered that
shows the U.S. spread cancer as a political weapon against its
critics.  Fernandez later said her thyroid problems weren’t 
connected to cancer.  Santos’ approval ratings surged in recent weeks after his
government agreed to begin negotiations with Marxist rebels
aimed at ending the country’s five-decade armed conflict.  The proportion of Colombians with a favorable image of
Santos rose to 63 percent, up 18 percentage points from August,
according to those surveyed in a poll by Datexco Co. published
last week.  The Colombian government will begin talks with the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia , or FARC, in Oslo this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  