-- Coming U.S. Winter May Be No Help for Natural Gas, MDA Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-02T13:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/coming-u-s-winter-may-be-no-help-for-natural-gas-mda-says.html
The U.S. winter may be the second in
a row to produce low energy demand for heating even while
falling short of the record high temperatures of the 2011-2012
season, MDA EarthSat Weather predicted.  The winter, measured by meteorologists as running from
December through February, will probably have temperatures above
the 10- and 30-year normal ranges, according to  MDA  in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The result may be less  natural gas ,
heating oil and electricity needed to warm homes and businesses,
MDA said.  “Even with the warmer risks considered it would be
difficult to repeat last winter’s record warmth,” said the
forecasting company.  Traders are watching the coming season because last year’s
above-normal U.S. temperatures, combined with increased
production, kept natural gas stockpiles high and prices low.
Natural gas futures fell to a 10-year low in the U.S. this year
and by April made the fuel the worst performer on Standard &
Poor’s GSCI commodity index.  The winter of 2011-2012 was the fourth-warmest on record in
the contiguous 48 states, with an average temperature of 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius), said the  National Climatic
Data Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina .  Monthly Outlook  December will probably be the warmest of the three winter
months, with most of the U.S. experiencing above-normal
temperatures, MDA said. February should be the coolest, with
seasonal temperatures across most of the country and below-
normal readings from North Carolina to  Florida .  MDA expects a national gas-weighted heating degree days
value of 2,555 for the U.S. this winter season. The 10-year
normal is 2,585 and the 30-year mark is 2,588.  Heating days are calculated by subtracting the daily
average temperature from 65. The higher the value, the colder
the weather and the more probable it is that people turned on
the heat to keep warm.  The gas-weighted value puts a greater emphasis on the part
of the U.S. that uses natural gas for heating.  The forecast may be up-ended by fluctuations in the Arctic
and North Atlantic oscillations, MDA said. The oscillations,
which are changes in air pressure over the  North Pole  and
Atlantic Ocean, can pour cold air across the U.S. and then
bottle it up for weeks.  Forecasting changes in those patterns more than a few weeks
in advance is difficult.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  