-- Cosmo Oil to Seek Relaxation of Some Loan Terms as Assets Fall
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-10-02T02:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/cosmo-oil-to-seek-relaxation-of-some-loan-terms-as-assets-fall.html
Cosmo Oil Co. (5007) , a Japanese refiner
partly owned by the government of  Abu Dhabi , may breach asset
reserve covenants on some bank loans and will soon start talks
with lenders to resolve the issue.  “We are in talks with financial institutions on the
possible breach of some covenants,” Cosmo Oil spokesman
Katsuhisa Maeda, said by phone. He declined to give details.  The company is at risk of violating covenants on about 40
percent of 130 billion yen ($1.7 billion) in loans, said two
people with direct knowledge of the talks, declining to be
identified because the information is private.  Cosmo will ask Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and other lenders
to relax the covenants after it releases first-half earnings in
November, one of the people said. Cosmo forecast on Sept. 25 a
first-half net loss of 81 billion yen, reversing an earlier
estimate of a 7 billion yen profit, partly because of an
accident that shut its Chiba refinery.  An investigation into an asphalt leak at the refinery has
delayed the resumption of operations for two crude distillation
units. The company plans to present a plan to restart the
facilities when it releases its earnings on Nov. 1, Cosmo Oil
President Keizo Morikawa told reporters on Sept. 27.  “Lenders would likely agree to relax the terms if they
think there is a prospect of a solution in a short period of
time,” Kazuma Ogino, a credit analyst at Nomura Securities Co.,
said by phone.  Japan ’s third-biggest oil refiner by revenue is required to
have more than 296 billion yen of net assets at the end of each
second quarter and fiscal year under the covenants, it said in a
filing submitted to regulators on Aug. 2.  Cosmo’s net assets declined by 72.5 billion yen to 265
billion yen in the first quarter ended June 30, the company’s
balance sheet shows.  The accident at Cosmo’s Chiba refinery, which accounts for
nearly 35 percent of its capacity, has forced the company to buy
oil products from other refiners, eroding profit.  Once the company restarts the refinery, it may raise its
earnings outlook and review deferred tax assets, Ogino said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  