-- Disclosure Website Tracks Records That Might Never Arrive
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/disclosure-website-tracks-records-that-might-never-arrive.html
Federal agencies including the
Environmental Protection Agency created a website that may make
it easier for individuals to access information kept by the U.S.
government, a process that’s now often slow and cumbersome.  The site unveiled yesterday,  foiaonline.regulations.gov ,
lets users establish an account to follow progress of requests
made to multiple agencies using the Freedom of Information Act,
a four-decade old law intended to open records to citizens.  “It’s more like tracking your package for delivery and
less about an agency saying, ’Yeah, we’re working on it,’” said
Rick Blum, coordinator for the Sunshine in Government
Initiative, an Arlington, Virginia-based coalition of media
groups including the  Associated Press  and the American Society
of News Editors.  The portal debuted three days after a Bloomberg News survey
showed federal agencies and departments, including the EPA,
weren’t complying with the 20-day deadline the law sets for
agencies to release requested information.  Bloomberg reporters asked for the travel records of the top
officials at 57 major federal agencies for fiscal year 2011.
Just eight of those departments complied within the period set
by the Freedom of Information Act.  While the EPA was the main developer of the site, the
agency was also among the 27 agencies and departments that
hadn’t released the travel documents by Sept. 14, more than
three months after requests were submitted. EPA officials have
yet to disclose the records for Administrator  Lisa Jackson .  Central Repository  Open-records requests now are filed directly with agencies
and departments. FOIAonline lets individuals seeking documents
make a request to a central repository, where users will be able
to search for previously released records.  By registering at the site, users can track their requests
to agencies participating in the portal.  “It should streamline the process, make it easier for
requesters who don’t know where to go with their requests, and
make it easier for both agencies and requesters to track status
of requests,” said Anne Weismann, chief counsel for the
 Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington .  So far, five agencies and departments are listed on the
website: the EPA, Commerce Department; Merit Systems Protection
Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the National
Archives and Records Administration.  Blum and Weismann said the site will have greater value as
more agencies and departments participate.  Scarce Resources  “Give the scarcity of government resources, making the
best use of technology -- which the portal does -- really is the
answer,” Weismann said in an e-mail.  Agencies and departments often cite the high volume of
requests and limited resources for missing the 20-day compliance
deadline.  FOIA officials whose departments participate in FOIAonline
still will have to review documents line-by-line to see what
information should be disclosed, meaning delays probably will
persist, Blum said.  The government can deny requests for information that fall
under nine exemption categories, including when the release
would threaten national security or includes personal
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  