-- Health-Care Costs Keep 1 in 3 Americans From the Doctor
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-10-02T12:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/health-care-costs-keep-1-in-3-americans-from-the-doctor.html
Health-care costs are keeping
patients away from the doctor with about 1 in 3 Americans saying
they put off a medical treatment or regular checkup because of
the expense.  Medical costs were the most important factor in making a
health-care decision for 27 percent of people, outweighing
advice from their physician, according to a  survey  of 800 people
by New York-based Hill & Knowlton Strategies. The results were
released today at the Bloomberg Healthcare Innovations
Conference in New York.  The price of insurance premiums have risen 97 percent since
2002 with families now contributing about $4,300 a year to
employee-sponsored health plans, according to a  report  last
month by the Commonwealth Fund. Still, most Americans said they
aren’t willing to cut back on choice to save money and don’t
want companies to scale back innovation to keep costs down.  “What the public needs and what it ultimately values - and
will pay for -- are not always the same thing,” said Susan Thiele, U.S. health-care practice director at Hill & Knowlton.
“In this environment, it’s critical to understand shifting
public opinion so that new advances are developed and positioned
in a way that’s meaningful to consumers.”  In the survey, 45 percent of people said they worried a lot
about paying medical bills in the event of a catastrophic
illness or accident, and 36 percent said they are very concerned
with paying for health-insurance coverage. When asked what the
biggest problem facing health care in the U.S. was, 53 percent
said cost.  Most respondents weren’t concerned about having access to
the latest and most cutting-edge treatments.  Instead, they said
they would rather see companies come up with innovative ways to
lower costs rather than finding new medicines or cures.  Of those surveyed, 85 percent had public or private health
insurance and 11 percent were temporarily unemployed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  