-- Health-Care Gain Defies $11 Billion Medicare Threat: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/health-care-gain-defies-11-billion-medicare-threat-muni-credit.html
Municipal bonds sold by hospitals and
health-care providers are rallying the most since 2009, defying
a potential $11 billion drop in Medicare funding from  federal
budget  cuts that loom in three months.  Health-care bonds have gained 9.5 percent this year and
hospital debt 9.1 percent, making them the best-performing
revenue securities, Standard & Poor’s indexes show. The segments
are beating the broader $3.7 trillion muni market by the most in
three years.  The rally is poised to continue as Federal Reserve efforts
to hold down interest rates spur investors to add relatively
risky, higher-yielding assets. Hospital and health-care debt has
an average S&P rating of A-, seventh-highest. At the same time,
some bondholders are betting President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care law will limit hospitals’ unpaid bills.  “Health care still tends to have more yield than its
similarly rated counterparts,” said Paul Brennan, a senior
portfolio manager in  Chicago  at Nuveen Asset Management, which
oversees about $90 billion in munis. “Investors may continue to
look to lower-rated bonds for yield, which is what the Fed is
trying to get the market to do.”  High-Yield Rally  Health-related bonds have benefited from the biggest rally
in four years in high-yield munis. The  difference  in interest
rates between securities with a BBB grade, two steps above junk,
and AAA securities narrowed to 1.1 percentage points in August,
the smallest since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Investors are adding the debt to boost returns with muni yields
rates near the  lowest  in a generation.  The U.S. central bank said last month that it would hold
its target interest rate near zero through mid-2015 as it
attempts to stimulate the economy.  “The Fed is a formidable opponent and it’s rippling
through everything,” said Patrick Morrissey, who helps oversee
about $2.2 billion in fixed income at Great Lakes Advisors in
Chicago. “We’re forced into what could be perceived as riskier
sectors.”  Even with this year’s gains, health and hospital yields are
higher than any other type of revenue debt, except bonds sold by
local agencies for corporate borrowers or industrial projects.  Advantage Lures  The  2.95 percent  interest rate on 10-year health-care bonds
rated AA compares with 2.22 percent on similarly rated general-
obligations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That difference is enticing enough for Morrissey. He said
he’s buying issuers such as Northwestern Memorial Hospital,
which is rated AA+ by S&P, second-best.  Starting in January, the U.S. faces $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts over a decade unless Congress can agree
on a plan to reduce the deficit. The reductions include $11
billion from Medicare, the federal health program for the
elderly and disabled.  Congress is scheduled to return to  Washington  after the
Nov. 6 election to debate the cuts as well as tax increases that
will start in January unless lawmakers act.  The deficit “may lead to reductions in Medicare and
Medicaid, which translate into weak volumes and revenue declines
for hospitals,” Moody Investors Service said in a July study.
Health-insurance programs accounted for  21 percent , or $769
billion, of the federal budget in 2011, according to the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.  Riskiness Reminder  In a reminder of the riskiness of the health segment,
Moody’s downgraded $2.8 billion of nonprofit health-care debt in
the second quarter, compared with $2.1 billion in upgrades. Last
week, Moody’s cut Saint Peter’s University Hospital in New
Jersey to junk and Albert Einstein Healthcare Network in
 Pennsylvania  to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade.  Lyle Fitterer, managing director at Wells Capital
Management, said the spread between high- and low-quality
hospitals has gotten “too tight.”  “There’s so much demand for income right now that people
are overlooking some of the fundamental issues, not just within
health care, but in all sectors,” said Fitterer, whose
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-based company oversees $31 billion in
munis.  Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was
upheld by the Supreme Court in June, leaving in place a mandate
that Americans obtain health insurance or pay a fine, expanding
the protection to millions and curbing hospitals’ unpaid bills.  Uncompensated costs totaled about $57 billion in 2008,
though hospitals get most of that back through government
programs, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a
Menlo Park, California-based nonprofit research group.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  says he’ll
repeal the law if he wins November’s election. With enrollment
in state-run health insurance exchanges set to begin a year from
yesterday, 37 governors have yet to formally commit to the
project.  “The real unknown is what’s going to happen after the
election,” Brennan said. “There’s this lingering uncertainty
out there with health-care bonds.”  Following is a pending sale:  PENNSYLVANIA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY plans
to sell $2.9 billion of tax-exempt, unemployment compensation
revenue bonds as soon as today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
(Updated Oct. 2)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  