-- Elbit Soars as Deals Signal New Markets Growth: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-03T08:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/elbit-soars-as-deals-signal-new-markets-growth-israel-overnight.html
Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  climbed the most
in a year in New York as  Israel ’s biggest non-government defense
technology developer secures customers outside of its
traditional markets in the U.S. and Europe.  American depositary receipts of Haifa, Israel-based Elbit
 surged  5.5 percent yesterday to the highest level since April
30, and traded at the smallest discount to the Standard & Poor’s
500 Aerospace & Defense Index in almost five months. The company
led gains on the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
U.S.-traded Israeli stocks, which rose 1.5 percent to 87.12. The
shares increased 0.4 percent at 9:56 a.m. in Tel Aviv today.
 Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  jumped to a two-month high.  Elbit is rebounding from a six-year low reached on Aug. 28
as it diversifies away from the U.S. and  Europe , where defense
spending is faltering amid lackluster economic growth. The
company, which got 50 percent of revenue from the U.S. and
Europe last year, said yesterday that it will supply technology
to the Royal Australian Navy and announced on Sept. 23 that it
will set up a training center for a Latin American air force.  “Even though these recent contracts are not big, the
company wants to show investors that they are progressing in
entering new markets,” Guil Bashan, an analyst at Israel
Brokerage & Investments Ltd. which rates Elbit buy, said by
phone from Tel Aviv yesterday. “Investors are recognizing that
they will prevail over time in creating value from entering
these markets.”  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index, which trades at 11.6 times
estimated earnings, declined 0.2 percent today, trimming its
advance this year to 12 percent.  Defense Slowdown  Elbit trades at 9.2 times estimated earnings, compared with
an average multiple of 12.7 for the S&P Aerospace & Defense
Index, which includes companies like  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  That’s the least discount since May 15.  “We do see, and it’s clear to everybody, some slowdown in
defense spending in Israel, in Europe and to some extent in the
United States,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ackerman said in
a call with investors on Aug. 14. “We compensated by making
some investment in other areas like Asia-Pacific and South
America, and now we take advantage of that.”  The company received more than 75 percent of its revenue
from the U.S., Europe and Israel in 2011, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Europe’s share has declined from 26
percent in 2009 to 19 percent last year, while sales from the
rest of the world have been increasing each year since 2007, the
data show.  Growing Needs  “These markets all tend to have growing defense needs and
budgets that are on long-term increase,” Ackerman also said
during the Aug. 14 call. “There will be a shift on defense
spending in western markets to a more balanced global spending
future.”  Ackerman, who has been the CEO of Elbit for 16 years, will
resign from his position in April, the company said in an Aug.
13 statement. He will be replaced by Bezhalel Machlis, who is
the executive vice president of Elbit.  The company’s shares in Tel Aviv rose to 141.1 shekels, or
$36.31.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq 
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Given Gains  Given Imaging, an Israeli maker of pill-sized cameras for
diagnosing digestive ailments, rose 3.3 percent in New York to
$15.43. The company’s shares in Tel Aviv gained 1.6 percent to
59.83 shekels, or the equivalent of $15.39.  The stock has surged 16 percent since Sept. 18, when Given
said it submitted trial data for regulatory approval in  Japan .  Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR) , an Israeli telecommunications-equipment
maker, is considering a reverse stock split as it comes up
against an Oct. 23 deadline to bolster its share price or be
ejected from the Nasdaq Composite Index, Chief Financial Officer
Lior Shemesh said yesterday.  “A reverse stock split is on the table but not something I
would prefer to do,” Shemesh said by phone from Tel Aviv. The
best option for Alvarion would be “to recover the business of
the company and show profitability for a few quarters and shares
will be at the level they should be,” he said.  Alvarion has had discussions with Nasdaq to extend the
deadline by another six months, Elana Holzman, vice president of
investor relations, said on the call with Shemesh.  The shares slid 3.2 percent to 42.6 cents in New York. The
shares in Tel Aviv tumbled 16 percent yesterday to 1.72 shekels,
or 44 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  