-- Telefonica Said to Proceed With German IPO Plans to Reduce Debt
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-10-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/telefonica-said-to-proceed-with-german-ipo-plans-to-reduce-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone
company, plans to file with regulators as early as today its
intention to sell shares in the O2 Germany unit, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Telefonica is seeking 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to 1.5
billion euros from an initial public offering of the business,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. At the high end of the range, the
stock sale would be the biggest in Germany since engine maker
 Tognum AG (TGM)  raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  A listing of O2 Germany could happen as early as this
month, and Madrid-based Telefonica will start gauging investor
interest this week, people familiar with the matter have said.
Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta plans to use
high dividends to attract investors, the people said last week.  Faced with declining profit and more intense competition at
its domestic market, Telefonica is selling assets, including
stakes in its German and Latin American businesses, to help pare
more than 58 billion euros of debt. In July, Telefonica decided
to scrap a 1.50 euro-a-share dividend for 2012, and will resume
paying half of the amount starting in the fourth quarter of
2013.  With phone companies from the Netherlands to France cutting
dividends to preserve cash, Telefonica is betting a minimum of
500 million euros in O2 Germany dividends next year will offset
the unit’s small size in Germany, where mobile accounts
outnumber people, people familiar with the matter said last
week. O2 and Royal  KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus unit vie for the position of
the third-largest wireless company in Germany, where  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the leaders.  Telefonica shares rose 1.2 percent to 10.54 euros at the
close of trading in  Madrid  yesterday, valuing the company at 48
billion euros. The stock has fallen 21 percent this year, while
the Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services  Index (BETELES)  is down
3.6 percent. O2 Germany would have a market value of about 7.5
billion euros based on the high end of the IPO target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  