-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for a Fourth Day on U.S. Data
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-02T21:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, the longest winning streak in more than two weeks,
after an unexpected rebound in U.S. manufacturing improved the
outlook for exporters.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.1 percent to
1,006.23.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which got 20 percent of its
sales from America last year, climbed to a five-month high in
Seoul. Equity gauges in Indonesia, Turkey and Mexico increased.
Brazil’s Bovespa index dropped with homebuilder Gafisa SA among
the biggest decliners.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded last month and
Chinese new export orders for September rose from the month
before, reports showed yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged to maintain record economic stimulus,
stoking appetite for riskier assets. The developing nations’
gauge pared some of its gains after Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  says he has no plans to request a bailout soon.  “The latest data from the U.S. showed manufacturing is
back in expansionary territory and that was a nice upside
surprise given that  emerging markets  are driven by exports for
the most part,”  Alec Young , a New York-based global equity
strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said by phone today. “The
liquidity rally needs to transition to a growth rally, and the
PMI is evidence that growth is stabilizing. We need to see more
of it but it’s a good first step.”  Technology Shares  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased 0.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 3.6 percent.  A gauge of technology companies added 0.7 percent, the
biggest  gain  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index today.
Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index rose 0.5 percent while
Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  gained 0.6 percent.  “As the U.S. starts to pick up, global trade will
eventually pick up,” said Fitzgerald Aclan, who helps manage
$20 billion at Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  “Bernanke’s
statement eases investors’ fears as it reduces the probability
of a liquidity crunch.”  Bernanke renewed a pledge to sustain record stimulus
yesterday and defended the Fed’s unprecedented bond buying,
saying it will spur growth, cut unemployment, help savers and
support the dollar.  Kia Motors  The Bovespa slid 0.6 percent with Gafisa SA, Brazil’s
sixth-biggest homebuilder, losing 8.3 percent.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s second-biggest automaker,
gained the most in two weeks after BS Securities Co. said the
stock’s a bargain at current levels. Kia increased 3.5 percent.
The company’s third-quarter operating profit likely rose 14.7
percent from a year ago, Choi Dae Sik, analyst at BS Securities,
wrote in a note today.  The Moscow-based Micex  Index (VXEEM)  retreated 0.3 percent, the
first decline in four days, as Urals crude, Russia’s main export
blend, slid for a second day. The benchmark gauges in the Czech
Republic and Dubai declined.  OAO Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of coal for
steelmaking, sank 3.5 percent after reporting a net loss in the
second quarter.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the biggest Turkish
bank by market value, jumped 1.6 percent after Societe Generale
SA upgraded the stock from hold.  Taiwan Airlines  EVA Airways Corp. (2618) , Taiwan’s second-largest air carrier,
climbed 3.2 percent, the most since July 27, after Taiwan
Premier Sean Chen said the U.S. is expected to announce a visa
waiver for the island’s residents in the “instant future.”  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) , the biggest carrier, rose 2.9 percent.
Phoenix Tours International Inc. and Star Travel Corp. jumped by
the 6.9 percent daily limit.  Taipei-based  Central News Agency  reported U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  may make an announcement today, allowing
Taiwanese to travel visa-free to the U.S., citing unidentified
diplomatic sources. Premier Chen’s comment was included in an e-
mailed statement from the Cabinet today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 302, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  