-- Enders Seeks to Overcome Berlin Wall to Reach BAE Systems
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/enders-seeks-to-overcome-berlin-wall-of-resistance-to-reach-bae.html
As Germany celebrates reunification
today,  Tom Enders  is trying to tear down his own  Berlin Wall .  The chief executive officer of  European Aeronautic, Defence
& Space Co. (EAD) , himself a German native, has come up against
resistance from the German government as he pushes for backing
for a merger with  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/)  As Enders strives for an
agreement by Oct. 10, Germany’s sticking points are job
guarantees, centers of command and a balance of power with
 France , people familiar with the government’s position said.  Angela Merkel ’s government is emerging as the side hardest
to convince, as the merger triggers concerns about a company
steered from London and Toulouse in France, where Enders moved
the EADS headquarters against German resistance. Enders said
Oct. 1 he’s not desperate to proceed with the BAE combination,
signaling a willingness to abandon the plan if it becomes
compromised by political interference.  “Hopefully Merkel can see the wider European interest in
this,” said Charles Grant, director of the London-based Centre
for European Reform. “I don’t see why the Germans are so
reticent, because they’ve always been upset about the French
domination or the French leadership at EADS.”  Germany  wants to formulate an official position by the end
of the week, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks aren’t public. Germany is seeking
to maintain a balance of power with France, which owns a direct
stake of 15 percent in EADS, said another person. The future
centers of command are also being deliberated, they said.  Decisive Days  Leading negotiations on Merkel’s behalf is Lars-Hendrik Roeller, one of her closest advisers at the chancellory, said
one of the people. His office has produced a paper that maps out
Germany’s key positions, the person said. Talks continue and
there are no insurmountable hurdles at this stage, he said.
Roeller was unavailable to comment for this story.  Enders has said this week will be “decisive” as he tries
to wrap up negotiations. The Oct. 10 date is set by U.K.
takeover regulation, and Enders said he aims to make that
deadline, though the companies would be able to seek an
extension to win more time to negotiate.  Regulatory limitations have hamstrung Enders in addressing
investor and employee concerns since Bloomberg first reported
the discussions on Sept. 12, adding pressure on the companies to
provide specifics within a week. EADS has fallen 14 percent
since the merger was announced.  Germany celebrates the anniversary of the country’s
political reunification in 1990, a national holiday that puts
the political machine on hold and potentially delays Enders in
his bid to rally political support in Berlin.  Exorcising Politics  Enders, who is trying to rid EADS of political interference
that has defined the company since its creation in 2000, has had
a cool reception in Berlin since embarking on his promotional
tour after announcing the merger three weeks ago.  The Ministry of Economics has listed objections including a
lack of  job security  and synergies and how the merger would
affect Daimler AG’s plan to sell a stake in EADS to state-owned
bank KfW. Before Enders pooled the EADS headquarters in Toulouse
this year, the company was equally split between Paris and
Munich, with the chief financial officer residing in Munich and
the CEO shuttling back and forth each week.  Bavarian Economics Minister Martin Zeil said yesterday that
he’s seeking assurance the 15,000 jobs and facilities in Bavaria
are protected. He supported the merger, saying it will create a
stronger global competitor. Enders said Oct. 1 that cutting
thousands of jobs is not part of his concept, and that German
sites would benefit from the global stage BAE offers.  Symbolic Incentive  The U.K. government has signaled it would be content with a
U.K.-centered defense business and so-called golden share to
protect the company from takeover, with France seeking a 9
percent holding in the combined company. Germany is still
debating whether it will seek a shareholding to match France.  “A symbolic incentive for the German government could be a
headquarters for the space and information system elements of a
merged company,” said Henrik Heidenkamp, a German fellow at the
 Royal United Services Institute  in London. “This would match
the significant share of EADS’s high-tech research already
conducted in Germany,”  Germany’s stance reflects concern that Enders has not
protected national interests. While the Airbus SAS aircraft-
making unit has major assembly lines in Hamburg, Toulouse
remains the main hub and produces the largest aircraft. Enders
has sparred with Peter Hintze, the government official in charge
of aerospace policy, who has lamented a creeping move of work
from Hamburg to Toulouse.  Fast Moves  After taking over in June, Enders acted swiftly to
consolidate EADS’s power centers in Toulouse, moving the chief
financial officer position that was previously in Munich to
France alongside with the human resources director. Under the
merged structure, the CFO position would likely go to BAE
Finance Director Peter Lynas, people familiar with the plan have
said, depriving Germany of a key post it previously held.  “‘The Germans feel a bit isolated, a bit worried about
there being a France-U.K. axis,’’ said Zafar Khan, London-based
analyst at  Societe Generale. (GLE)   Germany’s key interest is little changed from the position
it has held during the 12 years of EADS’s existence: keeping a
balance with the French. While the German state never held
shares in EADS, carmaker Daimler served as a proxy, holding a
stake equivalent to that owned by the French government and
publisher  Lagardere SCA. (MMB)  The EADS shareholder agreement holding
that balance would be dissolved under the merger plan.  ‘‘The concern is that German interests will become a mere
adjunct in what will essentially evolve into an Anglo-French
company, geared to serving Anglo-French interests,” said Sarah
Raine, a fellow with the  German Marshall Fund  of the U.S. in
Berlin. “Securing German government support should still be
manageable, but the right people will need to hear the right
reassuring noises on the future direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  