-- Terfel Saves ‘Ring’ From Squeaky Deer, Tangled Brunnhilde
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/terfel-saves-ring-from-squeaky-deer-tangled-brunnhilde.html
It’s when things go wrong that you
really get the measure of Wagner’s 16-hour “Ring Cycle.”  If it can withstand prop failures wardrobe malfunctions,
and recalcitrant scenery, all is well.  Keith Warner’s  Covent Garden  staging had several “oh no”
moments in its first revival as a complete cycle.  When Susan Bullock made her initial appearance as the free-
spirited Brunnhilde, she immediately got tangled in a safety
harness. After a few desperate tugs, she had to be released by a
very unWagnerian stagehand.  Future Brunnhildes take note: always carry a Swiss Army
knife for such emergencies. You can use it to attack the props
manager too.  Later the “Forest Murmurs” scene in “Siegfried” lost
its sylvan serenity when the antlers of a stuffed deer went
clunk against the scenery. There was comical shuffling before
the poor beast was freed. Then a counterpart female deer rolled
past with its unoiled castors emitting mouse-like squeaks.  It’s not what Wagner had in mind for that scene.  Then Siegmund couldn’t find the sleeve-holes in his
wolfskin coat. Bits of set got stuck. Things fell over.  In other words, it was live theater at its best. And the
cycle as a whole still managed to work its awe-inspiring magic.  It also now boasts Welsh bass-baritone  Bryn Terfel  in his
first U.K. appearance in the complete role of Wotan, a character
who appears in three of the four operas.  Operation Excuse  When this cycle was first seen in 2007 he canceled at the
last minute, claiming it was because his son needed an operation
on his finger. The Royal Opera issued an angry press release in
response. Terfel went on to sing the role for the  Metropolitan
Opera .  Clearly all is now forgiven. Conductor Antonio Pappano (who
is also music director of the Royal Opera) patted Terfel on the
back affectionately after each of his appearances.  So he should. The singer gives a powerful performance,
combining a luxurious voice and psychological subtlety. He
doesn’t skimp on the character’s arrogance and brutality, and
still manages to make his situation sympathetic during his long
monologues.  Pappano is no slouch either. The conductor is the only
leading figure who appears in all four operas. If he doesn’t
look as if he’s been put through a mangle at the end of each
evening, he’s not been doing his job.  Cosmic Force  Pappano wrests drama from the score without drowning the
singers, and creates and relaxes tension with Hitchcockian
control. He makes the climactic B-flat thunderclap in “ Das
Rheingold ” explode with the cosmic force of the Big Bang.  If there’s an occasional lack of warmth in  Bullock’s  voice,
she makes up for it with huge waves of sound. Her acting offers
a mix of Greek-Tragedy grandeur and detailed realism.  Stefan Vinke (Siegfried) has the vocal heft to match his
Brunnhilde. It’s great to hear his enormous voice boom out with
the force of a foghorn while he’s forging his sword or singing
the joyous love duet. If only someone could tell him where the
volume control knob is, and give him some basic acting lessons.  Warner’s production has been tweaked since last seen, and
offers plenty for newcomers and hardened Wagnerians to chew on.
He emphasizes the social allegory of the story.  Black Marble  Wotan, chief of the gods, is presented as a member of a
decaying 19-century political elite who lives in a gloomy black-
marble hall. He looks to his anarchic grandson Siegfried to
regenerate order, without foreseeing that he himself will be
swept away in any coming revolution. Siegfried’s lack of
political guile leads to his own destruction.  Warner presents the characters in a psychologically
detailed way, and their relationships are full of telling and
sometimes surprising nuances. Wotan’s farewell kiss to his
daughter Brunnhilde, delivered with incestuous ardor (just as
the music suggests it should be) is a meaty example.  Any “Ring” needs spectacle, and here Warner (and designer
Stefanos Lazaridis) are on shakier ground.  Some scenes -- Alberich turning into a huge bloody-bony
monster, Brunnhilde’s fiery rock, Siegfried’s Rhine journey --
are thrilling. Others -- a confusing immolation scene,
Siegfried’s battle with an unscary dragon -- sacrifice symbolic
effect for underpowered staginess.  In some ways, Warner out-Wagners Wagner too. In addition to
the usual symbolic props, which include a sword, a helmet and a
spear, Warner adds others. A red rope, a propeller, a suitcase
and a helix all also make frequent, and not always narratively
helpful, appearances.  There are far more hits than misses. And with masterful
singing actors like  John Tomlinson  (Hunding and Hagen), Sarah Connolly (Fricka), Simon O’Neill (Siegmund) and Eva-Maria
Westbroek (Sieglinde) to help tell the story, it’s still a
“Ring” to remember. Rating: ****.  There are three further complete cycles of the “Ring”,
finishing November 2.  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock,  Martin
Gayford  on art and  Ryan Sutton  on food.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 