-- ESPO Oil Trades Little Changed; Dubai Spreads Widen: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-10-02T11:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/espo-oil-trades-little-changed-dubai-spreads-widen-asia-crude.html
Russia ’s East Siberia-Pacific Ocean
crude loading in the second half of November sold at levels
little changed from deals done for the first half of the month.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SNGSP)  sold three ESPO shipments loading at the
Russian port of Kozmino during the last two weeks of November
and early December at premiums of $4.20 to $4.90 a barrel over
Dubai oil, said three people who participate in the market.  Japan ’s JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. purchased one of the
cargoes for Nov. 18 to Nov. 22 at about $4.20 to $4.30 above the
marker grade, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  The Russian oil producer sold ESPO for the first half of
November at premiums between $4 and $5, four people said
yesterday.  ESPO shipments from Kozmino in November will rise to 16
cargoes of 100,000 metric tons each, up from 13 this month,  a
loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when near-term shipments are
more expensive than future deliveries, rose 3 cents. Spot prices
were $1.55 a barrel  more  than levels for cargoes two months
later, up for a second day and the highest in seven days,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd, a broker.  A widening backwardation signals strengthening demand from
refiners amid tightening supplies.  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, reissued
a tender seeking to buy low-sulfur crude for delivery in
December, said a company official, asking not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. The tender
closes tomorrow.  Malaysia lowered the official selling price of its Tapis
crude by $2.46 to $115.91 for September, according to an e-
mailed notice from Petronas Trading Corp., or Petco, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of the state oil company.  Iraq Exports  Iraq  is boosting oil output to help meet global demand for
crude and is “happy” with current prices for the commodity,
said a senior adviser to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki.  The country’s crude exports will reach 2.9 million barrels
a day next year as output rises to 3.6 million barrels daily,
Thamir Ghadhban said in an interview in Dubai today. The country
targets production of 4 million barrels in 2014, he said.  Refining margins  in Singapore, or the profit from
processing a barrel of Dubai crude into fuels such as diesel and
gasoline priced in the regional trading hub, averaged $5.25
during the last five days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 30 day average is $4.85 a barrel.  The November Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, was unchanged
at $3.50 a barrel, according to PVM data. The December EFS was
up 2 cents to $3.32.  Oman oil for December delivery rose 37 cents to settle at
$109.66 a barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  