-- EU Mulls Allowing Carbon Offset Swaps From May, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-02T15:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/eu-considers-allowing-carbon-offset-swaps-from-may-draft-shows.html
The European Union is considering
from May 1 allowing emitters to swap international  carbon
offsets  into EU allowances eligible for compliance in the next
phase of the region’s emissions market.  Manufacturers, utilities and airlines in the EU program
will be able to request until the end of March 2015 to swap
offsets generated for emission reductions before 2012, the
European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said in a draft
revision of the EU carbon registry regulation obtained by
 Bloomberg News . In the third phase of the EU emissions trading
system, which starts next year, companies will need to exchange
imported carbon-reduction credits into EU permits before
surrendering them for compliance.  International credits for cutting  greenhouse gases  from
2013 onward would be exchanged until the end of 2020, the
commission said. The measure has been submitted to member states
for talks and needs approval from governments.  The EU law allows about 12,000 factories and power plants
in the bloc’s emissions trading system to use United Nations
offsets as a cheaper way to comply with pollution quotas. The
rules of the program will tighten from next year when emitters
will be permitted to use UN credits from new projects only as
long as they are based in least developed countries.  The swapping allows companies with pollution limits in the
world’s largest emissions cap-and-trade system to manage their
eligibility risk, according to Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London .  Remove Risk  “In return for an offset a company will receive an EU
allowance that they do not have to immediately submit for
compliance,” Hanschmidt said by e-mail today. “In essence that
will remove the risk of holding credits that could become
ineligible in the future.”  The EU will from May prohibit the import of offsets from
projects linked to industrial gases hydrofluorocarbon-23 and
nitrous oxide from adipic acid production under the UN Clean
Development Mechanism, according to a ban approved in 2011.  The draft revision of the EU registry regulation would also
impose limits on the use of some Emission Reduction Units, or
credits generated under the UN Joint Implementation mechanism,
the document showed. The commission proposed to bar from holding
in the registry ERUs issued from 2013 for JI projects based in
countries without binding post-2012 emission targets, according
to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  