-- EU Nuclear Safety Repairs May Cost 25 Billion Euros, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-02T16:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/eu-nuclear-safety-repairs-may-cost-25-billion-euros-draft-shows.html
Utilities may have to spend as much
as 25 billion euros ($32 billion) to increase safety at  Europe ’s
nuclear reactors after improvements were identified during
checks, according to a draft document.  Upgrades may cost between 30 million euros and 200 million
euros per reactor, the European Commission wrote in the document
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The region has 134 nuclear reactors
in operation.  The  the bloc’s regulatory arm is due to publish on Oct. 4
a policy paper on safety assessment of atomic power plants in
the region conducted in a response to  Japan ’s nuclear accident
last year caused by an earthquake and tsunami. The checks
covered threats from natural disasters as well as plane crashes
and explosions close to atomic stations.  “On the basis of the stress tests, practically all nuclear
power plants need to undergo safety improvements,” the document
said.  Safety upgrading measures are unlikely to boost investment
costs for new nuclear generation capacity in Europe if the best
available technologies are chosen, according to the draft.  The commission will also say that the recurrence of nuclear
incidents even in nations with good safety records confirms the
need for “thorough safety reviews on a regular basis” and
highlights the need for close cooperation and information
sharing between operators, vendors, regulators and European
institutions, the document showed.  The commission’s recommendations will be communicated to EU
leaders at their Oct. 18 to Oct. 19 summit in Brussels. The
bloc’s regulatory arm will report on the implementation of the
recommended measures in June 2014 and aims to ensure that the
“vast majority” of the required improvements are enacted by
2015, according to the draft policy paper.  The commission said it doesn’t comment on draft documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  