-- European Bank Capital Results Overtaken by Tougher Global Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/european-bank-capital-results-overtaken-by-tougher-global-rules.html
The Europe Union’s top bank regulator
will release figures today detailing how lenders met a 114.7
billion-euro ($148.5 billion) capital target, as the bloc is
criticized for failing to properly implement tougher global
standards.  European banks boosted their capital reserves by 94.4
billion euros by a June deadline, the  European Banking Authority 
has said in July. The increase is part of a plan to boost
investor confidence in the bloc’s financial system and protect
lenders from the decline in value of sovereign bonds.  The amount raised is about a third of what the EU’s biggest
banks would need had new  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
rules been enforced at the end of 2011. The bloc’s 44 biggest
banks would have needed an extra 312 billion euros in their core
reserves when taking into account additional surcharges to
account for systemic risk, the EBA said last week.  “The interesting thing is that the valuation methodology
will be superseded” by fresh global and European standards
known as Basel III and CRD IV, Bob Penn, financial services
lawyer at  Allen & Overy LLP , said in a telephone interview in
 London . This will “limit the value of the exercise looking
forward.”  International teams of regulators found weaknesses in the
EU draft implementing measures for the Basel III standards, the
 Basel Committee  said this week.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said he has “reservations” about
some of the Basel findings, “which do not appear to be
supported by rigorous evidence and a well-defined methodology.”  Peer Review  For the EU, the peer review said that the bloc’s draft
rules on what counts as core capital are insufficiently
detailed. The review also cited concerns that capital rules for
so-called  bancassurers , lenders with insurance arms, wouldn’t be
as tough as the Basel standards.  European lawmakers are struggling to meet a January 2013
deadline set by the Basel committee for implementing new
standards, which more than triple the core capital that lenders
must have to stave off insolvency and require banks to build up
buffers of easy-to-sell assets. The measures were published by
the group in 2010 and banks have until 2019 to comply with all
the rules.  The EBA told European banks in December to raise 114.7
billion euros in fresh capital. The agency required banks to
keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, to protect
against falling bond prices among euro-area nations.  ’Restructuring’  European banks have raised about 72 billion euros by
selling shares, holding on to profits and converting lower-
quality capital to common equity. The rest came from adjusting
models lenders use to measure the risk of liabilities.  National regulators will give figures for individual
lenders starting at 5 p.m. U.K. time today.  Four banks, including  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,  Bankia SA (BKIA)  in  Spain  and
WestLB AG in  Germany , have since been involved in “such deep
restructuring” that they were no longer considered part of the
program, bringing the final capital shortfall to 76 billion
euros, the EBA said.  The December figure also included six Greek banks, which
had a shortfall of 30 billion euros. The Greek lenders’ capital
needs will be addressed through the International Monetary Fund
bailout, the EBA said.  While banks shrank their assets by about 22.6 billion
euros, the exercise didn’t affect commercial and consumer
lending, according to the EBA, which previously stated it
wouldn’t allow banks to meet their targets by cutting loans.  Lenders tapped public funds where private measures weren’t
enough. Three Portuguese banks took around 6 billion euros in
capital from the state, while  Italy ’s  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS)  was stabilized with 2 billion euros from the
government to meet the EBA’s target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  