-- Euro-Region Producer-Price Inflation Accelerates on Energy Cost
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/euro-region-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-on-energy-cost.html
Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
accelerated more than economists forecast in August, led by
surging energy costs, as the region’s economic slump showed
signs of deepening.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 2.7
percent from a year earlier, after increasing a revised 1.6
percent in July, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast an increase of
2.6 percent, the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. From the prior month, prices gained 0.9 percent
after advancing 0.3 percent in July.  Crude  oil prices  have increased about 10.4 percent over the
past three months, threatening to undermine consumer demand
already hurt by budget cuts and rising unemployment across the
region. Euro-area economic confidence declined in September and
services and manufacturing output dropped, leaving companies
with little room to pass on higher costs.  Energy costs on the producer level jumped 7.9 percent in
August from a year earlier after rising 4.5 percent in the
previous month, the statistics office said. That’s the biggest
increase since March. Prices of intermediate goods rose 0.3
percent from a year ago, while capital goods were 0.9 percent
more expensive.  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, producer prices rose
1.6 percent from a year earlier, after increasing 0.9 percent in
the previous month, today’s data showed. France reported a gain
of 2.5 percent, with prices in Spain and  Portugal  increasing 4.1
percent and 4 percent, respectively. None of the euro-region
members reported an annual price drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  