-- Dollar Rises as Haven Demand Overshadows Services, Hiring
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-03T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/euro-near-3-week-low-before-retail-report-ecb-meeting.html
The dollar gained versus most of its
major peers as investors seeking a haven from signs of slower
global growth ignored U.S. reports showing the  service
industries  and private employment expanded more than forecast.  Australia ’s currency slid to the weakest in almost a month
after the nation had its biggest trade deficit since 2008 and
data showed  China ’s services industry expanded the least in more
than a year. The euro declined versus the greenback after a
report showed the region’s services and manufacturing shrank.
The U.S.  jobless rate  rose, a report may show Oct. 5.  “The overall backdrop is still that of weak data around
the world,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s also probably some caution around more subdued market
trends ahead of key events later this week.”  The dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to 78.49 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time and touched 78.59 yen, the highest level since
Sept. 19. Japan’s currency depreciated past its 50-day moving
average against the U.S. currency, 78.42 yen, for the first time
in two weeks.  The greenback rose 0.1 percent to $1.2905 per euro, and the
17-nation currency advanced 0.3 percent to 101.30 yen.  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, was at almost a five-year low. It was 7.81
percent, after touching 7.73 percent on Sept. 28, the least
since October 2007, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index  for the
currencies of Group-of-Seven nations showed. Lower volatility
makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending
rates more attractive because the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profit.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 79.951,
snapping a two-day decline.  “The dollar is being bid up to some degree on the back of
uncertainties that maybe perhaps be emanating from the  euro
zone ,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a phone interview.  The U.S. currency remained higher after the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses,
which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose. The gauge
increased to 55.1 in September from the prior month’s 53.7, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 53.4.  Employment Reports  Private employers in the U.S. increased payrolls by 162,000
workers in September following a revised 189,000 jump in August,
figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services
showed. The median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 140,000 advance.  A Labor Department report on Oct. 5 will show the nation’s
unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent in September, from 8.1
percent the prior month, economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast. The jobless rate has been stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009. U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 115,000 jobs
last month, economists forecast, compared with a monthly average
of 226,000 in the first quarter.  The Polish zloty rose against most of its 31 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as Poland’s central bank
unexpectedly left  interest rates  unchanged for a fourth meeting.  The currency jumped 0.6 percent to 3.1659 per  U.S. dollar 
and climbed 0.7 percent to 4.0854 per euro.  Krona, Kiwi  Sweden’s krona and New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the
kiwi, were the biggest losers among the greenback’s most-traded
counterparts.  The krona dropped amid rising speculation Riksbank policy
makers will cut interest rates again at the end of the month. A
survey showed Sweden’s services economy contracted in September,
sinking at the fastest pace since August 2009.  The krona slid 1.2 percent to 6.6856 per dollar. It
weakened 1.1 percent to 8.6286 per euro.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 1 percent to 81.94 U.S. cents
after data showed China’s non-manufacturing industries grew at
the weakest pace since at least March 2011. China is the
country’s second-largest export market, and Australia’s biggest
trade partner.  Australia’s dollar also sank after data showed the nation’s
trade gap for August was almost three times wider than the
median forecast of economists. Imports exceeded exports by
A$2.03 billion ($2.07 billion) in August, versus a revised
A$1.53 billion gap in July. The currency dropped yesterday after
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  a quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent.  Another Cut  “We’re probably looking at another rate cut before the end
of the year, probably at next month’s meeting,” Wells Fargo’s
Serebriakov said. “After that, we would have a tendency to see
steady rates through 2013.”  The Aussie dollar dropped as much as 0.7 percent to
$1.0196, the weakest since Sept. 6, before trading at $1.0216.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area services
and manufacturing purchasing managers fell to 46.1 from 46.3 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  The  European Central Bank  meets tomorrow in Ljubljana,
Slovenia. It will keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
a record-low 0.75 percent, a Bloomberg survey forecast.  The euro remained higher against most major peers even
after Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy yesterday denied
immediate plans to ask for a bailout in response to mounting
speculation that a request was imminent.  Spanish Banks  Spain  has received approval for as much as 100 billion
euros ($129 billion) in aid for its failing banks.  European officials are debating the role of their planned
permanent rescue fund in recapitalizing banks, the European
Commission said last week. Finance ministers from  Germany ,
 Finland  and the Netherlands reiterated that such bailouts will
only be possible after there’s a common supervisor, and national
authorities should have responsibility for “legacy assets.”  “If we get no movement in terms of clarifying issues like
the legacy assets and the way in which they will be dealt,
further into October we could see confidence slip again,”  Derek Halpenny , the European head of global-markets research at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, said in a television
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The shared currency strengthened 1.8 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The
dollar declined 1.2 percent and the yen slid 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  