-- Fannie Mae Chicago Foreclosures Sell for $11.8 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-10-02T20:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/fannie-mae-chicago-foreclosures-sell-for-11-8-million.html
Cogsville Group LLC, a New York-based
real estate investment fund, won an auction of 94 homes for
$11.8 million in  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s second bulk sale of foreclosures
to be managed as rentals.  The government-controlled mortgage company is auctioning
almost 2,500 repossessed properties in six states. The homes
purchased by Cogsville, all in the Chicago area, sold for about
86 percent of the estimated total value of the properties,
according to a  summary  by Credit Suisse Group AG, which managed
the transaction.  “Our belief is that we acquired these at a decent, sub-
market price,” Don Cogsville, chief executive officer of
Cogsville Group, said in a telephone interview. “I think
there’s going to be a lot more opportunity there.”  Investors are taking advantage of real estate  prices  that
have fallen more than 30 percent from their 2006 peak to buy
single-family homes as demand for rentals increases because many
Americans lack the means or desire to  buy a house . Private-
equity funds such as Colony Capital LLC and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
have raised as much as $8 billion to buy as many as 80,000
single-family homes at distressed prices, according to a Sept.
21 report by Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “Investor interest has increased meaningfully as the large
foreclosure inventory combined with a secular shift toward
renting has created the possibility of larger-scale investments
in the space,” Jade Rahmani, Bose George and Ryan O’Steen,
analysts based in  New York , said in the report.  New Investor  Vulcan Investment Partners LLC, a Miami-based company
founded by Mexican investors, said today that it plans to spend
$150 million to buy 1,200 South Florida homes to manage as
rentals. The properties are expected to double in value by 2017,
when the fund that holds them will be liquidated, after earning
an annual rental capitalization rate “above 14 percent,” the
company said.  The Chicago homes are the first residential acquisition for
Cogsville, whose fund has purchased and managed about $3 billion
in loans on distressed commercial real estate. The company plans
to buy about 1,000 rental properties in the Chicago area over
the next 12 to 18 months to gain “a critical mass” in the
region and manage the homes efficiently, Don Cogsville said.  The single-family rentals in the  Fannie Mae  portfolio will
generate annual percentage returns “in the mid-teens,”
Cogsville said. His company paid $2.1 million in cash, with
Washington-based Fannie Mae funding the balance, according to 
the transaction summary.  Management Fee  Under terms of the joint venture, Fannie Mae will receive
90 percent of the income on the properties until it gets to
$8.39 million. After that, Fannie Mae’s share will drop to 50
percent of returns. Cogsville will also get a 20 percent
management fee for running the properties, according to the
transaction summary.  Pacifica Companies LLC, a  San Diego , California-based real
estate investment firm, acquired 699 Florida foreclosures for
$78.1 million through a Fannie Mae bulk sale, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  announced Sept. 6.  Santa Monica ,
California-based Colony, headed by  Tom Barrack , won the bidding
for properties in Nevada,  Arizona  and  California , four people
with knowledge of the results said in July. A portfolio of 541
Fannie Mae-owned homes in Atlanta didn’t sell, according to the
FHFA.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored
mortgage financiers that came under U.S. conservatorship in
2008, reduced the foreclosed homes in their combined inventory
to 162,537 as of June 30, down from a peak of 241,684 in the
third quarter of 2010, the FHFA said in a Sept. 26 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  