-- Fifth & Pacific Swaps Jump Most in Year After Forecast Reduction
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-02T19:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/fifth-pacific-swaps-jump-most-in-year-after-forecast-reduction.html
The cost to guard against losses on
the debt of  Fifth & Pacific Cos. (FNP)  jumped the most since last
October, after the fashion retailer cut its profit forecast
because of sagging sales of its Juicy Couture brand.  Credit-default swaps tied to Fifth & Pacific rose 54.8
basis points to 369.8 basis points as of 2:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s the biggest intraday climb since swaps
linked to the New York-based company increased 66.9 basis points
on a closing basis Oct. 4, 2011, CMA prices show.  The company, which owns fashion labels including  Kate Spade 
and  Lucky Brand , said adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may be as much as $115 million
this year, down from an earlier $140 million forecast.
“Significant shortfalls in full-price sell-through rates”
drove Juicy Couture sales down one percent in the most recent
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Bill McComb said in a
statement.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers had bought and
sold credit swaps that protect against a default on a net $809.7
million of the New York-based company’s obligations as of Sept.
21, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which
runs a central repository for the market.  The level of Fifth & Pacific credit swaps, which typically
rise as investor confidence deteriorates and fall as it
improves, means investors would have to pay $369,800 annually to
protect $10 million of the company’s debt for five years. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  