-- Florida Man Pleads Guilty to Phony Facebook Share Scam
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-03T00:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/florida-man-pleads-guilty-to-phony-facebook-share-scam-1-.html
A South  Florida  man charged with
running an $11 million scam involving non-existent shares in
companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  was taken
into custody after pleading guilty to criminal charges.  John Mattera, 50, who operated Praetorian Global Fund Ltd.,
pleaded guilty today in Manhattan to three criminal counts --
conspiracy,  securities fraud  and  wire fraud  -- and tried to
plead guilty to a fourth, money laundering. U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan declined Mattera’s request to remain free on
bail, ordering him jailed after a two-hour hearing.  During the proceeding, Sullivan questioned Mattera
repeatedly about the facts surrounding his guilty pleas. After
criticizing Mattera’s “stream-of-consciousness” explanation of
the crimes, Sullivan said he needed additional time to consider
whether to accept Mattera’s guilty plea to  money laundering .
Sullivan accepted Mattera’s plea on the other counts.  The hearing was rescheduled from yesterday, after Mattera
told his lawyer he had accidentally locked himself out of his
apartment and missed the flight they were to take together from
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida, to New York. Sullivan yesterday called
the excuse “pretty pathetic.”  Sullivan cited Mattera’s four prior fraud convictions and a
civil contempt ruling against him last week in a case filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in his decision to
jail Mattera until he’s sentenced Feb. 1.  SEC Case  In a plea agreement between Mattera and prosecutors, both
sides agreed that federal sentencing guidelines call for him to
receive from 10 years to more than 12 years in prison. Sullivan
may disregard the guidelines in sentencing Mattera.  In the SEC case, U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  New
York  found that Mattera sold a Lamborghini automobile for
$28,000, which he passed to his mother, Ann Mattera, in
violation of a court-ordered asset freeze. Mattera also borrowed
$114,000 and transferred money to his mother to pay his
expenses, also in violation of the court order, Castel said.  Carl Schoeppl, Mattera’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
case after the hearing.  Prosecutors said in court filings in the criminal case that
Mattera controlled a group of 10 Delaware limited liability
companies, the special-purpose vehicles that were to hold the
investments.  Investors sent more than $11 million into “escrow
accounts” maintained by a Florida company, First American
Service Transmittals Inc., the government said. Instead of
holding the money, First American transferred it to bank
accounts controlled by Mattera within three days of deposit,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said Mattera used investors’ money to pay for
jewelry, luxury cars and interior decorating.  The case is U.S. v. Mattera, 11-cr-2947, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  