-- Former Goldman Partner Buys NYC Duplex for $19.3 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-10-03T14:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/former-goldman-partner-buys-nyc-co-op-for-19-3-million.html
     Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) --Jonathan Sobel, a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  partner who oversaw the firm’s mortgage division,
bought a duplex on Manhattan’s Park Avenue for $19.3 million, a
45 percent discount from the original asking price.  The purchase of the co-op at 740 Park Ave. was completed on
Aug. 31, according to records filed yesterday with the city’s
Department of Finance. The 6,700-square-foot (620-square-meter)
apartment was owned by Randolph Speight, the late investment
banker, for more than 40 years. It features a private elevator
and landing, four staff bedrooms and a butler’s pantry,
according to the broker’s  listing .  “The grandeur and scale of this spectacular apartment
characterizes the most refined residential lifestyle available
in New York,” according to the listing by brokers Meredyth
Smith and Serena Boardman of  Sotheby’s International Realty .  The apartment has been for sale since 2008, when Speight’s
estate put it on the market for $35 million. The price was cut
twice since then, most recently to $23 million in January 2011,
according to StreetEasy.com, a property-listings website.  In June 2011, the estate decided to shoulder the cost of
renovating the property to appeal to more buyers. The bathrooms
and kitchen were gutted and redone, and all the wiring was
replaced, Smith said in a telephone interview. The strategy
resulted in the duplex receiving multiple offers, she said.  Record Deal  “They turned what was an estate-condition apartment into
something that was in move-in condition,” Smith said. “And
that was the key to the lock.”  Sobel, 45, is a managing member of DTF Holdings LLC, an
investment manager for and adviser to entities affiliated with
 Gerald Ford , a financial-services entrepreneur in Texas. Sobel
was Goldman’s mortgage chief from 2001 to 2006 and left the firm
in 2009. He declined to comment on the co-op purchase.  The tower near  Central Park  has been home to former Merrill
Lynch & Co. Chief Executive Officer  John Thain  and cosmetics
billionaire  Ronald Lauder .  Howard Marks , chairman and co-founder
of Oaktree Capital Group LLC, set a record in May when he bought
a duplex in the building for $52.5 million, the highest price
ever paid for a New York City co-op.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  