-- Forrest Defeats Regulator Claim He Misled Shareholders
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-10-02T06:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/forrest-defeats-regulator-claim-that-he-misled-shareholders.html
Andrew Forrest , founder of  Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , defeated a regulator’s claim that he misled
shareholders of the iron-ore exporter which made him  Australia ’s
fourth-richest person.  The High Court of Australia today overturned a unanimous
appeal court ruling that said Forrest’s descriptions of
contracts with three Chinese companies in 2004 as binding were
misleading.  The appeal based the conclusion on the fact the agreements
were not enforceable under Australian law, which the average
person reading the statement wouldn’t take into consideration,
the High Court said in a summary of its ruling issued in
Canberra. “This representation was neither false or
misleading,” the judges said.  Forrest faced the possibility of being removed from his
post as chairman of Fortescue and Australian companies faced
more stringent rules on disclosure to shareholders had the
appeal court ruling been upheld, Sally Scott, a partner in Hall
& Wilcox Lawyers’ commercial dispute resolution group, said in a
phone interview today.  “It’s an odd decision,” Scott said of the  High Court 
ruling. “They’ve drawn quite a technical argument on how the
statements were represented” in the reference to enforceability
of the agreements.  The ruling doesn’t establish any general proposition that
public statements from companies convey a message of what its
contracts contain and facts in each case must be scrutinized,
the High Court majority said.  Critical Question  “The critical question will be what the statement conveyed
to its intended audience, not what the party concerned says that
it was intended to convey,” the judges said.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission, which
had pursued the case and was ordered by the High Court to pay
the costs of the appeal, said it’s reviewing the ruling to
determine what is considered necessary to ensure the market is
properly informed by companies’ statements.  “This is something we will be carefully considering” in
conjunction with the Australian Securities Exchange, ASIC Deputy
Chairman Belinda Gibson said in a statement.  The High Court ruling brought “an end to an eight-year
long process that ASIC thought was appropriate but was
ultimately determined to be wrong,” Fortescue Deputy Chairman
Herb Elliot said in a statement today. “ASIC’s allegations have
been an expensive distraction.  Eightfold Rise  Fortescue shares rose more than eightfold in Sydney trading
in seven months following the first announcement of a
partnership with the three Chinese companies on Aug. 23, 2004.
The stock fell 25 percent on March 24, 2005, the most in more
than two years, after the Australian Financial Review newspaper
reported that China Metallurgical Construction Group Corp.
wasn’t prepared to build or finance the project under the
arrangements in place at the time.  David Jackson, Fortescue’s lawyer, argued in March that the
Perth-based company had legally-binding contracts in place with
China Metallurgical, China Harbour Engineering Co. and China
Railway Engineering Corp. to build an iron ore mine, a port at
 Port Hedland  in  Western Australia  and a railway.  Forrest, known as Twiggy, has a net worth of $3.9 billion
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He holds a 33
percent  stake  in Fortescue, valued at A$3.6 billion ($3.7
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Broader Issues Remain  Only  Gina Rinehart , chairman of Hancock Prospecting Ltd.,
with a net worth of $19 billion, Ivan Glasenberg, chief
executive of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , an Australian citizen
with a primary residence in  Switzerland  and a net worth of $6.1
billion and  James Packer , chairman of  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  with $5
billion, have more wealth in Australia than Forrest.  According to Australian business  law , as long as directors
or officers of a corporation make a business judgment in good
faith, with no material personal interest and rationally believe
the judgment is in the best interest of the corporation, then
they’re deemed to have met the requirement that they discharged
their duties with the required degree of care and diligence.  The High Court ruling doesn’t deal with the broader issues,
such as reliance on business judgment, which lawyers hoped to
get clarified, Georgie Farrant, a partner at  Baker & McKenzie  in
Sydney, said in a phone interview today.  ‘‘We would’ve liked more,” she said. The decision will be
useful for companies making contract announcements, she said  Companies shouldn’t take comfort in Forrest’s victory, Hall
& Wilcox’s Scott said.  Directors and companies still “can’t get away with a
statement that’s dishonest,” she said. Forrest “was quite
lucky.”  The case is: Forrest v.  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission . P44/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  