-- GE Ignores $100 Billion of Cash to Borrow $7 Billion
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-02T15:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/ge-ignores-100-billion-of-cash-to-borrow-7-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is refinancing
$5 billion of debt even as it expects to generate $100 billion
of cash in the next four years, showing confidence in its
ability to invest at returns four times its borrowing costs.  The biggest maker of power-generation equipment sold $7
billion of bonds yesterday at an average 2.58 percent yield in
the parent company’s first issue in almost five years. That
compares with a 12 percent return that Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Immelt said last week the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
firm generates on its capital.  The offering allows the company to use the cash it brings
in for stock buybacks, dividends and  acquisitions . While Immelt
seeks to pare debt at GE’s finance arm, the offering may boost
bonds of the parent by 22 percent to $11 billion next year.  “It’s a no-brainer,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
a telephone interview. “It costs nothing to issue, so why would
they use cash on hand” to pay off maturing obligations?  GE borrows at lower rates than the average for U.S.
investment-grade issuers, whose bond yields  dropped  to an
unprecedented 2.85 percent yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That compares with 2.62
percent for GE, which includes yields on obligations of its
finance arm GE Capital.  Extending Debt  “GE and GE Capital have always been opportunistic about
accessing markets and pre-funding maturities,” Seth Martin, a
spokesman for GE, said in an e-mail. “This GE issuance is
consistent with that strategy, particularly with interest rates
at historically low levels.”  GE Capital, the financing arm, has issued $21.9 billion of
corporate bonds worldwide this year while facing about $80
billion in maturities, according to Bloomberg data and a
December 2011 GE investor  presentation .  By adding $3 billion of 2.7 percent, 10-year bonds and
equal $2 billion portions of 0.85 percent, three-year debt and
4.125 percent securities maturing in 2042 to its balance sheet,
GE will be paying bondholders to push out its debts even after
Immelt told analysts and investors he expects the company to
generate about $100 billion of cash through 2016, according to a
transcript of a Sept. 27 meeting at the company’s leadership
center in Ossining, New York.  Notes Rise  “GE probably figures they have better uses for their cash
at this point than paying off parent-level debt,”  Kathleen Shanley , an analyst at bond research firm Gimme Credit LLC, said
in an e-mail. “It is logical for the company to want to
refinance this offering, especially given the current rock-
bottom interest rate environment.”  Investors who purchased the bonds at issue prices have seen
total gains of more than $150 million in less than a day. GE’s
2.7 percent securities have increased about 1.8 cents on the
dollar to 101.5, yielding 2.53 percent at 10:55 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The 30-year, 4.125
percent bonds are up about 5 cents to 104.6 with a 3.87 percent
yield.  GE may also be taking advantage of  low interest rates  to
raise domestic funds while avoiding U.S. repatriation tax on the
cash the company holds overseas, according to Janney
Montgomery’s Lurie and Alan Shepard of Madison Investment
Holdings Inc. About $53 billion of the company’s $74 billion of
cash and equivalents were held outside the U.S. as of June 30,
according to a quarterly regulatory filing.  Shareholder Rewards  “Companies with substantial cash balances outside the U.S.
are looking to get it back here cheaply,” Shepard, whose
Madison,  Wisconsin  based firm oversees about $16 billion
including GE debt, said in an e-mail. “With rates as low as
they are, debt issuance is a straightforward way to do it.”  GE had $8.6 billion of cash at the end of June, compared
with $66.3 billion held by GE Capital, the filing said.  Most of the new  cash generated  through 2016 will be used to
reward shareholders through equity  dividends , stock buybacks and
acquisitions, Immelt said. While free cash flow at the company
declined 21 percent to $20.7 billion last year, the money
available to reward equity owners and to use to reduce debt is
above the $16 billion recorded in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Cash Transfers  GE Capital also resumed cash transfers to its parent
company in May that were suspended in the aftermath of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. It paid a special dividend of
$4.5 billion and initiated a quarterly payout of $450 million.  Restarting the internal dividend was a milestone in GE
Capital’s recovery from the financial crisis, during which the
unit suffered credit losses of about $32 billion, according to a
 presentation  prepared for the company’s April 25 annual meeting.
Immelt has said he wants to shrink the division’s balance sheet
and decrease its share of GE’s earnings.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its debt  rating  on GE one
step to Aa3 on April 3, citing “heightened risk” from the
finance unit, whose own grade is lower than the parent company’s
for the first time in two decades at A1. The reductions
concluded a review begun March 19 after Moody’s revised the
criteria for financial company ratings.  The new rating reflected “the impact of GE Capital’s
higher risk profile on GE,” in part the funding arm’s reliance
on access to debt markets, Moody’s said. S&P rates GE and
General Electric Capital AA+.  ‘Disciplined Buybacks’  GE Capital  operating profit  of $2.12 billion in the second
quarter accounted for 36 percent of the total, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 48 percent in all of
2007, before credit markets froze. The company’s goal is for the
financial unit to contribute as little as 30 percent of
earnings, according to a  presentation  at the analyst meeting.  “We’ve got more discretionary cash around the company than
any time I can remember,” Immelt said. “We think that’s the
right place to be, disciplined buybacks, smart share
repurchases, focused acquisitions. We’re going to have a lot of
cash and we’re going demonstrate superior capital allocation.”  Immelt is working to boost GE shares that  cost more 
relative to earnings and sales than the Standard & Poor’s 500
index even after a decade of lagging returns by focusing on
units that make jet engines, diesel locomotives and medical
imaging equipment to exploit infrastructure demands in faster-
growing  emerging markets .  PE Ratio  GE’s price-to-earnings ratio of 16 compares with an index
value of 14.7, and its 1.7 sales multiple exceeds 1.4 for the
S&P 500. The  company had lost  18 percent including reinvested
dividends since Immelt took the helm on Sept. 7, 2001 through
last week, compared with a 65 percent gain for the S&P.  While GE may resort to debt-financed shareholder rewards if
its current strategy doesn’t meaningfully boost its stock
performance, yesterday’s bond sale still leaves the company with
an “extremely healthy” financial profile, Hitin Anand, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York, wrote in a report.  “It lets the cash generation be there for other things,”
Anand said in a telephone interview. “Not having any debt in
this market environment would just not be a prudent capital
structure decision for them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  