-- Georgia Is Having a Democratic Counterrevolution
-- B y   T h o m a s   d e   W a a l
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/georgia-is-having-a-democratic-counterrevolution.html
In  Georgia  today they are talking
about the counterrevolution.  The Oct. 1 parliamentary election in Georgia produced the
kind of result that we  don’t expect  from elections in post-
Soviet countries. The opposition won. The governing party of
Mikheil Saakashvili, who came to power in the country’s peaceful
Rose Revolution of 2003, has been defeated by the Georgian Dream
coalition, led by Georgia’s wealthiest man, Bidzina Ivanishvili.  This is the  first time  in 20 years that Georgia -- or
indeed any of its post-Soviet neighbors -- has seen political
change through the ballot box rather than from crowds on the
streets, and Georgia should be congratulated for that. We should
be clear that this wasn’t an election fought by European rules:
Saakashvili and his government  did  everything in their power to
ensure a victory, deploying state resources and a loyal media to
buttress support for the ruling party.  Yet, under heavy Western pressure, they allowed the
opposition to compete. To his credit, Saakashvili recognized a
result that went against him.  Broadly speaking, Saakashvili and his government lost for
two reasons. Over the past nine years they have made impressive
reforms, modernizing the bureaucracy, eliminating petty
corruption and tackling organized crime.  Growing Arrogance  But their economic policies have produced very uneven
benefits. Georgia’s unemployment rate is, by conservative
estimates,  34 percent . Also, the small group governing the
country had developed a sense of entitlement bordering on
arrogance. Saakashvili declared major initiatives -- such as the
incredible idea of building an entire new city of a half-million
people on the Black Sea coast -- without bothering to consult
the wider public.  The officials who have ruled Georgia for the past nine
years have been called the “liberal Bolsheviks.” They  governed 
by revolutionary fiat, without building a proper rule of law. We
saw the dark side of this with the revelations about systematic
torture in Georgian prisons, which helped turn the election in
the opposition’s favor.  This means that the country is now entering a phase of
messy French-style political co-habitation between a president
and parliament in opposition to each other, only without a
robust legal framework or European-style institutions as a
buffer from political turbulence.  Ivanishvili is already calling for Saakashvili to step
down. But under Georgia’s electoral rules, he is allowed to
serve out the entire calendar year of 2013 as president,
retaining his strong executive powers. Only when that term ends
does a new constitution take effect under which the opposition-
majority parliament chooses a new prime minister who will
inherit most of the president’s executive powers. Ivanishvili
has declared his intention to take that job.  How will this play out? We still know too little about the
plans of  Ivanishvili , a man who entered politics less than a
year ago after a decade when he lived as a virtual recluse and
engaged in tremendous philanthropy without appearing in public.  The coalition he has built hangs together mainly for what
it is against -- Saakashvili -- rather than what it is for. It
consists of three main parts. There are democratically minded
urban residents (in the main the people of Tbilisi) who wanted
more freedoms and an end to Saakashvili’s monopoly on power.  There are economically deprived Georgians, mainly in the
countryside, who felt bypassed by the government’s reforms and
who hope that Ivanishvili will give them jobs. Many of these
people frame their hopes in a somewhat xenophobic way, accusing
the current government of having sold out the Georgian economy
to  Turks  and other foreigners. Their agenda also overlaps with
the socially conservative world view of the Georgian Orthodox
Church.  Russia Question  Finally, there is a generation of middle-aged Georgians
who were passed over by the 20-somethings now in government and
who see Georgian Dream as their best route to getting a state
job back.  Ivanishvili will try to mold these diverse groups into a
single whole, but in the long run they can’t hold together. As a
Georgian journalist remarked to me, “Georgian Dream will end up
being a dream.”  The other doubt Ivanishvili has to address is on the  Russia 
question. Saakashvili, who went to war with Russia in 2008, has
accused his rival of being a stalking horse for the Kremlin.
It is a valid criticism but Ivanishvili has so far done a good
job of rebutting it. He did make a fortune -- estimated by
Forbes to be worth more than $6 billion -- in Russia in the
1990s. But so did many other Georgian tycoons, including the
favorite reformer of the Saakashvili government, Kakha Bendukidze. At the time, that was where the money was.
Ivanishvili points out that he moved back to Georgia in 2003,
has sold off his Russian assets over the past year and has
appointed leading pro-Western politicians to his team, affirming
Georgia’s orientation to the West.  The bigger point here is that Georgian voters have had a
year to hear the government’s case that Ivanishvili is a Russian
agent -- and rejected it. Most Georgians have a more pragmatic
attitude to Russia than the current government has and are able
to make a distinction between  Vladimir Putin  and Russia as a
whole. It should not be forgotten that hundreds of thousands of
Georgians work in Russia and that Russia used to be Georgia’s
biggest market.  So there need not be a contradiction in resisting Russia’s
de facto annexation of the breakaway territories of Abkhazia and
 South Ossetia , while pushing for a resumption of trade with
their big neighbor -- although it is Moscow, which imposed a
trade embargo on Georgia in 2006, and not Tbilisi that needs to
make the first step here.  One way of seeing Georgia’s election result is as a
rejection of geopolitics. Voters were more interested in retail
issues than in big strategic questions such as the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization versus Russia. That is probably a
healthy development. Ivanishvili will stand or fall by his
promise to turn around the Georgian economy and bring down
unemployment.  The electoral process itself is a testament to what close
Western scrutiny can do. And  the hope  must be that Georgia is
now acquiring a genuine two-party system, rather than merely
replacing one one-party system with another.  (Thomas de Waal is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal cliff 
and on  New York’s lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the election as  a referendum on Mitt Romney ; Clive
Crook on  finding an unextreme path for Europe ;  Michael Kinsley 
on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates;  Peter Orszag  on  the
widening U.S. longevity gap ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  the silver
lining in the Muslim anti-American riots .  To contact the writer of this article:
Thomas de Waal at  tdewaal@carnegieendowment.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion. 