-- Ghana Plans Cocoa Irrigation as Poor Rainfall Curbs Output
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-10-02T09:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/ghana-plans-cocoa-irrigation-as-poor-rainfall-curbs-production.html
Ghana , the world’s second-biggest
cocoa producer, is planning an irrigation system to ease
farmers’ reliance on rainfall, said Tony Fofie, chief executive
officer of the Ghana Cocoa Board.  “We are looking at sinking boreholes within very large
farms where we can have drip irrigation for the plants,” he
said in an interview in Swedru, in Ghana’s Central region,
yesterday. “The rainfall patterns have actually changed, we
risk losing cocoa in periods of drought.”  The board, which regulates the country’s cocoa industry,
has forecast that production will fall in the 2012-13 season to
800,000 metric tons because of poor weather. Ghana reaped a
record crop in the 2010-11 season of more than 1 million tons,
according to the board. Cocoa was Ghana’s second-biggest source
of foreign currency in the five months through June, earning
$1.8 billion, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  Programs to boost output need rainfall at appropriate times
to be effective, Fofie said. “We can only apply fertilizers
where there is rainfall,” he said. The board also provides
insecticide and other chemicals to farmers to curb the spread of
insects and diseases including black pod rot fungus.  High Temperatures  A pilot irrigation program “will start soon to ensure we
have cocoa all year round,” Fofie said, without saying how much
it would cost. The board has also developed new seed varieties
that can survive high temperatures and droughts, he said. “We
have started distributing some of them to the northern part of
the country, especially the Brong Ahafo region where rainfall is
less,” he said.  Brong Ahafo accounts for about 9 percent of Ghana’s cocoa
production. It shares a border with  Ivory Coast , the world’s
largest producer, and the Western region, Ghana’s biggest-
growing area. Cocoa for March delivery dropped 1.1 percent to
1,560 pounds ($2,520) a ton by 10:21 a.m. on the NYSE Liffe
market in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  