-- Goldman Sees $30 Billion as Structured Sales Soar: Russia Credit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-10-02T13:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/goldman-sees-30-billion-as-structured-sales-soar-russia-credit.html
Investors are buying record amounts
of notes paying returns based on ruble bonds as  Russia  prepares
to open the market to foreigners, triggering inflows  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  estimates may reach $30 billion.  Sales of the structured notes reached $641 million between
July and September, the most since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 1999. Russia’s so-called OFZ bonds gained 3.8 percent
during the quarter as yields tumbled 43 basis points to 7.25
percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. The average yield on
similarly rated Mexican government bonds slipped eight basis
points to 5.7 percent, the indexes show.  Russia plans to expand the investor base for its 3.1
trillion-ruble ($96 billion) Treasuries market by allowing
foreign investors to buy and sell through Euroclear Bank SA, the
world’s biggest bond settlement system, after five years of
discussion. The move will attract $20 billion to $30 billion by
mid-2013,  Clemens Grafe , chief economist for Goldman Sachs in
Russia, said in a Moscow interview on Sept. 27.  “Euroclear will make the Russian domestic bond market more
accessible to a wider range of investors,” Natasha Smirnova,
who helps manage $4 billion of  emerging-markets  assets as a
product specialist at PineBridge Investments in London, said by
e-mail yesterday. “This should result in a bigger, deeper bond
market over time.”  Central Depository  While Mexican bonds have been traded through Euroclear
since 1995, Russia’s Justice Ministry last week registered an
order by the market watchdog listing the settlement systems
allowed to open nominal holder accounts with a central
depository. Trading via Euroclear may happen as soon as December
if a single depository is created by November, Stephan Pouyat,
head of Brussels-based Euroclear’s global product management,
said on Sept. 13. That timescale hasn’t changed, he said by e-
mail yesterday.  Credit Suisse Group AG is the biggest seller this year of
structured notes at $587.8 million, followed by Citigroup with
$244.6 million and JPMorgan with $199.2 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Also known as credit-linked notes, the securities offer
higher yields and tailored maturities that may not be available
in the  bond market . Investors suffer losses if there’s a default
either by the bank issuing the note or the reference entity.  Ruble bonds  returned 3.8 percent in the third quarter,
compared with a 2.6 percent gain for  Indian debt  and a 0.5
percent decline for  Chinese bonds , according to JPMorgan
indexes. Brazil’s bonds rallied 7.5 percent, the data show.  Foreign Ownership  VTB Capital said in July that the 6 percent of the OFZ
market owned by foreign investors may jump fivefold in the first
half of next year once the market opens up. The growth of the
OFZ market and impact on capital flows will depend on the level
of issuance by the  Finance Ministry , Goldman’s Grafe said.  “The $30 billion inflow from liberalization seems
realistic but it could take two to three years,” Euroclear’s
Pouyat said yesterday. “We have to look at it more as a catch-
up compared to other emerging markets, as today the percentage
of foreign investors on OFZ is relatively low. Now, as for how
soon it will catch up, it all depends on how Russia as a country
will perform.”  Russia’s  Finance Ministry  plans to sell as much as 335
billion rubles of so-called OFZ bonds in the fourth quarter, the
biggest three-month offering for at least a year. The government
is selling 130 billion rubles this month, starting with 25
billion rubles of 15-year notes tomorrow.  Ruble Appreciation  The ruble gained 3.6 percent versus the dollar in
September. It slid 0.2 percent to 31.1121 per dollar by 5:07
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
31.6010 per dollar in three months.  Russia is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
third-lowest investment-grade ranking. Russian sovereign dollar
bonds due in April 2020 rose, lowering the yield by six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.685 percent. The yield on
domestically traded notes due in June 2017 lost three basis
points to 7.49 percent. The yield on Russia’s international
ruble bond due in March 2018 declined two basis points to 6.225
percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell two basis points to
142, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps cost 13
basis points less than contracts for  Turkey , which is rated
three levels lower at Ba1 by Moody’s. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Yield Gap  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped five basis points to 202,
according to JPMorgan EMBI Global indexes. The difference
compares with 165 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 153 for
 Brazil , which is rated one step lower at Baa2 by Moody’s.  The yield on ruble government debt has fallen 67 basis
points from this year’s peak on June 4 to 7.25 percent as of
Sept. 28, compared with a decline of 63 basis points for
emerging markets to 5.80 percent, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Market liberalization could spur an increase in foreign
ownership of OFZ bonds to 20 percent from the current 6 percent,
according to Elena Kolchina, head of  Renaissance Capital ’s fixed
income group. Opening up the market could reduce yields by about
100 basis points over the next six months, she said yesterday in
e-mailed comments.  “This trend could be sustained and not a short-term
rally,” Kolchina said. “It could last for years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  