-- Google’s Motorola Drops One ITC Patent Case Against Apple
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-10-02T18:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/google-s-motorola-drops-latest-itc-patent-claim-against-apple.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
said it was withdrawing a patent-infringement complaint it filed
in August against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  at the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Motorola Mobility reserved the right to refile claims
against the iPhone maker, and said there had been no agreement
between the two companies, according to filing on the ITC’s
electronic docket. It gave no reason for withdrawing the
complaint.  A notice of dismissal also was filed in a companion civil
lawsuit filed in a federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and Motorola
Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , have been fighting
about smartphone-related patents since at least 2010 after
licensing talks failed. A non-jury trial on Apple’s claims that
Motorola Mobility violated obligations to license some of its
patents on fair terms is scheduled to begin Nov. 5 in a federal
court in Madison,  Wisconsin .  Neither  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, nor
Christa Smith, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, had an
immediate comment on withdrawal of the ITC complaint. Dockets in
other cases pending between the companies don’t show other
requests for dismissal.  Smartphone Features  The case being withdrawn accused Apple of infringing seven
Motorola Mobility patents on features including interactive
voice commands, location reminders, e-mail notification and
phone/video players. Motorola Mobility, which Google bought in
May, said in August it hoped the filing of the suit -- and the
threat against Apple’s iPhone -- would push the two sides into
settlement talks.  Another case is pending at the Washington trade agency,
which has the power to block imports of products that infringe
U.S. patents. The commission on Aug. 24 cleared Apple of
infringing three Motorola Mobility patents, and told the judge
to consider whether a fourth patent, for a sensor to protect
against accidental hangups, was infringed.  ITC Judge Thomas Pender, in an order dated yesterday, said
he will make a decision by Dec. 21 on that issue.  The case to be withdrawn is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
devices, Computers, and Components Thereof, 337-856, and the
earlier case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication
Devices, Portable Music Data, Processing Data Devices, Computers
and Components Thereof, 337-745. Both are in the U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  