-- Greece Troika Making ‘Good Progress,’ Cyprus’s Shiarly Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-02T16:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/greece-troika-making-good-progress-cyprus-s-shiarly-says-1-.html
Officials from the so-called troika
that oversees euro-area bailouts have made “good progress” in
 Greece , Cypriot Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly will tell a
meeting of the  International Monetary Fund  in  Tokyo  on Oct. 13.  “Since July, the mission has had productive discussions
with the authorities and has made good progress,” Shiarly will
say, according to a draft of his remarks obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Shiarly will address the IMF’s policy-steering committee in
his capacity as head of the European Union council of economic
and finance ministers, according to the draft. His remarks
describe progress stabilizing the euro area amid a “fragile”
global economy, as further challenges remain.  Ireland’s rescue program remains “well on track” and
 Portugal  is “broadly on track,” according to the draft. The
remarks describe  Spain  as “well on track” in implementing
agreed measures as a condition of its financial-sector bailout.  “Euro area leaders are taking all necessary measures to
safeguard the integrity and stability of the euro area,”
Shiarly is due to say. The prepared remarks reiterate the 17-
nation bloc’s pledge to create a single bank supervisor and to
work with Cyprus on a full-fledged rescue program.  Shiarly will welcome efforts by some nations to follow up
on pledges to increase the Washington-based lender’s resources
by $456 billion. Preliminary numbers in the draft suggest that
10 nations will have signed loan agreements of $286 billion by
the time the policy committee meets.  Mexico City Meeting  According to a separate document, the EU plans to urge the
Group of 20 nations to “illustrate in a clear manner” how
better financial-sector regulation can help the global economy
recover from crisis and return to growth.  Heading into a November meeting of finance ministers and
central bankers in Mexico City, the G-20 agenda includes
possible additional growth-supporting measures, a better mix of
short-term and medium-term actions, and “more thorough”
reviews of efforts so far. The EU will urge the G-20 to commit
to “more decisive policy action” on global economic
rebalancing, as well as an updated set of “credible and
ambitious” country-specific fiscal targets, according to the
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  