-- Michelin New York Guide Cites Atera’s Rocky Tasting Menu
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-02T21:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/michelin-new-york-guide-cites-atera-s-rocky-tasting-menu.html
John Muir’s spirit lives on.  Atera, a naturalistic Tribeca restaurant featuring three-
hour tastings of edible rocks, organs, shells and coal,
sometimes served on beds of moss or hay, was the sole debut
entrant to the two-star category in this year’s Michelin  New
York  City 2013 guide.  Chef Matthew Lightner charges $165 for his 20-plus course
tastings at Atera. After wine pairing, tax and tip, dinner for
two will cost just under $700.  Lightner “shows a style of cooking that is not only unusual
but pretty much unique in New York,” said Michael Ellis,
international director for the Michelin Guide, during a phone
interview. “Does everything always taste fabulous? Maybe not,”
Ellis said, adding that at Atera “you find food that you
will not find anywhere else.”  Blanca was the only new Brooklyn entrant into the starred
category. The 12-seat Bushwick venue, which began accepting
reservations from the public only in August, sells a $180
tasting that includes caviar, truffles and Wagyu, pretty fancy
for a place located inside a converted garage.  $79 Chicken  The NoMad, run by Eleven Madison Park’s  Daniel Humm  and
Will Guidara, won a star for a menu that includes a $79 truffle
and foie-gras stuffed chicken. And Torrisi Italian Specialties,
the high-end red sauce joint that went from walks-ins only to
reservations-only in the past year, earned its first star today.  Torrisi charges $160 for a 20-plus course tasting, or $65
for a shorter set menu.  Local food writers have been touting the virtues of Torrisi
for years, as well as the pleasures of 15 East, a sushi spot
that earned its first star as well today.  David Chang ’s Momofuku
Ssam Bar and Noodle Bar, however, continued their star deficits.  Michelin frequently takes stands at odds with local
reviews.  The “guide rouge” awarded a star to Hakkasan in the
Theater District, a Chinese restaurant that  New York Magazine 
derided as “Ruby Foo’s for rich people.”  “Hakkasan is less about exposing  New Yorkers  to
traditional Chinese luxuries, than using expensive Western
ingredients in vaguely Eastern dishes as a DJ plays club
music,” I wrote in my review.  Paper Clips  Pete Wells of the New York Times  wrote  that Hakkasan’s
“prices are too high for extremely restrained portions of food
that is, in too many cases, about as interesting as a box of
paper clips.”  The Sichuanese Cafe  China  and Lan Sheng were also new
honorees, giving New York a total of three Michelin stars for
Chinese restaurants. Jungsik, the high-end import from  Seoul ,
was awarded a star as well.  All of New York’s three-starred restaurants maintained
their rankings. They are: The Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare,
Daniel, Eleven Madison Park,  Jean Georges , Le Bernardin, Masa
and Per Se.  Besides Atera, the two-starred restaurants include  Gordon
Ramsay  at The London, Corton, Gilt, Marea, Momofuku Ko and Soto.  Kajitsu, which serves shojin cuisine, an ancient style of
vegetarian food developed in  Japan ’s Zen Buddhist monasteries,
lost its second star after its star chef left the restaurant.  Three stars means exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tire maker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and Lili Rosboch on
 art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 