-- Life-Span Gap Skews Entitlements Toward the Well-Off
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-10-02T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/life-span-gap-skews-entitlements-toward-the-well-off.html
As policy makers peer into the abyss
below the fiscal cliff, they are beginning to talk about making
changes to Medicare, and perhaps even  Social Security . When
looking at these programs, they would be wise to take into
account the widening gap in life expectancy -- a gap defined by
education and income.  Since better-educated, higher-income Americans are living
longer than everyone else and therefore collecting benefits
longer, Medicare and Social Security are becoming less
progressive on a lifetime basis. Fortunately, there are ways to
offset this gap.  The average life expectancy at birth in the U.S. is now
 78.7 years . But in life expectancy, as in many things, averages
obscure many details.  Higher-income people have pretty much always lived longer
than lower-income people. In the early 1970s, however, the gap
started expanding rapidly. In measuring this phenomenon,
researchers typically look at education, rather than income,
because education is correlated with lifetime income but is not
affected by bouts of ill health, which can skew the relationship
between current income and health status.  In 1990, 20-year-old white women who had at least a college
degree were expected to live to age 81, while those with less
than a high-school degree were expected to reach 79, a  recent
study  in Health Affairs found. By 2008, however, that two-year
gap had widened to more than 10 years. For 20-year-old white
men, the difference grew from five years in 1990 to 13 years in
2008.  Changing Expectations  Other studies show a similar pattern: For people high on
the scale of socioeconomic status,  life expectancy  is rising at
a decent clip. For those at the bottom, it is stagnant at best -
- and in many cases is actually declining.  A complicating factor in these analyses is that the kind of
people who lack, say, a high-school diploma today are different
from those who didn’t have one in the past. Still, it is clear
that the gap is growing for reasons that go beyond this
selection effect.  One of these is smoking, which hasn’t declined as quickly
among less-educated people as it has among the highly educated.
 Other reasons  include changes in marriage patterns and social
ties, and the economic return that education brings.  “Education exerts its direct beneficial effects on health
through the adoption of healthier lifestyles, better ability to
cope with stress and more effective management of chronic
diseases,” the authors of the Health Affairs article write.
“However, the indirect effects of education through access to
more privileged social position, better-paying jobs and higher
income are also profound.”  One clear implication is that boosting people’s education
has important benefits in addition to productivity. Yet that
won’t have much impact on people already well along in their
careers, and the longevity gap is widening even among people on
the verge of retirement. Just since 1990, the difference in life
expectancy between the most- and least-educated 65-year-olds has
grown by almost five years.  For programs such as Social Security and Medicare, the
consequences are easy to see. Consider the present value of $1
that a white man turning 65 can expect to receive each year of
his remaining life. In 1990, when the best-educated men could
expect to live an additional 16 years and the least-educated, 15
years more, the difference in the present value of that $1
amounted to about 5 percent. By 2008, when the men at the top of
the scale could expect to live five years longer, the present-
value gap was more than 25 percent.  In our 2005 book, “ Saving Social Security ,” the economist
 Peter Diamond  and I argued that the formula used to set people’s
annual Social Security benefits should be made more progressive
to offset the increasing gap in life expectancy.  Medicare Effect  When it comes to Medicare, offsetting the longevity gap is
a bit more challenging, because there is no straightforward
formula to work with. (It is also less clear what the level of
lifetime progressivity for Medicare is in the first place. While
most studies suggest that Social Security remains moderately
progressive on a lifetime basis, the evidence on Medicare is
mixed. One major study found it to be regressive on a lifetime
basis, and another did not.)  If Medicare were shifted to a premium-support program -- a
change that  would create   other problems ,  as I   have explained  --
the widening divide in life expectancy would justify a much
larger annual subsidy for people at the bottom of the  income
distribution  than for those at the top. Given how the program is
structured now, however, policy makers should look for still
more ways to link copayments to income, as is already done for
Medicare Part B and Part D premiums.  Negotiations in  Washington  over how to address the fiscal
cliff offer an opportunity to update both Medicare and Social
Security to offset the trends in life expectancy. Although we
may not be able to do anything immediately to lengthen the lives
of America’s poorest and least-educated people, we can at least
even out the resulting differences in their lifetime Social
Security and Medicare benefits.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal cliff 
and on  New York’s lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the election as  a referendum on Mitt Romney ; Clive
Crook on  finding an unextreme path for Europe ;  Michael Kinsley 
on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates; Meghan L. O’Sullivan
on  the silver lining in the Muslim anti-American riots ; Thomas
de Waal on  Georgia’s democratic counterrevolution .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  