-- Tim Falls as Shareholder Alleges Earnings Fraud: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-10-02T22:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/tim-falls-as-shareholder-claims-earnings-fraud-sao-paulo-mover.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  dropped to a 19-
month low after a minority shareholder said his complaint
prompted Brazilian and U.S. regulators to investigate the
telecommunications company’s financial statements for fraud.  Tim, the Brazilian unit of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , slid 3.8
percent to 7.57 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the
lowest since March 2011. It sank as much as 9.4 percent earlier
in the day.  Minority shareholder Nelson Tanure said he filed a
complaint with regulators that alleges Tim bolstered reported
profit by provisioning only 126 million reais ($62.2 million)
for a potential tax delinquency of 6.6 billion reais. In a
 regulatory filing , Tim said it is aware of the complaint and
that the allegations of fraud are false.  “This procedure helped inflate the company’s profits under
the administration of Luca Luciani,” Tanure said in an e-mailed
statement. “Had the company followed the conservative
management practices of previous administrations, profits would
have been half of what was reported in 2011.”  Brazil ’s regulator, known as the CVM, and the Securities
and Exchange Commission in the U.S. are investigating the
complaint of irregularities, according to Tanure’s statement.  Efforts to reach Luciani, Tim’s former chief executive
officer, weren’t successful. He left the company and “gave up
all his mandates,” Telecom Italia said in a May 5 statement. A
Milan prosecutor filed a request in June to indict Telecom
Italia and three former executives including Luciani in
connection with SIM-card fraud at the domestic mobile phone
unit, according to a court document.  Provision Audit  “It’s not the first time there are rumors of problems in
Tim’s balance sheet,” Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at brokerage
Socopa Corretora, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “It’s always
worrisome. I wouldn’t be comfortable as a shareholder with these
rumors going around. But it needs to be investigated.”  JVCO, the investing group through which Tanure filed the
complaint, said in a reply to e-mailed questions that it had
notified Tim before contacting regulators, and that it asked for
a specific audit on the provisions regarding tax issues, which
it says were reduced during Luciani’s management.  “Telecom Italia is acting with no concern for Tim’s
interests, going against Brazilian law and harming the company’s
reputation,” JVCO said.  Tim said it hasn’t been notified of any investigation by
the SEC or the CVM.  “The reports are completely untrue, wrong and
misleading,” Tim said in the regulatory filing. “The company
is evaluating judicial measures to preserve its interests and
the interests of its shareholders.”  Nothing New  Press officials at CVM and  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment.  “This wasn’t new -- all these numbers were there before,
they were public,” said Roger Oey, the head of research at BES
Securities do Brasil SA in Sao Paulo. “It’s unlikely they’ve
done the irregularities suggested.”  Shares pared losses after Tim released its statement.  Tim shares have declined 18 percent this year, while the
Bovespa gained 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  