-- IMF Revises Bulgarian GDP Growth Forecast to 1% From 0.8%
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-10-02T14:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/imf-revises-bulgarian-gdp-growth-forecast-to-1-from-0-8-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
raised this year’s economic growth forecast for Bulgaria to 1
percent from a 0.8 percent estimate on April 17, citing stronger
domestic demand boosted by European Union aid.  The economy will expand 1.5 percent next year “as exports
recover,” the IMF said in an e-mailed statement today.
Bulgaria’s 2012 budget deficit is on track at 1.25 percent of
gross domestic product, the IMF said, and urged the government
to keep it unchanged next year. Average inflation will be 2.5
percent this year, according to the IMF.  “Strong buffers and steadfast policy implementation have
allowed Bulgaria to maintain stability in a challenging
environment,” the IMF said. “However, growth remains weak,
unemployment is high, and the economy remains exposed to
external risks, particularly from the euro area crisis.”  Bulgaria , the EU’s poorest country in terms of economic
output per capita, weathered the global crisis without borrowing
from international lenders. Growth slowed to 0.5 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, the same as in the first
three months. The government works to cut the budget gap to help
contain the fallout from the euro debt crisis.  The government needs to “resist pressures” for wage
increases and transfer any budget over performances to the
fiscal reserve, the IMF said.  Growth in bad bank loans reached 16.7 percent of total
lending in June, while “strong deposit growth and subdued
credit demand have boosted liquidity buffers,” the IMF said,
assessing the bank system as stable.  Bulgaria’s economy grew 1.7 percent last year, after a
revised 0.4 percent in 2010. The European Commission forecasts
the economy to expand 0.5 percent this year and 1.9 percent in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  