-- In China, Mistresses and Corruption Go Hand in Hand
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-10-02T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/in-china-mistresses-and-corruption-go-hand-in-hand.html
Which came first? The corruption or
the mistresses? In  China , they most often go together.  The stories abound: from the corrupt official in Fujian
who, in 2002, held the first (and only) annual  competition to
judge which of his 22 mistresses  was most pleasing, to Liu
Zhijun, the former railway minister deposed in 2011 for
allegedly  embezzling the equivalent of millions  of dollars --
and  maintaining a relatively modest 18 mistresses . The
association is so strong, in fact, that it’s all but taken for
granted in China that when an official falls due to his -- and
it’s almost always a he -- misdeeds and miscalculations, the
mistresses will be uncovered next.  And so, when  Bo Xilai , the now deposed former Chongqing
party secretary once widely expected to ascend to China’s ruling
Politburo Standing Committee, and his wife were first connected
to corruption and  murder  this spring, rumors of mistresses
accompanied the allegations. Of these rumors,  the most
spectacular involved Zhang Ziyi , the popular Chinese actress
best known in the West for her starring role in “Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon” (and her  friendship with Wendi Deng
Murdoch ). Zhang’s lawyer has denied the allegations, going so
far as to insist Zhang has never met Bo, and the movie star is
suing media outlets which reported the accusations.  Nonetheless, there were supposedly many other women
involved with Bo, including  other starlets , and though nobody
was able to prove anything, the rumors didn’t disappear. Rather,
they intensified in the absence of news about what had happened
to Bo since the Communist Party took him into custody in March. 
Would  he be prosecuted? And on what crimes?  Official Incompetence  An answer arrived early last Friday evening, just as China
was packing up for its National Day holiday. Xinhua, the state-
owned news agency, published  a story detailing Bo’s alleged
crimes . Most were predictable -- bribery, embezzlement and
official incompetence -- and did not make much of a ripple on
China’s microblogs. What did cause a stir was a short, curiously
worded sentence found in the middle of the Xinhua story: “Bo had
or maintained improper sexual relationships with a number of
women.”  Within a few hours, the phrase “had or maintained improper
sexual relationships with a number of women”  became a trending
topic  on Sina Weibo, China’s leading microblog, and it has
remained one ever since. This, in itself, is astonishing:
China’s Internet censors are a famously prudish bunch,
especially when it comes to the private lives of high-ranking
Communist Party leaders (including the deposed ones). In fact,
until this weekend, various terms related to Bo (including his
name associated with Zhang Ziyi)  had been blocked  as search
terms on Sina Weibo.  But around the time the Xinhua story appeared, those blocks
began to disappear, and Chinese netizens started making
observations and asking questions of the sort rarely allowed
about top officials and their personal lives. Take, for example,
this earthy but pointed  tweet  to Sina Weibo from Qu So, a sex
advice columnist in Shanghai:  “Party officials can always be found in improper affairs
with women. Bo Xilai … couldn’t be exempted from those
conventions and it was proven he was having affairs with a large
number of women. This fact shows that Party officials are also
human. In addition to talking about the Party spirit every day,
they drop their pants to talk about humanity.”  Ethical Feelings  The trenchant observations on official China’s sexual mores
aren’t confined to sex columnists. Some of China’s best-known
writers have also staked out positions on this previously barred
topic and started questioning what role the mistress allegations
have in the overall prosecution of Bo Xilai and other corrupt
officials. The answer, as enunciated in a scathing  tweet  by Cao
Lin, a prolific young columnist at China Youth Daily, the
official newspaper of China’s Communist Youth League, is that
having mistresses isn’t a crime so much as a symptom of the
widespread moral and ethical failings of Chinese officialdom.  “‘Had or maintained improper sexual relationships with a
number of women’ is merely the most attention-grabbing
accusation attached to corruption; it is the additive that makes
corrupt people lose the last of their reputations. However, it
seems that there isn’t an official who’s lost his position just
because he ‘had or maintained improper sexual relationships with
a number of women.’ Officialdom is a pit: If there’s abuse of
power, there must be sex; if there’s sex there must be an
exchange of money for power.”  Nobody is going to be prosecuted for sex; it’s the
widespread abuse of power, and the buying of selling of it,
that’s the issue. Cao’s is a provocative point that calls into
question the prevalence of corruption in the Chinese Communist
Party. It is, however, a point largely missed by those Chinese
netizens who spend their time commenting on Bo and his alleged
affairs. On Sina Weibo, to name just one microblog, netizens are
 positively obsessed  with obtaining the names of Bo’s many
alleged mistresses. According to a Sunday  tweet  by Liang Peng,
an independent newspaper columnist and blogger, this gossipy
obsession is a self-inflicted (and perhaps Party-inflicted)
distraction:  “The phrase ‘had or maintained improper sexual
relationships with a number of women’ cannot only ruin a person,
but it can also divert our attention. Using the phrase ‘a number
of women’ without naming the women results in endless rounds of
gossip rather than a focus on the crimes that he committed.”  For now, as much of China enjoys a lazy holiday week, the
netizens, at least, seem content to be distracted. The phrase
“had or maintained improper sexual relationships with a number
of women” is everyone’s favorite punch, the contemporary Chinese
equivalent of LeBron James’ “I’m taking my talents to Miami.”
The line has even been  inserted into classic Chinese poems .  Private Lives  Nonetheless, there are exceptions to the characteristically
lighthearted banter. In recent days, for example, one of the
most popular jokes circulating on Sina Weibo compares the
details of Bo’s personal life -- especially  the penchant for
mistresses  -- to that of Mao Zedong. There are several varieties
of the tweet, but the most popular version is, more or less,  the
one  posted by Yan Lailai, a senior reporter at China’s Life
magazine:  “He had improper sexual relationships with a number of
women; he had awesome calligraphy; his assistant used to be his
close comrade and then attempted to defect; his wife was given a
suspended death penalty and his son has gone abroad; he started
the trend of singing Red songs, and he fought the evil powers.
He is always living in our hearts. He, the man, is our great
Chairman Mao!”  If the goal of publicizing Bo’s personal failings was to
embarrass him, the wide circulation of this joke suggests that
the strategy was a poor one. Bo Xilai is no Mao Zedong, that’s
for sure, and nobody will mistake the two. But it certainly
can’t hurt Bo, or help the Communist Party, if China’s netizens
are being reminded that the Party’s founder was a philanderer,
too.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .
 