-- Intelligence Exits Washington, Vacancies Rise: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-10-02T22:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/intelligence-exits-washington-vacancies-rise-mortgages.html
A guard clutching an assault rifle
and another with a German Shepherd block the entrance to a
parking garage on a quiet street in Arlington, Virginia, gateway
to the  Defense Intelligence Agency .  Heavy security at 3100 Clarendon Boulevard may not be
necessary next year when the DIA, whose mandate is to protect
the U.S. from surprise attacks, is scheduled to leave the
250,000 square-foot (23,000 square-meter) building.  Office vacancies in the  Washington  area have risen to the
highest since 1991, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
the government implements the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure
Act and other cost-cutting efforts. Another $1.2 trillion of
automatic spending cuts are projected over the next nine years
as part of last year’s Budget Control Act, a  deficit reduction 
plan agreed to by Congress and President  Barack Obama , adding
pressure to landlords including  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  who are
scrambling to find new tenants for buildings housing contractors
and some of the Washington area’s most secret agencies.  “Certain submarkets are going to suffer when these move
outs occur, exposing a lot of space that all of a sudden is
going to be on the market,” said Lad Duncan, a  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based analyst for  Wells Fargo Securities LLC .  Government agencies with leases set to expire because of
base realignments and closures occupy more than 4.5 million
square feet of  office space  in Arlington and Alexandria,
Virginia that will be free by 2015, the bank estimates. More
than a third of the leases are slated to expire by the end of
the year.  Bond Exposure  Debt tied to six buildings with leases affected by the
forced moves totals at least $2.8 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Wells Fargo. While the loans are
included in 12 commercial-mortgage bond securities that have
$36.4 billion outstanding, vacant office space can lower rents
in a region and punish unrelated buildings whose debt is in
other CMBS deals, analysts at Wells said.  An index tied to prices of commercial mortgage bonds
created before markets crashed have risen 12 percent this year
as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holds  interest rates 
near zero and commercial property markets show signs of
recovery.  While there are improvements, losses are starting to show
up in higher-rated deals, particularly those made in 2006 and
2007, Bank of America Corp. analysts led by  Alan Todd  wrote in a
September report. “It is only a matter of time until losses
begin to creep up the capital stack,” Todd said.  Biggest Loser  Vornado stands to lose the most of the property owners with
exposure to Department of Defense-related lease expirations,
said John Guinee, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization from Washington D.C. and Virginia properties made
up about 26 percent of its overall earnings in the quarter
ending June 30, with the biggest concentration of space in
Arlington.  “The buildings are old and particularly stylized and
poorly located,” making it harder to find new tenants, Guinee
said.  Ownership of bearish Vornado options contracts,
representing bets the company’s shares will decline, rose to a
four-year high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares rose 0.5 percent to $80.71 in  New York , after sliding 2.7
percent last quarter, including reinvested dividends. That
compares with a 0.5 percent loss for the  16-member office index.   ‘Perfect Storm’  “Washington today is experiencing the perfect storm:” the
base realignment plan, the government “trying to be more
efficient, a presidential election, and a budget standoff
creating uncertainty,” Michael Fascitelli, chief executive of
Vornado, said in an Aug. 7 conference call.  Vornado predicts 2.4 million square feet of  Department of
Defense  lease expirations because of realignment and
consolidation, and estimates earnings this year from that
segment will be as much as $60 million less than last year, the
company said in a filing.  Other real estate investment trusts at risk from agency
relocations include  Corporate Office Properties Trust (OFC) , a
Columbia, Maryland-based REIT with U.S. government, defense- and
computer-related clients and data centers, and Piedmont Office
Realty Trust, owner of the DIA-occupied 3100 Clarendon Boulevard
in Arlington, according to Guinee. A Corporate Office Properties
Trust spokeswoman didn’t return calls seeking comment.  ‘Soft-Marketing’  Piedmont has only one building with the Department of
Defense as a tenant, and no debt on the property, according to
Kerry Hughes, a spokeswoman for the company. Other Piedmont
buildings are occupied by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration , according to the company’s Web
site.  The DIA’s lease has an early termination option in 2013
requiring at least a one-year notice and Piedmont has yet to
receive that, Hughes said. The company is “soft marketing” the
space, she said in an e-mailed statement.  Defense Intelligence Agency spokeswoman Laura Donnelly said
the lease expires next year and the DIA intends to relocate
personnel to other locations in Northern  Virginia  before then.  Atlanta-based Piedmont said in an August conference call
with analysts that it has undisclosed plans to redevelop the
property once the agency vacates.  “That location is fantastic, the building itself is pretty
good,” said  Donald Miller , Piedmont’s chief executive officer.
Until they hand in notice, “it’s hard to get in and do a lot of
work because it’s a very secure facility.”  Increased Vacancies  Even companies without government tenants should brace for
the impact of agency relocations, as increased vacancies
throughout Arlington and Alexandria will probably lead to weaker
demand in suburban Virginia, according to Wells Fargo’s Duncan.  Office vacancies in the Washington, D.C. metro area rose to
14.7 in the second quarter, the highest since 1991, from 13.3
percent a year earlier, according to CBRE Group Inc. data
compiled by Bloomberg. The national rate, which has been
declining since the first quarter of 2011, is 17.2 percent, Reis
Inc. figures show.  The rate of Washington area office loans packaged inside
CMBS that are 30 days late or more surged to 9.65 percent in
September, compared with 3.68 percent a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. rate was 9.77 percent in
September, Bloomberg data show.  Special Servicer  A $678 million loan on a Vornado property, Seven Skyline
Place, one of the six with leases affected by the forced moves,
was transferred to a special servicer in March. The  Defense
Information Systems Agency  relocated from the building to Fort
Meade late last year leaving 430,000 square feet empty,
according a July Wells Fargo report.  While more tenants are expected to follow when their leases
expire, Answer Analytics, a research group serving the  Air
Force , signed in June to backfill about 20 percent of the space,
according to the report.  Compounding the agency moves out of northern Virginia, the
White House Office of Management and Budget said in a report to
Congress on Sept. 14 that  federal budget  reductions through
2021, known as sequestration, would require chopping $54.7
billion from defense programs in fiscal 2013.  Lawmakers imposed the policy on themselves for failing in
2011 to negotiate a deal to cut deficits by at least $1.2
trillion over a decade. The across-the-board reductions were
devised by Democrats and Republicans last year as last resort in
case no plan emerged. They’re scheduled to begin in January
unless Obama and Congress reach a deal to delay or alter them.  Virginia Economy  Virginia, home to the Pentagon and the Norfolk naval base,
along with Hawaii and Alaska, would have the most risk to its
economy from the planned cuts, according to a July Bloomberg
Government study. Almost 14 percent of Virginia’s gross domestic
product comes from defense spending, the report found.  The government cuts may temper demand further for
commercial real estate in the Washington area, where companies
from Lockheed Martin, the government’s top contractor last year,
to Science Applications International Corp. are based.  Science Applications International, one of the top
suppliers to both the Health and Human Services and Homeland
Security departments, has been monetizing its real estate
holdings and said it may sell its corporate headquarters in
McLean, Virginia which “may add further strain to an office
market already weakened” by base closures, Lea Overby, debt
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York said in a report
last month. Science Applications, which said on Aug. 30 it plans
to separate into two independent companies, will see much of its
leased space expire over the next year, according to Nomura.  The full effects of the potential defense cuts and the
impact of the Base Realignment and Closure Act have not been
seen, according to Guinee. “Bottom will not hit until 2014 to
2016,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  