-- Iron-Ore Swaps Little Changed as China Break Slows Trade
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-10-02T12:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/iron-ore-swaps-little-changed-as-china-break-slows-trade.html
Iron-ore  swaps were little changed as
trading slowed on holidays in  China , the biggest importer of the
commodity used to make steel, according to SSY Futures Ltd., a
unit of the world’s second-largest shipbroker.  Fourth-quarter contracts declined 0.2 percent to $107 a dry
metric ton, according to George Bushnell, an iron-ore
derivatives broker at SSY in  Singapore . Chinese markets are
closed this week for national holidays, curbing interest in the
contracts, he said in an e-mail today.  The price of physical iron ore with 62 percent content at
the port of Tianjin was unchanged at $104.20 a ton for a fourth
session today, data from The Steel Index Ltd. showed. Trading in
the swaps will more than triple this year as investors use the
derivatives to bet on Chinese economic growth and steel demand,
according to Freight Investor Services Ltd., the largest broker
of the contracts.  “There’s nobody really chasing it in either direction,”
SSY’s Bushnell said. “Potentially a bit more activity can be
expected on swaps tomorrow, but in relative terms liquidity
remains thin, as is to be expected with physical iron ore
flat.”  The Chinese government has been “disappointingly inactive
so far” and  steel mills  need to cut production,  Daniel Brebner ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in an e-mailed
report today. The Asian nation approved plans last month to
build roads, subways, railroads, sewage-treatment plants, ports
and warehouses, prompting speculation that steel demand would
benefit.  Government intervention in 2013 may help lift iron-ore
prices above $120 a ton, according to the report. The country’s
steel production may top out at 750 million tons a year, about
10 percent above current levels, Deutsche Bank estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  