-- Iron Ore Heads For Bear Market: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-04T02:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/iron-ore-heads-for-longest-bear-market-in-20-years-commodities.html
(Corrects name of company in last paragraph for a story
published on Oct. 3.)  Iron ore , the commodity most
leveraged to China’s growth and Australia’s biggest export
earner, is heading for the longest bear market in 20 years.  Vale SA (VALE3) , Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , which
control about two-thirds of seaborne iron ore supply, are
spending about $47 billion on new and bigger iron ore mines from
Brazil to Australia. The new cargoes are set to reach the global
market just as China changes gear to lower growth expectations,
following what may become its weakest performance since 1990.  “We’re already seeing the beginning of the end of the
first phase of economic development in China,” Alberto Calderon, chief commercial officer of Melbourne-based BHP, which
is spending about $1 billion a month on its ore mines in
Australia, said last month at a conference in Canberra. “The
pace of demand for iron ore from China has slowed down by more
than half.”  Prices reached a record $191.90 a metric ton on Feb. 16
last year and may plunge as low as $50 a metric ton before the
middle of next year, according to  Andy Xie , a former Morgan
Stanley chief Asia-Pacific economist. They haven’t traded at
that level since contract prices were set at $47 a ton in 2006.
The supply of iron ore to China, the world’s second-biggest
economy, has helped secure 21 recession-free years for
Australia, forecast to earn about $65 billion from the commodity
this year.  Short Sellers  “The price of iron ore is the canary in the coal mine,”
 Kieran Davies , chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney,
said in a note. It’s seen as an indication of the economic
outlook for China and Australia, he said in a phone interview.  Australia’s central bank yesterday cut  interest rates 
because of a worsening outlook for commodity industries.  Iron ore’s turnaround is luring some of the world’s most
high-profile short sellers, including  Jim Chanos , who oversees
about $6 billion as the founder and president at Kynikos
Associates Ltd. He’s targeted producer  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) , which at one point made  Andrew Forrest  Australia’s richest
man as iron ore rose more than sixfold from 2001 to 2008 on
Chinese demand.  Forrest’s net worth has plunged by 14 percent this year to
$3.9 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than
97 percent of his wealth is linked to shares of Fortescue. Gina Rinehart, who became Asia’s richest woman after her father
discovered minerals that helped create Australia’s iron ore
industry, has seen her wealth plunge $1.2 billion, or 5.7
percent, this year to $19 billion, the data show.  No Recovery  Yvonne Ball, a spokesman for Fortescue, declined to comment
on Andrew Forrest’s wealth. An e-mail to Hancock Prospecting
Pty,  Gina Rinehart ’s company, wasn’t answered.  Iron ore producers have lost 29 percent of their market
value from this year’s high in February, according to the
Bloomberg Industries iron ore mining index.  As the slump in commodity prices erode valuations, Noble
Group Ltd. and South Korean investors this week bid A$1.01
billion ($1.04 billion) for  Arrium Ltd. (ARI) , the Sydney-based
producer previously known as OneSteel Ltd. Arrium has rejected
the offer, saying it was too low and conditional.  Bidders for Arrium, grouped under Steelmakers Australia,
also include Posco Australia Pty, National Pension Service of
Korea, Korea Investment Corp. and Korea Finance Corp.  Price Forecast  Iron ore may average $96 a metric ton in 2017, compared
with $167.60 last year, according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Prices are set to fall for
four consecutive years starting in 2014, according to the
survey. They last fell for three straight years from 1992 to
1994, according to data from Merrill Lynch & Co.  Prices for immediate delivery at the Tianjin port in China
touched a near three-year low of $86.70 a ton on Sept. 5, the
lowest since October 2009, according to a gauge compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. They’ve fallen about 40 percent this past year
to $104.20 a ton, while Rio’s market value has fallen by 9
percent and Vale’s by 8 percent.  “The uncertainty over there in the last two months has
grown tremendously,”  Andrew Keen , global head of metals and
mining equity research at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an
interview in Singapore on Sept. 24. “The equity market is
already dismissing any recovery in the iron ore market.”  Surplus Looms  Steel demand in China may have peaked last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries, adding to the mounting
signals of an industry step-change. Sichuan Hanlong Group, a
Chinese investor in highway and power projects, in August cut
the price of its takeover bid for Australian iron ore mine
developer  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  by 21 percent, while BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, mothballed an estimated $22
billion iron ore port expansion.  “Steel demand growth had been stagnant, or even dwindled,
since the fourth quarter of last year, leading to some dramatic
changes in the iron ore market,” Zhang Changfu, general
secretary of the China Iron and Steel Association, told the 12th
China International Steel & Raw Materials Conference, on Sept.
27 in Dalian. “Iron ore supply is gradually moving into
surplus.”  An iron ore surplus looms in 2015 after capacity expansions
in Brazil and Australia, the biggest exporters, help boost
global seaborne exports by about 35 percent from 2010 levels,
Citigroup Inc. said in a report last month. BHP, which flagged
China’s shift of economic focus from infrastructure to the
consumer, last month warned investors not to expect record
prices to be sustained with increased production.  Crashing End  “The high price in the past decade has sucked vast amounts
of money into developing new mines,” Xie, a former  World Bank 
economist, said in a Sept. 5 note, adding that prices may stay
down permanently as steel demand is unlikely to grow as building
of highways, railroads and properties has peaked. “This story
will come to a crashing end.”  Brokerages are trimming iron ore price forecasts, with
Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s largest investment bank,
downgrading estimates by as much as 25 percent for the next few
years, citing revisions to its China steel demand outlook. Since
2004, China, the fastest growing major economy, has spent an
average 8 percent of GDP on steel, 16 times higher than the
average U.S. rate and far in excess of the global average of 1.6
percent, Citigroup said in a July report.  Some Delays  “There’s a lot of supply coming into the market in the
next few years, which is going to lead to oversupply and lower
prices in the medium and longer term,” Ian Roper, CLSA Ltd.’s
Shanghai-based commodity strategist, said at a Sept. 11 briefing
in  Hong Kong . He’s forecasting a price of $75 a ton in 2015.
“On the demand side, China is structurally definitely moving to
a lower pace of growth.”  While some expansions have been delayed because of
declining prices, Rio, which says it’s sold more than 1 billion
tons of iron ore to China since 1973, BHP and rivals are
pressing ahead with capacity increases.  These two, and Fortescue, may boost output 65 percent in
the next five years to 703 million tons, Citigroup said in a
Sept. 3 report, referring to a “building wave of Australian
exports.” Rio has an approved spending budget of $22.4 billion
on ore projects underway, while BHP is spending $8.4 billion.
The proposed BHP port expansion at Port Hedland was estimated at
$22 billion by Credit Suisse Group AG in an April 12 report.  ‘Golden Years’  Steel production in China, the world’s biggest maker,
reached a six-month low in August, according to figures compiled
by Bloomberg. A preliminary reading for a Chinese purchasing
managers’ index signaled manufacturing contracted for an 11th
month, HSBC Holdings and Markit Economics said on Sept. 20.  Vale said in August that China’s so-called golden years are
over as economic growth slows. China’s industrial output in
August grew at the slowest pace in three years and President Hu Jintao said the economy faces “notable downward pressure.” Its
GDP growth for 2014 is estimated to drop to 8.4 percent from
10.4 percent in 2010, according to a June forecast by the World
Bank. China accounts for 65 percent of seaborne iron ore demand.  Steel output has been the touchstone of China’s economic
progress as the building of roads, railways and real estate
helped keep China’s average annual growth above 10 percent over
the last decade. This prompted ore prices to surge from below
$20 a ton last decade, aided by a 4 trillion  yuan  ($635 billion)
public spending program from 2009.  Slowing Economic Expansion  China’s steel production growth may slow to about 3 percent
to 5 percent annually the next five years on slowing economic
expansion, Xu Xiangchun, chief analyst with Mysteel.com, said
from Beijing. Output may gain 3.2 percent to 705 million tons
this year, from 683 million tons last year, Xu said, less than
half the 8.9 percent growth recorded in 2011.  “Should China’s annual steel output grow by below 5
percent in the next few years, and miners keep expanding under
the current plans, the iron ore market will turn into a glut and
prices will trend lower,” Henry Liu, Hong Kong-based analyst
with Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., said by phone.  To be sure, iron ore prices have rebounded 20 percent since
this month’s low and China’s government has demonstrated an
ability to pump money into the economy to spur steel-intensive
investment. It last month approved building of as much as 2,018
kilometers (1,254 miles) of roads and subway projects across the
country. Nomura Holdings Inc. estimated the total value of
projects approved at about 1 trillion yuan.  Steel Barometer  “Steel is the barometer of China’s economy and fixed-asset
investment is the foundation of China’s urbanization progress,
which will take at least a further decade, and iron ore prices
follow steel,” said Wu Wenzhang, co-founder and chairman of
researcher Steelhome.cn. “China has plenty of room to drive up
the economy by implementing investment plans.”  The effects of lower prices are being felt in Western
Australia, the home of the industry. The state’s revenue grew a
less-than-expected 5.5 percent to A$25.2 billion last fiscal
year, driven by lower royalties imposed on producers, the
government said in a Sept. 26 statement. Lower iron ore prices
are “placing significant strains on the state’s finances,” it
said. Every $1 drop in the ore price cuts annual royalty income
by A$33 million, according to the government.  Marginal Mines  Fortescue, Australia’s third-largest iron ore exporter,
last month cut its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion, involving jobs cuts and deferral of projects,
while Perth-based developer  Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA)  last month
said it would trim spending on its A$6 billion Pilbara Iron Ore
project with AMCI Inc.  Some “marginal” mines in Australia may face closure as
the commodity price boom ends, Resources Minister  Martin
Ferguson  said Sept. 18 after the nation reduced its iron ore
price forecasts for this year and next. From the end of 2008
through July, no major currency appreciated as much as
Australia’s dollar, thanks to booming shipments of iron ore and
other commodities to China. The currency traded at A$1.0210
against the  U.S. dollar  as of 4:26 p.m. Sydney time, down from a
post-float record of A$1.1081 in July last year.  “A fall in iron ore prices is a reduction in our overall
income, and it’s likely we’ll see some slowdown in Australian
economic growth,” Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George
Bank Ltd., said by phone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  