-- J&J Experimental Diabetes Drug Helps High-Risk Patients
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-02T20:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/j-j-experimental-diabetes-drug-helps-high-risk-patients.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s experimental
diabetes drug lowered blood sugar for the most vulnerable
patients in two studies, including older people who struggle to
control the condition and those at high risk of  heart disease .  Two company-funded studies presented today at the European
Association for the Study of Diabetes in Berlin found side
effects included infections and lowering blood pressure and
blood sugar too far in some patients. The drug may be the first
to reach the U.S. market after  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  failed to win approval in January of a rival
medicine, dapagliflozin, because of cancer and safety concerns.  The number of people with diabetes is surging worldwide as
the population ages and grows heavier. The U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention estimates 1 in 3 Americans may be
diabetic by 2050. Drugs to treat the condition  generated  $39.2
billion in 2011, making it the third-largest market for
pharmaceuticals. Still, millions of people fail to get their
blood sugar to target levels, leading to new  drug development .  “These studies are to test whether this mechanism and this
drug will be safe and well-tolerated in these more vulnerable
populations,” said Kirk Ways, canagliflozin development team
leader for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J. “It’s important
for regulators and physicians to see this information. The
efficacy data is encouraging and the safety results were similar
to those seen in less-vulnerable populations.”  FDA Filing  The results support the company’s May filing for U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval of canagliflozin, Ways said in
a telephone interview.  J&J fell less than 1 percent to $68.96 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 8.3 percent in the past 12 months.  Canagliflozin and similar drugs known as SGLT2 inhibitors
block the kidneys from routing sugar taken from the blood back
into the body, and instead excrete it in the urine. Existing
diabetes drugs decrease sugar production or increase levels of
the hormone insulin that convert the sugar to energy.  While the industry has struggled to prove the novel
medicines are safe for long-term use and significantly improve
health, about a dozen are in development.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s empagliflozin,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and
Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.’s tofogliflozin and  Astellas Pharma
Inc. (4503) ’s ipragliflozin are in the final stages of study.  Study Results  Adding J&J’s canagliflozin to standard treatment for 18
weeks significantly lowered blood sugar in part of a late-stage
study of 1,718 patients at high risk for heart disease who had
already been taking insulin for an average of 7.1 years.
Patients on the drug lost more weight and had lower blood
pressure than those given a placebo, while cholesterol levels
and hypoglycemia rates rose. Genital and urinary tract
infections, low blood pressure and increased urination were also
more common.  A second late-stage study found adding canagliflozin to
existing therapy for six months helped control blood sugar
levels in 714 patients with an average age of 64 who were
struggling with the disease. Low blood sugar was more common in
patients getting the drug than those given a placebo, with one
person experiencing a severe episode, the study found.  “The low  blood pressure  events were not serious and, as
expected in patients on insulin under better glucose control,
hypoglycemia rates were increased,” Ways said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  