-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed on Spain Bailout
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-02T23:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-on-spain-bailout.html
Japanese  stock   futures  were little
changed on mixed signals over whether Spain will request a
bailout. Australian futures rose, signaling shares may extend
yesterday’s rally fueled by a central bank interest-rate cut.  American depositary receipts of camera maker  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
which gets 31 percent of its revenue in Europe, fell 0.3 percent
from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker by market value, rose 0.3 percent
after its U.S. sales jumped 42 percent last month. ADRs of
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , Australia’s fourth-biggest lender
by market value, advanced 0.6 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,790 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,780 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,790
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index added 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
gained 0.2 percent in Wellington. Markets in China and  South
Korea  are closed for a public holiday today.  “You’ve got a lot of uncertainty at the moment, and I
think the market is going through a little bit of a
consolidation phase,” said Cameron Peacock, a Melbourne-based
market analyst at IG Markets, a provider of trading services for
stocks, bonds and currencies. “Will Spain request a bailout?
You’ve got U.S. presidential elections in five weeks and you’ve
got a fiscal cliff looming at the end of the year.”  The fiscal cliff refers to U.S. budget negotiations,
including automatic tax increases and spending cuts that may be
triggered if deficit-reduction efforts fail.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 7.2 percent this year
through yesterday as policy makers boosted stimulus measures to
counter a global economic slowdown and tame Europe’s debt
crisis. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.8 times for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 12 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its benchmark interest
rate yesterday to the lowest level since 2009 amid a deepening
global slowdown. Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered
the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter point to 3.25
percent.  Futures on the S&P 500 fell less than 0.1 percent today.
The index added 0.1 percent in New York yesterday as a rebound
in Apple Inc. overshadowed disappointment after Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said a bailout request is not imminent.
Spanish regional presidents met in Madrid yesterday after
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the nation is pressing on
with its analysis of whether to seek a bailout.  In China, the government is scheduled today to release a
measure of non-manufacturing industries for September.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent to 92.3 in New
York yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  