-- Johnny Rotten Takes Anarchy to U.S. as Public Image Tours
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/johnny-rotten-takes-anarchy-to-u-s-as-public-image-tours.html
John Lydon is about to give  North
America  a righteous blast of post-punk hellfire.  The man sometimes known as Johnny Rotten tonight starts a
tour with Public Image Ltd., the band he formed after the Sex
Pistols. Recent shows in his native U.K. point the way: The
Florida gigs will be nasty, noisy, not pretty and a hard listen
-- yet highly recommended for hard rock fans.  The group has spent the summer stripping off the U.K.’s
smiley Olympic-pop veneer and the continuing prominence of
commercial stars such as Jessie J.  Since 1978, Lydon has been the only constant member of PiL,
which expands punk’s nihilism with dub reggae and the pulses of
German acts such as Can. Lydon’s current supporters are able to
do justice to his back catalog and also responsible for a new
CD, “This is PiL,” a career highlight.  Shows start with the caustic disco of 1983’s “This Is Not
a Love Song” before plummeting into the recent “Deeper
Water.” The demented groove of “Death Disco” is mixed with
the repeated theme from “ Swan Lake .”  Bruce Smith  and Scott Firth
mesmerize with motoric drums and bass.  Lu Edmonds shreds the air with electric guitar and more
exotic amplified instruments such as the saz (a sort of long-
necked oud) and the cumbus (a fretless Turkish banjo.)  Lydon remains the high priest, his thinning hair spiked
vertically, his eyes a gargoyle stare.  He howls, sneers and spits out his vocals with a demented
intensity, over-enunciating like an obsessive-compulsive Welsh
speaker. Ridiculous, clumsily dramatic, with a menace of
violence, Lydon is the living embodiment of an old English Punch
and Judy show.  Rating: ****.  The Public Image Ltd. North American tour starts tonight in
Orlando,  Florida . It continues through Nov. 3, including dates
in Miami, Washington DC, Philadelphia, New York, Boston,
 Montreal , Toronto, Detroit, Chicago,  Minneapolis , San Francisco,
 Los Angeles , San Diego, Dallas, Houston and Austin.  Information:  http://www.pilofficial.com/shows.html  and
 http://www.johnlydon.com/jlhome.html   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on London stage and  Ryan Sutton  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 