-- Johnnie Walker Could Gain in India as Mallya Struggles
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-03T10:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/johnnie-walker-could-gain-in-india-as-mallya-struggles.html
For years,  Diageo Plc (DGE)  has sought to
shore up its operations in India, where it accounts for a tiny
fraction of whiskey sales. Now, a struggling airline may give
the world’s biggest distiller the chance it needs to gain a
stronger foothold in the world’s biggest whiskey market.  As Vijay Mallya’s  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  has been
battered by high fuel costs and falling ticket prices, the
Indian billionaire has expressed a willingness to sell part of
his  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  to Diageo.  A deal would help Diageo, based in  London , bolster its
position in a $21 billion whiskey market where a maze of
regulations and taxes restrict foreign liquor producers. Diageo,
the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch, trails global rival  Pernod
Ricard (RI)  SA in the country and has failed in past efforts to close
a deal with Mallya.  Diageo has “never been able to secure a market in India as
Pernod Ricard and United Spirits have,” said Sharan Lillaney,
an analyst at Angel Broking in Mumbai. For the U.K. distiller,
“this is the best move. You get a company that is among the
largest in the world, excellent distribution network, excellent
contacts everywhere.”  United Spirits rose 0.95 percent to close at 1,250.80
rupees today after gaining as much as 5.7 percent earlier in the
day. Kingfisher Airlines dropped 4.9 percent to 14.60 rupees
today.  Kingfisher Airlines will need a capital injection of $600
million in the next two months after defaulting on loan payments
following five years of losses, industry consultant CAPA Centre
for Aviation said in August. Mallya -- worth $1 billion as of
March, Forbes  reports  -- owns about 36 percent of Kingfisher
through his own holdings and affiliated companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ’King of Good Times’  Kingfisher this week canceled all its flights through at
least Oct. 4 after locking out striking workers it said were
intimidating other employees.  The gregarious Mallya, who has called himself “The King of
Good Times,” owns  India ’s biggest brewer,  United Breweries
Ltd. (UBBL) , which sells Kingfisher beer. The 56-year-old tycoon also
owns a 95-meter (311-foot) yacht called the Indian Empress, a
stake in the country’s only Formula One racing team and a
cricket squad named Royal Challengers Bangalore.  Diageo and United Spirits have courted each other before
with no success, so a deal is far from certain. In 2009, the
British company sought a minority stake in Bangalore-based
United Spirits. Talks collapsed after the Indian distiller said
the offer was too low.  Whyte & Mackay Sale?  Mallya could demand a high price again or choose to put
United Spirits’s Whyte & Mackay Scotch whisky brand up for sale
to raise money if the Diageo talks fail, analyst Lillaney said.
United Spirits shares  closed  up 1.9 percent at 1,239.05 rupees
on Oct. 1, giving the distiller a market value of 162 billion
rupees.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for the UB Group, the Mallya
conglomerate that controls United Spirits, declined to comment
on the status of the Diageo talks.  Reaching an agreement with United Spirits would help Diageo
in its goal of boosting sales in Asia from about 14 percent of
revenue today to 20 percent by 2015, according to Gilbert Ghostine, Diageo’s president for the region.  “In India, you have 20 million consumers coming into legal
drinking age every year,” Ghostine said in an interview in
 Singapore  on Oct. 1. United is “the leading local player...
It’s a very attractive business.”  Drinking Big  Indian retail sales of whiskey grew 12 percent in 2011 to
reach $21.1 billion, almost four times the U.K. and nearly
triple  France , according to researcher Euromonitor
International. With foreign spirits facing a 150 percent import
tax, Indians prefer domestic whiskeys such as the top-selling
McDowell’s and No. 2 Bagpiper, both made by United Spirits.  Non-Indian brands make up just 1 percent of liquor sales,
according to Kepler Capital Markets, a weakness due largely to
the heavy taxes foreigners face. At a mom and pop store in New
Delhi’s Vasant Vihar neighborhood, a 750-milliliter bottle of
Johnnie Walker Black Label Blended sells for 3,430 rupees --
about 60 percent more than the typical price in the U.S.
United’s Bagpiper Gold Premium, by contrast, costs 260 rupees
and McDowell’s Signature runs 610 rupees.  Rohit Sharma, assistant manager for food and beverage at Le
Meridien hotel in New Delhi, insists the price difference is
warranted. Domestic whiskeys, made from local water and aged far
less than genuine Scotch, simply don’t taste as good, he said in
Nero, the hotel’s upscale bar. With local brands, he said, “the
quality is not very high.”  Many Indians seem to be coming to the same conclusion.
Diageo says its  sales  rose by 24 percent in India for the year
ended in June.  Supplying India  A deal with United Spirits would give Diageo the
distribution it needs to  boost sales  in India. The British
company has less than 1 percent of the Indian spirits market,
versus Pernod’s 9 percent and United Spirits’s 44 percent, UBS
AG estimates.  United Spirits offers “a ready-made structure for Diageo,
which is very hard to replicate,” said Ankur Bisen, an
associate vice president with Technopak Advisors Pvt.  In Scotch, Diageo has  about  20 percent of the Indian
market, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates, about what United has
with Whyte & Mackay and Jura, Scottish brands the Indian company
owns.  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  has 24 percent of the Scotch market with
Teacher’s, and Pernod holds 21 percent with its Royal Stag, 100
Pipers and Ballantine’s brands.  Increased Investment  Diageo sells Smirnoff vodka and Rowson’s Reserve, a
domestic whiskey it introduced last year, and the company has
been increasing investment in India and adding salesmen and
distribution. In 2002, Diageo sold Gilbey’s Green Label, India’s
No. 3 whiskey brand, to focus on its international spirits, the
company said at the time.  Pernod’s stronger position comes from its  purchase  of
Seagram Co. in 2001, which gave the Paris company a portfolio of
domestic whiskeys such as Blenders Pride and Royal Stag. Pernod
declined to comment on Diageo’s prospects in India, but said the
country remains a priority.  United Spirits’ operating  margins  are 13 percent compared
with Diageo’s 34 percent, Kepler Capital Markets estimates. A
joint venture with Diageo that distributes higher priced Scotch
could help boost United’s profitability.  With a deal, Diageo would have “better distribution than
Pernod in India and be much bigger,” said  Ian Shackleton , an
analyst at Nomura in London. The two companies “can make two
and two equal five in a way that others can’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  