-- Kaine-Allen Virginia Senate Race Mirrors Top of Ticket
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-02T15:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/kaine-allen-virginia-senate-race-mirrors-top-of-ticket.html
In no other U.S. Senate race is the
outcome more linked to the presidential contest than the battle
between former governors Tim Kaine and George Allen in Virginia,
a state that may also determine the winner at the top of the
ticket.  The race represents a rare pairing of former elected
officials who left office with high approval ratings. Both have
taken tours on the national stage -- Allen as a Republican U.S.
senator who made a brief presidential run; Kaine as chairman of
the Democratic National Committee who was on the vice
presidential short list in 2008.  Their messages on the economy and government  spending  are
almost indistinguishable from Republican  Mitt Romney  for Allen
and President  Barack Obama  for Kaine. Much like the presidential
race, the outcome will probably be decided by a narrow sliver of
independent voters and may depend upon the ability of
Republicans to win back female voters.  “They’re both so tied to the top of the ticket,” said
Quentin Kidd, a political science professor at Christopher
Newport University in Newport News, Virginia. “They’re prize
fighters of the same weight, they hit the same.”  While some polls show Kaine, 54, with an edge, the race is
virtually tied and the winner will partly depend on which
campaign better mobilizes voters. Also like with the White House
contest, jobs, the economy and fiscal issues are commanding the
airwaves in the final stretch of the campaign for a seat that
will help determine which party controls the U.S. Senate.  Spending Cuts  Fiscal issues are amplified in the Old Dominion with
automatic spending cuts set for January expected to hit the
state’s defense industry hard, as  Virginia  is home to the
Pentagon, military installations and a string of Defense
Department contractors. Unless Congress acts to avert them, the
defense cuts would amount to $55 billion annually.  According to Kantar Media’s CMAG, in the past 90 days all
of the 2,110 ads for the race sponsored by the Democrat-run
Majority PAC and 5,150 of the spots paid for by  Crossroads
Grassroots Policy Strategies , the Republican nonprofit
supporting Allen, take aim at the opposing candidate’s record on
tax-and-spending issues.  “What Virginians are seeing probably looks a heck of a lot
more like what we’re going to spend the last eight weeks of this
year talking about,” said Jennifer Duffy, a Senate race analyst
at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in  Washington . “Right
now, there are few places with as much at stake” as Virginia.  Gender Gap  A significant gender gap could favor Kaine. Historically,
women favor Democrats and men favor Republicans. This year, the
advantage women are giving Democrats is greater than the
preference men express for Republicans, said Bob Holsworth, a
Virginia political scientist and former professor at Virginia
Commonwealth University.  Women voters in Virginia have been inundated with headlines
about state-level attempts to curtail abortion rights, including
a new law that requires women to have an ultrasound before
undergoing an abortion.  Soon after the Nov. 6 election, both parties’ fiscal
proposals will take on greater national significance as Congress
debates the $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts over 10 years and
tax increases set to take effect in January and seeks to strike
a deal to reduce the U.S. budget deficit.  ‘Different Philosophies’  “Kaine is someone who believes very clearly that you need
to hit both the spending side and the revenue side, Allen has
been far more of the ‘no tax camp,’” Holsworth said. “At the
core, they have different philosophies.”  Allen advocates a flat tax, expanded oil exploration and a
balanced budget amendment to limit government spending. Kaine
proposes a menu of spending cuts and tax increases for
individuals earning more than $500,000 a year, in addition to
investments in education, infrastructure and alternative energy.
Obama wants to lets tax cuts lapse for the top 2 percent of U.S.
households, or income exceeding $200,000 a year for individuals
and more than $250,000 for married couples, one area where he
and Kaine differ.  Both candidates have run their campaigns figuring that what
happens at the top of the ticket will closely track their own
prospects, though Allen may be more dependent on a Romney
victory in the state than Kaine is on an Obama win, Holsworth
said.  Crossover Voters  “Allen had been running almost grounded in the assumption
Romney would win Virginia,” Holsworth said. “It’s very
difficult to see how Allen could separate himself from Romney to
get Obama-Allen voters.”  In an interview, Allen said he is hoping to win some of
those crossover voters, including Virginians who benefited from
jobs he brought to the state as governor and those who support
divided government. “There are those voters,” he said.  During a roundtable discussion yesterday with small
business leaders in the Washington suburb of Alexandria, Allen
cast Kaine as a tax-and-spender who would hurt the state’s
economy.  “Raising taxes doesn’t create any jobs, maybe at the IRS,
but it doesn’t create jobs in the private sector,” said Allen,
who said the U.S. government could raise more than $1 trillion
by opening more land for oil and gas exploration. “If you want
more revenue, have a pro-growth agenda.”  Top Earners  Kaine says it isn’t possible to balance the  federal budget 
without spending cuts and  tax increases  for top earners, which
would facilitate investments in education and infrastructure
that will create jobs.  “I developed some scar tissue and some backbone as
governor by having to make so many cuts, by handing my successor
a smaller general fund budget than the one I inherited,” he
said. “I know how to do cuts, I know how to do them the right
way without hurting the economy, but I also know very powerfully
that if you’re only cutting you’re making a mistake.”  The battle over fiscal issues and defense spending cuts
took center stage at a Sept. 20 debate in Northern Virginia.  Allen, 60, cited his early opposition to the 2011
legislation that established the cuts because of the risks to
Virginia’s defense industry and attacked Kaine for supporting
the agreement. His website recently opened with a picture of a
chained iron gate and the headline “Devastating job losses for
Virginia.” According to a study by George Mason University,
defense cuts could lead to the loss of 136,191 jobs in the
state.  Defense Sequester  At the national level, Romney has waded into the issue by
blaming Obama for the threatened cuts, and House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  has labeled it “the president’s defense
sequester.”  According to Allen’s “Blueprint for America’s Comeback,”
he would trim Medicaid and other programs such as food stamps to
control government spending. He also says Medicare must be
overhauled to “protect the program from going broke.”  The 2011 budget agreement was bipartisan, passed with the
votes of the Republican leadership, including House Majority
Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia. Kaine has called it “flawed but
necessary,” to allow for an increase in the  debt ceiling . He
says Allen lacks a detailed proposal for averting the cuts.  As part of his fiscal plan, Kaine wants to allow the
government to negotiate lower prescription drug prices that
would save Medicare $240 million over 10 years and end breaks
for the five biggest  U.S. oil companies , which he says would
save $24 billion.  Economic Clash  “Virginians, Virginia businesses especially, really want
to know what we are going to do to avert some kind of a major
economic clash this year,” Kaine said in an interview last
week. “They want specifics from candidates.”  Duffy, the Senate analyst, said while it’s doubtful that
most voters are familiar with the details of Kaine and Allen’s
plans, the election in Virginia can be viewed as a referendum on
those policies as they mirror the positions of the presidential
candidates.  “You can, in some ways, see each as a microcosm for their
party’s point of view,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  