-- King’s Successor Must Be More Like Chairman, Lewis Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/king-s-successor-must-stand-back-amid-new-powers-lewis-says.html
Bank of England Governor Mervyn King’s successor will have to limit involvement in the bank’s
daily activities to cope with the breadth of new powers, said
Stephen Lewis, an economist at Monument Securities Ltd.  The position will be more like that of a chairman of a
company, with greater authority resting with the deputy
governors, said Lewis, a four-decade veteran of  London ’s
financial industry and a former schoolmate of King’s. The bank
is getting unprecedented powers over financial stability and
regulation to add to its monetary-policy remit.  “I’m sure he’d be very reluctant to give up the monetary-
policy role, but the next governor will have to stand back a
little,” Lewis said in an interview yesterday. “Mervyn enjoys
getting to grips with the economic-policy issues, but the future
governor won’t have the luxury of time to get involved with the
debate at that level of detail.”  The race is on to replace King when he retires in June,
with applicants having until Oct. 8 to inform the Treasury of
their interest. Lewis said Paul Tucker, the deputy governor for
financial stability who has spent more than 30 years at the
central bank, deserves to get the top job as he understands the
challenges of absorbing the new powers.  “He wouldn’t be tempted to follow in the footsteps of
Mervyn because he’s seen the difficulties that Mervyn’s got
into,” he said. “Mervyn ran afoul of the institutions the bank
is supposed to be supervising, he’s not very popular in banking
circles, and that may well impair the abilities of the future
governor if he’s in a similar position.”  As the financial crisis gripped the U.K. five years ago
with the run on Northern Rock Plc, King was criticized by
lawmakers for an excessive focus on moral hazard and moving too
slowly to provide assistance to lenders.  ‘All Change’  King, 64, is retiring after completing the maximum of two
five-year terms. Lewis was a classmate of his at Wolverhampton
Grammar School, located in an industrial and mining city 130
miles northwest of London. Lewis began his career in financial
markets with Phillips & Drew in 1970 and became director of
economic research in 1985. He was a founding partner of The
London Bond Broking Co,. which subsequently became a division of
what is now  Monument Securities .  In a note published yesterday, “All Change at the Bank,”
Lewis said the government may struggle to find a suitable
candidate for Bank of England governor.  “There is despair in some quarters over finding an
individual who might be capable of undertaking all the
responsibilities of the office,” he said. “There almost
certainly is no one highly-skilled at fashioning monetary
policy, who also has an excellent grasp of regulatory issues and
has the air of authority and the charisma to argue the bank’s
case successfully in public.”  Shortlist  Bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH)  has Tucker as favorite to
succeed King, at odds of 7-4, meaning a winning 4-pound ($6.50)
bet would yield a 7-pound profit. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney is at 5-2, Financial Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner is 3-1 and former chief U.K. civil servant Gus O’Donnell
is 5-1. John Vickers, chairman of the Independent Commission on
Banking, is 10-1.  Charles Bean, the deputy governor for monetary policy, will
also retire next year. Recent precedent indicates that Chief
Economist Spencer Dale would be the favorite to replace Bean,
though given the increased power of deputy governors such a move
would be “very interesting” for markets, Lewis said.  “He’s been noticeably more hawkish than the consensus on
monetary policy,” he said. “He’s been markedly less friendly
to continuing quantitative easing.”  Markets Director Paul Fisher would probably replace Tucker
were the latter to become governor, and Fisher would be replaced
by Andy Haldane, now the executive director for financial
stability, Lewis said.  The deputy governors will have a more prominent role as the
governor’s position is “stripped down” to only its essentials,
Lewis said. These include representing the BOE in Parliament and
at the Group of Eight and Group of 20 meetings. The new chief
will have to be less involved with details such as supervising
individual institutions under its new powers, he said.  “We have to reinterpret the role of governor so that it’s
no longer a hands-on executive position, but it’s more like a
chairman of a private company,” Lewis said. “It’s only going
to be a problem if we all expect the new governor to be the kind
of hands-on governor we’ve grown used to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  