-- Kingfisher Must Pay Wages Before Flying Again, Official Says
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-03T00:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/kingfisher-must-clear-wages-before-flights-resume-official-says.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that’s grounded its fleet and not paid staff since April,
must settle wages before it can resume flights, according to an
official at the nation’s civil aviation ministry.  The airline’s  management  was told about the requirement at
a meeting yesterday, said the official, who declined to be
identified citing government rules. Half of the carrier’s staff
have been paid for March and the rest will get these wages soon,
Kingfisher’s Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal told
reporters after the meeting in New Delhi. He didn’t comment on
pay for subsequent months.  The decision increases pressure on Kingfisher’s billionaire
Chairman  Vijay Mallya , who is seeking to raise cash by selling a
stake in a liquor maker after an almost-yearlong failure to find
an investor for the airline. The Bangalore-based carrier has
halted flights through at least tomorrow after locking out
employees who were protesting about not being paid.  “Either it will close down now or with great difficulty
survive for another 30 days, unless there’s an investor,” said
Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair Consulting, a New Delhi-based
company that advises carriers. “It’s sad they are putting the
blame on employees, because nowhere in the world anyone would
accept this kind of situation.”  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman at Kingfisher, didn’t reply to
questions about when the company would be able to pay salaries
or find an investor. The airline has about 4,000 employees.  The carrier intends to pay outstanding wages using 600
million rupees ($11.5 million) in frozen bank accounts, the
management said at yesterday’s meeting, according to Arun Mishra,
the Director General of Civil Aviation.  Stake Sale  Kingfisher also said it’s in advanced talks on a stake sale
with two overseas airlines and it aims to conclude a deal within
three months, according to Mishra. The government ended a ban on
local operators selling stakes to foreign airlines last month.
Kingfisher has been seeking investment since at least November,
when it also announced flight cuts because of losses.  The airline will make a decision tomorrow about when it
will resume services, Aggarwal said. Talks are under way with
employees and the carrier will submit a plan to the regulator in
a couple of days, he said.  Halved Losses  The shutdown has let Kingfisher halve its daily losses to
40 million rupees, Mishra said, citing comments made in the
meeting. The airline has 10 planes, comprising seven Airbus SAS
A320s and three Avions de Transport Regional turboprop aircraft.
It has enough staff for 60 planes, Mishra said.  The  carrier , which has posted five straight annual losses,
fell by its daily limit of 5 percent to 15.35 rupees in Mumbai
trading Oct. 1. The stock has declined 27 percent this year. Jet
Airways ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s largest listed carrier, and
budget operator  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  have both more than doubled.
Markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  The strike includes engineers who perform pre-flight safety
checks, Aggarwal said. The carrier asked police to help some
staff who were physically restrained by striking employees when
they tried to go to work, Mishra said. Some Kingfisher employees
have stayed away for two weeks, Mirpuri said in a text message
Oct. 1.  Kingfisher, named after Mallya’s flagship beer brand, has
slumped to sixth from second in domestic market share after
paring services and losing passengers because of flight
disruptions. It had a 3.2 percent share in August, the lowest
among six carriers.  The carrier has a  long-term debt  to total capital ratio of
162 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 58 percent at Jet and 76 percent at SpiceJet Ltd.  Cash Injection  Kingfisher’s founders have contributed 11.5 billion rupees
since April 1, Mallya told  shareholders  on Sept. 26. The
billionaire is in talks to sell a stake in  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) ,
the largest distiller in India, to Diageo Plc.  In July, Kingfisher scrapped about 40 flights a day after
some  employees  refused to work because they weren’t paid. The
services were restored later. The carrier also delayed payments
to banks, airports, tax authorities and fuel suppliers.  The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against 64 billion rupees of  debt . It is also in
talks with banks and lessors after they invoked 8.4 billion
rupees of financial guarantees its parent provided.  Kingfisher has asked banks for additional working capital
loans and for more time to pay existing loans, two bankers
familiar with the matter said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  