-- Christie Orders Newark Budget Cuts as Price of State Aid
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-10-02T19:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/new-jersey-to-order-spending-cuts-in-newark-christie-says-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said his administration will order spending cuts in  Newark  as
the state’s largest city starts its 10th month without a budget.  Christie told reporters today that it is “ridiculous”
that the city of about 277,000 people, 12 miles (19 kilometers)
west of  Manhattan , hasn’t approved a plan for the year that
began Jan. 1. Newark will have to agree to unspecified cuts if
it wants state aid to balance its budget, Christie said.  Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , 43, proposed a spending  plan  in
February. The City Council hasn’t approved it.  “Saying they’re late is like being kind,” Christie, a 50-
year-old Republican, told reporters today after touring a
hospital in Flemington. “We are looking very carefully at this
budget and I’m unsatisfied with the efforts of this
administration and the city council to cut back that budget.”  Kim DeHaarte, a spokeswoman for Booker, a Democrat who has
been named as a possible candidate to run for governor against
Christie in 2013, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment.  Newark has been in decline for decades. In 1967, 26 people
were killed and 725 injured during six days of race riots. The
city, which has lost more than a third of its population since
the 1930s, has the 10th-highest  poverty rate  among major U.S.
municipalities. It also suffers from persistent crime. Rape has
soared 29 percent this year through Sept. 2, even as murders
fell 17 percent.  ‘Shame on Me’  The state gave Newark a $32 million loan last year and the
city ended the year with an $18 million surplus, Christie said.
Newark has again asked for $24 million, and Christie said he
doubts it needs that much. The governor said he expects to reach
an agreement with city leaders on a financial-aid package.  “Last year I stepped up, the state did, and gave them a
$32 million loan,” he said. “What did I find this year? They
had an $18 million surplus from last year on my $32 million
loan, OK? Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on
me.”  Booker, a Rhodes Scholar and Yale University-educated
lawyer, became mayor in July 2006 and is midway through his
second four-year term. He has pledged to turn Newark around by
luring investment and reducing crime. The Prudential Center 
arena opened in downtown Newark in 2007, and Panasonic Corp. 
of  North America  broke ground on headquarters in May.  Tweets Galore  A frequent Twitter user with 1.2 million followers, Booker
has sent more than 19,000 messages about everything from
responding to city residents’ complaints about garbage to
sending inspirational quotes about being a leader or getting an
education.  In 2010, Booker faced an $83 million deficit in a $605
million budget as the recession cut revenue and Christie reduced
aid to towns and cities. Booker raised property taxes 16
percent, sold 16 city-owned buildings and eliminated about 800
jobs, including 167 police officers.  Newark’s 2012 application for transitional aid, which helps
cities in financial distress, cited a structural deficit,
increased pension and health-care costs and a reliance on non-
recurring revenue from a settlement with the  Port Authority  of
 New York  and  New Jersey . Booker’s spending plan called for a $10
million cut in departmental expenses, to $327 million.  Budget Hole  This year’s budget had a projected $75 million gap that was
reduced to $25 million partly as a result of a tax-lien sale,
fines related to red-light traffic cameras and sales of taxi
medallions, according to the aid request.  State Senator Ronald L. Rice, a Democrat from Newark, said
the City Council is working on a budget and doesn’t need
Christie’s threats. The city’s financial woes are partly because
Booker isn’t being an effective leader, said Rice, whom Booker
defeated for mayor in 2006.  “You have a mayor who, to be quite frank about it, all he
does is run around the country and tweet folks,” Rice said by
telephone. “Nobody’s really in charge of  city hall . He acts
like the city hall isn’t an equal branch of government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  