-- Next Agrees to Sell Taiwan TV to Lien at NT$1.4 Billion
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-02T17:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/next-agrees-to-sell-taiwan-tv-to-lien-at-nt-1-4-billion.html
Next Media Ltd. (282) , the Hong Kong
publisher controlled by Jimmy Lai, reached an agreement to sell
its unprofitable Taiwan TV business to the chairman of rival ERA
TV for NT$1.4 billion ($48 million).  Next signed a non-binding agreement to sell Next TV
Broadcasting Ltd. to Lien Tai-sheng, according to a Hong Kong
stock exchange filing dated Oct. 1 and released yesterday. Lien
is chairman of closely held Taipei-based ERA Communications
Inc., operator of ERA TV.  A sale, to include closing Next’s video-on-demand Internet
service, comes after two consecutive annual losses caused by the
unprofitable move into TV broadcasting. Next, known for its
animations depicting news including Tiger Woods’s car accident
and Conan O’Brien’s television career, lost HK$1.17 billion
($151 million) at its TV and multimedia unit for the year ended
March 31, according to its annual report.  “The possible transaction allows the group to rationalize
and focus its resources on profitable operations, which should
in turn enable the group to improve overall business
performance,” Next said in yesterday’s filing.  Services at its video-on-demand operations will cease Oct.
31, Next said yesterday.  Lien paid a deposit of NT$140 million that may be forfeited
if he and Next can’t reach a formal agreement by Oct. 21, Next
said yesterday. The deadline can be extended on the agreement of
both parties. The statement identifies Lien as the purchaser and
doesn’t mention his company.  Daniel Chang, a spokesman for Next Media Group in Taipei,
said on Oct. 1 that the deal will take effect Jan. 1 if a formal
contract is inked.  Next Media, which posted revenue growth the past two years,
entered the TV business three years ago and battled with Taiwan
authorities to secure licenses for its news and entertainment
channels.  On Sept. 4, the company said it was in early talks to sell
its Taiwan assets, including Next Magazine, Apple Daily and
Taiwan Sharp Daily.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  