-- JPMorgan Suit May Worsen Next Crisis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-02T22:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/noble-intentions-don-t-make-up-for-flawed-lawsuit-view.html
The economic damage wrought by a
handful of financial firms has left the American public
clamoring for a pound of flesh. This week,  New York  Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman tried to satisfy that desire. He chose
a curious first  scalp .  Schneiderman, who is co-chairman of a state-federal
mortgage-fraud task force created by President  Barack Obama , hit
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  with a  lawsuit  alleging the kind of
deceptive behavior all too common in the run-up to the financial
crisis: creating and marketing defective mortgage-backed
securities that blew up on investors. The conduct, however, took
place not at JPMorgan but at Bear Stearns, the investment bank
JPMorgan bought in a government-arranged sale as the financial
crisis was unfolding.  Holding JPMorgan responsible for Bear’s sins might be a no-
brainer had this been a normal market transaction. But the
circumstances surrounding the acquisition were anything but
routine. Over a panic-stricken weekend in March 2008, the U.S.
pushed JPMorgan to buy Bear. Worried about the effects of a
bankruptcy on the broader financial system, the government
sweetened the deal by  agreeing  to purchase $30 billion of Bear’s
risky mortgage assets.  Discounted Price  True, JPMorgan bought Bear for a song, paying $10 a share,
or $1.5 billion for a company with more than $11 billion in
common equity. That steeply discounted price reflected the risk
JPMorgan was assuming. Unlike a typical acquisition, which
involves due diligence and book-scrubbing, the deal closed in a
matter of days.  JPMorgan initially set aside $6 billion for legal costs and
losses associated with Bear’s assets but, as JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon explained in the company’s 2008
annual  report , it quickly emptied that reserve. (Dimon also
predicted the Bear acquisition would ultimately add $1 billion
annually to JPMorgan’s earnings).  Schneiderman coordinated his lawsuit with the Justice
Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , putting the federal government
in the awkward position of punishing JPMorgan for behavior it
had, in fact, encouraged.  Worse, the move runs the risk of sending a troubling
message to markets, which might not be as willing to step in
during times of crisis. The Dodd-Frank financial law established
a government process for rescuing failing firms like Bear and
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to avoid the need for a taxpayer
bailout, a process that requires private market participation.  Under so-called resolution authority, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. can  take over  a large, failing firm and
eventually transfer ownership to private hands. Depending on the
agreement’s terms, legal liability would either transfer to the
buyer or remain with the FDIC. The Schneiderman lawsuit all but
guarantees that companies in the future will refuse to acquire
troubled bank assets unless they are legally immunized, slowing
down workouts and forcing the FDIC to deal with claims.  That isn’t to say Bear’s conduct, as alleged by
Schneiderman, should go unquestioned. The lawsuit alleges Bear’s
mortgage unit packaged $212 billion in mortgage bonds from 2003
through 2006 and underwrote “an astounding number of
securitizations that have gone sour.” Some choice e-mails from
Bear traders suggest they knew exactly what they were peddling.
Losses so far total $22.5 billion and are expected to grow --
money Schneiderman is seeking to recoup from JPMorgan on behalf
of investors.  Curious Target  Let it be noted that Bear was not alone in this behavior.
Let it also be noted that JPMorgan was not the most egregious of
the bunch, making it a curious first target for a task force
charged with investigating the mortgage mischief that
characterized the last decade.  Perhaps one reason Schneiderman chose to go after JPMorgan
is that private  lawsuits  already outlined much of the poor
underwriting by Bear. Many allegations in the complaint are
strikingly similar to lawsuits filed by private insurers, such
as Ambac Financial Group Inc. The Schneiderman lawsuit even
repeats an error contained in Ambac’s suit, which wrongly names
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Bear’s external auditor. (Deloitte
& Touche LLP was Bear’s external auditor; it  paid  $19.9 million
to settle claims by Bear investors.)  Surely there are other banks -- and executives -- more
deserving of scrutiny for their work in the realm of mortgage-
backed securities. In announcing the lawsuit, Schneiderman
 suggested  additional legal action will follow. Good. This is a
worthwhile endeavor. But for a true reckoning, we have to hope
he picks his targets more wisely.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal
cliff ; Margaret Carlson on the election as  a referendum on Mitt
Romney ; Clive Crook on  finding an unextreme path for Europe ;
Michael Kinsley on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates;
Peter Orszag on  the widening U.S. longevity gap ; Meghan L.
O’Sullivan on  the silver lining in the Muslim anti-American
riots ; Thomas de Waal on  Georgia’s democratic counterrevolution .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 