-- North Korea Says Hostile U.S. Policy Could Spark a Nuclear War
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-02T01:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/north-korea-says-hostile-u-s-policy-could-spark-a-nuclear-war.html
North Korea  accused the U.S. of
seeking its elimination, saying American policy toward the
totalitarian state has brought the region closer to nuclear war.  “Due to the continued hostile policy towards the DPRK, the
vicious cycle of confrontation and aggravation of tension is an
ongoing phenomenon on the Korean peninsula, which became the
world’s most dangerous hot spot where a spark of fire could set
off a thermonuclear war,” Vice Foreign Minister Pak Kil Yon
said in a speech yesterday at the  United Nations General
Assembly  in  New York . DPRK refers to the country’s official
name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  The U.S. led the push for the UN to broaden international
sanctions against North Korea following its launching of a long-
range rocket in April. The Obama administration also canceled a
deal to provide 240,000 metric tons in food aid to the
impoverished nation, which in turn broke off a pledge to halt
missile and nuclear tests.  North Korea routinely accuses the U.S. and  South Korea  of
military provocations. New leader Kim Jong Un, who succeeded his
late father  Kim Jong Il  as dictator last year, told army units
in August to prepare for “sacred war” during an annual U.S.-
South Korea military drill. About 29,000 American troops are
stationed in the South, a legacy of the 1950-53 war that ended
without a formal peace treaty.  ‘Deeply Rooted’  “At the root of the U.S. hostile policy against the DPRK
that has continued for over half a century lies its intention to
destroy the ideas and system chosen by our people and to occupy
the whole of the Korean peninsula to use it as a stepping stone
for realizing its strategy of dominating the whole of  Asia ,”
Pak said in his speech.  Pak accused the U.S. of putting the final touches on
various military scenarios against North  Korea .  “The U.S. hostile policy towards the DPRK is most deeply
rooted in military field,” he said. “With a view to
eliminating the DPRK by dint of force, the U.S. already
finalized different Korean War scenarios and it is waiting for a
chance to implement them.”  Kim’s regime is promoting economic zones operated with
 China  to save its impoverished economy. China is North Korea’s
main benefactor, accounting for 89 percent of the nation’s
foreign trade.  North Korea’s economy is about one-fortieth the size of its
southern neighbor. Chronic food insecurity and malnutrition
affects about two-thirds of the country’s 24 million people,
Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident coordinator in the North Korea
capital of Pyongyang, said in June.  Heavy rains and floods in July compounded food shortages,
leaving almost 600 people dead or missing and 212,000 homeless,
the official Korean State News Agency said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  