-- Norway Port Set to Boom on Iron Ore to China: Freight
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-03T14:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/norway-port-set-to-boom-with-iron-ore-shipped-to-china-freight.html
(Corrects export figures in 14th paragraph.)  Three yellow construction cranes
tower over heavy machinery and clusters of workers as they
bustle in the Norwegian Arctic drizzle to get a new  iron ore 
terminal ready by the beginning of next year.  The port of Narvik, where the waters around a ship at the
existing loading quay are tainted red by iron ore dust, is
preparing for an economic boom. Iron ore from neighboring Sweden
via Narvik is forecast by the port to surge fivefold by 2025,
much of it bound for  China . That is bringing wealth to a city
lacking the oil riches most of Norway enjoys.  Narvik is banking on  Northland Resources SA (NAUR)  which, like
Sweden’s LKAB, is ramping up production at its Swedish iron ore
mines. Northland plans to start extraction in Kaunisvaara in the
fourth quarter and make its first shipments from Narvik early
next year. The stock could more than double in value in the
coming 12 months, according to the average share price estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Narvik is the optimal port solution for us,” said
Northland Resources Chief Executive Officer Karl-Axel Waplan in
a phone interview, noting the port’s proximity to Northland’s
Swedish mines and its capacity to take the biggest vessels,
which isn’t the case for  Sweden ’s Baltic ports. “Demand for
iron ore will rise.” Even if Chinese annual growth falls to 7
percent, he said, Northland forecasts prices averaging 15
percent higher than today’s level over the next 15 to 20 years.  The ice-free Narvik port, almost a two-hour flight north
from Oslo, is 250 kilometers (155 miles) from Northland’s mine
in Kaunisvaara, Sweden. Volumes may rise to 33 million metric
tons by 2015 and to as much as 100 million tons by 2025, Rune
Arnoey, head of the Port of Narvik, said in an interview. In
comparison, northwestern Europe’s fourth-largest port,
Amsterdam, handled 93 million tons of cargo in 2011.  Job Creation  The forecast surge in exports would give a boost to a city
that hasn’t directly benefited from  Norway ’s oil wealth. Arnoey
said rising volumes could create as many as 2,000 jobs in
Narvik, a city of 18,500 people hurt when  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) 
closed its solar-cell plant last year, costing almost 200 jobs.  State-owned LKAB is building a new quay in Narvik and
expanding the railway between Narvik and Sweden. It also will
 move parts of the city  of Kiruna, including some 3,000
apartments, to a new location over the coming 20 years to have
access to more ore. Total cost to LKAB: at least $3.3 billion.  Northland Resources’ new terminal will accommodate rising
iron ore exports from the company’s mines in  Kaunisvaara  and
Hannukainen in  Finland . Waplan forecasts production in
Kaunisvaara of 4 million tons in 2015 and 4.5 million tons in
2016 or 2017, with a long-term goal of 5 million tons. While the
current price for iron ore is about $104 a ton, he sees it
averaging $120 a ton over the next 15 to 20 years.  Rising Prices  “The ore is of an extremely good quality, so there will
always be demand for it,” Waplan said. “We think ore prices
will stay high for the simple reason that production costs are
rising in so many countries.”  Northland Resources has  slumped 46 percent  in the past 12
months to 4.2 kroner on the Oslo bourse, compared with a 35
percent advance in the  OBX benchmark index  in the same period.
Of 13 analysts covering the stock, 10 recommend investors buy
the shares while three have hold recommendations. None of the
analysts advise their clients to sell the stock.  “The project will be very profitable in the long term, but
in the phase they’re in now, investors are more concerned that
the project will meet the timeline, which might have held the
shares down,” Kenneth Sivertsen, an analyst at Arctic
Securities in Oslo, which has a buy recommendation on the stock,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 17.  Transportation Plan  While Swedish authorities recently pledged 3.5 billion
kronor for rail and road improvements, Arnoey at the Port of
Narvik is concerned public spending won’t keep up with growth. A
national transportation plan pending government approval calls
for 1.5 billion Norwegian kroner ($260 million) of investments
for the period from 2014 to 2023.  Thor Braekkan, head of Norway’s stretch of the iron-ore
railway, called that “completely insufficient.” Waplan of
Northland Resources also called for more rail investment by
Norway, saying private rail users could pay a fee for use to
recoup the expenditures.  The increase in Swedish iron ore volumes transiting Narvik
is good news for Sweden, where mining and metals accounted for
about 12 percent of the nation’s 1.2 trillion kronor ($181
billion) of exports in 2011, according to  Statistics Sweden .  Sweden’s ‘Oil’  The Kiruna-based company accounts for 90 percent of the
entire iron ore production in the European Union, while Sweden
sits on 60 percent of  Europe ’s known iron ore deposits and 2
percent of the global total, according to LKAB. The Swedish
government received a 2011 dividend of 5 billion kronor from
LKAB, based in Sweden’s northernmost county, Norrbotten.  “We sometimes speak of this gold in the shape of oil that
means a lot to Norway, and our counterpart is the mining
business and iron ore and has been for a long time,” Swedish
Premier Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said in an interview in
Kiruna on Sept. 5.  LKAB plans to raise output to 37 million tons by 2015
compared with last year’s 26 million tons, Markus Petaejaeniemi,
LKAB’s marketing chief, said in a telephone interview from
Kiruna. The increase will stem from the opening of three new
mines and prospecting for new deposits, while the 12.4 billion-
krona development of the new main level in Kiruna will ensure
that production there can remain at current levels.  Pure Iron  Arctic Securities forecasts that seaborne global iron ore
volumes will grow to about 1.35 billion tons in 2015, compared
with an estimated 1.1 billion tons this year. The brokerage sees
 iron ore prices  at $120 “in the long-term.”  The iron ore in northern Sweden has the highest
concentration in the world, containing 60 to 70 percent pure
iron, according to LKAB’s Petaejaeniemi.  LKAB ships about two thirds of its ore via Narvik, which
has the depth to handle cape-size vessels. The rest of the ore
goes via the Swedish port of Luleaa on the North Baltic, which
isn’t always ice-free and can only handle ships able to carry
about 50,000 to 60,000 tons.  LKAB also will raise the number of daily trains on the so-
called  Malmbanan , the world’s northernmost electrified railway,
to a total of 20 in coming years from today’s 15, of which 14
will ship iron ore to Narvik, said Petaejaeniemi.  That is bringing hope to Narvik, which suffered in recent
years after the closure of plants such as REC’s and a government
decision to move public companies’ regional offices away from
Narvik in the 1990s. The  unemployment rate  in Narvik stood at
3.1 percent in July, compared with the national average of 2.7
percent, according to  Statistics Norway .  “In 2000, people were grumbling that ‘nothing is happening
here’ but today, there’s a different mentality,” said Jostein
Jenssen, 51, a real estate agent at Megler Forum, which sells
about 150 houses a year. “You see cranes and ships in the port,
which we hadn’t seen for many years. It’s something different to
wake up to this than back when the financial crisis started in
2008. Everything was dead then. We’re waiting for the wave.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  