-- Nudist Fights Weird Film for Turner Prize: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/nudist-fights-weird-film-for-turner-prize-martin-gayford.html
I never thought I’d find myself
writing these words: The Turner Prize exhibition of 2012 at Tate
Britain is actually entertaining.  Mind you, a bald description of the contents might not
sound that attractive. Then, the standards of entertainment at
avant-garde art exhibitions are pretty low.  On display are, first, large meticulous drawings of a
fantastic world populated by morphed versions of the sculptures
of Henry Moore and (now this is more like the Turner Prize) some
stylized excrement.  These, plus some inconsequential and excremental marble
sculptures, fill the room of Paul Noble, at 49 the oldest of the
four artists shortlisted for the 25,000-pound ($40,400) prize,
awarded to artists of less than 50 years of age.  Next comes a 93-minute documentary film about the life and
times of the late Scottish psychiatrist R.D. Laing (1927-1989),
presented in no particular order.  After that, another shorter film by Elizabeth Price,
blending the themes of church architecture, a hit by the 1960s
American girl group the Shangri-Las (“Out in the Streets”) and
a terrible fire that took place at the Manchester, northern
 England , branch of Woolworths in 1979.  Last, there are performances by  Spartacus Chetwynd  and
associates. (She changed her first name in tribute to the leader
of a slaves’ rebellion against the Roman Empire.)  Nudist Colony  The last line of Chetwynd’s biography in the accompanying
booklet says she “lives and works in a nudist colony in South
London” -- hinting that these performances might be a little
too entertaining for  Tate Britain .  In reality, for artistic purposes, she and her performers
wear costumes. In one case they don Biblical-style robes plus a
beard for Spartacus herself, and for the other piece they are
dressed to look like newts from outer space.  Still not convinced this sounds like fun? Well, it’s true
that this is not a show you can see quickly or easily. Paul
Noble’s drawings require close-focus attention, since they are a
mass of finely-drawn detail in a mixture of hard and soft pencil
lines all depicting imaginary scenes in a town he named Nobson
Newtown.  Noble’s work is certainly the closest to the activity
previously known as art. His Nobson drawings have been compared
with Bosch and Bruegel, and it’s true they fit into that
tradition: the teeming fantasy, the naughty sexual activities in
hidden corners (Michelangelo’s David seems to be playing with
himself inconspicuously in one), even the scatological
obsession.  Dreams Drift  On the other hand, there’s something airless and boring
about Nobson, as if someone started telling you about their
dreams, and just went on, and on, and on. You start to drift
off.  My heart sank when I heard about the duration of Luke
Fowler’s film about Laing, “All Divided Selves” (2011).
Unexpectedly I found it, if not gripping, at least atmospheric
and memorable. It’s a collage of archive footage featuring Laing
himself, other psychiatrists and patients.  Certain sequences stick in the mind, such as a group of
hirsute men discussing philosophy, very slowly, in what looks
like an institutional kitchen in the 1970s.  Are they doctors or people with mental problems? It’s hard
to say. An oddball recycling of events that happened in the
1960s and 1970s -- the decades in which all four artists were
born -- seems be a common factor here. You couldn’t call that a
movement, maybe a tendency.  Noble is the bookie’s favorite at 9/4, and you can see why.
His work is in its way accomplished and individual. Chetwynd is
an obvious rival in  publicity  terms (that nudist’s colony, for a
start.)  Personally, I might go for an artist film maker, Luke
Fowler. And those are also words I am surprised to find myself
typing.  The Turner Prize 2012 is at Tate Britain, Millbank, SW1P
4RG, until Jan. 6, 2013. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or
+44-20-7887-8888. The winner will be announced at Tate Britain
on Dec. 3.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock,  Warwick
Thompson  on  London  stage and  Ryan Sutton  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 