-- NYC’s Rothschild Mansion Said to Sell for $25 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-10-02T17:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/nyc-s-rothschild-mansion-said-to-sell-for-25-million.html
The Rothschild Mansion, a six-story
townhouse on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side, sold for $25 million,
the price sought when the home was put on the market almost
seven years ago, said a person with knowledge of the deal.  The person asked not to be identified because the details
are private. The Century Foundation, owner of the 11,300-square-
foot (1,050-square-meter) property since 1958, will relocate to
the financial district at the end of this month, said Derek
Newton, a spokesman for the think tank, which  analyzes  U.S.
public policy.  The townhouse, at 41 E. 70th St. between Park and Madison
avenues, is “a diamond in the rough in the perfect location
with the perfect garden,” according to the  sales listing  by
Paula Del Nunzio, a broker at New York-based Brown Harris
Stevens. She declined to comment on the sale.  The deal for the property, under contract since February,
is poised to be completed this month. The mansion was built in
1929 for retailer Walter N. Rothschild, and his wife, Carola
Warburg-Rothschild, according to the listing. It includes access
to a garden named after Arthur Lehman, the son of a Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. founder, who once lived next door.  The townhouse was  listed  for $25 million in November 2005,
according to real estate website StreetEasy.com. It was
withdrawn then returned to the market with an asking price of
$35 million in July 2007, as Manhattan apartment values were
approaching their peak. The mansion has been for sale since
then, with the price decreasing three times over two years to
$25.5 million. In December 2010, as values of luxury properties
were climbing, the owners raised the price to $30 million,
according to StreetEasy.  The median price of Manhattan luxury properties, defined as
the top 10 percent of all deals by price, was $4.07 million in
the third quarter, a 2.6 percent drop from a year earlier,  New
York  appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  