-- Chinese-Owned Company Sues Obama Over Wind Farm Project
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-10-02T15:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/obama-bars-chinese-owned-company-from-building-wind-farm.html
A Chinese-owned company sued
President  Barack Obama  for barring its Oregon wind-farm project
as a national security risk, claiming the order violates its
constitutional rights.  Ralls Corp., a Delaware-based company owned by two
executives of  China ’s biggest machinery manufacturer, added the
president yesterday to a lawsuit filed Sept. 12 that challenged
a ruling by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.,
known as CFIUS, blocking the project.  “By failing to provide Ralls with sufficient notice and
opportunity to be heard prior to prohibiting its acquisition of
the wind farms and imposing extraordinary restrictions on the
use and enjoyment of its property interests, CFIUS and the
president have unconstitutionally deprived Ralls of its property
absent due process,” the company said in the amended complaint.  The challenge to Obama comes amid campaign charges by
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  that Obama has been too soft
on China. Obama’s order blocking Ralls from acquiring the wind-
farm assets was the first time in 22 years a president has
blocked a transaction on national security grounds.  Ralls, which is owned by executives of China-based Sany
Group Co., was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, all of
which are near or within restricted Navy airspace, the Treasury
Department, which heads CFIUS, said Sept. 28. The decision
shouldn’t be viewed as a precedent for any other investment from
China, Treasury said.  Navy Training  In the area around the sites, the Navy conducts training
for bombing and electronic combat maneuvers and develops drones,
according to the base’s website.  Obama ordered Ralls to remove all property and
installations from its sites within two weeks and divest all of
its interests in the wind-farm project within 90 days.  The amended complaint includes claims that Obama acted
beyond the powers of the presidency.  “It’s going to be very difficult to get a judge to
intervene, given that traditionally agencies are given a wide
amount of discretion,” said Josh Zive, a lawyer with Bracewell
& Giuliani in  Washington  who has handled CFIUS cases but isn’t
involved in the Ralls transaction. “When it comes to the
deference given to the executive branch on national security and
foreign policy, the deference is even greater.”  ‘Profound Faith’  Ralls continues “to show its profound faith in
transparency and due process, and seeks only fair treatment
under the law and the Constitution,” Tim Xia, a lawyer with
Morris, Manning & Martin LLP, who represents Ralls, said in a
statement.  Natalie Wyeth, a spokeswoman for Treasury, said the
department believes the “lawsuit has no merit.”  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business. The heads of the
departments of Justice,  Homeland Security , Commerce, Defense,
State and Energy, among others, sit on the committee. The
panel’s recommendations can be enforced only by the president
under the law.  CFIUS Order  Obama’s order replaced an interim one issued by CFIUS in
July. CFIUS told the company to stop operations and keep out of
development sites it bought near the Naval Weapons Systems
Training Facility Boardman, according to Ralls’s lawsuit seeking
to overturn the order.  CFIUS rulings are rarely referred to the president before
being resolved some other way, according to a panel report to
Congress covering the period from 2008 to 2010.  The last transaction blocked on CFIUS grounds was by then-
president  George H.W. Bush  in  1990  in the proposed acquisition
of MAMCO Manufacturing Inc., a maker of motors and generators
based in Washington state, by China National Aero-Technology and
Export Corp.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington
already said she can’t review the president’s decision because
of the deference that she’s legally obliged to give the
president on national security issues. She urged the government
and Ralls to reach a deal.  Chinese Executives  Closely held Sany Group is the owner of China’s biggest
machinery maker. Dawei Duan, Sany’s chief financial officer, and
Jialiang Wu, a vice president of the group and general manager
of Sany Electric Co., a group unit, own Ralls, according to
court filings. The Shanghai-listed Sany Heavy Industry is Sany
Group’s main listing entity. Sany is based in Changsha City in
 Hunan province .  Ralls bought the wind-farm assets without reporting the
transaction to CFIUS, according to a U.S. filing in the case.  With the lawsuit, Ralls is “making a constitutional
argument to be reimbursed for ignoring a statutory review where
Congress granted the president the authority to unwind a
transaction that threatens national security,” said Ivan Schlager, who heads the CFIUS practice for Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP in Washington. “Now Ralls wants the U.S.
taxpayer to pay for their decision to go forward? Good luck.”  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  