-- Oil Falls to Four-Day Low as U.S. Supply Increases, China Slows
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-03T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/oil-drops-a-second-day-as-crude-stockpiles-advance-a-fourth-week.html
Oil fell to its lowest in four days
after U.S. crude stockpiles climbed for a fourth week and a
measure of  China’s economy  declined, signaling fuel demand may
be faltering in the world’s biggest users of the commodity.  Futures fell as much as 1 percent in  New York  after the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday
inventories rose 462,000 barrels last week in the longest run of
gains since May. An Energy Department report today may show
supplies increased 1.5 million barrels, according to a  Bloomberg
News  survey.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index for non-
manufacturing industries expanded at the weakest pace since at
least March 2011, data from the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed.  “Demand is increasing slightly, slowly, whereas supply is
increasing a little bit faster,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil
analyst at Axpo Trading AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland , who
predicts  Brent crude  will trade from $105 to $112 a barrel this
month. “I don’t see big potential to the upside for oil. Of
course there’s always risk from the political side, but from a
fundamental point of view there’s more downward pressure.”  Crude for November delivery slid as much as 96 cents to
$90.93 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , dropping below $91 for the first time since Sept. 27,
and was at $91.10 at 1:19 p.m. London time. Prices are down 8
percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped $1.28, or 1.2 percent, to
$110.29 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $19.22 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, from
$19.68 yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for futures traded in New York, advanced 105,000 barrels to 43.8
million in the week ended Sept. 28, according to the API. That’s
the first gain in four weeks.  “The U.S. has been very sloppy demand-wise for a number of
years,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat Prophets
in Sydney. “We’ve seen those figures turn to increasing
stockpiles. The market may be expecting that trend to
continue.”  Gasoline stockpiles nationwide fell by 59,000 barrels, the
data showed. Supplies are projected to drop by  500,000 barrels ,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed before
the Energy Department report. Distillate-fuel inventories, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, declined by
 321,000 barrels , the API said. They are forecast to decrease by
400,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Chinese Slowdown  The Energy Department will release its report at 10:30 a.m.
in  Washington . The API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  China’s services PMI slid to 53.7 in September from 56.3 in
August, today’s data showed. The number was lower than any
previous reading in data compiled by Bloomberg News and starting
in March 2011. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. Similar
measures for manufacturing industries have shown contractions
for last month.  Iraq , OPEC’s second-biggest oil producer, is “happy” with
prices at current levels, according to Thamir Ghadhban, a senior
adviser to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Crude exports by the
nation, which surpassed Iran’s production in June, will reach
2.9 million barrels a day next year as daily output rises to 3.6
million barrels, Ghadhban said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  is the largest of the 12 producers in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Oil’s decline in New York may stall along its 100-day
moving average, at around $90 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s also near the lower Bollinger
Band, an indicator of technical support where buy orders tend to
be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  