-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High as U.S. Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-02T12:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-u-s-manufacturing-expands.html
Crude traded near its highest close
in a week after a measure of U.S. manufacturing beat estimates
and before a report forecast to show shrinking fuel inventories
in the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Futures were little changed in  New York  today after
advancing for a third day. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
U.S. factory index increased to 51.5 in September yesterday,
exceeding the median forecast of 49.7 in a Bloomberg News
survey. Crude supplies in the U.S. probably gained last week,
while gasoline and diesel stockpiles dropped, according to a
survey of analysts. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said that tensions
with  Iran  may push  oil prices  higher.  “Better-than-expected U.S. data has enabled the market to
find some support,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts prices will remain
near current levels this week. “It’s a hard call where the
market moves from here, but given events in the  Middle East  and
prospects for positive U.S. economic data, any surprises are
likely to be to the upside.”  Crude for November delivery was at $92.86 a barrel, up 38
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as of 1:16 p.m. London time. The contract climbed 0.3 percent to
$92.48 yesterday, the highest close since Sept. 21. Prices are
down 6.1 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement was at $112.27 a barrel, up 8
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark crude’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was $19.50 a barrel, compared with $19.71 yesterday.  Upside Risk  “As tensions between Iran and the west escalate, the risk
to crude prices is becoming increasingly skewed to the upside,”
 David Greely , a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote
in a report dated yesterday. The bank recommended the consumers
protect against the risk of higher prices using options.  Russia’s oil and condensate output climbed to a post-Soviet
 record  of 10.41 million barrels a day in September, according to
the Energy Ministry.  Output rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier as OAO Lukoil
increased production for the first time in almost three years,
preliminary data from the ministry’s CDU-TEK unit show. The
nation’s output gained 0.4 percent from revised data for August
when levels were at a post-Soviet peak.  Crude Stockpiles  Oil in New York has technical resistance along its 50-day
moving average, at $93.64 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted yesterday’s advance near
this indicator. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably gained  1.5 million barrels 
last week, according to a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. The  American Petroleum Institute 
will release separate inventory data later today.  Gasoline supplies may have dropped by  375,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median estimate of six analysts in the
survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, probably fell 450,000 barrels.  The industry-funded API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Gasoline at U.S. pumps dropped for the second week,
tracking a more than $4-a-barrel slide in oil prices last month
and after refiners on the U.S. Gulf Coast restored output
following Hurricane Isaac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  