-- Okada Loses Bid to Vote Wynn Resorts Shares at Meeting
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-03T02:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/okada-seeks-judge-s-ruling-to-let-him-vote-redeemed-stock.html
Kazuo Okada, whose 20 percent stake
in  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  was forcibly redeemed in February, lost a
bid for a court order letting him vote the 25 million shares at
Wynn’s annual shareholders’ meeting scheduled for Nov. 2.  Nevada state court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez today rejected
Okada’s request at a hearing in  Las Vegas . She said the Japanese
billionaire, who made his fortune in pachinko, didn’t convince
her that he was likely to overcome Wynn’s argument that the
board’s business judgment validated the redemption.  The hearing is part of Okada’s legal fight with the casino
operator’s chairman and chief executive officer, Steve Wynn, to
get back the shares the board redeemed for a 10-year promissory
note worth $1.9 billion, which Okada says is a 30 percent
discount from their market value.  “We are disappointed by this decision, which for the
moment denies Aruze USA of its rights to nominate and vote for
independent directors willing to stand up to Steve Wynn and
promote good corporate governance that puts the interests of
shareholders first,” Okada’s holding company said in an e-
mailed statement. The ruling “does not speak to the merits of
Wynn Resorts’ claims against Aruze and Mr. Okada, and Mr.
Okada’s counterclaim against Wynn Resorts, Mr. Wynn, and the
other Wynn directors.”  Gonzalez’s ruling allows Okada to file a new request. Okada
won a court order allowing him more access to the company’s
books and records about its operations in Macau.  Okada, who described himself in an Aug. 31 court filing as
“the lone voice of dissent against  Steve Wynn  on the board,”
has proposed two nominees. The Nov. 2 agenda includes election
of four directors.  ‘No Rights’  Wynn Resorts said in a Sept. 18 statement that because
Okada was ejected in February as a shareholder, he “has
absolutely no rights as a shareholder to nominate directors.”
The company had said in March it would call a special
stockholders meeting to vote Okada off the board. That isn’t on
the agenda for Nov. 2.  Kim Sinatra, Wynn’s general counsel, said after today’s
hearing that one reason stockholders won’t be asked to remove
Okada next month is that there are still “lots of
investigations.” She declined to provide details.  Wynn said in a separate statement after the hearing that it
is the company’s “understanding” that  law enforcement  and
regulators in the U.S. and  Asia  have initiated investigations
following its findings that Okada made illegal payments to
Philippine regulators.  Investigation  The investigations relate to “close business connections
and common shareholding in a Hong Kong entity” by Okada, an
unidentified person who consulted for Philippine gaming
regulators and a third unidentified person associated with a
Japanese organized crime group, according to the statement.  “Additionally, evidence has surfaced suggesting improper
payments in the  Philippines  of up to tens of millions of dollars
in connection with Aruze’s investment there,” Wynn said.  Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Aruze USA, had no immediate
comment on Wynn’s additional allegations.  Okada and Wynn have given conflicting accounts of the
reasons behind their feud.  Okada said in court filings that Steve Wynn wanted to oust
him because he questioned and voted against a $135 million
donation to the University of Macau last year. The company said
it redeemed Okada’s shares because an independent investigation
found that he and his associates made illegal payments to
Philippine gaming officials.  ‘Mere Pretext’  Wynn’s “allegations are mere pretext for actions taken to
oust a dissenting board member and entrench and enrich Steve
Wynn, the board and the management of Wynn Resorts,” Okada said
in an Aug. 31 court filing.  Okada challenged Wynn’s argument that it needed to protect
its  Nevada  gaming license by removing Okada as an “unsuitable”
shareholder. The promissory note issued in the redemption makes
Okada a creditor, and Nevada regulators can also investigate a
casino operator with an allegedly unsuitable creditor, Okada
said in the filing.  Wynn Resorts contends Okada was angry since at least
February of last year about the board’s refusal to get involved
with the casino project he’s developing in the Philippines,
according to the breach-of-fiduciary-duty lawsuit the company
filed against Okada on Feb. 19. The board was concerned about
“deeply ingrained” corruption in the Philippines, according to
the Wynn Resorts complaint.  VIP Gamblers  Okada and his company, Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425) , are building a Manila Bay resort to lure “high-limit,
VIP gamblers from  China ,” in direct competition with  Wynn
Macau , according to the complaint.  “I personally had concerns about Mr. Okada since at least
2010 when I learned that he was trading on Wynn Resorts’
reputation as part of his plan to build a gaming resort in the
Philippines -- a plan the Wynn Resorts board told Mr. Okada it
wanted no part of in February 2011,” Steve Wynn said in
affidavit filed Sept. 20.  Steve Wynn also said in the filing that Okada was wrong to
argue that his shares were exempt from the company’s redemption
provision. The redemption rules were specifically created in
2002, at the request of lenders, to address gaming license
issues that might arise regarding Okada’s ownership of Wynn
Resorts’ shares, according to Wynn’s filing.  The Wynn Resorts CEO dismissed Okada’s suggestion that he
wanted to get rid of his former business partner because the
divorce from his ex-wife Elaine Wynn left him with only half of
his stake and Okada as the largest shareholder.  Stockholders Agreement  With the redemption of Okada’s shares, which Steve Wynn
controlled under their stockholders’ agreement, he controls
about 20 percent of Wynn’s shares, including those held by
Elaine Wynn, instead of the 36 percent he controlled before the
redemption, Steve Wynn said.  At today’s hearing, the judge heard arguments on the
“reasonableness” of Okada’s request, as a company director, to
get access to Wynn Resorts’ books and records regarding the
donation to University of Macau as well as other records going
back as far as 2000 about the company’s dealings with Macau
government officials when it obtained its license to open a
casino in the Chinese territory.  Charles McCrea, a lawyer for Okada, said at the hearing
that his client became suspicious about Wynn’s involvement in
Macau after the donation last year and wanted access at the
books to see how the company had spent money in Macau in the
past when it was seeking a gaming license.  Nine Hours  McCrea said Okada was deposed by Wynn’s lawyers for almost
nine hours last month about the purpose of his request.  James Pisanelli, a lawyer for Wynn, told the judge that
Okada said at his deposition that he’s no longer performing any
duty as a fiduciary of Wynn because he’s in litigation. Okada
also told Wynn’s lawyers that he has “important information”
and refused to discuss it, citing the litigation, Pisanelli
said.  “The evidence that Mr. Okada is a dissident is
overwhelming,” Pisanelli said.  Wynn’s lawyers have said Okada’s request for the books and
records wasn’t made in the interest of the company. Instead, it
was an effort to find any possible evidence of wrongdoing by
Wynn in Macau to distract from Wynn’s allegations that Okada
made illegal payments to Philippine regulators, the lawyers
said.  Robert Shapiro , a lawyer for Wynn, said after the hearing
that the books and records aren’t “an issue” and that the
company would comply with the judge’s order. Shapiro declined to
speculate how many documents were covered by the order.  The breach-of-fiduciary-duty lawsuit is Wynn Resorts v.
Okada, A-12-656710-B, Clark County District Court, Nevada (Las
Vegas). The petition for books and records is Okada v. Wynn
Resorts, A-12-654522-B, Clark County District Court, Nevada (Las
Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  