-- Online Film Service M-Go Adds DreamWorks Animation, Relativity
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/online-film-service-m-go-adds-dreamworks-animation-relativity.html
M-Go, an online film sales and
streaming venture, reached an accord to offer movies from co-
owner  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  and Relativity Media LLC,
bringing to seven the number of studios using the service.  The service is scheduled to start in the fourth quarter,
according to John Batter, chief executive officer of Burbank,
California-based M-Go. The business is jointly owned by
 Technicolor SA (TCH) , the majority investor, and DreamWorks Animation,
the studio run by CEO  Jeffrey Katzenberg .  M-Go is designed to be a simple, one-stop website for
finding and watching movies and TV shows. The company seeks to
bridge other services by providing access to other sites for
films that aren’t in M-Go’s library. Movies and shows will be
available on the site the same day that DVDs and Blu-ray discs
go on sale and can be watched on a variety of devices.  “Our target is the mass market,” Batter said yesterday in
an interview. “It is the majority of Americans who have not
made the transition to digital.”  Hollywood is looking to online purchases, rentals and
subscription streaming for growth as DVD and Blu-ray disc buying
dwindles. U.S. consumer spending on streaming subscriptions rose
fivefold to $1.1 billion in the first half of 2012, according to
a studio-backed industry study.  Purchased films can be stored in UltraViolet, the cloud-
based system backed by major Hollywood studios and electronics
manufacturers, the company said.  Other studios that have agreed to provide content include
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount
Pictures,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale, California, gained
2.4 percent to $19.60 yesterday in New York. The stock has
gained 18 percent this year. Technicolor was little changed at
1.94 euros in Paris and has gained 70 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  