-- Oracle CEO Sees Dividends Rising, Shuns Big Acquisitions
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-10-03T01:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/oracle-ceo-sees-gradual-dividend-increases-no-big-acquisitions.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Ellison  said in an interview with CNBC that he’ll use the
company’s cash to boost dividends gradually over time, rather
than to make big acquisitions.  Ellison, speaking at the Oracle’s  OpenWorld  conference,
said today that he’s focused on growing its cloud computing
products that deliver software and computing services over the
Internet. The company has spent more than $50 billion on more
than 80 deals, mainly to add business programs that manage
corporate finances and operations. It had $31.6 billion in  cash 
at the end of the fiscal first quarter.  “We could do a big deal again down the road,” Ellison
said in an interview with CNBC’s Maria Bartiromo. “Over the
next couple of years, senior management down to individual
programmers and sales people are focused on one thing: selling
applications in the cloud, selling our platform in the cloud and
selling our infrastructure in the cloud.”  Ellison unveiled this week a high-end server with more
memory and the first update of its flagship database in five
years. He’s betting those new products and a shift to cloud
services will boost sales. Oracle’s share price has
underperformed  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , its rivals in
providing cloud computing for businesses.  Oracle’s cloud computing software can save customers time
and money because of its strengths in many facets of the
software market, Ellison said.  Platform Software  “You have to consider not only the application you’re
buying but also the platform on which it rests,” Ellison said
in an address at the conference. “You still have to hook up
that application to other applications.”  Oracle is competing in the business-applications market by
touting its advantage in platform software -- its market-leading
database and middleware built with the widely used Java
programming language. Ellison argued that buying from one
supplier for all of that software can save customers the work of
stitching together software from Salesforce and  Workday Inc. (WDAY) 
with systems they already run.  “Just because it’s in the cloud doesn’t mean we never do
anything technical again,” Ellison said.  Shares of  Redwood City , California-based Oracle declined
less than 1 percent to $31.65 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 23 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent  increase  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information
Technology Sector Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  