-- Mosaic Profit Misses Estimates Amid ‘Soft’ Chinese Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-02T13:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/mosaic-earnings-miss-estimates-after-phosphate-fertilizer-drop.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S.
fertilizer producer, reported fiscal first-quarter profit and
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates amid “soft” potash
demand in China and  India  while adverse weather curbed phosphate
shipments.  Net income fell 18 percent to $429.4 million, or $1.01 a
share, in the three months to Aug. 31, from $526 million, or
$1.17, a year earlier, Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic said
today in a statement. That trailed the $1.15 average of nine
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales slid 19 percent to $2.51
billion, less than the $2.69 billion average of 14 estimates.  “We saw soft demand in India and China, and in response,
we slowed production” of potash, Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said in the statement. Phosphate production “was
impacted by longer annual maintenance shutdowns and challenges
posed by hurricanes.”  China  is still negotiating supply contracts for potash, a
crop nutrient used to strengthen roots and help plants resist
drought, and India is awaiting the outcome of those talks. China
is seeking a lower price than the $470 a ton that it negotiated
for the first half of 2012 and India has reduced imports because
of a weaker rupee and budgetary constraints, said Horst
Hueniken, a Toronto-based  fund manager  at  Dundee Corp. (DC/A)   ‘Tight’ Market  “You have a fertilizer demand picture here that is frankly
quite mixed,” Hueniken said in a telephone interview before the
results were released. “The demand outlook is for flat to up,
with the up being only modest.”  Mosaic  dropped  2.4 percent to $56.64 at 9:45 a.m. in  New
York  after earlier falling 3.7 percent, the most intraday since
June 21. The shares have increased 12 percent this year.  The company’s potash production fell 21 percent to 1.5
million tons in the quarter while sales volumes were 5.6 percent
higher at 1.9 million tons.  Mosaic’s North American phosphate output dropped 9.1
percent to 2 million tons while sales were 16 percent lower at
2.7 million tons. The market for phosphates, which accelerate
crop maturity and increases the ability of plants to benefit
from sunlight, continues to be “tight,” Prokopanko said.  “Demand for our products outpaced our ability to produce
and deliver,” he said in the statement. “We expect better
execution in the quarters ahead.”  In the potash market, sentiment among North American
dealers is improving and producer inventories are falling,
Mosaic said.  Farmers who saw their crops damaged in the worst U.S.
drought in half a century are considering their alternatives for
the fertilizer application season in the coming months. While
the drought spurred corn futures to record highs, some farmers
may skimp on crop nutrients because low yields and the
interrupted growing season may have left phosphate and potash
fertilizer in the ground, Hueniken said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  