-- Mosaic Says China Potash Contract May Not Come This Year
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-02T20:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/mosaic-says-china-potash-contract-may-not-come-this-year.html
China  may not sign a potash supply
agreement with North America’s largest producers of the crop
nutrient until next year as it holds out for a lower price than
the one agreed to in the first half, according to  Mosaic Co. (MOS)   China is “very determined” to pay less than the $470 a
ton it negotiated for the first six months of 2012, Mosaic Chief
Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said. The country is being
helped in the standoff by an increase in imports by rail from
Belarus, he said yesterday in a telephone interview from Mosaic
headquarters in Plymouth,  Minnesota .  China “could probably ride out the balance of the calendar
year before they buy again,” Prokopanko said. “It could be
months, or even into the new calendar year.”  Mosaic, the largest U.S. potash producer, cut output in the
quarter ended Aug. 31 because of “soft” demand in  India  and
China, the company said yesterday in its fiscal first-quarter
earnings statement. Mosaic and its biggest North American
competitors,  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) ,
negotiate potash exports through Canpotex Ltd., their jointly
owned international trading arm.  The price of potash for immediate delivery in China has
declined, indicating that if a new contract was established now
it wouldn’t be at the same price as the first-half accord,
Richard McLellan, senior vice president, commercial
at Mosaic, said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  Production Fell  Mosaic’s potash production fell 21 percent to 1.5 million
tons in the quarter through August while sales volumes were 5.6
percent higher at 1.9 million tons.  “We’ve seen our sales into Indonesia and Malaysia increase
and in other Southeast Asian markets, so net net we’re OK,”
said Prokopanko, 59.  India probably won’t sign a potash supply agreement with
North American producers until the China talks are completed, he
said. India has cut imports because of a weaker rupee and
budgetary constraints,  Horst Hueniken , a Toronto-based  fund
manager  at  Dundee Corp. (DC/A) , said in an Oct. 1 interview.  Mosaic fell 3.9 percent to close at $55.76 yesterday in  New
York  after the company’s earnings and revenue missed analysts’
estimates.  Net income  fell 18 percent to $429.4 million, or $1.01 a
share, from $526 million, or $1.17, a year earlier. That trailed
the $1.15 average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
slid 19 percent to $2.51 billion, less than the $2.69 billion
average of 14 estimates.  ‘Better Execution’  Mosaic’s North American phosphate output dropped 9.1
percent to 2 million tons while sales were 16 percent lower at
2.7 million tons. The market for phosphates, which accelerate
crop maturity and increases the ability of plants to benefit
from sunlight, continues to be “tight,” Prokopanko said in the
statement.  “Demand for our products outpaced our ability to produce
and deliver,” he said in the statement. “We expect better
execution in the quarters ahead.”  Farmers who saw their crops damaged in the worst U.S.
drought in half a century are considering their alternatives for
the fertilizer application season in the coming months. While
the drought spurred corn futures to record highs, some farmers
may skimp on crop nutrients because low yields and the
interrupted growing season may have left phosphate and potash
fertilizer in the ground, Hueniken said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  