-- Osborne Urged to Refrain From More Austerity to Meet Debt Rule
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/osborne-urged-to-refrain-from-more-austerity-to-meet-debt-rule.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne should abandon his debt target rather than risk
damaging the economic recovery by introducing new austerity
measures, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  All except one of 18 economists polled between Sept. 21 and
Sept. 28 said missing the goal of starting to bring down
government debt as a share of output by 2015-16 is preferable to
extra spending cuts at a time when the economy is mired in
recession. Most said further austerity would alarm investors
more than letting the debt target go, which may risk the U.K.’s
top credit rating.  “There are no easy options for the government here,” said
Melanie Baker, chief U.K. economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London.
“The least worst option, we think, would be to stick to the
existing austerity plans and make no attempt to repair the
fiscal slippage.”  The findings provide leeway for Osborne as a weaker-than-
forecast economy blows his fiscal planning off course,
threatening a key plank of the deficit-reduction strategy
created after the Conservative-led government took office in
2010. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said last month it
may be “acceptable” for Osborne to miss the debt goal if there
is a genuine excuse.  Only economist Philip Rush at Nomura International Plc in
London said Osborne should introduce further cuts rather than
ditch the debt target.  Balance of Risks  The survey was almost as conclusive in forecasting how
financial markets would react, with 13 of the 18 economists
saying further austerity would unsettle investors more than
allowing some slippage in the debt target. Three said missing
the target would hurt gilts and jeopardize Britain’s top credit
rating, while giving a boost to equities and the pound.  “If the chancellor sticks to the existing fiscal
consolidation path the economy will probably stay weak anyway
and the deficit slippage would probably cause the U.K. to miss
its debt rule,” said Michael Saunders, chief European economist
at Citigroup Inc. in  London . The U.K. “may well lose its top-
notch credit rating.”  Osborne is due to make a statement to Parliament on
Dec. 5 after receiving revised fiscal and economic forecasts
from the  Office for Budget Responsibility . The fiscal watchdog
will say whether he has a realistic chance of meeting the debt
target. In March, the OBR predicted debt would peak at 76.3
percent of gross domestic product in 2014-15 and begin falling
the following year.  Osborne’s Decision  Osborne would have to decide whether letting the target
slip would scare investors and drive up borrowing costs or be
seen as a sensible move given the  fragility  of the economy.  Last year, Osborne was forced to announce an additional 23
billion pounds ($37 billion) of spending cuts and extend his
plan to balance the budget by two years, meaning austerity will
continue well beyond the next general election in 2015.  The U.K. economy has fared far worse than the government
predicted and is set to shrink this year for the first time
since 2009 as budget cuts bite and the euro-region crisis hits
demand in the biggest market for British exports.  GDP shrank 0.4 percent between April and June, the third
consecutive quarter of contraction. Weak tax revenue left the
budget deficit in the first five months of the fiscal year 20
percent higher than a year earlier, putting Osborne on course to
miss his full-year target of 120 billion pounds, according to
economists.  The dilemma facing Osborne was underscored when Fitch
Ratings said on Sept. 28 the country faces an increased risk of
losing its AAA rating. It predicted government debt will peak at
a higher level and later than it previously thought.  Deficit-reduction efforts are “standing still” and the
pound could come under pressure if investors lose confidence in
the fiscal plans and the economic recovery, Fitch Managing
Director David Riley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  