-- How to Make an Ailing World Economy Even Sicker
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-02T23:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/how-to-make-an-ailing-world-economy-even-sicker.html
Four years after the onset of the
recession, the U.S. is recovering weakly,  Europe  isn’t
recovering at all, and prospects in the rest of the world are
far from thrilling. It’s an outlook that makes curbing  public
debt  hazardous, yet governments everywhere are deciding that the
job can’t wait.  They’re half-right. To think fiscal control can be
postponed indefinitely is foolish. Believable plans to curb
public borrowing would calm financial markets and reduce the
risk of spikes in long-term interest rates. But the policy has
to be patient and methodical, because doing too much too soon is
even riskier than doing nothing. The combination of weak demand
and harsh fiscal restraint -- not just in one country or region,
but globally -- is a death trap, especially if overzealous
 monetary policy  is part of the mix, as in Europe.  If you need persuading, read the case studies in  Chapter 3 
of the  International Monetary Fund ’s new World Economic Outlook
(published to coincide with the global finance ministers’
meeting that starts next week).  Expansionary Myth  The debate about the right pace of fiscal restraint is
polarized. At one extreme is the view that severe austerity has
to start yesterday. Some even say that big cuts in public
spending would give confidence such a boost that private
spending would rise for a net increase in demand --
“expansionary austerity” as it’s called. At the other extreme is
the idea that public debt will melt away of its own accord once
growth picks up. Fiscal austerity isn’t just unnecessary, in
this view, it’s self-defeating, because it slows growth.  As you might expect, the truth is in between. Fiscal
restraint, other things equal, subtracts demand and slows
recovery. Expansionary austerity doesn’t work. On the other
hand, countries with high and  rising public debt  (more than 100
percent of output, say) seem to suffer a growth penalty. There’s
no clear boundary between good and bad debt ratios, says the
IMF, and the connections between debt and growth are
complicated, but high levels of debt can’t be left to take care
of themselves.  So the question for highly indebted countries is not
whether to control public debt but how to do it without killing
the recovery. The IMF’s case studies shed some light on this --
though the findings aren’t hugely encouraging.  One benchmark is the U.K.’s experience after 1918. By the
end of the First World War, the country’s debt had risen to 140
percent of output. The government resolved to pay off the debt
and bring prices, which had doubled during the war, back to
where they’d been in 1914. The idea was that the debts would be
honored in full, rather than repaid in a devalued currency.  The results were catastrophic. Growth was so badly hammered
that the debt ratio, after dipping in the mid-1920s, kept rising
despite budget surpluses all through the decade. By 1933, it was
190 percent of GDP. Other European countries were devaluing
their currencies, so British competitiveness suffered and weak
exports made the slump even worse.  Admittedly, it’s an extreme case. Still, the parallel with
Europe today is hard to miss.  Spain  and other distressed debtors
are undergoing severe fiscal retrenchment. Monetary policy isn’t
aiming for outright deflation, but a new central bank that wants
to establish its anti-inflation credentials is being less
accommodating than it could be. There’s no intra-European
 exchange rate  to devalue, so countries like Spain can’t boost
their competitiveness that way. It’s a formula for endless
 recession .  Seductive Alternatives  The case studies suggest two better alternatives -- though
the first is a little too seductive. That’s the U.S. after 1945.
The war increased U.S. public debt 10-fold, to 120 percent of
output. The ratio came down thanks to fairly tight fiscal
policy, very loose monetary policy, inflation (which reduced the
debt ratio by expanding the nominal value of output), and
administrative measures to prevent the rise in nominal interest
rates that inflation would otherwise have caused. The economy
grew at a good clip, and the debt came down.  It was a good mixture, but difficult to replicate  today .
Those administrative measures -- “financial repression” is the
term of art -- would be hard to impose on today’s vastly more
complex and sophisticated financial markets. Without them,
inflation would push nominal  interest rates  higher, blunting the
beneficial effect on the debt ratio. Even if it could be done,
the Federal Reserve would rightly hesitate to rely so much on
inflation, because it might destroy the reputation the central
bank built at such cost in the 1980s.  The third approach is suggested by the case studies of
 Belgium  (1992-2002),  Canada  (1995-2005) and  Italy  (1997-2007).
In all three countries, fiscal restraint was combined with
relative monetary ease. Where austerity took the form of long-
term structural reforms, rather than temporary expedients, it
worked better. Also, in Belgium and Canada, strong demand from
abroad helped alongside monetary policy to support growth as
public borrowing was scaled back.  That last point is the main ground for pessimism about the
global economy today. Too many countries are trying to pursue
the same strategy at once. As the IMF says, “The implications
for today are sobering -- widespread fiscal consolidation
efforts, deleveraging pressures from the private sector, adverse
demographic trends, and the aftermath of the financial crisis
are unlikely to provide the supportive external environment that
played an important role in a number of previous episodes of
debt reduction. Expectations about what can be achieved need to
be set realistically.”  Fiscal shock and awe is suicidal in these circumstances.
Governments need to make their fiscal retrenchment gradual.
(Think of the “fiscal cliff” in the U.S. Do the opposite of
that.) Central banks meanwhile -- Europe’s especially -- must
keep monetary policy loose. (Think of the  Federal Reserve  in the
U.S. Do the same thing, only more so.) The lack of any plausible
“external support” for struggling economies tilts the policy-
balance further in the direction of taking a measured risk with
inflation -- that is, if any such risk were apparent right now,
which it isn’t.  The situation is serious, but it’s never too late for ham-
fisted austerity plus exaggerated monetary rectitude to make
things hopeless.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal cliff 
and on  New York’s lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the election as  a referendum on Mitt Romney ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates;  Peter Orszag 
on  the widening U.S. longevity gap ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  the
silver lining in the Muslim anti-American riots ; Thomas de Waal
on  Georgia’s democratic counterrevolution .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 