-- Lloyds Drops as UBS Cuts Rating on Concern of Capital Raising
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-02T09:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/lloyds-drops-as-ubs-cuts-rating-on-concern-of-capital-raising.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  fell in London trading after UBS AG
analysts reduced their rating on the stocks, citing concern that
U.K. lenders may be forced by regulators to raise more capital.  Lloyds slid 2.9 percent to 38.8 pence by 10:15 a.m. in
London trading, the biggest decliner in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index. Edinburgh-based RBS slid 2.5
percent to 259.8 pence, the second-biggest faller in the index.
The companies are Britain’s two-biggest taxpayer-owned lenders.  “The U.K. banks have not heeded exhortations to raise
external equity in our view as they simply do not need it,” UBS
analysts led by John-Paul Crutchley wrote in a note to clients
today as they reduced their rating on the firms to hold from
buy. “However, we see a risk that the market will focus the
absolute equity level requirement as leading to a risk of new
equity issuance, to the detriment of current equity value.”  Banks may need to sell new shares to raise capital while
they increase lending and remove bad loans and non-core assets
from their balance sheets,  Andrew Bailey , head of prudential
regulation at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, said in
an opinion piece published in the Sunday Times on Sept. 30. The
regulator has changed the guidance it gives to banks on capital
needs over the past two months, Bailey wrote.  “Banks are being asked to hold absolute levels of equity,
rather than equity being expressed as a proportion of risk
assets or total assets,” UBS said. “This is a profound change
and puts the U.K. seemingly at odds with all other major
economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  