-- P.T.Barnum’s Bearded Ladies, Donner Party: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/p-t-barnum-s-bearded-ladies-donner-party-lance-esplund.html
When Jumbo the elephant arrived in
 New York  in 1882 he was an instant success, transforming the
circus from bawdy attraction to family entertainment.  When he was killed by a locomotive, the circus display of
his hide and skeleton sparked the headline: “Jumbo Stuffed a
Greater Attraction than Jumbo Alive.”  The popular elephant figures prominently in the Bard
Graduate Center’s big-top extravaganza, “Circus and the City:
New York, 1793-2010.”  There are other exotic animals, as well as clowns,
contortionists, daredevils, bearded ladies, Zulu cannibals, the
“Fejee Mermaid” and General Tom Thumb, whose velvet suit, boots
and tiny violin are featured artifacts.  But the star of the show is showman extraordinaire Phineas
Taylor Barnum (1810-1891). You can see his faded top hat and
letterhead, illustrated with a parade of animals, Siamese twins
and the Last Supper.  As in life, Barnum here is hard to ignore. His unidentified
visage fills one poster with the words: “I am coming.”  The show has something for all ages: It chronicles not just
the evolution of the circus and its effects on New York, but
also the history of graphic and fashion design, photography,
toys, advertising and the rise of the Big Apple as the
entertainment capital of the world.  “Circus and the City: New York 1793-2010” runs through Feb.
3 at the Bard Graduate Center Galleries, 18 W. 86th St.
Information: +1-212-501-3023;  http://www.bgc.bard.edu.gallery .  Ferdinand Hodler  A bittersweet air permeates Neue Galerie’s intelligent
exhibition, “Ferdinand Hodler: View to Infinity.”  The exhibition includes 65 paintings and 20 drawings,
mostly late works, as well as 45 intimate photographs of Hodler
(1853-1918). They show the Swiss Symbolist doing everything
from painting pictures and pruning vines to lying on his
deathbed.  A somber section of drawings and paintings chronicles his
mistress’s illness and death from cancer. Some of these
pictures, along with his strong, wide-eyed self-portraits, are
among the most affecting works on view.  Its most ebullient works are landscapes. Though northern --
even desolate and brittle -- their mountains and skies are often
saturated with color. At times, his spare sunsets presage the
abstractions of  Mark Rothko .  But Hodler, also prefiguring  Lucian Freud , was primarily a
figure painter, but without much feeling for flesh.  His skeletal paintings of the female nude resemble tinted
drawings. Far from erotic, his images of the women with
roughened skins -- furrowed like soil -- are well-drawn, earnest
and hard-won.  “Ferdinand Hodler: View to Infinity” runs through Jan. 7 at
the Neue Galerie, 1084 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-628-6200;
 http://www.neuegalerie.org .  ‘American Vision’  If you haven’t visited the New-York Historical Society
Museum & Library since its $70 million renovation, now is the
perfect time.  After a long tour, 45 of its Hudson River School paintings,
a number of them national treasures, have returned home. The
commanding, one-room exhibition is a majestic grand tour of the
U.S., with breathtaking works by Albert Bierstadt, Thomas
Cole, Asher B. Durand, George Inness and John Frederick Kensett.  The tour-de-force is Cole’s five-part fictional landscape
series “The Course of Empire” (1833-36). Beginning with dawn on
a savage wilderness, it progresses to a pastoral idyll and then
through the height, hellfire-destruction and desolation of
civilization.  There are complicated politics and history at work in some
of the most romantic pictures on view. Bierstadt’s serene,
panoramic “Donner Lake From the Summit” (1873) was commissioned
by railroad magnate Collis P. Huntington. It honors the
ill-fated Donner Party, not the Central Pacific Railroad, and
Huntington initially refused the painting because the railroad
was obscured.  Steeped in the European landscape tradition of Claude,
Poussin, Corot and Courbet, the show’s greatest works celebrate
the American sublime.  “Nature and the American Vision: The Hudson River School”
runs through Feb. 21 at the New-York Historical Society Museum &
Library, 170 Central Park West. Information: +1-212-873-3400;
 http://www.nyhistory.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  philanthropy 
and Daniel Billy on  architecture .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 