-- Pakistan, Australia Advance to World Cricket Semifinals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-03T01:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/pakistan-reaches-twenty20-semifinals-as-india-beats-south-africa.html
Pakistan  advanced to the semifinals
of the World Twenty20 cricket competition alongside  Australia 
after  India  failed to restrict  South Africa ’s run rate in a one-
run victory.  In the final match of the Super Eight phase in  Colombo  last
night, South Africa was all out for 151 with one ball left after
India made 152-6 off 20 overs. The Indians had needed to hold
the Proteas, who were eliminated earlier yesterday when Pakistan
beat Australia by 32 runs, to fewer than 121 runs to advance.  “We didn’t know that the other match would impact our
progress so much,” India captain MS Dhoni said in comments on
the tournament’s website. “We knew that there would be a little
bit of an impact on whether we progress, but the margin in the
first match was so big that we had a problem.”  Pakistan and Australia joined tournament host  Sri Lanka  and
West Indies in the semifinals because of a higher net run rate
than India as all three teams finished Group 2 play with four
points. South Africa lost all three of its Super Eight matches.  Sri Lanka and West Indies qualified two days ago as
defending champion  England  was eliminated. Sri Lanka faces
Pakistan tomorrow before Australia, the bookmakers’ favorite to
win the fourth world championship of cricket’s shortest format,
plays West Indies a day later. The final is scheduled Oct. 7.  Faf du Plessis top scored with 65 runs last night as South
Africa reached the 121-run mark in the 17th over. It then lost
four wickets and looked to have no chance before Morne Morkel’s
six closed the gap to one run with two balls remaining.  Lakshmipathy Balaji, who claimed 3-37, bowled Morkel with
the next delivery to end the game.  Zaheer Khan  also took three
wickets, while Suresh Raina led India’s batsmen with 45 runs.  Brilliant Batches  “We haven’t clicked in all departments,” Dhoni added.
“We’ve bowled brilliant in batches, and batted brilliant in
batches, but when you play the top sides you have to do well in
all three departments.”  Australia advanced to the final four by scoring 112 runs
even after falling to its first defeat at the tournament.  The Australians tallied 117-7 chasing the victory target of
150 as Saeed Ajmal took 3-17 and fellow spinner Raza Hasan
claimed 2-14 to help 2009 champion Pakistan secure the victory.  “It was a great blessing to win with a big margin,”
Pakistan captain  Mohammad Hafeez  said in comments on the
tournament’s website. “It was a great effort by the bowlers.”  Pakistan earlier posted 149-6 as Nasir Jamshed top scored
with 55 runs. He combined with  Kamran Akmal  for 79 to help their
team recover from 29-2 in the sixth over. Mitchell Starc took 3-
20 after Australia won the toss and elected to field.  “Pakistan totally outplayed us,” Australia captain George
Bailey said. “To this point, we’ve been terribly consistent and
the goal is to get back to that point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  