-- Peace Institute Says Nobel Rankings Favor Sharp, Echo of Moscow
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-10-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/peace-institute-says-nobel-rankings-favor-sharp-echo-of-moscow.html
U.S. Professor Gene Sharp, a theorist
on non-violent struggle, and the Echo of Moscow radio station
are the main contenders for this year’s Nobel Peace Prize, the
International Peace Research Institute said.  The radio station’s chief editor, Alexei Venediktov, and
Russian human rights group Memorial and Svetlana Gannushkina
are, together with Sharp, this year’s top picks, Kristian Berg
Harpviken, head of the Oslo-based institute which ranks
potential winners, said yesterday in an interview. While Sharp
is the favorite, Harpviken said his decision to include
candidates from  Russia  had been “an active choice” after
 Vladimir Putin  returned as president there.  “Russia has had both a political tightening since Putin
reclaimed the number-one post, and a continuously intensifying
civil society protest that has probably surprised a lot of
people,” Harpviken said by phone. “A look toward Russia this
year will be a very natural thing for the Nobel Committee.”  Putin has cracked down on opposition and non-governmental
groups amid the biggest protests since he first came to power in
2000. Tens of thousands of people took part in demonstrations
late last year against alleged electoral fraud.  The Prio institute’s five-candidate list also included
Myanmar’s president Thein Sein for initiating a political
reconciliation process in his country, and  Nigeria ’s religious
leaders John Onaiyekan and Mohamed Sa’ad Abubakar, for their
efforts to promote interreligious dialogue.  The prize winner will be announced on Oct. 12. The
institute doesn’t help pick the winners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  