-- Penn State Sued by Former Coach McQueary Over Firing
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/penn-state-sued-by-ex-assistant-football-coach-mcqueary.html
The former Pennsylvania State
University assistant football coach whose testimony helped
convict Jerry Sandusky of sex abuse charges sued the university
for $4 million in lost earnings.  Mike McQueary , who was placed on administrative leave in
November and terminated in July, claims the university fired him
because of his cooperation with state prosecutors, according to
the complaint made public yesterday in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. He’s seeking $4 million in lost future
earnings plus unspecified damages for legal fees and the
distress, anguish and humiliation caused by his role in the
Sandusky case, according to the complaint.  McQueary was “ostracized and isolated from a community of
individuals, colleagues and friends and a program which had been
an integral part of his life for approximately 20 years,”
Elliot Strokoff, his lawyer, said in the complaint.  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
football coach under Joe Paterno, was convicted in June on 45
criminal counts tied to the abuse of boys over a 15-year period.
He is scheduled to be sentenced next week. McQueary was a key
witness in the prosecution’s case, testifying that he saw
Sandusky abusing a boy in football locker room shower in
February 2001 and reported the incident to Paterno and other
Penn State officials.  David La Torre, a spokesman for Penn State, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  Curley, Schultz  McQueary’s testimony on the 2001 incident is at the heart
of a related case against two Penn State officials for their
handling of the allegation. Timothy Curley, the athletics
director at the time, and Gary Schultz, a former vice president
in charge of university police, face trial in January on charges
they lied to a grand jury and failed to report the incident to
authorities. McQueary is expected to be a witness at that trial.  McQueary said he was placed on administrative leave from
his $140,400-a-year job on Nov. 13, eight days after Sandusky
was charged and three days after he was barred from coaching. He
found out he’d been fired on July 5 after watching a televised
news conference.  Penn State’s “discriminatory treatment” since Nov. 5 has
caused McQueary “distress, anxiety and embarrassment,”
according to the complaint. His report about the Sandusky
incident and his testimony to a grand jury and at a hearing in
December for Curley and Schultz “were truthful, and made
without malice or consideration of personal benefit,” Strokoff
said in the complaint.  The case is McQueary v. The  Pennsylvania  State University,
2012-1804, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County, Pennsylvania
(Bellefonte)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  