-- Peru Looking to Counter Speculative Flows With Reserve Boost
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2012-10-02T19:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/peru-looking-to-counter-speculative-flows-with-reserve-boost-1-.html
Peru ’s Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said efforts to cool credit without raising  interest
rates  are aimed at curbing speculative inflows that helped send
the currency to the strongest level in 15 years.  “We don’t want short-term capital coming in and out, we
want long-term capital,” he told reporters today at a
conference in Lima. “But with so much liquidity in the U.S.,
capital is going to continue entering the market.”  Peru’s central bank increased  reserve requirements 
yesterday for a second straight month to stem lending growth and
contain inflation as central bank bond-buying in the U.S. and
 Europe  lures investors to higher-yielding, emerging-market
assets. Peru’s  reference rate  probably will be held at 4.25
percent for a 17th straight month when the central bank meets
Oct. 11, according to all four economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru raised the average
reserve requirement by 0.5 percentage point for local and
foreign currency. Banks’ average ratio was 16.2 percent for
soles in August and 39.5 percent for dollars, the bank said in
an e-mailed statement Sept. 30.  Demand for the Andean nation’s local currency bonds pushed
the sol to 2.59 per  U.S. dollar  on Sept. 17, the strongest since
1997, data from the financial regulator show.  Inflation Forecast  Peruvian consumer prices rose 0.54 percent in September,
the quickest pace in six months and compared with a 0.51 percent
increase in August, and 3.74 percent from a year earlier.
Inflation probably will be 3 percent this year as growth remains
“positive,” Castilla said today. The central bank targets 2
percent plus or minus 1 percent.  The government sees “double-digit” private investment
growth this year, while public spending expanded 25 percent in
the first half and should grow 30 percent by year-end, he said.  A package of proposed capital market rule changes will be
ready in two months, Castilla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net . 