-- Pfizer Says Sutent Will Remain the Standard for Cancer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-02T16:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/pfizer-says-sutent-will-remain-the-standard-for-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  said its Sutent pill will
continue to be the standard treatment for renal cell carcinoma
after  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said its competing Votrient drug
showed similar effectiveness with fewer side effects.  Patients taking Sutent survived an average of 9.5 months
without the disease progressing, compared with 8.4 months for
those on Votrient, in a study of 1,100 patients, London-based
Glaxo said yesterday. Side effects such as fatigue and skin
sores occurred with less frequency for Votrient.  One of the study’s authors yesterday suggested new patients
may now view Votrient more favorably than Sutent, which commands
about half the U.S. market for renal cancer treatments since
gaining approval in 2006 for Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker. Still, physicians and patients have experience using
Sutent and have learned to manage the side effects, said Robin
Wiltshire, head of global medical affairs for New York-based
Pfizer’s drug.  “I’m confident that Sutent will remain the standard of
care,” Wiltshire said in a phone interview from Vienna after
attending the European Society for Medical Oncology’s annual
meeting. “Over time, physicians and their patients have really
learned good strategies for helping to manage the therapy.”  Severity of side effects can be reduced through methods
such as using hand creams for the skin sores, changing diets to
manage diarrhea and reducing doses, Wiltshire said.  Sutent had global  sales  of $1.19 billion in 2011, compared
with 100 million pounds ($160 million) for Votrient, which was
approved for use in the U.S. in 2009 for advanced renal cell
carcinoma.  Renal cell carcinoma is a type of kidney cancer that starts
in the lining of the tubes in the kidney.  An estimated 64,770 new cases of kidney cancer will be
diagnosed in the U.S. this year, and about 13,570 people will
die of the disease, according to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  