-- PGE Restarts Investment to Build $3 Billion Power Plant
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-10-03T07:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/pge-restarts-biggest-investment-to-build-3-billion-power-plant.html
PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s largest utility,
will go ahead with its 9.4 billion-zloty ($3 billion) project to
build a power plant in Opole after a court lifted the ban on its
biggest investment yesterday.  The state-controlled utility in February signed a deal with
 Rafako SA (RFK) ,  Polimex-Mostostal SA (PXM)  and  Mostostal Warszawa SA (MSW)  for
the 1,800-megawatt, coal-fired plant in southern Poland. In
January, PGE lost a permit for the project because of protests
from environmental law organization ClientEarth. The Supreme
Administrative Court overturned the cancellation of the permit
yesterday and ordered a lower court to reconsider the case.  “The ruling is good news and there are no longer any legal
barriers to starting construction,” Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said in a e-mailed statement. “There’s a real
opportunity to complete this project as originally planned, a
state-of-the-art power plant on the biggest scale in Poland.”  Polish state-controlled utilities plan to spend about 170
billion zloty by 2020 to replace aging facilities and comply
with European Union regulations. The majority of coal-fired
plants in the country, which relies on the fuel for about 90
percent of its electricity, are more than 30 years old.  Mixed Signals  “The decision to continue the investment wasn’t unexpected
after the court’s ruling,” Piotr Nawrocki, a Warsaw-based
analyst at  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , said by phone yesterday. “While
there have been mixed signals about the project’s profitability,
the ministry has always said it’s a strategic investment.”  PGE shares declined 0.1 percent to 18.4 zloty at 9:42 a.m.
in Warsaw, extending this year’s drop to 11 percent and valuing
the company at 34.4 billion zloty. Rafako gained 0.5 percent to
8.94 zloty, Polimex fell 2.3 percent to 0.85 zloty, while
Mostostal Warszawa advanced 2.1 percent to 14.31 zloty.  PGE, in which the government has a 62 percent stake, said
in February it’s seeking a buyer for half of the Opole project.  Power producers in Poland will probably delay investments
in coal-fired plants to avoid the risk of overcapacity after
electricity prices fell,  Fitch Ratings  said on Sept. 27. The
prices have dropped 12 percent in 2012 as the economy expanded
at the slowest pace in three years in the second quarter.  “The electricity prices at such levels increase the risk
of the Opole project,”  Pawel Puchalski , a Warsaw-based analyst
at Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said yesterday. “On the other hand,
declining coal prices will help offset this risk.”  Last month  Enea SA (ENA) , Poland’s third-biggest utility, signed
a deal to build a 1,075-megawatt facility in Kozienice, while
smaller Energa SA suspended a project for a 1,000-megawatt plant
in Ostroleka.  Kulczyk Investments, Electricite de France SA and  Tauron
Polska Energia SA (TPE)  earlier announced plans to build coal-fired
 power plants  in Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  