-- Platinum Buys BWAY From Madison Dearborn for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-10-02T22:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/platinum-buys-bway-from-madison-dearborn-for-1-2-billion.html
Platinum Equity LLC, the private-
investment firm founded by billionaire Tom Gores, agreed to buy
packaging company BWAY Parent Company Inc. in a deal worth $1.24
billion.  Platinum will acquire BWAY from private-equity firm Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC, the companies said today in a statement.
The deal, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter, will
be financed by Platinum and members of BWAY’s management, along
with debt committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Deutsche Bank AG.  “We are excited to bring our operational capabilities to
bear and to partner with the company’s management team to build
on BWAY’s strong fundamentals,” Louis Samson, a partner at
Platinum, said in the statement.  Madison Dearborn’s sale follows an overhaul of the Atlanta-
based company, which it bought for about $900 million in 2010.
BWAY, founded in 1875 as a pie-tin maker, has expanded into both
plastic and steel pails and containers under the leadership of
chief executive officer Kenneth Roessler.  The sale attracted more than six potential bidders,
including financial investors and strategic companies, two
people with knowledge of the situation said earlier this week.  BWAY makes metal ammunition boxes for the U.S. Department
of Defense and other rigid containers from 22 plants in the U.S.
and  Canada . The company had $833.8 million in long-term debt and
other liabilities and  total assets  of $1.17 billion as of June
30.  Platinum, based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , has been
involved in more than 130 acquisitions since Gores founded it in
1995, according to the firm’s website. It has investments in
industrials, manufacturing,  information technology ,
telecommunications and transportation and logistics.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG
and Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised BWAY on the transaction. Latham
& Watkins served as legal adviser to Platinum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  