-- Playboy Enterprises Settling Investor Suit for $5 Million
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-02T20:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/playboy-enterprises-settling-investor-suit-for-5-million.html
Playboy Enterprises Inc. agreed to
pay $5.25 million to settle investors’ lawsuits alleging the
media company’s founder, Hugh M. Hefner, shortchanged
shareholders in a going-private buyout.  The accord resolves four suits over the 2011 deal, in which
Hefner backed a partnership’s acquisition of all Playboy stock
he didn’t already own for $6.15 a share, according to Delaware
Chancery Court filings. Hefner and Playboy officials denied they
harmed investors as part of the transaction.  “The defendants are entering into the stipulation solely
because the settlement would eliminate the burden, expense and
uncertainties inherent in further litigation,” company
officials said in today’s filing.  The accord comes after Playboy, founded by Hefner in 1953,
 moved  its headquarters from  Chicago  to  Beverly Hills ,
 California , in August as part of a consolidation effort,
officials said. The adult-entertainment company’s magazine and
TV divisions are now housed together in the 45,000-square-foot
facility.  Teri Thomerson, a spokeswoman for Playboy, didn’t respond
to e-mails seeking comment on the settlement. Carmella Keener, a
lawyer for some of the Playboy investors who sued, didn’t return
a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Global Growth  Playboy expanded globally in the 1960s and 1970s when
Hefner, now 86, ran the company. The company went public in 1971
and circulation reached 7.2 million for one issue in 1972.
Hefner is the company’s chief creative officer.  Hefner faced a challenge for control of the company in 2010
when FriendFinder Networks Inc., owner of Penthouse magazine,
 offered  $210 million for Playboy.  That prompted Hefner to team up with the private-equity
firm  Rizvi Traverse Management LLC  to take Playboy private in a
$207 million deal backed by more than 84 percent of the
company’s minority stockholders, according to court filings. The
acquisition provided a 50 percent premium to investors, company
officials said.  Some Playboy investors contend they were shortchanged in
the buyout and argue Hefner took the company private “at an
inadequate price,” according to a 2010 suit filed in state
court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  ‘Controlling Interest’  Hefner, who wasn’t serving as a Playboy director when the
board considered the going-private deal, didn’t “utilize his
controlling interest” in the company to strong-arm executives
or other investors into backing the buyout, his lawyers said in
earlier court filings.  As part of the buyout, Hefner “sold his controlling
interest” in Playboy to the partnership, the lawyers noted in
the filing. Minority shareholders shouldn’t be able to use that
sale to challenge the deal, the attorneys said.  Delaware law gives a controlling shareholder the
“discretion as to when to sell his stock and to whom,” the
lawyers said in earlier court filings.  Rizvi Traverse, with offices in  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
has investments in firms such as  Menlo Park , California-based
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and San Francisco-based Twitter Inc. along with
Playboy, according to the firm’s website.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble still must decide
whether to approve the settlement.  The case is In Re Playboy Enterprises Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, CA5632-VCN, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  