-- Pope’s Butler Admits Document Leaks, Says Innocent of Theft
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-02T16:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/pope-s-butler-admits-document-leaks-says-innocent-of-theft-2-.html
Pope Benedict XVI’s former butler
admitted leaking confidential papal documents to an Italian
journalist, saying he was venting his frustrations about Vatican
officials who manipulated the Holy Father.  Paolo Gabriele, 46, told a Vatican court today that he was
innocent of the charges of aggravated theft, while saying that
he had betrayed the Pope’s trust. Gabriele also said that he
acted alone.  “I developed the conviction that it’s very easy to
manipulate a person who has decision making powers in his
hands,” Gabriele told the three-judge panel. “Sometimes the
Pope asked questions about things he should have already known
about.”  Gabriele allegedly leaked the documents to Italian
journalist Gianluigi Nuzzi, who used some of them in his book
“His Holiness: The Secret Papers of Benedict XVI.” The Italian
best-seller detailed power struggles and alleged corruption
inside the Vatican. Gabriele, who began collecting documents
more than five years ago, said frustration pushed him to confide
in a journalist.  “My intention was to find a trusted person to vent to,
given my feelings and the discomfort about the situation that
had become unbearable all around in the Vatican,” Gabriele
said. He never accepted money or benefits in exchange for
information, Gabriele said.  Gold Nugget  Vatican authorities searched Gabriele’s house and found
documents as well as a check made out to the pope for 100,000
euros ($129,000), a 16th-century book and a gold nugget,
according to court documents published on the Vatican’s website
in August. If Gabriele is convicted, he would face a jail
sentence from one to six years, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said Aug. 13.  Gabriele was arrested in May after the leaks narrowed the
number of potential informers. Benedict’s secretary Monsignor Georg Gaenswein, who testified today after Gabriele, said he
became suspicious of the butler after the publication of three
documents, including an e-mail from Italian talk-show host Bruno
Vespa.  Gabriele had a desk in Gaenswein’s office, which is
adjacent to the pope’s. Gaenswein, who said that he previously
trusted Gabriele “absolutely,” called a meeting of the pope’s
staff in May to inform the butler that he had been suspended
amid the investigation.  Papal Family  “I thought it was better to do it in front of the whole
papal family, given that it was a decision made above me,”
Gaenswein said.  Gabriele testified that in his first cell, where he was
held for about 20 days, the lights were turned on around the
clock and the space was so narrow that he was unable to lift his
arms.  Vatican judicial officials have started a probe to
determine whether abuses were committed, Lombardi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  