-- Portugal Offers to Exchange Bonds as It Seeks Market Access
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-03T08:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/portuguese-debt-agency-igcp-plans-bond-exchange-tomorrow.html
Portuguese debt agency IGCP will
offer to exchange bonds due next year for securities maturing in
three years as it tries to regain access to long-term debt
markets.  The government debt agency will offer to buy 5.45 percent
bonds maturing in September 2013 and will sell 3.35 percent
bonds maturing in October 2015, the Lisbon-based IGCP said
yesterday. It plans to carry out the offer at 10:30 a.m.  The yield on the September 2013 note was little changed at
3.60 percent at 8:24 a.m. London time, while the rate on the
October 2015 bond was two basis points higher at 5.39 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Portugal  has to meet the September 2013 bond redemption of
about 10 billion euros ($13 billion) without relying on a
European Union-led rescue program, which extends until the
middle of 2014. While Portugal has continued selling bills, it
hasn’t sold bonds since requesting the bailout in April 2011.  “A successful exchange will reduce the amount needed to
cover redemptions and will show better sentiment among
investors,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior strategist at
ING Groep NV. “I see the exchange as attractive. If the size of
the exchange will be above 30 percent of the outstanding amount,
it will be taken as positive by the market and afterwards
spreads will move lower.”  Lower Yields  Yields have dropped at auctions and in the secondary market
as the government cuts spending and raises taxes to comply with
the terms of the 78 billion-euro aid plan from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund . Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
has said that if the country can’t tap bond markets by September
2013 because of “external reasons,” it would be able to count
on continued support from the IMF and the EU.  Borrowing costs dropped to the lowest since 2010 at a Sept.
19 sale of 1.29 billion euros of 18-month bills, while the
difference in yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-
year bonds instead of German bunds has narrowed to 7.5
percentage points from 16 percentage points on Jan. 31.  In January,  Standard & Poor’s  followed  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service in cutting Portugal’s credit rating to
non-investment grade, or junk.  Portuguese debt has this year returned 44 percent,
including reinvested interest, the most of 26 markets tracked by
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Irish debt, the second-best
performer in the euro region, has handed investors 25 percent,
while German bund gains are 3.2 percent in 2012.  Ireland’s Return  Ireland, which has also received a bailout, in July
returned to long-term debt markets for the first time in almost
two years by selling 4.19 billion euros of new bonds, while also
exchanging some short-maturity notes for longer-term debt.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6
said bond purchases may be considered for euro-area countries
currently under bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland, when they regain bond- market access .  The Portuguese government plans to carry out debt market
operations as it aims to regain access to bond markets by
September 2013, Maria Luis  Albuquerque , the secretary of state
for treasury and finance, said on Sept. 11.  Portugal is “sounding out” the market as it prepares to
resume sales of medium-term notes, Joao Moreira Rato, chairman
of the country’s debt agency, said in an interview in July.
Portugal plans to issue medium-term notes with maturities of one
to five years that are designed for specific creditors, the IMF
said on July 17.  Downward Path  Portugal’s  debt , which will peak below 124 percent of gross
domestic product, “remains sustainable and will be on a firm
downward trajectory after 2014,” the IMF, the European
Commission and the European Central Bank said in a joint
statement on Sept. 11. The IMF in July said Portugal’s debt
would peak at about 118.5 percent of GDP in 2013.  The country has been given more time to narrow its budget
shortfall after  tax revenue  missed forecasts and the economy
heads for a third year of contraction in 2013. Portugal aims to
reach a deficit of 5 percent in 2012 instead of the previous
goal of 4.5 percent, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said on Sept.
11 after EU and IMF officials agreed on the new targets.  The government projects GDP will shrink 1 percent in 2013
after a contraction of 3 percent this year. Economic growth has
averaged less than 1 percent a year for the past decade, placing
Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  