-- Prostate-Cancer Test May Reduce Repeat Biopsies: Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-02T08:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/prostate-cancer-test-may-reduce-repeat-biopsies-study.html
A new gene-based test for prostate
cancer may reduce the need to repeat painful biopsies that can
also cause serious infections, according to a study to be
published in the Journal of Urology.  The ConfirmMDx test, sold by  MDxHealth SA (MDXH)  and based on
technology developed at  Johns Hopkins University , examined
samples from biopsies and confirmed whether a patient was clear
of cancer with 90 percent accuracy, according to the study of
498 men who underwent a second biopsy within 30 months. The
 findings  will appear in the November issue of the journal,
according to the Liege, Belgium-based company.  The results’ publication should help attract the attention
of physicians and drive both revenue and reimbursement from
health insurers, said Rudi Marien, managing director of Biovest
NV, which holds 15 percent of MDxHealth shares. Sales began in
May and are so far in line with company expectations, Chief
Executive Officer Jan Groen said in an interview. At least a
quarter of negative biopsy results are false negatives,
prompting patients to repeat the sometimes risky procedure.  “It’s not a small thing to subject a patient to a second
biopsy,” said  Eric Wallen , a professor of urology at the
University of  North Carolina  who began using the test three
months ago. With a negative result from ConfirmMDx, “I can
reassure patients that I’ve got a test here that tells me I can
be quite confident that there isn’t a cancer hiding that I
missed.”  MDxHealth shares have gained 34 percent this year. The
Belgian company funded the study.  Infection Risk  About 1.5 million men get abnormal results from so-called
PSA tests annually in the U.S., leading to more than 900,000
biopsies a year, according to  Michael King , an analyst at Nomura
Code Securities Ltd. in  London . The procedure involves passing a
needle through the rectum and into the prostate gland to take
eight to 12 tissue samples.  About one in 200 men who undergo a prostate biopsy will
develop a serious infection or report trouble urinating,
researchers said in a scientific review published last year in
the Annals of  Internal Medicine . The 15-minute test carries an
infection risk because the needle can take bacteria from the
bowel into the prostate, bladder and bloodstream.  MDxHealth’s test analyzes biopsy samples to determine
whether some genes such as those that suppress tumors are
switched off, a process that’s associated with the presence or
development of most cancers.  ‘Convince Urologists’  The product will compete with a test from Mitomics Inc.,
which the Thunder Bay, Ontario-based company says can rule out
cancer with 91 percent accuracy.  Epigenomics AG , based in
Berlin, uses a similar approach in tests to detect colon and
lung cancers, which are marketed in  Europe . A colon cancer test
awaits U.S. regulatory approval.  ConfirmMDx may help insurers save money by cutting the
number of unnecessary biopsies, according to CEO Groen. The
procedure costs about $2,500, whereas Nomura Code’s King
estimates the price of the test at about $146 per tissue sample.
MDxHealth says it is only targeting urologists in the U.S.,
given the size of the market and the fact that European
countries each have distinct procedures for reimbursement.  MDxHealth has also partnered with drugmakers such as
GlaxoSmithKline Plc of London and  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck & Co. on diagnostics that help determine
whether patients respond to the companies’ cancer treatments.  Sales of those tests and the introduction of ConfirmMDx
pushed up sales 43 percent to 2.01 million euros ($2.59 million)
in the six months ended June 30. MDxHealth may report a profit
in 2014, according to Nomura Code.  The company says it’s also developing a version of
ConfirmMDx for  lung cancer . A second test in the works could
help distinguish between aggressive and slow-growth cancers.  “MDxHealth’s diagnostic technology has the potential to be
used in a wide number of cancer applications,” Nomura’s King
said. “The publication will certainly help the company convince
urologists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  