-- Putin Profits as U.S. Ally Saakashvili Loses Georgian Vote
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-03T11:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/putin-profits-as-u-s-ally-saakashvili-loses-in-georgia-election.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  will
probably benefit from the election defeat of U.S.-backed
Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, who led his nation to
war with  Russia  in 2008, said researchers from  London  to Moscow.  Putin, who threatened four years ago to hang Saakashvili
“by the balls” and refused any contact with the 44-year-old
U.S.-educated lawyer, will now have the option to deal with
billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, poised to form the next
government. Ivanishvili, who made his fortune in Russia,
promised to mend ties between Georgia and its powerful neighbor.  The U.S. and European Union, which backed Saakashvili’s
Rose Revolution in 2003 as well as the Orange Revolution a year
later in Ukraine, have seen the pro-Western leaders that came to
power suffer electoral reversals, boosting Russian influence in
its former Soviet empire. Georgia, home to energy links between
 Europe  and the Caspian that bypass Russia, angered Putin by
seeking NATO entry.  “Saakashvili was very much disliked in Moscow, to put it
mildly,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Moscow-based
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy. “While relations won’t
change dramatically, the overall atmosphere will improve.”  The Georgian president, who has one year left of his
mandate, yesterday conceded defeat in the election and said his
party was going into opposition after garnering 40 percent of
the vote to 55 percent for Ivanishvili’s Georgian Dream
coalition with 98.8 percent of the ballots counted.  Most of the powers of the presidency will pass to the prime
minister after Saakashvili’s term ends because of legislative
changes two years ago.  ‘More Constructive’  Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev yesterday said the
opposition’s victory showed a desire for change and offered a
chance for dialog with  Georgia .  “We can only welcome this as it likely means that there
will be more constructive and responsible forces in
parliament,” Medvedev told reporters in Makhachkala, the
capital of Dagestan, the Russian region neighboring Georgia.  The Russian Foreign Ministry today said Saakashvili’s
defeat may allow the Black Sea nation to bring about the
“normalization” of ties with its neighbors and to establish
“constructive and respectful relations.”  Ivanishvili, 56, said yesterday that he would end
Saakashvili’s policy of “waving a red flag” in front of
Russia, while still seeking membership of the European Union and
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  ‘Not Impossible’  “We will have to sort out our relations with Russia,” he
told reporters in Tbilisi. “It will be hard, but not
impossible.”  Georgia, the birthplace of Soviet dictator  Josef Stalin ,
was incorporated into the Russian empire in the late 18th
century, and enjoyed only three years of independence, from
1918-1921, until the 1991 collapse of the  Soviet Union . It
withdrew from the post-Soviet  Commonwealth of Independent States 
after losing a five-day war with Russia over a breakaway region
in August 2008.  Russian-Georgian relations were tense even before the 2008
war, which was sparked by Saakashvili’s attempt to regain
control of South Ossetia. Putin cut transport and postal links
and blocked money transfers in October 2006 in a dispute over
Georgia’s arrest of Russian servicemen it accused of espionage.  Russia had earlier banned imports of Georgian wine and
mineral water, hurting the agricultural industry. Flights
resumed in March 2008 before being halted again by the conflict,
restarting in 2010.  ‘No Stooge’  Saakashvili, in a speech before the  United Nations General
Assembly , said last week that Russia was plotting to influence
the outcome of the election, and called on “friends and
allies” to support Georgia’s independence.  There’s no reason to believe that Ivanishvili is a
“Kremlin stooge,” said Gemma Ferst, a London-based analyst
with Eurasia Group.  “He’s pro-Russian insomuch as he wants to improve
relations with Russia,” which is in line with what the majority
of Georgians want according to public-opinion polls, she said by
phone yesterday.  While Saakashvili’s party held a lead of more than 20
percentage points last month, the Sept. 18 release of footage
showing prison guards beating and raping male inmates with a
broom handle and truncheon sparked mass protests in the country
ruled for the past nine years by Saakashvili.  ‘Immediate Problems’  “The Georgian public apparently voted decisively for
Georgian Dream not only because of disillusionment with
Saakashvili and his government, and not only because of the
extremely damaging visual evidence of prison abuse, but because
of Georgian Dream’s promise that immediate economic and social
problems will be addressed,” Neil MacFarlane, who researches
the South Caucasus at Oxford University, said by e-mail.  Saakashvili was seen as a “loose cannon” by some western
powers and his departure may ease strains with Russia, their
biggest strategic relationship in the region, said MacFarlane.  ‘Close Relationship’  The NATO military alliance is committed to its “close
relationship” with Georgia, Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today. Four months before the 2008 Russo-Georgian
war, NATO rebuffed bids by Georgia and Ukraine to be put on a
fast-track toward membership, with Germany and  France  leading
opposition to the U.S.-backed initiative.  Matthew Bryza, a former U.S. deputy assistant secretary of
state for European and Eurasian affairs, said that Saakashvili
may still manage to retain influence in the country.  “Is President Putin happy to see Saakashvili go? Well
Saakashvili isn’t gone,” he said by phone from Istanbul.
“Saakashvili is still president for another year and if the
opposition wins a narrow victory in parliament, then there is
still political jockeying that is going to take place over
selecting the prime minister and the presidential elections.”  If the Georgian leader does lose power, he will have laid
the foundations of a democratic system in his country, said
Bryza, who was responsible for the South Caucasus at the State
Department and later served as ambassador to Georgia’s neighbor,
 Azerbaijan .  Ivanishvili doesn’t accept that good relations with Europe
and Russia are mutually exclusive, James Nixey, Russian and
Eurasia Program Manager at  Chatham House  in London, which
advises European governments, wrote in a research note.  There is no proof that Ivanishvili “is in any way beholden
or even amenable to the Kremlin’s unconcealed desire for
influence,” Nixey wrote. “But he is likely to take a less
antagonistic policy than Saakashvili.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  