-- Quebecor, Christ Hospital, Madoff, Patriot: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-10-02T12:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/quebecor-christ-hospital-madoff-patriot-bankruptcy.html
The hopes of Quebecor World (USA)
Inc. creditors for a major payday were dashed again when a
district judge upheld dismissal of a lawsuit to recover
$376 million for bonds repurchased within three months of the
company’s bankruptcy in January 2008.  The Quebecor official creditors’ committee sued in
September 2008 to recover the payment, saying it was a so-called
preference occurring with 90 days of bankruptcy. The noteholders
responded by contending the suit was barred by the so-called
safe harbor in Section 546(e) of the Bankruptcy Code. The
section precludes suits to recover payments made in securities
transactions.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  dismissed the suit in
July 2011. He said the result was mandated by a ruling the month
before when the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York said
the safe harbor must be accorded “extremely broad”
interpretation.  The creditors appealed and lost again in when U.S. District
Judge Jesse M. Furman handed down a 19-page opinion on Sept. 28.  Furman said the case was “easily decided” because the
Court of Appeals “squarely rejected the precise arguments”
being made by the Quebecor creditors.  Furman said he was bound by the appeals court’s 2-1 opinion
on June 28, 2011, in Enron Creditors’ Recovery Trust v. Alfa SAV
de CV. For a discussion of the Enron opinion, click here for the
June 30, 2011, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Peck said he was forced to dismiss even though the case
involved “behavior that the law generally would seek to
discourage.” He characterized the actions immunized in his
ruling as “ganging up on a vulnerable borrower to obtain
clearly preferential treatment in the months leading up to a
bankruptcy.”  In July 2009, Quebecor implemented the bankruptcy
reorganization plans approved by judges in both the U.S. and
 Canada . Then the second-largest commercial printer in the U.S.,
Quebecor changed its name to World Color Press Inc.  The plan gave unsecured creditors notes for 50 percent of
their claims so long as claims in the class didn’t exceed
$150 million. The revolving credit lenders, owed $735 million,
and equipment financing lenders, owed $184 million, received a
combination of cash, common stock, and preferred stock, for a
recovery estimated to be worth between 85 percent and
88 percent.  Furman’s opinion is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors of Quebecor World (USA) Inc. v. American United Life
Insurance Co. (In re Quebecor World (USA) Inc.), 11-7530, U.S.
District Court, Southern District New York ( Manhattan ). Peck’s
opinion is Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Quebecor
World (USA) Inc. v. American United Life Insurance Co. (In re
Quebecor World (USA) Inc.), 08-01417, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  The Chapter 11 case in New York is In re Quebecor World
(USA) Inc., 08-10152, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
New York (Manhattan).  The Chapter 15 case is In re Quebecor World Inc., 08-13814,
in the same court.  Updates  U.S. Trustee Wants Inquiry in Christ Hospital Sale  Christ Hospital , a 367-bed acute-care hospital in Jersey
City, New Jersey, may have been the subject of a bankruptcy
auction that one of the buyers allegedly tried to “fix,”
according to a filing in bankruptcy court by the U.S. Trustee.  The hospital was sold in July to Hudson Hospital Holdco LLC
from Philadelphia under a contract calling for $29.5 million in
cash, the cost of curing defaults on contracts, plus $3.5
million paid to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.  The U.S. Trustee in New Jersey said in a Sept. 28
bankruptcy court filing that she received a copy of an e-mail
written by a Warren Martin, a bankruptcy lawyer for Christ
Hospital. As quoted by the U.S. Trustee, Martin’s e-mail says
that an unidentified person from Community Healthcare Associates
LLC, the unsuccessful bidder at the auction, told Martin he
would be sued for $4.5 million because he “didn’t ’fix’ the
Christ Hospital auction” in Community Healthcare’s favor.  The statement was “clearly a lie,” David Mazie from Mazie
Slater Katz & Freeman LLP said in an interview. Mazie represents
Community Healthcare.  “It was an outrageous e-mail that was sent by Mr. Martin,
and we are in the process of filing a defamation action against
Mr. Martin and his firm,” Mazie said.  “We expected this action by Mr. Mazie,” said Karen
Kessler, a spokeswoman for Martin’s law firm Porzio Bromberg &
Newman PC. “We will address all allegations in due course and
in the appropriate forum,” she said in an interview.  The U.S. Trustee, the bankruptcy watchdog for the Justice
Department, had the bankruptcy judge in  Newark , New Jersey,
schedule an Oct. 10 hearing to consider appointing an examiner
to conduct an investigation.  She wants the examiner to look into whether the auction was
open and fair, whether “any party acted improperly,” and
whether any professional “failed to report misconduct in
connection with the sale process.”  The eventual buyer, Hudson, is a for-profit hospital
operator that owns the Hoboken Medical Center and the Bayonne
Medical Center, both in New Jersey.  Christ Hospital filed for Chapter 11 protection in February
after an acquisition by Prime Healthcare Services fell through.
Debt initially was reported to include $6.8 million on a
revolving credit, $10.6 million on a term loan, and $20 million
in unsecured debt owed to trade suppliers. The PBGC had placed a
$25.9 million lien on hospital assets.  The case is In re Christ Hospital, 12-12906, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Madoff Trustee Hopes to Save Suits Alleging Knowledge of Fraud  It is “intellectually corrupt” for those who knew Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc. was a fraud to hide behind
the so-called bankruptcy safe harbor, Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  said in papers filed last week in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan.  In opinions handed down in September 2011 and April 2012,
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled that Section 546(e) of the
Bankruptcy Code, known as the safe harbor, only allows a
bankruptcy trustee to sue for recovery of payments going back
two years before bankruptcy. Picard wanted his suits to reach
back six years.  Rakoff set aside a group of lawsuits involving defendants
who allegedly either knew or had reason to believe Madoff was
conducting a fraud. Picard filed his brief on Sept. 28 seeking
to persuade Rakoff that his suits shouldn’t be cut off at two
years.  Picard pointed out two lawsuits where the defendants
allegedly received cash payments for years from Madoff that were
neither reported to the Internal Revenue Service nor shown on
their account statements. Picard said it was “intellectually
corrupt” for those defendants to argue they are protected by
the safe harbor.  The safe harbor was enacted by Congress “to prevent
disruptions of the securities markets,” Picard argued. The
trustee contends safe harbor shouldn’t be used to protect those
with knowledge or a high level of suspicion that Madoff was
conducting a fraud.  The trustee is urging Rakoff not to dismiss the suits
without first holding a trial to determine the degree of
knowledge by each defendant about Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Five Madoff employees were re-indicted on additional
criminal charges by the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan. For the
Bloomberg story, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea.  The safe harbor dispute is part of Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
12-mc-00115, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Power Producer Dynegy Implements Merger and Reorganization Plan  Power producer  Dynegy Holdings LLC (DYN)  said it was implementing
the bankruptcy reorganization plan yesterday that the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Poughkeepsie, New York approved with a Sept.
10 confirmation order.  Dynegy Holdings filed under Chapter 11 in November. The
direction of the bankruptcy changed in March when examiner
Susheel Kirpalani issued a report saying that an out-of-court
restructuring last year included fraudulent transfers with
actual intent to hinder and delay creditors of subsidiaries of
parent  Dynegy Inc. (DYNIQ)  Changing role to that of mediator, Kirpalani
persuaded the contending factions to settle.  The settlement, carried out through the plan, gave
creditors of Dynegy Holdings 99 percent of the stock following a
merger with parent Dynegy Inc., which filed its own Chapter 11
petition later. The merger was completed on Sept. 30, Dynegy
said in a regulatory filing.  The other 1 percent of the stock was for shareholders of
parent Dynegy Inc.  Disclosure materials told unsecured creditors of Dynegy
Holdings with claims totaling about $4.2 billion they could
expect a recovery between 59 percent and 89 percent. For details
on the Dynegy plan, click here for the June 20 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The $1.05 billion in 8.375 percent senior unsecured notes
of Dynegy Holdings LLC last traded on Sept. 28 for 57.25 cents
on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  In addition to the Dynegy parent, the companies in Chapter
11 are Dynegy Holdings LLC, a direct subsidiary of the Dynegy
parent, and four of Dynegy Holding’s units. The subsidiaries of
Dynegy Holdings were not reorganized under the plan.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).
The case for the parent is In re Dynegy Inc., 12-36728, in the
same court.  NewPage Creditors Use Mediation to Settle on Plan  The NewPage Corp. warring creditor factions came to
agreement on a reorganization plan with help from a bankruptcy
judge serving as mediator.  The plan will give all the stock to holders of first-lien
notes. Second-lien noteholders and some unsecured creditors will
split up $30 million in cash and the first $50 million collected
by a litigation trust.  After the initial $50 million from the trust, additional
distributions will be shared by the first- and second-lien
noteholders and some unsecured creditors.  Trade suppliers who agree to provide credit in the future
will receive 15 percent on their claims over two years,
according to a company statement.  The company reported a $2.25 million net loss in August on
net sales of $273.7 million. Reorganization expenses in the
month were $3.9 million, according to the operating report filed
with the bankruptcy court in  Delaware .  Newpage filed a Chapter 11 plan in August that dissatisfied
both secured and unsecured creditors. NewPage had been saying
that unsecured creditors are “hopelessly out of the money”
with no theory that would bring them a dividend under a Chapter
11 plan. For details on the August plan, click here for the Aug.
14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Although the NewPage bankruptcy is pending in Delaware, the
mediator was Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain from New York.  Newpage will fund the litigation trust with $40 million
cash and specified lawsuit recoveries. NewPage will also loan
the trust $5 million to be used for administrative expenses. The
official creditors’ committee supports the newly negotiated
plan.  The official committee argued that that the lenders
financed an acquisition in 2007 and a refinancing two years
later that included fraudulent transfers. For details on the
creditors’ claims, click here for the May 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Eighty percent owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP,
NewPage listed assets of $3.4 billion and debt totaling $4.2
billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in September
2011. Liabilities included $232 million on a revolving credit
plus $1.77 billion on 11.375 percent senior secured first-lien
notes.  Second-lien obligations include $802 million in 10 percent
secured notes and $225 million in floating-rate notes. In
addition to $200 million in 12 percent senior unsecured notes,
$498 million is owing on two issues of floating-rate pay-in-kind
notes.  NewPage, based in Miamisburg,  Ohio , filed bankruptcy with
16 paper-making machines operating in seven plants in the U.S.
and Nova Scotia. The Canadian affiliate filed for reorganization
in Nova Scotia. The company reported a net loss of $229 million
in the first half of 2011 on revenue of $1.79 billion, following
a $674 million net loss in 2010 on revenue of $3.6 billion.  The case is In re NewPage Corp., 11-12804, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  AMR Argues Appeal on Union Vote, Loose B757 Seats  AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines Inc., faced
tough questioning yesterday in an appeals court when defending a
June ruling in its favor hindering a union election by
passenger-service agents.  A federal district judge in  Dallas  ruled on June 22 that
the National Mediation Board was improperly holding an election
by passenger-service agents because the required 50 percent
hadn’t shown a desire for union representation. The NMB and the
communications workers’ union appealed, contending that only
35 percent was required.  After the union organizing process began, the law was
changed raising the threshold to 50 percent from 35 percent. The
issue for the appeals court dealt with which percentage
determines whether enough workers favor a union to warrant
holding an election.  The three judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans didn’t say how they would rule or when. For Bloomberg
coverage of the appellate court hearing, click here.  AMR is checking eight Boeing 757 aircraft to determine
whether seats were properly reattached to the floor when the
cabin configuration was changed recently. For the Bloomberg
story, click here.  AMR, based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth,  Texas , listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November.  The appeal is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-10680, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
(New Orleans). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  LightSquared’s New Regulatory Strategy Satisfies Creditors  The new LightSquared Inc. strategy to win regulatory
approval for the wireless communications system persuaded
secured lenders to drop opposition to enlargement of the
company’s exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan.  Last week, LightSquared modified its proposal with the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission to use weather satellite and
weather balloon frequencies rather than portions of the spectrum
near those used by global positioning satellites. LightSquared’s
proposed system uses earth and satellite-based wireless
technology.  The FCC had blocked LightSquared from building out the
system on concern it would interfere with reception by GPS
devices. The new proposal allowed the bankruptcy judge at a
hearing yesterday to give the company the exclusive right until
Jan. 31 to propose a Chapter 11 reorganization plan. For
Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  The so-called LP lenders opposed granting longer
exclusivity so long as the company was bent on persuading the
FCC to reverse its prior decision. They argued that the strategy
was too likely to fail. The new FCC proposal prompted the
lenders to drop their opposition to longer exclusivity.  The LP lenders are an ad hoc group owning $1.08 billion of
the $1.7 billion secured borrowing in October 2010 by
LightSquared LP.  The LP lenders have a hearing scheduled for Oct. 30 when
they will ask the bankruptcy judge for permission to sue
LightSquared’s owner, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, over
alleged defects in loans and security interests. For details,
click here for the Sept. 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy protection in May,
listing assets of $4.48 billion and liabilities totaling
$2.29 billion. The company says it spent $4 billion developing
its satellite system.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger acquired
LightSquared in March 2010 for $1.05 billion in cash and
controls 96 percent of the stock.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Patriot Seeking Extension for Selenium Cleanup at Mines  Patriot Coal Corp. is facing a May deadline from a federal
district court in West Virginia for installing equipment to
remove selenium contamination from water discharges at some of
its mines. The company was unable to negotiate an extension of
the deadline with the private parties who brought the
environmental lawsuit.  Patriot had intended to file papers in the West Virginia
court requesting an extension of the deadlines, which require
spending $29 million. The plaintiffs took the position that the
so-called automatic stay emanating from Patriot’s Chapter 11
reorganization blocks the West Virginia suit from going forward.  The company filed papers at the end of last week asking the
bankruptcy judge to modify the automatic stay so Patriot can
proceed in district court seeking an extension of the deadline.
The hearing is set for Oct. 11. For Bloomberg coverage, click
here.  Whether the Oct. 11 hearing is held in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in New York remains to be seen. Last month, the New York
judge held a hearing on a request by the U.S. Trustee and a
union to move the bankruptcy to West Virginia, where most of the
mines are located, or to St. Louis, home to Patriot’s head
office. The judge didn’t say how or when she will rule.  Patriot’s $200 million in 3.25 percent senior convertible
notes due in 2013 last traded yesterday for 14 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $250 million in
8.25 percent senior unsecured notes due in 2018 last traded
yesterday for about 49 cents on the dollar.  Patriot is one of the largest coal producers in the U.S. In
the July Chapter 11 filing, Patriot listed assets of
$3.57 billion and debt of $3.07 billion as of May 31.  The Chapter 11 case is In re  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , 12-12900,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  FiberTower Signs Bordercomm to Buy for $22.5 Million  FiberTower Corp., a wireless communications provider, filed
for bankruptcy reorganization in July and has a contract to sell
the business for $22.5 million to Bordercomm Partners LP unless
a better offer turns up at auction.  In papers filed Sept. 28 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort
Worth, Texas, FiberTower wants the bankruptcy judge to approve
sale procedures so an auction can occur not later than Nov. 20.  San Francisco-based FiberTower describes its business as
providing “backhaul services” mostly for wireless carriers. It
moves video and data traffic from a cell carrier’s cell site to
a switching center. It also leases spectrum services to third
parties.  The company’s biggest markets are Dallas-Fort Worth and
Washington-Baltimore.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court tomorrow to
discuss scheduling the auction and sale.  Yesterday, the bankruptcy judge signed a preliminary
injunction blocking the Federal Communications Commission from
terminating licenses. The judge said he will file an opinion
within two weeks giving reasons in detail for the injunction.  The company filed formal lists showing assets for $331
million and debt totaling $175 million, including $132 million
in secured debt.  The case is  FiberTower Corp. (FTWRQ) , 12-44027, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  Solar Millennium Files Liquidating Plan, Seeks Exclusivity  Solar Millennium Inc. (S2M)  sold two of its solar power projects
under contracts the company said eventually could generate $110
million in value. The company filed a proposed liquidating
Chapter 11 plan in August and lodged a request last week for a
second extension of the exclusive right to propose a plan.  The plan calls for paying creditors in the order of
priority called for in bankruptcy law, taking settlements into
consideration. The draft disclosure statement accompanying the
plan has blanks where unsecured creditors will be told the
percentage distribution to expect. The plan creates a
liquidating trust to sell the remaining assets not part of the
two prior sales.  There will be a hearing on Oct. 12 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Delaware for approval of disclosure materials allowing
creditors to vote on the plan. Oct. 17 is the hearing date when
Solar Millennium will request an extension until Dec. 16 of the
exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  bought the 1,000 megawatt facility in
Blythe,  California , in July. When completed, it will be the
world’s largest solar power plant. In August Solar Millennium
sold the 500 megawatt project under development in Desert
Center, California to  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE)  for a price that
could be as much as about $30 million, if all contingent
payments are made.  For the larger project, Solar Millennium initially said
NextEra would pay $10 million cash plus contingent payment of as
much as an additional $40 million when the project is completed.  There is no buyer as yet for the 500-megawatt project still
in the planning stage in Amargosa Valley,  Nevada . Global Finance
Corp. started a lawsuit in bankruptcy court in June contending
that Solar Millennium lost its ownership interest in the project
by not moving forward with development.  Solar Millennium is a U.S. subsidiary of  Germany ’s Solar
Millennium AG. The Oakland, California-based company filed under
Chapter 11 in April when rent was coming due the 7,000-acre
Blythe project.  The company’s solar-power projects were all in the
development stage and generated no income. There was only
$200,000 in secured debt at the outset. Financing had been
provided by the German parent and Ferrostaal AG, the owner of a
30 percent interest in the joint venture developing the U.S.
projects. Ferrostaal provided no financing in two years, and the
German parent suspended financing in late 2011 after initiating
its own insolvency proceedings in Germany.  The petition listed assets of less than $100 million and
liabilities exceeding $100 million.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Bankruptcy Podcast  Southern Air, Metro Fuel, Carey Limousine: Bankruptcy Audio  After a dearth of interesting new cases, Bloomberg Law’s
Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle talk on their podcast about three new Chapter 11s filed
last week. The largest was cargo airline Southern Air Holdings
Inc., which suffered from the drawdown of U.S. troops stationed
abroad. A New York fuel oil distributor named Metro Fuel Oil
Corp. filed for reorganization in New York after overstating
accounts receivable and having the bank loans cut off. Regarding
the last new case,  Carey Limousine L.A. Inc. , Rochelle wonders
whether the company will suffer the same fate as the  Cordillera 
golf club in  Colorado  and have the reorganization tossed out of
Delaware and sent home. To listen to the podcast, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  