-- Quinn Emanuel, Debevoise, Cleary, Hogan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-02T11:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/quinn-emanuel-debevoise-cleary-hogan-business-of-law.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices suggested
they will shield companies from some suits alleging complicity
in overseas atrocities, as the court debated how far to go in
scaling back a favorite legal tool of human-rights advocates.  During arguments in Washington on accusations that two
foreign-based units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  facilitated torture
and execution in Nigeria, the justices yesterday questioned
whether American courtrooms were the proper site for such
claims. The case centers on the two-century-old Alien Tort
Statute.  Shell’s lawyer, Kathleen Sullivan, of  Quinn Emanuel 
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, urged the court to issue a sweeping
decision that would categorically bar suits for conduct that
occurs beyond the U.S. borders. The U.S. shouldn’t impose “our
law onto foreign countries,” she said.  Paul L. Hoffman, of Schonbrun DeSimone Seplow Harris &
Hoffman LLP in Venice, California, the lawyer for the Nigerians
who sued, told the court that “the trend in the world today is
toward universal justice for people that -- and corporations
that -- violate these kinds of norms.”  A ruling cutting back the Alien Tort Statute would be a
coup for companies, dozens of which have faced suits under the
law in recent years.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Pfizer
Inc., Unocal Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Ford Motor Co. have all
been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related law,
known as the Torture Victim Protection Act.  By the end of the hour-long session, the focus of the
debate was how far the court should go in trimming the Alien
Tort Statute. Some justices suggested they would continue to
allow suits against alleged perpetrators who took refuge in the
U.S., while the Obama administration urged the court to bar
claims against foreign units -- and throw out the Shell case --
without deciding whether U.S. companies could be sued.  The justices were hearing arguments for the second time on
the suit, being pressed by Nigerians who say two Shell units
were complicit in torture and execution in the country’s Ogoni
region from 1992 to 1995.  The high court in February considered contentions that the
Alien Tort Statute doesn’t permit suits against corporations.
Several justices, including Alito, suggested then that they were
more interested in hearing arguments that the law can’t be
applied overseas.  The justices then expanded their review, ordering re-
argument on a potentially more sweeping question: whether the
statute applies beyond the U.S. borders. A decision limiting the
law to misconduct on U.S. soil would shield corporate officers
as well as the companies.  U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, representing the
Obama administration, urged the court to rule in Shell’s favor
without reaching some of the broader questions. He said the
court should leave intact the 1980 decision that allowed suits
against perpetrators who had moved to the U.S.  The  case  is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Adoboli’s UBS Co-Worker Says He Used Secret Umbrella Account  John Hughes , a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader, testified he made the
same unauthorized trades as his co-worker Kweku Adoboli, who is
being prosecuted for fraud.  Hughes said during his fourth day of testimony at Adoboli’s
fraud and false accounting trial in London that he made trades
that benefited the fund Adoboli had dubbed his “umbrella” --
the first time another worker admitted using that account.  Charles Sherrard, Adoboli’s lawyer, presented evidence of
at least five transactions on the umbrella account made by
Hughes while Adoboli was on vacation in Greece in June 2011, and
that accounting firm KPMG LLP had evidence of other such trades.
Adoboli called it the umbrella because it could be tapped on
“rainy days” to cover trading losses, prosecutors have said.  Sherrard asked Hughes why, if he had made the trades, he
told UBS management and their lawyers after Adoboli’s arrest
last year “that you hadn’t played a part in anything” even
though the last trade Hughes personally made was executed “just
six weeks earlier.”  Hughes confirmed he’d made the trades, which were real
transactions on the bank’s books tied to fake hedges that hid
risk from the desk’s regular trading book. Profit from such
trades went into the umbrella fund for later use by the
exchange-traded fund desk, Sherrard said.  Adoboli was charged in relation to unauthorized trades on
which UBS lost $2.3 billion. The former trader admitted hours
before his arrest in September of last year that he had risked
$5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a further $3.75
billion in the German futures market, a former manager
testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  Sherrard has said previously that Hughes had made his own
off-book trades, knew of the umbrella account and “at times
controlled it.”  Hughes reiterated yesterday he didn’t control the umbrella
fund and that he didn’t know how to directly access it on
Adoboli’s computer. He also said he didn’t know about the fund
until about January 2011, though Adoboli created it in 2008.
Others who were fired, including Adoboli’s former manager Ron Greenidge, weren’t aware of the umbrella, Hughes said.  Sherrard said Hughes abandoned Adoboli as the scheme
unraveled and let him take the fall on his own, instead of
admitting he’d been part of it. Hughes also agreed for the first
time he had a supervisory role over Adoboli and that he
repeatedly lied when asked by the ETF desk’s manager to report
on their daily profits and losses.  Deals  CVC Agrees to Buy Cunningham Lindsey From Stone Point, Fairfax  A group led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd. agreed to buy
Cunningham Lindsey Group Ltd., one of the world’s largest
insurance-claims adjusters, from owners Stone Point Capital LLC
and  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)   Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised Cunningham on the deal.
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and  Clifford Chance  LLP provided
legal advice to CVC’s investor group.  The international Debevoise team is led by partner Stephen R. Hertz and includes partners Jeffrey P. Cunard, Vadim Mahmoudov and Pierre Maugüé.  Weil’s lawyers were led by partner Doug Warner and also
included partners JP Bernard, Angela Fontana and Marc Silberberg.  Clifford Chance’s London partners Kem Ihenacho and Imogen Clark also advised CVC.  The deal values Cunningham at about $900 million to $1
billion including debt, said a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because the figure is
private. Fairfax is selling a stake for about $260 million,
according to a statement yesterday. Stone Point, run by former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives  Stephen Friedman  and Charles Davis, and Fairfax plan to remain investors, a separate
statement showed.  Private-equity firms have bought and sold insurance-
services firms this year as some look to cash out investments
made during the buyout boom half a decade ago and others look to
invest in an industry with steady  cash flow  and little need for
 capital expenditures . Cunningham, with about 7,000 employees,
helps insurers and other companies determine losses and has
operations in nations including Australia, Brazil, Germany,
India, Japan and the U.S.  For more, click here.  3M to Buy Ceradyne for $860 Million in CEO’s Largest Deal  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  advised  3M Co. (MMM) , the
manufacturer whose new chief executive officer has said he’s
considering larger deals, on an agreement to buy  Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN) 
for $860 million to expand into ceramics used in energy,
aerospace and defense industries. Stradling Yocca Carlson &
Rauth PC advised Ceradyne.  3M agreed to pay $35 a share and plans to complete the
transaction by the end of the year, according to a statement
yesterday. The board of Mesa Costa, California-based Ceradyne
has recommended shareholders accept the offer, which is 43
percent higher than the closing price on Sept. 28.  The Cleary Gottlieb corporate team includes partner
Christopher Austin. Also working on the deal were partners A.
Richard Susko, employee benefits; Leonard Jacoby, intellectual
property; and Mark Leddy, Brian Byrne and Stephan Barthelmess,
antitrust aspects.  Stradling’s team included corporate shareholders Robert
“Bob” Rich and Marc Alcser.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP represented Citibank, financial
adviser to Ceradyne. The Kirkland team included partners Daniel Wolf and Joshua Zachariah.  The purchase, the biggest announced by  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based 3M this year, will help the company expand into ceramics
as the material becomes more popular across several industries.
Ceramics are more frequently used because they are more heat-
resistant and harder than metal, said  Nick Heymann , an analyst
with William Blair & Co. in New York.  3M agreed to pay about 6 times Ceradyne’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s similar to the 5.3 ratio of
similar deals.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Jones Day Will Open Amsterdam Office in 2013 Led by Houben  Jones Day will open an office in Amsterdam early next year.
The Amsterdam office will be the firm’s 38th worldwide, and 10th
in Europe.  Led by Luc Houben, who was previously the partner-in-charge
of Jones Day’s Brussels office, the Amsterdam office will
initially focus corporate, mergers and acquisitions, private
equity,  capital markets , litigation and antitrust law matters.  Houben, a M&A lawyer who has been with  Jones Day  for more
than 20 years, has also practiced in New York and Tokyo and is
currently closely involved in the firm’s Japan practice, the
firm said.  Yvan Desmedt will become the administrative partner for the
Amsterdam office. Desmedt is currently a partner in the
antitrust and competition practice at Jones Day’s Brussels
office, focusing on EU and national antitrust as well as EU
regulatory matters.  Ferdinand Mason, formerly a partner at a Dutch law firm, is
joining Jones Day in its London office, where he will help build
the firm’s Dutch presence. Mason headed up the corporate/M&A and
capital markets department at his previous firm, and opened its
London office in 2010. His practice primarily encompasses
mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, governance, and
strategic corporate matters for industrial and private equity
clients. He is joined in London by a senior associate.  “The Netherlands is a leading and internationally
important business and legal market with close ties to the
United States,” Jones Day’s managing partner Steve Brogan said
in a statement. “The opening of our Amsterdam office, together
with the recent addition of our Dusseldorf office, is a
demonstration of Jones Day’s confidence in and commitment to the
future of the European Union, which remains the largest economy
in the world.”  Jones Day opened a Dusseldorf office in February of this
year. The firm has 450 lawyers in 10 European locations. The
firm has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices worldwide.  Carlton Fields Opens New York Office With Rosner & Napierala  Carlton Fields opened a New York City office yesterday by
taking on 6 lawyers from Rosner & Napierala LLP, including name
partners Brian Rosner and Natalie A. Napierala. Rosner will
serve as managing shareholder for the office.  “Many of our national clients are based in or near New
York, and our attorneys from our offices in  Florida  and Atlanta
travel there often to work with these clients. So the new office
is a natural step for us,” Carlton Fields’ president and CEO
Gary L. Sasso said in a statement.  Carlton Fields’ new office, it’s eighth, will be in the
Standard Oil building near Wall Street.  Rosner and Napierala are members of the firm’s business
litigation and trade regulation practice.  Three senior counsel and an of counsel join the firm’s
corporate, securities, and tax practice group,  Carlton Fields has more than 300 attorneys and government
consultants in 8 offices in Florida, Atlanta and New York.  Burr & Forman Combines with Tampa Firm Williams Schifino  Burr & Forman LLP combined yesterday with Tampa law firm
Williams Schifino Mangione & Steady PA, to create a 277-lawyer
firm with nine offices in five Southeastern states.  By adding the 23-lawyer firm to open a Tampa office, Burr &
Forman has opened four new offices in as many years. The firm
now has 55 attorneys across Florida, with three offices in the
state.  “Strategically, expansion into the Tampa market is the
perfect solution for our banking and financial institutions
clients who desire local legal counsel,” William Lee Thuston,
managing partner of Burr & Forman said in a statement.  William J. Schifino Jr., who previously was managing
director of Williams Schifino, will become Burr & Forman’s Tampa
office managing partner.  Burr & Forman’s 275 attorneys are at offices in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, and Tennessee.  Moves  Petrobras Venezuela GC Joins Hogan Lovells in Caracas  Diogenes Bermudez, former general counsel for Petrobras
Venezuela, joined  Hogan Lovells  LLP’s Caracas office as counsel
in the infrastructure and project finance practice.  “Diogenes is one of the best oil and gas lawyers in
Venezuela, and he brings a wealth of experience that will be of
great value to our clients,” said Bruno Ciuffetelli, co-head of
Hogan Lovells’ Latin America practice.  In his previous position with Petrobras Venezuela, Bermudez
counseled on oil and gas law and led complex negotiations with
national  oil companies , government officials and international
partners, related to major energy projects, the firm said. He
has experience negotiating oil and gas contracts and granting
instruments, such as mixed companies, joint venture agreements,
operating services agreements, and gas licenses.  Hogan Lovells has over 2,300 lawyers in more than 40
offices around the world.  News  Law Firms Mergers Reach 39 in First Three Quarters  Law firms merged or acquired other firms in 14 cases during
the third quarter of this year, bringing the past nine month’s
total to 39, law firm consulting firm Altman Weil MergerLine
said in a statement yesterday. The tally for the first nine
months of the year is slightly less than the same period last
year, which was 43.  “Most of the deals we’re seeing are small, highly targeted
moves to boost expertise or enhance geographic footprint,”
Altman Weil principal Tom Clay said in a statement. “Firm
leaders want to be sure they’re matching supply with demand to
avoid diluting firm productivity even in the short term.”  Four of the 14 combinations were mergers, while 10 were
acquisitions of small law firms. The second quarter of this year
saw a dip in firm mergers and acquisitions, to 11, while the
first quarter was also 14.  The merger of Jacoby & Meyers with Chicago-based Macey
Bankruptcy Law, was the largest of this quarter, resulting in a
combined firm of 300 lawyers with 135 offices in 50 states.  Also of note was the announcement by DLA Piper LLP, the
second largest law firm in the U.S., to acquire the Paris firm,
Frieh Bouhenic.  Philadelphia-based firm Pepper Hamilton LLP, which has 500-
lawyers, acquired 8-lawyer white-collar defense boutique Freeh
Sporkin & Sullivan in Wilmington, Delaware, led by former
federal judge and director of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation  Louis Freeh .  For more details on law firm mergers and acquisitions, see
www.altmanweil.com/MergerLine.  Dewey Sued by Former Client to Return Unused Retainer  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct law firm, was sued by one
of its former clients and is facing opposition to payment of a
$165,000 bonus to finance director Frank Canellas.  The lawsuit by former client Entegra Power Group LLC raises
interesting issues regarding the status of retainers. Entegra
was known as Union Power Partners LP when Dewey was engaged as
special counsel during the company’s Chapter 11 reorganization
completed in 2005. Dewey was paid a $300,000 retainer.  Entegra said in the lawsuit filed last week in  bankruptcy
court  in New York that it paid all of Dewey’s fees. Asked to
return the retainer after bankruptcy, the firm said it hadn’t
been segregated. Consequently, Dewey says the former client has
nothing more than an unsecured claim.  Entegra contends the firm violated fiduciary duties by not
segregating the retainer. The company wants the bankruptcy judge
to impose a constructive trust on Dewey funds so the retainer
can be repaid in full.  The U.S. Trustee and the official committee for former
partners are both opposing payment of a $165,000 bonus to
Canellas. If paid, Canellas will have received $665,000 in 2012,
an amount the committee said would be “excessive” even if
Dewey were an operating firm.  Dewey contends that the proposed bonus is being paid in the
ordinary course of business and doesn’t require court approval.
The U.S. Trustee and the partners’ committee both contend
Canellas is a senior executive and cannot be paid a bonus for
remaining with the firm. The issue will be presented to the
bankruptcy judge for approval at an Oct. 4 hearing.  The court previously approved other bonuses. For a
discussion of the judge’s opinion approving some of the bonuses,
click here for the July 31 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For
discussion of the $700,000 bonus program when proposed, click
here for the July 6 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  