-- Rand Extends Losses on Larger Trade Deficit, Moody’s Down
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-02T14:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/rand-extends-losses-on-larger-trade-deficit-moody-s-down.html
South African yields fell the most in
a week as expectations of a rate cut in  Africa ’s biggest economy
grew and as foreign buying of the nation’s bonds increased after
they were included in a key index. The rand advanced.  Yields on 6.75 percent notes due 2021 dropped 10 basis
points, the most since Sept. 25, to 6.57 percent by 4:45 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand gained 0.3 percent to 8.3610 per dollar,
snapping two days of losses.  The decision to hold the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
last month wasn’t an “easy one”, South African Reserve Bank
Governor Gill Marcus said in a speech to the Nordic-South
African Business Association in Johannesburg today. The bank,
which cut its benchmark repurchase rate for the first time in 20
months in July to spur the economy, held the rate at 5 percent
last month as price pressures gained. Forward-rate agreements,
used to speculate on interest rates, declined six basis points
to 4.74 percent today, signaling investors are increasing bets
on a reduction in the next six months.  “She has left the door wide open in terms of a cut if the
economic backdrop continues to deteriorate,” Mohammed Nalla,
strategic analyst at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said
by phone. “The potential for a cut is certainly rising”
following the release of weak manufacturing data, Nalla said.  South Africa ’s purchasing managers’  index  fell to a three-
year low in September as mining strikes spread and demand from
 Europe  waned, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Foreign investors  bought  a net 6 billion rand ($718
million) of South African  government bonds  yesterday, adding to
net purchases of 635 million rand on Sept. 28 as they were
included in Citigroup Inc.’s World Government Bond Index.  “Some of the money that was supposed to come in is coming
in slowly rather than the one-off big whammy that we first
expected,”  Brigid Taylor , the head of institutional flow sales
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “We
are seeing strength across the yield curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  