-- Treasury 30-Year Yields Decline on Spanish Risk, Fed Buying
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-02T21:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/treasury-30-year-yields-at-almost-low-in-month-as-fed-buys-bonds.html
Treasury  30-year bond yields  dropped,
trading at almost the least in a month, as Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he has no plans to request financial
assistance in the near term.  Yields had climbed earlier on speculation  Spain  was moving
closer to seeking a bailout from the European Union, diminishing
the need for a haven from further turmoil in global financial
markets. The Fed bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to August 2042 as part of its Operation Twist
program to extend the duration of is U.S. government-debt
holdings.  “The Spanish bailout request is not imminent,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy in  New York  at Bank of
America Corp.’s Bank of America Merrill Lynch unit, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. The Treasury gains came
as “bunds also had a similar move,” she said. “Things are
more in line with  Europe .”  Treasury 30-year yields fell less than one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.82 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 2.75 percent
security due August 2042 gained 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 98 21/32. The yield touched 2.78 percent on
Sept. 28, matching the low since it reached 2.73 percent on
Sept. 7.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell one basis point to 1.62
percent. The yield has dropped from 1.87 percent on Sept. 14,
the day after the Fed said it would buy $40 billion a month of
mortgage bonds until the economy has demonstrated it’s in full
recovery.  Fed Factor  “Price action in the market is more and more dominated by
Fed activity,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New
York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “In this
environment, it’s becoming more and more of a factor.”  The Spanish 10-year bond yield dropped 13 basis points to
5.75 percent today as Rajoy, asked at a press conference in
Madrid if a bailout request was imminent, said: “No.”  Rajoy is weighing the terms of a Sept. 6 proposal by the
European Central Bank president to buy bonds of cash-strapped
nations including Spain if they make for a formal aid request
from the euro region’s government-run rescue funds.  The German government 10-year debt yield declined from its
intraday high of 1.49 percent to close at 1.46 percent after
Rajoy’s statement.  ‘Lower Yields’  “The European crisis persists, the upcoming fiscal cliff
begets uncertainty and the continuation of the trend of weaker
economics we have seen over the last two to three months
continues,” said Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10
billion as co-head of government and mortgage-backed securities
at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. “Add the Fed taking
duration out of the market, and it makes for a recipe for lower
yields.”  The fiscal cliff refers to U.S. budget negotiations,
including automatic tax increases and spending cuts that may be
triggered if deficit-reduction efforts fail.  Treasuries have returned 0.6 percent since the end of June,
trailing behind a 5 percent gain by Spanish counterparts,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. German bonds
gained 1.2 percent in the same period.  The U.S.  jobless rate  rose to 8.2 percent last month from
8.1 percent in August, according to the median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the Labor
Department report Oct. 5. Payrolls increased by 115,000 in
September, according to a separate survey.  A report tomorrow from ADP Employer Services will say U.S.
companies hired 140,000 workers in September, versus 201,000 in
August, a survey showed. Initial claims for jobless insurance
rose last week, a government report due in two days will say,
economists estimated.  ‘Crystal Meth’  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the
U.S. will no longer be first destination of global capital in
search of safe returns unless the gap between spending and debt
is addressed.  Major nonpolitical organizations agree that “when it comes
to debt and to the prospects for future debt, the U.S. is no
’clean dirty shirt,’” Gross wrote in his monthly investment
outlook posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
 website  today. “The U.S., in fact, is a serial offender, an
addict whose habit extends beyond weed or cocaine and who
frequently pleasures itself with budgetary crystal meth.”  The  International Monetary Fund , the  Congressional Budget
Office  and the Bank of International Settlements compute a
“fiscal gap,” which is a deficit that must be closed either
with spending cuts, tax increases or a combination of both,
which keeps a country’s  debt/GDP ratio  under control, wrote
Gross, the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  Inflation Expectations  The Fed said Sept. 13 that it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage bonds a month until the U.S. sees what Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke described as an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market.” The central bank also said it will probably hold
the  federal funds rate  near zero at least through mid-2015.  Investors initially increased their inflation expectations
on the Fed plan.  Bernanke yesterday defended his unprecedented debt
purchases and said he is concerned that the economy isn’t adding
jobs fast enough.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities widened to 2.73
percentage points on Sept. 17, the highest level since May 2006.
The rate, which measures how much traders anticipate consumer
prices will rise over the life of the debt, narrowed to 2.48
percentage points today.  U.S. bonds rose earlier after former Fed Chairman  Paul
Volcker  said the central bank’s latest mortgage-bond-buying
program isn’t creating inflationary pressure.  “The basic situation is not an inflationary situation,”
Volcker said yesterday in New York. The Fed’s latest bond-buying
plan is “not going to have a profound effect on the economy and
it’s not going to have any effect on inflation in the short
run,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  