-- Treasury Yield Is Quarter Point From Record Low
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-02T07:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/treasury-yield-is-quarter-point-from-record-low.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
third day amid speculation reports this week will show the U.S.
labor market is deteriorating, raising the odds the  Federal
Reserve  will increase its bond purchases.  The advance pushed the 10-year yield to within two basis
points of a three-week low. Demand for haven assets was
sustained as Moody’s Investors Service said  Spain’s banks  face a
capital shortfall that could climb to almost double the estimate
the government provided last week. Former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  said the U.S. central bank’s latest mortgage-bond-buying
program isn’t creating inflationary pressure.  “There’s so much demand for Treasuries,” said Kim Youngsung, the head of fixed income in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset
Management Co., South Korea’s largest private bond investor.
“If things slow down, they may buy Treasuries to bolster the
 U.S. economy . Inflation is stable,” said Kim, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $101.5 billion at the company.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  fell one basis point to 1.62
percent at 8:28 a.m. London time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader
data, after dropping to 1.61 percent. The 1.625 percent security
due in August 2022 gained 1/16, or 63 cents per $1,000-face
amount, to 100 1/16.  Yields fell to 1.60 percent on Sept. 28, the least since
Sept. 7. They reached an all-time low of 1.38 percent on July
25. Kim said he would like to buy Treasuries if yields climb to
1.8 percent.  Labor Data  The U.S.  jobless rate  rose to 8.2 percent last month from
8.1 percent in August, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the Labor
Department report Oct. 5. Payrolls increased by 115,000 in
September, less than the 139,000 average over the first eight
months of the year, according to a separate survey.  A report tomorrow from ADP Employer Services will say U.S.
companies hired 140,000 workers in September, versus 201,000 in
August, a separate survey showed. Initial claims for jobless
insurance rose last week, a government report due in two days
will say, economists estimated.  The Fed said Sept. 13 that it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage bonds a month until the U.S. sees what Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke described as an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market.” The central bank also said it will probably hold
the  federal funds rate  near zero at least through mid-2015.  Inflation Expectations  Investors initially increased their inflation expectations
on the Fed plan.  Bernanke yesterday defended his unprecedented debt
purchases and said he is concerned that the economy isn’t adding
jobs fast enough.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities widened to 2.73
percentage points on Sept. 17, the highest level since May 2006.
The rate, which measures how much traders anticipate consumer
prices will rise over the life of the debt, narrowed to 2.42
percentage points today.  “The basic situation is not an inflationary situation,”
Volcker said yesterday in  New York . The Fed’s latest bond-buying
plan is “not going to have a profound effect on the economy and
it’s not going to have any effect on inflation in the short
run,” he said.  Fed Purchases  The central bank is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years. It plans to
purchase as much as $2.25 billion of bonds maturing from
February 2036 to August 2042 today as part of the program,
according to Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  Ten-year yields will fall and the Fed will increase its
asset purchases in 2013,  Carl Lantz , the New York-based head of
interest-rate strategy for Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
report Sept. 27.  The central bank may begin 2013 with a monthly buying pace
of $100 billion in securities, made up of $60 billion of
Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage bonds, according to
Credit Suisse, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed.  Manufacturing is an area of growth in the economy. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  rose to 51.5
last month from 49.6 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said yesterday. Readings above 50 show expansion, and the
measure exceeded the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Stocks Outperform  Bob Doll , an adviser to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager with $3.56 trillion in assets, repeated his view
that stocks will outperform Treasuries in the coming year.  “The positives outweigh the negatives,” Doll wrote
yesterday on New York-based BlackRock’s  website .  Spain ’s lenders may need infusions of 70 billion euros
($90.4 billion) to 105 billion euros to absorb losses and still
keep  capital ratios  above thresholds outlined in legislation
last year, Moody’s analysts wrote yesterday in a report. That
compares with the 53.7 billion-euro shortfall found last week
after officials commissioned a  stress test  designed to lift
doubts about the financial industry’s ability to withstand
losses.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cut its benchmark interest
rate today by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 3.25
percent, the lowest  level  since 2009. Prices of the nation’s key
exports, iron ore and coal, have declined in recent months as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis weighs on global growth and Chinese
demand.  Comparative Returns  Treasuries have returned 2.3 percent this year as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares gained 14 percent in
the period, including reinvested dividends, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc.
a Los Angeles-based money manager that oversees $131 billion,
likes bonds.  “High-grade fixed income is still the way to go”
including Treasuries, he said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Up” with Zeb Eckert. “You should take the latest ISM
manufacturing number with a huge grain of salt.” Investors
should also consider mortgage-backed securities and high-yield
bonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  