-- REC Falls as Pareto Sees Production Missing Targets: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-10-02T12:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/rec-falls-as-pareto-sees-production-missing-targets-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  fell to the
lowest level in more than three weeks in Oslo after Pareto
Securities ASA said plant maintenance may result in the solar
component maker missing production guidance, curbing earnings.  The company, based at Sandvika near Oslo, dropped as much as
1.8 percent to  1.71 kroner , the lowest intraday level since
Sept. 10, and traded at 1.724 kroner as of 1:45 p.m. in the
Norwegian capital, for a fifth day of losses.  Third-quarter “volumes could disappoint relative to
production guidance,” Eirik Vegem Dahle, an analyst at Pareto,
said in an e-mailed note to clients today. Scheduled maintenance
at REC’s silicon unit will increases costs and lead to a “sharp
decline” in earnings from the previous quarter, he wrote.  European solar-component makers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as demand slowed,
causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. Demand also shrank as
France, Italy and  Germany  reduced subsidies to cap booming
installations.  “The negative trend in prices for solar products seems
likely to continue” because of overproduction and large
inventories, said Dahle, who cut his  recommendation  on REC to
hold from buy and reduced his price target to 1.8 kroner from
3.3 kroner.  “Although industry fundamentals indicate that prices
should be close to a bottom, it is hard to have strong
conviction given the uncertain demand outlook and market history
of continued disappointments,” Dahle said.  REC, whose shares have fallen 97 percent since listing six
years ago, is trying to improve its finances as excess capacity
and weakening demand cut profit. In July the company raised 1.3
billion kroner in a share offer even after failing to persuade
convertible bondholders to accept changes to their agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  