-- Rescued Wright House for Soap King Crowns Buffalo Rebirth
-- B y   D a n i e l   T .   B i l l y
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/rescued-wright-house-for-soap-king-crowns-buffalo-rebirth.html
When Larkin Soap magnate Darwin D.
Martin was ready to build his dream house in Buffalo,  New York ,
he called on the country’s hottest young architect, Frank Lloyd Wright.  Finished in 1905, the 15,000-square-foot residence in the
tony Parkside section of town, cost what was then a staggering
$175,000 (about $4.32 million today). Wright called it his
“domestic symphony.”  I first visited the Martin house nearly 20 years ago, when
it was beginning its facelift. News that the work was finally
nearing completion and that the house had opened to the public
brought me back to Buffalo, which is also dusting itself off
after a few sad decades.  “You get a sense of a city on the move,” I was told by
native son A. R. Gurney, author of “The Dining Room” and other
celebrated plays. “For young people there is a lot of life,
lots of little theaters all over town are doing exciting work
now.”  This was a prosperous port city at the turn of the 19th
century, a commercial gateway between the East Coast and the
Midwest.  Central Park visionary Frederick Law Olmsted designed
gracefully landscaped parks, boulevards and circles. Street
lighting came early to the city with enterprising use of hydro-
electric power courtesy of Niagara Falls.  Now Buffalo is getting a cultural recharge.  National Landmark  Following Wright’s original drawings and plans, the Martin
House Complex is a landscaped grouping of five interconnected
buildings. The $50 million restoration began in 1996 and is
overseen by the nonprofit  Martin House Restoration Corporation .  My guide through the designated National Historic Landmark
was the MHRC’s executive director, Mary Roberts.  Our first stop was the Barton House, named for Martin’s
sister and brother-in-law and built in 1903 as a “test.” It
cost more than twice the estimated budget of $5,000. Even so,
Martin was delighted with the results, expressed in a prolific
exchange of letters with Wright.  We then went next door to the main residence. Wright
designed the sprawling house in his signature Prairie style,
with a facade that features yellow brick with a cantilevered
glaze-tiled roof, imposing chimneys and massive urns cascading
with plants.  A harmonious and elegant 100-foot pergola radiates from the
building, connecting to a glowing, glass-roofed conservatory and
a carriage house, all faithfully rebuilt (the original
structures were razed in 1962).  Art Glass  The warm interior features oak woodwork, custom-made
furniture and earth-colored textiles. Art glass windows, doors
and skylights fill the house with natural light. A central
double-sided hearth will soon be reclad with glass mosaics
depicting wisteria vines.  During my visit, a master carpenter was constructing and
replacing intricate wood elements throughout the house.  After Martin’s death in 1935, the house, adjacent buildings
and gardens were eventually abandoned.  Roberts said “the MHRC has taken the Complex from a once-
neglected eyesore to a symbol and rallying point for
preservation, cultural tourism and the reinvention of a Rust
Belt city.”  Graycliff Estate  From here I headed to  Graycliff , finished in 1931, the
summer retreat Wright designed for Martin’s wife, Isabelle.
Sited high on a bluff overlooking Lake Erie, the estate is an
easy 20-minute car ride from Buffalo in Derby, New York.  It is being restored by the Graycliff Conservancy, and also
is open to the public. Reine Hauser, the executive director of
the nonprofit, led me through the house and gardens. She pointed
out recurring design themes, notably the diamond shapes seen in
window casements and carried over to light fixtures.  Joined, corner glass panes anticipate the sophisticated
windows Wright created in 1935 for his iconic Fallingwater,
outside Pittsburgh.  The Graycliff restoration is not at the same stage of
completion as the Martin House Complex, but I get a strong sense
that it’s well along the way.  Architectural Riches  Frank Lloyd Wright wasn’t the only prominent architect at
work in Buffalo. A whirlwind afternoon tour brings me to Eliel
and Eero Saarinen’s Kleinhans  Music Hall , home to the  Buffalo
Philharmonic Orchestra . That was followed by Louis Sullivan’s
terra-cotta-ornamented Prudential (Guaranty) Building, another
National Historic Landmark.  We also pass H.H. Richardson’s romanesque Buffalo State
Hospital, with its imposing double towers, shuttered behind a
chain-link fence and sorely in need of its perennially planned
rescue.  My last stop is at one of Buffalo’s most famous buildings,
the neo-classical-meets-modernist museum, the Albright-Knox Art
Gallery. Buffalo architect Gordon Bunshaft designed the 1962
addition to house the modern collection.  In addition to major paintings by Picasso, Matisse and
Pollock, the museum, celebrating its 150th anniversary, has
acquired over the last decade nearly 1,200 works by more than
450 artists, including Matthew Barney, Jim Hodges, Catherine
Opie and  Cindy Sherman .  Urban Renewal  Downtown, a stately 110-year hotel has been carefully
restored to its former glory. Completed at the cost of $43
million ($14 million coming from N.Y. State tax credits), with
elegant shops, ballrooms, bars -- the  Hotel at the Lafayette  has
anchored the once-dodgy neighborhood.  At the hotel I had dinner at Mike A’s, run by James Beard
Foundation-honored chef Mike Andrzejewski. Order the onion soup
croquette as a first course.  Another sign of the economic re-birth is evident in a hip
emerging area called Larkinville. It’s named for Darwin Martin’s
Larkin Soap Company.  Sadly, no rescue awaits Larkin’s business headquarters. The
company is long gone and so is its administration building. The
fact that it, too, had been designed by Frank Lloyd Wright
wasn’t enough to protect it from the wrecker’s ball in 1950.  The Darwin D. Martin House, 125 Jewett Parkway; +1-716-856-
3858; www.darwinmartinhouse.org.  Graycliff, 6472 Old Lake Shore Rd., Derby, N.Y.; +1-716-
947-9217; www.graycliffEstate.org.  “DECADE: Contemporary Collecting 2002-2012,” through Jan.
6, 2013, at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, 1285 Elmwood Avenue;
+1-716-882-8700;  www.albrightknox.org .  Mike A Restaurant at the Lafayette Hotel, 391 Washington
St.; +1-716-253-6453.  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and Jaime Widder
on  rock  music.  To contact the writer of this column:
Daniel Billy at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 