-- Rubber Climbs to Four-Month High as Top Shippers Reduce Cargoes
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-10-02T07:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/rubber-advances-to-four-month-high-as-exporters-cut-shipments.html
Rubber jumped to a four-month high,
erasing this year’s losses, after the world’s largest producers
began cutting exports by the most since 2009, reducing supplies.  March-delivery rubber rose 3.8 percent to end at 270.4 yen
a kilogram ($3,464 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange, the highest settlement for the most active contract
since May 30. Futures have gained 2.7 percent this year.  Thailand , Indonesia and  Malaysia , representing 70 percent
of global output, agreed to cut shipments by 300,000 tons,
starting yesterday. That’s as much as  China , the biggest user,
imports in about five weeks and exceeds the 2013 surplus
forecast by the International Rubber Study Group. Futures in
Tokyo will advance to 300 yen by the year-end, according to the
median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Futures were boosted by concerns about supply
restrictions,” Hideshi Matsunaga, an analyst at broker ACE
Koeki Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  Producers are cutting sales to boost prices that tumbled 50
percent since reaching a record in February 2011 because of a
glut and weaker economic growth. When they reduced cargoes in
2009, futures more than doubled that year. The latest curbs come
as policy makers from the Federal Reserve to the European
Central Bank pledge to buy more debt to bolster their economies.  Limited Supply  “Coordinated actions from three countries have shown signs
that supply will be limited,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte, said by phone from  Singapore . The bullish
trend will probably continue when Chinese markets reopen, he
added. The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed this week for the
National Day holiday.  Impressive U.S. manufacturing data was supportive, Ker
said. U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded last month after
contracting in August, a report yesterday showed, and Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke pledged to maintain record
economic stimulus.  Thai rubber free-on-board gained 1.2 percent to 101.40 baht
($3.30) a kilogram today, the highest level since July,
according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  