-- Rupiah Forwards, Bonds Advance After Surprise Trade Surplus
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-02T08:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/rupiah-forwards-bonds-advance-after-surprise-trade-surplus.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards rose by
the most in two weeks and government bonds rallied after the
nation unexpectedly posted its first trade surplus in five
months and inflation slowed.  The yield on the 10-year notes reached a two-week low after
official data yesterday showed  consumer prices  increased 4.31
percent in September, compared with 4.58 percent the month
before and the 4.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
The  trade balance  was $249 million in August, better than the
$62 million deficit predicted by analysts.  “Inflation and the deficit remain the biggest
considerations for Indonesia, so the positive data reassured
investors,” said Bayu Kurniawan, a Jakarta-based foreign-
exchange trader at PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja, a unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc. “The rupiah will tend to strengthen in the next
few weeks.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.4 percent to
10,033 per dollar as of 3:56 p.m. in Jakarta, the most since
Sept. 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts, which
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date,
traded at a 4.5 percent discount to the spot rate. Non-
deliverable forwards are settled in dollars.  The rupiah advanced 0.1 percent to 9,581 per dollar, prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, held at 6 percent.  Seasonal Skew  “We caution against reading too much into a single data
point, which is likely to be skewed by seasonal effects,”
analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. led by  David Carbon  in
 Singapore , wrote in a report today. “Trade volumes usually drop
sharply during the holiday month and rebound immediately
after,” he wrote, referring to the Muslim fasting month of
Ramadan from July 21 to Aug. 20.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped one basis point, 0.01 percentage point, to 5.91 percent,
the lowest level since Sept. 19, prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association show. The finance ministry plans to raise  500
billion rupiah  ($52 million) from a Shariah-compliant note
auction today and 5 trillion rupiah from a non-Islamic debt sale
on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 