-- Russian Regional Debt Default Is Impossible, Siluanov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-10-02T12:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/russian-regional-debt-default-is-impossible-siluanov-says-1-.html
Russia ’s regional governments have no
chance of defaulting on their debt even as they increase their
borrowing levels, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  “Investors often ask about the possibility of default in
the regions -- there can simply be no such thing,” Siluanov
said at a conference organized by VTB Capital in Moscow today.
“That’s ruled out. Perhaps 15 years ago there was tension of
this kind, but now it’s impossible.” Russian regions will
increase borrowings this year, he said in another speech at the
Federation Council, the upper house of parliament.  President Vladimir Putin warned July 17 that the finances
of some regions may spiral out of control if they don’t end
their reliance on short-term bank loans. Local governments have
grown more dependent on federal funding since the market turmoil
in 2008-2009 forced a retreat from the bond market.  Putin, who regained the presidential office in May, enacted
social and economic measures that put additional pressure on
regional budgets. Regional governments will spend 1.6 trillion
rubles ($51.5 billion) in 2013-2015 to fulfill Putin’s orders,
especially regarding wage increases, Siluanov said.  The federal government expects regional incomes to grow
significantly as well, Siluanov said, adding that Russia sees
regional budget revenue in 2013-2015 at about 6 trillion rubles.  S&P in the second quarter downgraded the credit rating of
Tver, the first cut for one of Russia’s 83 regional governments
in more than a year. The region is now rated B+, or four steps
below investment grade and five levels below Russia’s sovereign
rating.  “A whole range of regions allowed themselves enormous
frivolities, borrowing from banks without a clear understanding
of how they would repay them,” Valentina Matviyenko, speaker of
the Federation Council, said today.  “This is an irresponsible
approach. We can’t allow such budget policies in regions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  