-- S. African Airways, Express May Want Secondary Hub in Ghana
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-10-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/s-african-airways-express-may-want-secondary-hub-in-ghana.html
South African Airways , sub-Saharan
Africa’s biggest airline by passengers, may establish hubs in
East and West Africa as it seeks to expand its profitable
African routes and compete with companies including  Kenya
Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  and Ethiopian Airlines.  The state-owned South African company, which is based in
Johannesburg, and its unit SA Express are seeking to expand in
West Africa,  Malusi Gigaba , the country’s public enterprises
minister, said in an interview in Accra, Ghana’s capital,
yesterday.  “We may want to establish a secondary hub for both South
African Airways and SA Express in Ghana,” he said. “We want to
establish two secondary hubs in East and West Africa.”  South African Airways was today given a 5 billion rand
($598 million) guarantee by the country’s Treasury five days
after its chairwoman, Cheryl Carolus, and most of its board
resigned in a dispute over strategy and the company’s finances.
Gigaba has been pushing the company to focus on more profitable
African routes to lessen dependence on routes to  Europe  where
its faces strong competition.  The company may seek to partner a Ghanaian airline to
service regional and domestic routes and to help the country
reopen a national airline, Gigaba said.  “We bring a comparative advantage: We’re an African
airline and we are state-owned and we could establish a
maintenance repair and overhaul facility in  Ghana  to provide
training for young Ghanaians,” he said. “A facility that could
also provide such service to airlines from other parts of West
Africa.”  External Growth  South African state-owned companies such as rail and port
operator Transnet SOC Ltd. are also seeking to invest in Ghana,
he said. Denel, a defense company, is also seeking
opportunities, he said.  “The state-owned companies in  South Africa  seek growth
opportunities outside the confines of the South African
market,” Gigaba said. “We see Ghana as a strategic country to
become our gateway into West Africa in particular in the fields
of aviation and defense.”  Opportunities may include refurbishing the rail line to the
port of Takoradi, he said.  “Ghana needs a lot of investment in terms of its
infrastructure development because there it’s got a massive
infrastructure lag,” Gigaba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in  Accra  at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  