-- Saudi Arabia Said to Order Airline to Reject EU Carbon Rules
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-10-02T16:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/saudi-arabia-said-to-order-airline-to-reject-eu-emission-rules.html
Saudi Arabia  ordered its national
airline not to comply with European Union emissions-trading
rules in protest against the bloc’s decision to include non-EU
carriers in its carbon market, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The kingdom, OPEC’s biggest oil producer, has notified the
27-member bloc of the decision and discussions are ongoing to
reach a compromise, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Khalid al-
Khaibary, a spokesman for the civil aviation authority in
 Jeddah , Saudi Arabia, declined to comment when reached by phone
yesterday.  Saudi Arabia was one of the countries including the U.S.,
China, and  India  that issued a joint statement in February
opposing the EU law, which obliges airlines flying into and out
of the bloc to report the carbon-dioxide pollution from their
flights and surrender EU permits matching those emissions every
year starting in 2012.  “The EU thinks that, with time, the charges levied on us
will become normal and acceptable. We wanted to make sure to
send them a message that the case will not end easily,”
Mohammed al-Sabban, an independent energy consultant and a
former Saudi chief climate negotiator who represented the
country in issuing the joint communique, said Sept. 28 by phone.
State-owned Saudi Arabian Airlines is the only Saudi-based
carrier that travels to  Europe .  Jeddah Meeting  Officials from the group of 29 nations who signed the
communique may gather early next year in Jeddah to follow up on
earlier meetings, one of the people said.  The inclusion of airlines in the EU emissions trading
system is a unilateral action taken outside the United Nation
Framework Convention on Climate Change, al-Sabban said in an
interview from Jeddah. Most Arab countries, as well as U.S.,
 Canada , China, India, and  Russia , hold views similar to those of
Saudi Arabia, he said.  The EU, which wants to lead the global battle against
climate change, decided in 2008 that airlines will become part
of its cap-and-trade system after a decade of inaction by
international organizations. The bloc has said that its aim is
to reach a global solution to tackle  greenhouse gases  from
aviation and that its emissions trading rules don’t breach
international laws.  The EU law, which enables the exemption of incoming flights
from a country if that nation implements equivalent measures to
tackle pollution from the industry, has been critizised by non-
EU carriers and governments. The UN International Civil Aviation
Organization has said it’s in the best position to regulate
emissions from carriers.  Airbus, Lufthansa  Airbus and eight airlines including Air France-KLM Group
and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, said in a joint letter sent in March
to the governments of  France ,  Germany ,  Spain , and the  United
Kingdom  that the inclusion of airlines created an
“intolerable” situation and urged the governments to find a
compromise.  “I think the EU ETS will get solved by China and India not
buying any Airbus airplanes,” Delta Air Lines Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said today at a cargo
symposium in Atlanta hosted by The International Air Cargo
Association.  The  U.S. Senate  passed draft legislation last month that
would prohibit its carriers from complying with the EU emissions
trading program. Airlines including United Continental Holdings
Inc., Delta and American Airlines owner AMR Corp., have objected
to being included in the emissions-trading system.  Obama  The Senate bill, supported by the airlines, must be
reconciled with similar legislation passed by the U.S. House of
Representatives last year. The Obama administration hasn’t
decided on the bill and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said
in June the government “strongly opposes” the EU plan.  Saudi Arabia still hopes the EU will reconsider its system
once “it seems very clear that other countries, developed as
well as developing, will not tolerate this unilateral step that
may initiate retaliation from these countries as well as from
others,” said al-Sabban, also a former senior economic adviser
in the  ministry of petroleum and mineral resources . The
countries opposing the EU’s measure support ICAO efforts to
build a global agreement on combating  climate change , he said.
An official at the Jeddah-based press office for Saudi Arabian
Airlines declined to comment on Sept. 30 when reached by phone.  Airlines in the European cap-and-trade program will this
year receive free-of-charge emissions permits equivalent to
about 85 percent of their historical emissions, according to EU
laws governing the market. Aircraft operators have to surrender
EU or United Nations emission permits against their 2012
emissions in April 2013.  The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, said in May
that most international airlines, including Saudi aircraft
operators, complied with the first reporting requirement to
submit CO2 data for 2011. The only carriers that failed to
inform the EU about their emissions were eight airlines in  China 
and two in India, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  