-- MSCI Falls Most on Record as Vanguard Dumps Its Indexes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-10-02T20:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/msci-falls-most-on-record-as-vanguard-dumps-provider-correct-.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  fell the most on record
after being dropped as benchmark provider for 22 index funds by
Vanguard Group Inc., the largest U.S. mutual-fund company.  MSCI declined 27 percent to close at $26.21 in  New York ,
the most since it went public in November of 2007, after
Vanguard said funds with about $537 billion in assets will
replace New York-based MSCI to cut costs for fund shareholders.  Vanguard will adopt benchmarks from  FTSE Group  for six
international stock index funds, and benchmarks developed by the
University of Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices
for 16 U.S. equity and balanced funds. The defection puts
pressure on MSCI to lower the licensing fees it charges to
BlackRock’s IShares unit, the biggest ETF provider, according to
David Nadig, director of research at San Francisco-based ETF
research firm IndexUniverse LLC.  “This leaves iShares as really the only game in town for
MSCI,” Nadig said. The BlackRock unit is “in a great
bargaining position the next time licensing agreements come up
for renewal.”  Separately, MSCI disclosed in a regulatory filing today
that it received a so-called “Wells Notice” from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, informing the company it
will recommend public administrative proceedings for violations
of the Investment Advisers Act. A  Wells Notice  typically gives
recipients a chance to dissuade investigators from recommending
the agency authorize enforcement action.  Wells Notice  The company said in March that an employee had provided
information about clients’ proxy voting to a proxy solicitor in
violation of its policies, according to the filing.  MSCI  declined  as much as 31 percent today, pushing the
stock to its lowest level since July 2009. The company first
sold shares to the public at $18 apiece.  MSCI’s annualized revenue and operating income tied to the
Vanguard funds being transitioned are $24 million, the company
said. Second-quarter operating revenue was $239 million, an
increase of 5.3 percent from a year earlier, according to an
Aug. 2 company statement.  “This is a huge negative reaction to $24 million in
revenue,” Ken Leon, equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  The reaction may have been so pronounced because MSCI’s
index services, one of its three businesses, is “by far” its
most profitable, Leon said.  Cutting Expenses  “We are disappointed that Vanguard will no longer use our
indices as the basis for these  exchange traded funds ,” Baer
Pettit, head of MSCI’s index business, said in a filing today.
“The ETF market in  North America  is competitive and as it
evolves, we will work with those ETF providers who seek to
utilize independent, well-respected, and high-quality equity
indices in their products.”  Vanguard, known for its low-cost index funds, manages about
$1.95 trillion in U.S. mutual fund assets. The change will
affect both index mutual funds and exchange-traded funds at
Vanguard, whose ETFs are structured as share classes of its
mutual funds.  Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund (VTSMX) , the
company’s largest index fund with $197 billion in assets, and
its ETF share class are among those that will switch from the
MSCI benchmarks.  “With our clients’ best interests in mind, we negotiated
licensing agreements for these benchmarks that we expect will
enable us to deliver significant value to our index fund and ETF
shareholders and lower expense ratios over time,” Gus Sauter,
chief investment officer  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard, said in a statement.  Fink’s Push  Vanguard’s decision to change index providers was unrelated
to the Wells Notice, according to  John Woerth , a spokesman for
the fund company.  Vanguard, the largest U.S. provider of mutual funds, is the
third-biggest competitor in ETFs in the U.S. behind BlackRock,
based in New York, and Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)   The change to FTSE benchmarks, which includes about $170
billion in fund assets, is the largest switch in international
index providers, FTSE said in a separate statement.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said it plans
to deepen its relationship with MSCI. Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive Officer of the New York-based firm, said Sept. 10 he
intends to announce fee reductions for large ETFs this quarter.  “MSCI is the gold standard of global and international
equity indexes,” Mark Wiedman, global head of  BlackRock (BLK) ’s
iShares ETF business, said today in a statement.  BlackRock uses MSCI indexes to guide 197 ETFs with $162
billion in assets, Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Charles Schwab Corp. cut fees for its proprietary ETFs last
month by an average of 40 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  