-- Skype Founder Offers Musicians Cash to Sign Rdio Users
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/skype-founder-offers-musicians-cash-to-sign-rdio-users.html
Rdio Inc., a music streaming service
started by billionaire Skype co-founder  Janus Friis , is offering
recording artists $10 for each new subscriber they attract.  Snoop Lion, formerly Snoop Dogg, the Scissor Sisters, A-
Trak, Chromeo and Brendan Benson are among the first artists
joining the Rdio Artist Program, the San Francisco-based company
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Rdio is forging alliances with recording artists to gain an
edge on Spotify Ltd. and other bigger music-streaming
competitors. Artists’ recommendations on Rdio will appear on
Twitter and Facebook, giving the service a wider audience. The
program, active in the 14 countries where Rdio operates,
augments existing licensing deals with labels and distributors
for access to music.  “There is no art without artists,” Friis said in the
statement. “We know a business that doesn’t reward its most
important contributors is a business that has to change. The
innovation of the Internet should not be a barrier to the
success of music artists, it should allow them to be even more
successful.”  Rdio, started in August 2010, competes with London-based
Spotify and Seattle-based Rhapsody International Inc. in
offering subscriptions for unlimited music streaming. It offers
service in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Germany, Australia,  New
Zealand , Spain, Portugal, Denmark, U.K., France, Sweden, Finland
and Norway, according to the statement.  Friis and Skype co-founder Niklas Zennstrom agreed to sell
their Skype Web-calling venture in 2005 to San Jose, California-
based  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for $2.6 billion, only to buy it back with a
consortium that included  Silver Lake (SLR)  and sell it to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  in 2011 for $8.5 billion.  Rdio offers a limited free service and sells monthly
subscriptions. An unlimited computer-only plan is $4.99, while
service on computers and mobile devices is $9.99. The company
also offers an unlimited $17.99 family plan with two accounts or
$22.99 for three accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  