-- Slovenia ‘Doing All It Can’ to Borrow on Markets
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-02T12:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/slovenia-doing-all-it-can-to-borrow-on-markets.html
Slovenia, which hasn’t sold any
benchmark debt this year, is doing “all it can” to ensure its
return to borrowing markets, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
said in Ljubljana today.  “We are not talking about bonds only, but the whole
package of reforms that are on course to be implemented,”
Sustersic told reporters after the  International Monetary Fund 
completed its visit to the country. “Details on when, on which
markets and in which currency cannot be disclosed.”  Slovenia plans to sell its first dollar-denominated debt, a
$1.5 billion 10-year issue, by December to minimize the impact
of the  European debt crisis  on its own borrowing costs,
Sustersic said last month.  The Adriatic nation scrapped a planned bond sale in April
after borrowing costs for  Spain  surged to a record amid investor
concern the government may struggle to manage its debt. The
yield on Slovenia’s benchmark bond hovered above the 7 percent
mark for most of August, a threshold that forced Ireland and
 Portugal  to ask for an international aid package.  “I have no information that Spain is on course to ask for
a bailout,” Marko Kranjec, member of the Governing Council of
the  European Central Bank  said at the same event.  Slovenia is working on stabilizing its ailing banking
industry and overhauling the labor market and pension system to
avoid asking its euro peers for assistance.  IMF Bailout  “If Slovenia implements all reforms there will be no need
for a bailout,” Antonio Spilimbergo, an official at the
International Monetary Fund told reporters at the same event.
“The IMF is always ready to help, but the decision for an aid
request must come from the Slovenian government.”  The Washington-based lender is forecasting Slovenia’s
export-driven economy will shrink 2.2 percent this year and
continue to be in recession next year until a modest recovery in
2014, Spilimbergo said. That compares with a central bank
estimate of a 1.8 percent contraction for 2012 and a 2 percent
drop in gross domestic product by the government’s economic
institute.  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  proposed
legislation to create a so-called bad bank that would take non-
performing loans from lenders in exchange for government-
guaranteed bonds of as much as 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion),
according to Finance Minister Sustersic.  “Privatization is a fundamental way to solve banks’
problems and lower the debt burden of the corporate sector,”
Spilimbergo said today in Ljubljana. “The biggest risk with the
creation of a ‘‘bad bank’’ is that it may take too long to
dispose of assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  