-- Sony CEO Hirai Says Plan to Revive TVs Ahead of Schedule
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-10-03T01:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/sony-ceo-hirai-says-plan-to-revive-tvs-ahead-of-schedule.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  earnings are “moving in
the right direction” as  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics accelerates a plan to turn around its unprofitable
TV business, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  said.  Sony also is “mindful of our  cash  position” as it makes
 deals  such as its Sept. 28 agreement to invest 50 billion yen
($639 million) in  Olympus Corp. (7733) , Hirai said at an industry
exhibition near Tokyo yesterday. The Tokyo-based company is
selling businesses, including a chemical products division for
57.2 billion yen, to generate cash, he said.  Hirai is reorganizing Sony’s business holdings as the
company seeks to recover from four straight annual losses
because of slumping demand for TVs, a stronger yen and
competition from Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
The CEO, who took over in April, vowed to stay in the TV
business and promoted an 84-inch Bravia set that will start
selling in Japan next month for the equivalent of $21,500.  “We’re certainly committed to the TV business,” Hirai
said. “Sony has a very deep DNA in creating the best picture
and the best sound.”  The new set uses 4K technology that Sony says displays
higher-resolution images than conventional high-definition
models. Sony sees growing demand for larger sets in developed
markets such as  North America  and Japan, and better picture
quality will help lure buyers, said Masashi Imamura, a senior
vice president in charge of Sony’s home entertainment products.  Panasonic, Sharp  Sony rose 0.3 percent to 931 yen as of 10:16 a.m. in Tokyo
trading, paring its decline this year to 33 percent. Samsung has
climbed 29 percent this year.  “I can’t be optimistic,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., who  rates  Sony
neutral, or hold. “It’s possible that the TV revitalization
plan may be ahead of schedule, as the targets may be
conservative. However, it doesn’t mean that Sony as a whole is
doing well.”  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Sharp (6753)  Corp., which also are losing
money in TVs, used the CEATEC exhibition to showcase their
profitable home appliances, including network-connected
refrigerators.  “Japanese consumer electronics makers have abandoned their
old habit of lining up TVs to compare with each other whose is
the biggest,” said  Yoshiharu Izumi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in Tokyo. “Each company has a different message this year,
depending on their expertise. For Sony, it’s the expertise used
in high-end professional products leading to the new 4K set.”  Foxconn, Samsung  Sony said in August its main TV operation may  lose  about 80
billion yen in the year ending March 2013, a ninth straight year
of losses, adding to about 700 billion yen in  losses  since April
2004. Hirai is reducing the number of models and has sold stakes
in display ventures as he tries to make the unit profitable in
the year ending March 2014.  “We are ahead of plans in turning the TV business
around,” Hirai said, without giving specifics.  “There are differences in product categories but, overall,
I think we are moving in the right direction,” he said when
asked about the company’s full-year  earnings outlook.   The company sold its stake in a liquid-crystal-display
venture with Sharp in June after the Osaka-based company turned
to  Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group for a capital alliance that
included the sale of a stake in the venture.  OLED TVs  Sony (005930)  ended a similar panel venture with Samsung last year
as part of its plan to trim losses at the TV unit. Hirai has
said the sale of that stake to the South Korean company will
save about 50 billion yen.  In June, Sony agreed with Panasonic to jointly develop TVs
using organic light-emitting diode panels, or OLED, screens. The
partnership, the first between the main TV operations at the two
companies, is progressing smoothly, Hirai said.  Sony cut its annual TV sales target last month to 15.5
million units from 17.5 million units, citing a slowing global
economy. The world’s No. 3 TV maker, behind Samsung and LG, is
sticking to the annual target, Imamura said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  