-- South Africa Vehicle Sales Increase at Slowest Pace in 2.5 Years
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-10-02T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/south-africa-vehicle-sales-increase-at-slowest-pace-in-2-5-years.html
South African vehicle sales increased
at their slowest pace in 2 1/2 years in September as mine and
transportation strikes damped consumer and business confidence
in the continent’s biggest economy, an industry group said.  Sales rose 1.4 percent from a year earlier to 55,097, the
Pretoria-based National Association of Automobile Manufacturers
of  South Africa  said in an e-mailed statement today. Sales
growth decelerated from 9.4 percent in August.  “The current high level of industrial action in an
increasing number of sectors in the economy dented business
confidence in South Africa,” the association said. “Consumers
similarly would have been affected and concerns about the macro
socio-economic environment in the country was likely to have
resulted in a deferral of purchasing decisions.”  The central bank on Sept. 20 cut its forecast for economic
growth this year to 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent. The FNB/BER
 consumer confidence  index remained close to a four-year low of
minus 1 in the third quarter,  First National Bank  said on Sept.
18.  Wage strikes have halted operations at  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  in the past month. Sixty thousand transportation
workers, mainly truck drivers, have also walked off the job,
demanding improved salaries.  The central bank last month kept its  benchmark interest
rate  at a 30-year low of 5 percent to help support the economy
and boost  consumer spending .  Gasoline Rises  Domestic gasoline prices will increase tomorrow by 1.9
percent from a month earlier, according to the government’s
Central Energy Fund.  Passenger-car sales rose 4.4 percent in September from a
year earlier to 39,496, with rental companies accounting for
18.6 percent of sales. Purchases of light commercial vehicles,
such as pick-up trucks and minivans, fell 5.2 percent, the
automobile association said. Sales of heavy trucks and buses
dropped 7.7 percent.  Vehicle exports rose 2.7 percent to 25,935 last month, the
association said. Domestic sales will probably increase 10
percent this year, it said.  “Looking ahead to 2013, increasing inflationary pressures
on the back of expected higher fuel and food prices and the
impact of rand weakness on new vehicle pricing were likely to
result in a more difficult trading environment and more subdued
growth in vehicle sales,” the association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  