-- SQM Falls After Chile Annuls Lithium Concession
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-02T19:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/sqm-falls-after-chile-annuls-lithium-concession.html
Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA ,
the world’s largest lithium producer, snapped a three-day
winning streak after the government withdrew a license for a new
deposit of the metal.  SQM, as the company is known, declined 1.5 percent to
28,898 pesos at the close of trading in Santiago, the most in a
week. It was the worst performance among members of Chile’s
benchmark Ipsa index, which gained 0.3 percent.  “Investors are worried about the potential competition in
lithium,” Eric Conrads, who manages $1 billion in Latin
American equities for ING Groep NV, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “Where SQM had a virtual monopoly, the
concession could now go to someone else.”  Chile, which leads world production of the  light metal  used
in cameras and computer batteries, awarded the license to
extract as much as 100,000 metric tons of lithium on Sept. 24.
SQM supplies about a third of the world’s lithium from the
Atacama Salt Lake in northern  Chile  and bid $40 million to mine
a new deposit.  A committee of the mining ministry voted to withdraw the
permit after agreeing with losing bidder  LI3 Energy Inc. (LIEG)  that
SQM violated terms of the bidding process because it has a
lawsuit against the government. Santiago-based LI3 was part of a
group led by South Korea’s  Posco (005490)  that was outbid by SQM. Deputy
Mining Minister Pablo Wagner resigned over the handling of the
bidding process earlier today.  Lithium is considered a “strategic” resource under
Chilean laws. Princeton, New Jersey-based  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) 
also mines lithium in Chile.  Demand for the metal may triple in the next eight years on
increased use of electric vehicles powered by  lithium batteries ,
Wagner said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  