-- Sumitomo Buys 25% Stake in 550-Megawatt First Solar Project
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-10-02T17:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/sumitomo-buying-25-stake-in-550-megawatt-first-solar-project.html
Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Japan’s third-largest
trading house, bought 25 percent of a power project  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  is building in southern California to expand its renewable-
energy portfolio.  Sumitomo acquired the stake from  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
which jointly owns the 550-megawatt Desert Sunlight solar farm
with NextEra Energy Inc., the Tokyo-based company said today in
a statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.  This is Sumitomo’s first investment in a U.S. solar farm.
It already own stakes in four U.S. wind farms and is seeking to
boost its support for renewable-energy projects in the region,
according to Jewelle Yamada, a Sumitomo spokeswoman in New York.  “The company overall has been looking to expand in the
renewable business here in the U.S.,” she said in an interview
today. “Solar was one area they weren’t in.”  Desert Sunlight, about 70 miles (113 kilometers) east of
 Palm Springs , California, will generate enough energy for more
than 165,000 homes, according to the statement. It will provide
250 megawatts of capacity to Edison International’s Southern
California Edison and 300 megawatts to PG&E Corp.’s Pacific Gas
& Electric under 20-year contracts.  Long-term power-purchase deals generate steady revenue
streams that appeal to investors, said Anthony Kim, a New York-
based solar analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “More and
more corporations are finding large-scale solar assets as a
safe, long-term investment.”  Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co. are Japan’s largest
trading houses by market value. First Solar declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  