-- Supervalu Said to Attract Burkle, KKR and TPG
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-10-03T20:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/supervalu-said-to-attract-interest-from-burkle-kkr-tpg-capital.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the U.S. grocery
chain that’s examining strategic options, has attracted interest
from billionaire Ronald Burkle and buyout firms KKR & Co. and
TPG Capital, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Burkle and the private-equity firms are looking at parts of
Supervalu rather than the whole, said the people, who asked not
to be named as the process is private. Cerberus Capital
Management LP also has looked at some of Supervalu’s assets,
said one person.  Supervalu would prefer a deal for the entire company and
has extended its offer deadline past Oct. 15, the people said.
The third-largest U.S. grocery-store chain may face difficulty
because it has almost a dozen different retail  banners , some
pharmacies and a distribution business, and few bidders would
want to keep all of them, two of the people said.  Supervalu’s shares fell 2 cents to close at $2.27 in  New
York . They rose as much as 9.2 percent in after-hours trading
yesterday after  Bloomberg News  reported the interest from Burkle
and the buyout firms.  The supermarket chain is weighing a new direction after
losing more than $2.5 billion over the past two fiscal years,
hurt by competition from discounters and costs to run stores.
The market value of Supervalu, led by Chief Executive Officer
Wayne Sales since his predecessor’s ouster two months ago, has
dropped by more than three-fourths since the end of 2010.  Spartan Interest  Spartan Stores Inc. (SPTN) , a grocery retailer based in  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , has also shown interest in some of Supervalu’s
stores in the Midwest, two of the people said. Spartan
spokeswoman Jeanne Norcross didn’t return two phone calls
seeking comment.  Supervalu disclosed in July that it was working with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. to review options.
The  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company recently allowed
parties interested in portions of grocery chain to review the
books, signaling Supervalu has become more open to selling off
the business in chunks, said two of the people.  TPG director Adam Levine declined to comment, as did  Kristi
Huller , a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, and Goldman Sachs
spokesman  Andrew Williams . An assistant to Burkle didn’t return
several phone messages. Burkle, who previously owned chains such
as Ralphs and Food 4 Less, helped Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Co. emerge from bankruptcy earlier this year via his Los
Angeles-based investment firm Yucaipa Cos.  Supervalu Results  In spite of TPG, KKR and Burkle’s interest, Supervalu’s
losses and declining sales have stalled progress on any kind of
offer, one of the people said. The grocer lost more than $1
billion on $36.1 billion in revenue in the year ended Feb. 25.
The parties are in early stages of looking at Supervalu’s
assets, three of the people said.  Supervalu also has debt and pension obligations that may
hinder sale efforts, according to an Aug. 24 research report
from UBS AG analyst Jason DeRise. The company reported $6
billion in long-term debt and $151 million in cash and
equivalents as of June 16. Selling off pieces would saddle the
remaining company with a large debt burden, unless the buyer
assumed some of the borrowings.  “There is a critical disconnect between what potential
buyers would be willing to pay and what Supervalu is able to
sell for,” DeRise wrote. “This is caused by the very high debt
levels at the traditional business.”  Cost Cuts  The company has focused on cutting costs, trimming $165
million in expenses last year and planning an additional $325
million in reductions over the next two years. Supervalu named
Sales, also chairman of the board, as CEO less than a month
after announcing its strategic review, replacing Craig Herkert,
who had joined in 2009 from Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Revenue at Supervalu may drop 4.4 percent to $34.5 billion
in the year ending in February, marking the fourth straight year
of sales declines,  according  to analysts’ projections compiled
by Bloomberg.  Winston & Newell Co., the former parent of Supervalu, was
formed more than 80 years ago in  Minnesota  as a food distributor
to grocery stores. The company, which changed its name to
Supervalu in 1954, expanded in the Midwest by acquiring regional
wholesalers, and by 1988 was supplying more than 3,100 stores in
32 states.  Supervalu’s market capitalization topped $500 million as of
last week. Save-A-Lot, which prices its food at as much as a 40
percent  discount  to traditional grocers, may be the most
valuable of Supervalu’s assets and fetch as much as $1.94
billion,  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in
an Aug. 17 report. The grocer’s distribution business may get
more than $800 million from a buyer, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  