-- Lim in Opposition Praising Singapore’s Economy Seeks Change
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-10-03T07:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/sylvia-lim-in-opposition-praising-singapore-economy-seeks-change.html
When Sylvia Lim entered  Singapore 
politics in 2001 as an opposition member, her father said he
would visit her in jail, recalling how past adversaries of the
ruling People’s Action Party were sued, bankrupted or imprisoned.  “It was half in jest because when you get involved in
opposition politics, you never know where the road may lead,”
said Lim, 47, who became Singapore’s first elected female
opposition lawmaker last year. “We grew up in an era where we
saw certain opposition figures being more or less crucified.”  Now the Workers’ Party’s No. 2 official, Lim avoided the
fate that befell some predecessors even after her tenacity
earned a comparison with a legendary female Chinese general. Key
to success has been softening socialist rhetoric that kept the
party at the margins of influence in past decades, says Terence
Lee, who teaches politics at National University of Singapore.  The party said a free-market system has its benefits in a
manifesto before winning its best election result since
independence in 1965 last year, taking after parties from the
German Social Democrats to Britain’s Labour that have moderated
platforms to broaden support. The Workers’ Party’s rising
stature has seen the government shift toward its central concern:
a widening wealth gap. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong pledged in
an annual address in August to boost social spending.  Cooling Rhetoric  “Sylvia is very gutsy and a shrewd political tactician,”
said Eugene Tan, a Singapore Management University assistant law
professor and a non-elected lawmaker with limited voting rights.
“The Workers’ Party’s rise has a catalytic effect on the
political landscape. It has forced the ruling party to raise its
game, to focus more on social policies and try to take the wind
out of the Workers’ Party’s sails. We are in uncharted waters in
Singapore politics.”  To woo a population that has benefited from a  44-fold 
increase in  gross domestic product  under the PAP’s stewardship,
the Workers’ Party has toned down the rhetoric against
Singapore’s governmental system espoused by its former leader,
the late J.B. Jeyaretnam.  Jeyaretnam, who quit the party in 2001, criticized
restrictions on freedoms of expression and favored a stronger
role for parliament relative to the executive branch. He was
found guilty of defaming at least one senior member of the PAP
in remarks made while campaigning for the 1997 general election,
and was later declared a bankrupt.  Lim commends Singapore’s economic success while saying more
needs to be done on social policies.  Giving Credit  “You have to give credit where credit is due,” she said.
“I think the PAP is very proactive in macro-economic issues and
finding niches to make Singapore globally relevant and
competitive. It’s more on the social justice side that we don’t
think they’re doing enough.”  Lim credits a book by U.S. Senator Joseph Lieberman that
caught her eye at Hong Kong’s airport with helping shape her
political thinking. Lieberman wrote in his “In Praise of Public
Life” that the U.S. Democratic Party reconnected with voters
and regained the White House after recognizing in the mid-1980s
that it had moved too far to the left in prior decades.  The Democrats won the White House in 1992, when Bill
Clinton unseated George H.W. Bush. Lieberman, an independent
senator for  Connecticut  and former Democrat, declined to comment
for this article. Lieberman ran as the Democratic vice-
presidential nominee on the ticket headed by Al Gore in 2000,
and was the first Jewish candidate on a major national political
party’s presidential ticket. He isn’t running for re-election
this year to the seat he has held for four terms.  Martial Art  “I’m quite clear that if we want to contribute towards
substantive reform in a certain policy area, we don’t
necessarily take the confrontational route,” Lim, who practices
a martial art called wing chun, said in an interview in her
office in June. “If you feel you really want to achieve some
policy change, you have to use various ways of getting there.”  Under Lim and the party’s secretary-general, Low Thia Khiang, the party advocates higher pay for lower-income
Singaporeans, public housing affordability, reduced reliance on
government-linked and multinational companies, comprehensive
hospital insurance and a slowing in the pace of immigration.  “There’s less rhetoric and more focus on policy issues and
limitations,” said Gillian Koh, a senior research fellow at the
Institute of Policy Studies who conducts surveys on political
attitudes of Singaporeans. “It’s still focused on the welfare
of the Singapore population but it’s less of making extreme
arguments saying you need an overthrow of the system.”  Most Seats  The party made its greatest impact to date last year when
it won the most seats of any opposition group on record, and
contributed to drawing 39.9 percent of the popular vote away
from the PAP -- the most since Singapore broke from  Malaysia  in
1965 in the aftermath of the end of British rule.  Since the elections, Lee’s government has implemented
stricter policies on foreign workers and cut ministerial pay.
The prime minister also made permanent a program to provide cash,
utility rebates and medical funds for the elderly and low-income
households. In August, he pledged to ensure citizens’ access to
sufficient affordable housing, invest in pre-school education
and add nursing homes.  “We have slowed down the intake of foreigners but we will
continue taking in foreigners at a pace” that citizens “find
comfortable,” former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, 89, said last
month. He is the father of Lee Hsien Loong, the current leader.  ’Not Ready’  The ruling party’s shift, and the Workers’ Party’s relative
size, reduces the likelihood its recent success will translate
into running Singapore anytime soon. The opposition group
fielded 23 candidates for the 87 seats up last year. They now
hold six elected seats, in comparison with the PAP’s 81,
rendering them powerless to change any legislation or block
bills they oppose.  On the party eventually taking the island’s helm, “at this
point we’re definitely not ready,” Lim said. “While we have
made progress in attracting new blood, we do not have the
critical mass in terms of forming a cabinet at this point.”  Lim’s efforts haven’t gone unappreciated. Before she spoke
at a campaign rally in May, a man handed her a painting of his
mounted on cardboard. She identified it as a portrait of Mu
Guiying, a female general in Imperial-era  China  as recognizable
to Chinese as Hua Mulan, who was memorialized in the 1998  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  movie.  The supporter said it was to encourage her to continue
fighting for greater political discourse and a better life for
Singaporeans.  “I was very, very touched,” said Lim, who has the work
displayed in her office. “I’ve forgotten the anger part that
made me join politics. But we know that the political system
still needs more balance -- that keeps me going.”  Carving Niche  “The Workers’ Party has carved out a niche for
themselves,” said Lee at  National University of Singapore .
“It’s an alternative, an outlet where Singaporeans who are
unhappy can express their displeasure without feeling as if they
have to cast a vote for the devil” in exchange for having more
opposition politicians in Parliament, he said.  Born the year Singapore gained independence, the eldest
child of a nurse and a police inspector-turned-criminal lawyer,
Lim grew up listening to her father’s monologues on politicians
and current affairs at family dinners. She credits an early
education at a Catholic convent with imbuing a spirit of
activism and individual responsibility to right perceived wrongs.  Her interest in politics deepened when the government
pushed through a change in the constitution to prevent judicial
reviews of decisions or actions under the Internal Security Act.  Marxist Conspiracy  The Internal Security Department in May 1987 arrested 16
people authorities said were involved in a Marxist conspiracy to
overthrow the government of then-Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew,
who led the country to independence, the Straits Times reported
then. The Internal Security Act allows the government to detain
people without trial. After some detainees challenged their
imprisonment in Singapore’s courts, parliament amended a law to
abolish judicial reviews in matters of internal security.  “What is the constitution after all, what protection does
it really give?” Lim said. The incident “set me thinking about
checks and balances on the government and how the system really
works and how it’s supposed to work,” she said.  Singapore cannot afford a U.S. model of checks where the
constitution is very difficult to amend and it takes some time
to reach a consensus, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said in February.
Executive power is intentionally made strong because the
“government has to adapt to changing needs, and change laws and
seize opportunities,” he said.  Selling Short  Lim has made law her specialty, earning a law degree at the
National University of Singapore, a postgraduate degree in the
field at the University of  London , and is even today pursuing a
master’s degree in criminal justice from Michigan State
University. After being called to the Singapore Bar in 1991, her
interest in criminal justice led her to follow in her father’s
path and become a police officer.  The decision angered her dad, who “felt I was selling
myself short” and barred her from home, according to Lim.
Rather than give in, she stayed at the police academy. After
three years on the police force, she practiced civil and
criminal litigation for four years, then lectured in law at
Temasek Polytechnic.  2001 Election  After years of interest in politics, Lim became an active
participant after a 2001 election in which the government in
less than 20 days redrew electoral constituency boundaries,
dissolved parliament and went to the polls. Opposition parties
only managed to field candidates for 29 of 84 seats, and won two.  “That really made me angry because I just don’t think
elections should be like that,” Lim said. “That pushed me to
join the Workers’ Party because I think there’s really a need
for us to ensure that our elections don’t become a farce.”  She met Secretary-General Low for lunch after the 2001
elections and submitted her forms to join the party the same day.
Less than two years later, she was elected party chairman.  “To operate in a political landscape where men have been
very dominant and for her to be able to rise up within the party
hierarchy in such a short time obviously required her to
demonstrate that she was more than capable and that gender was
not an issue,” said Tan at Singapore Management University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  