-- U.K. Construction Shrinks for a Second Month as Demand Slumps
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-02T08:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-k-construction-shrinks-for-a-second-month-as-demand-slumps.html
U.K.  construction output  shrank for a
second month in September as new business slumped, marking the
first back-to-back contraction in almost three years.  An index of activity rose to 49.5 from 49 in August, Markit
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in a
statement today. That’s less than the 49.9 median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The report adds to evidence of an uneven recovery in the
third quarter after a survey yesterday showed a  manufacturing
slump  deepened in September. Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said last week that growth in the three months
through September will be “very strong” after a recession
continued in the second quarter. Policy makers may maintain
their bond-purchase plan this week as they assess signs of
growth alongside the crisis in  Europe , a Bloomberg survey shows.  “There is little to be positive about,” CIPS Chief
Executive Officer  David Noble  said. “In the absence of
investment of some kind, we are likely to see this level of
activity continue for some time, or possibly even drop
further.”  Markit said the decline in new business was the second
sharpest since April 2009. A drop in home building was the
“most marked” since December 2010, while commercial
construction fell the fastest in more than 2 1/2 years. Civil
engineering grew for the first time in four months.  London-based  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , Britain’s largest
homebuilder by volume, said on Sept. 12 that there is “ongoing
economic uncertainty in the U.K. market.”  An index of manufacturing fell to 48.4 last month from 49.6
in August, Markit said yesterday.  Services growth  probably
cooled in September, economists said before a report tomorrow.
That gauge will decline to 53 from 53.7, according to the median
of 29 estimates.  The  Bank of England  will announce its latest policy
decision on Oct. 4. It will hold its bond-purchase target at 375
billion pounds ($606 billion), according to all 40 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Policy makers will also hold the key
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  