-- U.K. Home Prices Will Stagnate at Best, Nationwide Says: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-02T11:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-k-house-prices-fall-as-nationwide-predicts-stagnation-at-best.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in September
and will at best stagnate over the next year as a weak labor
market undermines confidence,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home dropped 0.4 percent from August,
the Swindon, England-based lender said in a statement today.
From a year earlier, values fell 1.4 percent to an average
163,964 pounds ($264,700). Separately,  construction output  fell
for a second month in September, the first back-to-back
contraction in almost three years.  The data add to evidence of an uneven recovery after
reports this week showed lending fell in August and
manufacturing shrank in September. A report tomorrow will show
growth in  services  probably slowed last month and the  Bank of
England  is seen maintaining its bond-purchase plan a day later
as policy makers assess the outlook for the U.K. economy and the
euro-area debt crisis.  “Given the fragile nature of the economy, the huge squeeze
on real incomes and offsetting impact of ultra-low  interest
rates , this gradual downward drift in  house prices  makes
sense,”  Ed Stansfield , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in London, said in a research note. “Boosting confidence will
take a much stronger growth in the economy and real incomes,
both of which seem some way off.”  Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said last week
that third-quarter economic growth will be “very strong.”
Still, that will partly reflect a rebound from the impact of an
extra public holiday on gross domestic product in the second
quarter. The British Chambers of Commerce said today that “U.K.
economic performance remains weak and inadequate.”  Property Stagnation  The Nationwide data showed that house prices fell 0.5
percent in the third quarter compared with the previous three
months. Property research company Hometrack Ltd. yesterday said
 home values  declined for a third month in September, slipping
0.1 percent.  Nationwide Chief Economist  Robert Gardner  said he expects a
gradual economic recovery over the coming 12 months, with house
prices “remaining relatively flat or declining only modestly
over the same period.”  “Labor-market developments will remain of paramount
importance,” he said. “There are grounds for caution on this
front, as the unusual combination of rising employment and
declining economic activity that was evident in the first half
of 2012 is unlikely to be sustained.”  Construction Weakness  A construction index fell to 49.5 in September from 49 in
August, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said today. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. New business at building companies fell at the
second fastest pace since April 2009.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) ,
Britain’s largest homebuilder by volume, said on Sept. 12 that
there is “ongoing economic uncertainty in the U.K. market.”  An index of manufacturing fell to 48.4 from 49.6, Markit
said yesterday. A services gauge will decline to 53 from 53.7,
according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Markit will publish that report at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  In the euro area, data today showed  producer-price
inflation  accelerated to 2.7 percent in August from 1.6 percent
in July as energy costs surged. Spanish unemployment rose for a
second month in September, with the number of people registering
for jobless benefits climbing 79,645 from August to 4.7 million,
according to the Labor Ministry in  Madrid .  RBA Rate Cut  Elsewhere,  Australia ’s central bank resumed cutting rates
today to revive demand outside of a resource boom that may crest
at a lower level than previously expected. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia lowered the  overnight cash-rate target  by a quarter
percentage point to 3.25 percent. The decision to end a three-
meeting pause was predicted by nine of 28 economists in a
Bloomberg survey, with the rest forecasting no change.  “Growth in China has also slowed, and uncertainty about
near-term prospects is greater than it was some months ago,”
Governor  Glenn Stevens  said. “Key commodity prices for
Australia remain significantly lower than earlier in the year,
even though some have regained some ground in recent weeks.”  The Bank of England will announce its latest policy
decision on Oct. 4 and will hold its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds, according to all 40 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Policy makers will also hold the key interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  The  European Central Bank  will leave its  benchmark rate  at
0.75 percent the same day, said 49 of 52 economists in a
separate survey. The rest predict a cut to 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  