-- U.K. Would Benefit From Haven Flows in Euro Breakup, Bootle Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-02T13:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-k-would-benefit-from-haven-flows-in-euro-breakup-bootle-says.html
Britain may initially benefit from
capital flows in the event of a euro-area breakup as investors
seek safety from turmoil in the currency region, said former
U.K. Treasury adviser  Roger Bootle .  “We would find the U.K. being regarded as a safe haven
with continued capital inflows for a while,” Bootle, founder of
Capital Economics Ltd., said in an interview at an event in
London today. “But we’re certainly not a safe haven in terms of
the real economy -- we would be one of the hardest hit of all.”  The euro debt crisis has led five nations to seek
international financial aid and fueled speculation that one or
more members may leave. Reuters reported late yesterday that
 Spain  was preparing to ask the European Union for a sovereign
bailout, citing four unidentified European officials.  Yields on Spanish 10-year debt remain historically high,
even after the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to buy unlimited
amounts of  government bonds  to quell the crisis. The yield on
the securities is currently 5.73 percent, compared with an
average of 4.74 percent in the past five years.  Bootle said that in the event of a euro breakup, the U.K.
government would be more prepared to fully nationalize any
British bank that ran into difficulty compared with the
aftermath of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in
2008. The  Bank of England  would also “flood the system with
liquidity” and expand the range of assets purchased as part of
its stimulus measures, he said.  “Our working assumption has been that a weak country,
probably Greece, will be first to leave,” Bootle said in a
speech at the event organized by  Capital Economics  on the
consequences of a euro-area breakup. “Indeed, Greece might
leave in a matter of months. Then not long after that, another
vulnerable country on the periphery would follow at some point,
probably next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  