-- U.S. Office Vacancy Rate Falls to Almost Three-Year Low
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-s-office-vacancy-rate-falls-to-almost-three-year-low.html
U.S.  office  vacancies dropped to
their lowest level in almost three years as demand from energy
and technology companies combined with a dearth of construction
to overshadow cuts by government employers,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  A total of 17.1 percent of the country’s office space sat
empty as of Sept. 30, down from 17.4 percent a year earlier and
17.2 percent in the second quarter, the New York-based real
estate research firm said today. Vacancies were the lowest since
the fourth quarter of 2009, when the rate was 17 percent.  Demand for office space is strongest in cities where
technology and energy firms are major employers, such as  San
Francisco  and  San Jose  in  California ; Houston and Austin in
 Texas ; and  New York , Seattle and  Boston . Vacancies also have
been driven down by just 2.84 million square feet (264,000
square meters) of space being added in the third quarter, “the
equivalent of only a handful of medium-size office buildings,”
according to Reis.  “The ‘creative’ industries and those tied to energy are
growing,” said Lisa Picard, Seattle-based executive vice
president and regional manager for a unit of Stockholm-based
construction company  Skanska AB. (SKAB)  “At the same time, there’s a
general trend where companies are trying to develop
efficiencies” and put more employees per square foot.  Office landlords had a net gain in occupancies for the
seventh straight quarter, with an increase of 5.45 million
square feet, according to Reis. That was up from gains of 5.33
million square feet a year earlier and 4.46 million square feet
in the second quarter, the smallest increase in a year.  Rents Increase  There were gains in both landlords’ asking rents and what
tenants paid after any discounts in the third quarter, Reis
said. Asking rents rose to an average of $28.23 per square foot
from $27.84 a year earlier and $28.17 in the second quarter.
Effective rents rose to $22.78 a square foot from $22.40 a year
earlier and $22.72 in the prior three months.  “Although this is the eighth consecutive quarter of
positive asking and effective rent growth, the pace of
improvement remains painfully slow,” Ryan Severino, senior
economist at Reis, wrote in today’s report. “Many of the jobs
being created are in sectors that do not generally utilize
 office space ,” such as retail, hotels, education and health
care, he said.  U.S. payrolls rose less than projected in August and the
 unemployment  rate was unexpectedly driven down by Americans
leaving the workforce, according to a Sept. 7 Labor Department
report. Employers may be reluctant to expand hiring amid the
global economic slowdown and the so-called fiscal cliff, the
$600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will take
effect automatically at the end of 2012 unless Congress acts.  Fewer Giveaways  The U.S. office market is improving enough that landlords
are beginning to end such breaks as a period of free rent to
attract tenants, said Asieh Mansour, San Francisco-based head of
Americas research for Los Angeles-based broker CBRE Group Inc.
The pullback on giveaways is most dramatic in central business
districts, where vacancies have been lower than in suburban
markets, she said.  “In some markets where vacancy rates are very low, we’re
maybe not seeing rent growth yet, but the type of tenant-
improvement packages, concessions -- those are starting to go
away,” Mansour said.  While  Washington  held onto the lowest office vacancy rate
nationally last quarter, at 9.5 percent, it was up from both the
second quarter and a year earlier, Reis said. Office vacancies
have been climbing in the city since the second quarter of last
year, when the rate was 9 percent. Washington is struggling with
“political deadlock and contracting government employment,”
according to the firm.  “Leasing activity has really slowed” in Washington,
Mansour said. “D.C. is the one we’re keeping a close eye on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  