-- U.S. Credit Swaps Pare Decline as Spain Says Rescue Not Imminent
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-02T20:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-s-credit-swaps-pare-decline-as-spain-says-rescue-not-imminent.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
pared an earlier decrease as Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he has no near-term plans to request a bailout.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 98.3
basis points at 4:39 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts tied to Fifth & Pacific Cos.
rose to the highest in more than two months.  Rajoy said at a press conference in  Madrid  today that a
bailout request was not imminent. The credit-risk measure had
earlier fallen to as low as 97.4 basis points after Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said yesterday the country was
continuing to analyze whether to seek a rescue. Uncertainty
regarding the resolution of the  European debt crisis  may
heighten investor concern that a continued global slowdown will
impair corporate balance sheets.  The European Central Bank needs “to print money or they’re
going to get a civil war,” John Lekas, chief executive officer
at  Portland , Oregon-based Leader Capital Corp., said in a
telephone interview. “They have plenty of room to print
money.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Heineken Bonds  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest beer-maker, sold
$3.25 billion of three-, five-, 10.5- and 30-year dollar-
denominated bonds, Bloomberg data show. The proceeds may be used
to fund the company’s acquisition of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)   Toyota Motor Credit Corp., the U.S. finance unit of the
 Japanese automaker , issued $1.5 billion of five-year, dollar-
denominated debt. The 1.25 percent notes were sold to yield 65
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
narrowed 2 basis points, led by a 3 basis-point tightening in
spreads on the energy companies, Bloomberg data show. The
average for speculative-grade debt fell 1 basis point, led by a
3 basis-point decline in spreads of financial firms and basic
materials companies.  Slumping Sales  Credit swaps protecting against  Fifth & Pacific (FNP) ’s default
widened 57.1 basis points to 372.1, the highest since July 27,
at 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The owner of fashion labels such as Kate Spade and Lucky
Brand cut its profit forecast because of slumping sales of its
Juicy Couture line. The New York-based company said yesterday
its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization may be as much as $115 million this year, down from
a previous $140 million forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  