-- U.S. Credit-Card Lenders Shun Add-Ons as CFPB Cracks Down
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-10-02T15:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-s-credit-card-lenders-shun-add-ons-as-cfpb-cracks-down.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  American Express Co. (AXP)  are among credit-card lenders
retreating from a $2.4 billion market as regulators seek curbs
on deceptive marketing of products including debt cancellation.  Scrutiny from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has
led to fines against banks including  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) 
and  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , prompting them to curtail sales
of so-called add-ons that offer to help customers pay card bills
if they get sick or lose their jobs, or monitor their credit.  “We’re on a glide path to selling fewer,” Discover Chief
Executive Officer David Nelms said in a Sept. 27 interview.
Nelms, 51, cited higher standards set by regulators including
the two-year-old CFPB.  “You’d have to ask regulators whether they want the
product to go away or not,” he said. “From our perspective, we
think that they add a good amount of value to some of our
customers.”  American Express also is cooperating with regulators amid
an “industrywide review” of the products, said  Michael O’Neill , a spokesman for the New York-based lender.  AmEx, the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases,
said yesterday that it will pay $112.5 million to settle claims
it violated consumer safeguards from marketing to collections in
products sold to about 250,000 customers. That case didn’t
involve add-on products.  Enforcement Campaign  The crackdown is CFPB Director  Richard Cordray ’s first
enforcement campaign after the Dodd-Frank Act consolidated
regulation of retail financial products under one federal
agency. With U.S. banks already complaining that regulation has
squeezed revenue, the bureau is considering new limits on payday
lending and fees for checking overdrafts, and has proposed an
overhaul of mortgage practices.  The industry lobbied against Dodd-Frank, and the CFPB in
particular, before its passage in 2010. The law also included
limits on debit-card swipe fees paid by merchants, wiping out
about $8 billion in annual revenue for the biggest U.S. banks.  While most credit-card lenders don’t disclose what they
earn from add-on products, payment protection alone generated
$2.4 billion in 2009, according to the  U.S. Government
Accountability Office . Card add-ons generated $428.2 million in
fiscal 2011 for Discover, a 3.8 percent increase from a year
earlier, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based bank said in an annual
regulatory filing.  Limiting Fees  Bill Carcache, an analyst with Nomura Securities in  New
York , said the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009 started the process of limiting fees --
late fees, for example -- that issuers are allowed to charge.  “The fees are under pressure and the profitability model
of a credit card business is in question,” Carcache said in an
interview. “The CFPB further reinforces what the CARD Act set
out to do.”  The CFPB and other regulators accused Capital One and
Discover of deceptive marketing that included speaking quickly
while soliciting customers and enrolling people without their
knowledge. Call centers run by other companies conducted some of
the sales.  “We are signaling as clearly as we can that other
financial institutions should review their marketing practices
to ensure that they are not deceiving or misleading consumers
into purchasing financial products or services,” Cordray, 53,
said on Sept. 24. He promised that “more such actions will
follow.”  ‘High Value’  Nelms said competitors have announced that they’re exiting
“some products, but not all.” His firm will shift resources
elsewhere to higher priorities, “but we’ve also said that we’re
continuing to offer these products to the people that feel like
what we offer is of a high value,” he said.  Kent Markus, the CFPB’s assistant director of enforcement,
said the agency’s focus is on deceptive marketing of the
products, not the products themselves, which consumer groups
have criticized as having little value.  Kevin McKechnie, head of the American Bankers Insurance
Association, said the industry is willing to “give the CFPB the
benefit of the doubt” for now.  “I don’t want to ascribe to them the belief that they want
to pick winners and losers in the market,” McKechnie said. “We
may have to revisit that question in the future.”  Necessarily ‘Deceptive’  To Birny Birnbaum, a former Texas insurance regulator, the
trend is vindication of consumer advocates’ longstanding
contention the products aren’t a good deal.  “It’s not hard to see why you have to be deceptive to even
be able to sell it,” Birnbaum, now executive director of the
Austin, Texas-based Center for Economic Justice, said in an
interview.  McKechnie said that the products can be money-makers as
long as banks carefully manage third-party marketers.  “It has nothing to do with deception,” he said. “What we
are confronting is a perception issue because of the enforcement
action and consumer groups.”  The CFPB’s agreement with Discover is being viewed within
the industry as a guideline for avoiding enforcement action,
according to Patricia Sahm, managing director of Auriemma
Consulting Group.  “Abiding beyond the letter of law -- the consent decree --
is a good idea,” said Sahm, whose New York-based firm advises
card issuers. She tells clients, “Ask yourself what you would
be thinking if you heard this pitch on the phone.”  Careful Compliance  Sahm said the need for careful compliance is particularly
acute when using third-party marketers, where quality control
can be hard to maintain. The sheer cost of that may be driving
card lenders to simply give up on the add-on products, she said.  Capital One CEO Richard Fairbank said his company, which
gets more than half of its revenue from credit cards, was
getting out of the market the day after the McLean, Virginia-
based firm settled with the government in July.  AmEx stopped enrolling its cardholders in debt protection
and identity theft programs earlier this year and will cease
offering them by December, said Marina Norville, a spokeswoman.  “We are very sensitive to concerns that the regulators
have, so we’re pulling back,” Norville said.  ‘Business Decision’  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. credit-card lender, stopped new
enrollments into debt-protection plans last October, according
to  Paul Hartwick , a spokesman for the New York-based bank. In
March, the firm halted sales of credit monitoring, which
notifies customers of changes on their credit reports. Hartwick
said it was “just a business decision.”  Bank of America, the No. 2 card lender, stopped offering
credit monitoring late last year, and debt-protection services
in August, according to  Betty Riess , a spokeswoman for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company.  “The decision to discontinue selling these services is
consistent with our strategy to streamline our business,” Riess
said in an e-mail.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest credit-card lender,
“paused” telemarketing of debt-protection products in August
as it “as we continue adapting to the regulatory environment,”
said Emily Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  