-- U.S. Role in Lehman Collapse Allowed in Reserve Trial
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-02T20:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-s-role-in-lehman-collapse-allowed-in-reserve-trial-1-.html
The U.S. government’s role in the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. will be allowed as
evidence in the Oct. 9 trial over allegations that Reserve
Primary Fund misled investors in 2008, a federal judge in
 Manhattan  ruled.  The company will be permitted to present evidence that its
confidence in Lehman’s finances were based in part on the U.S.
Securities Exchange Commission’s oversight of the investment
bank under a voluntary regulatory program, according to the
decision by U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe.  A trial is scheduled to begin Oct. 9 in the SEC’s case
alleging that the company misled investors about the safety of
the fund after it suffered losses in Lehman investments. The
fund, which held $785 million in debt issued by Lehman, became
the first money fund in 14 years to expose investors to losses
when Lehman filed for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008.  “Defendants intend to argue that Bent Sr. believed that
Lehman’s financial reports were sound, and this belief was
critical to his state of mind on September 15 and 16,” Gardephe
said in his ruling, referring to Reserve Partners founder and
Chief Executive Officer Bruce R. Bent, who is a defendant along
with his son, Bruce Bent II.  Bailout Programs  The judge excluded evidence regarding government actions
following Lehman’s bankruptcy filing and the beginning of
Reserve Primary Fund’s collapse, including government bailout
programs and the SEC’s investigation of Lehman and other
financial firms.  Reserve’s net asset value fell below $1 per share on Sept.
16, 2008, a day after Lehman sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection , making investors vulnerable to losses and triggering
a run on money-market funds that worsened the global financial
crisis.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the defendants, and SEC
attorney Nancy A. Brown didn’t immediately return calls for
comment on the ruling.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co. Inc. 09-cv-
04346, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  