-- U.S. 10-Year Swap Spreads May Widen After Inverting, BofA Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-02T13:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/u-s-10-year-swap-spreads-may-widen-after-inverting-bofa-says.html
The  difference  between U.S. 10-year
 interest-rate swaps  and Treasuries of comparable maturity may
widen as changes in fiscal, monetary and regulatory policy limit
the debt’s supply, Bank of America Corp. said.  The gap between the two inverted, or turned negative, on
Sept. 20 for the first time in two years, as investors
speculated the  Federal Reserve ’s Sept. 13 announcement that it
will buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month until an economic
recovery is fully established would lead investors to price in a
higher rate of inflation and push up Treasury yields.
It may widen as much as 40 basis points in a reversal of the
trade that pushed the spread to negative 0.06 basis point on
Sept. 20, according to Bank of America.  “If the stars align here, it could be a pretty big spread
widener,” said Ralph Axel, a government debt strategist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York  in a telephone interview.
Those events could add between $500 billion and $1 trillion of
additional demand for the debt, he said. The different sources
of risk “all kind of compound each other,” he said.  ’Fiscal Cliff’  The year-end expiration of Bush-era tax cuts and payroll
levies may limit supplies of Treasuries, Axel said. A possible
resumption of purchases of U.S. government securities by the
Fed, the end of unlimited government insurance on non-interest-
bearing accounts and clearing rules adopted as part of the Dodd-
Frank financial law all have the potential to boost demand for
Treasuries, he said.  Swap rates for 10-year debt have averaged about positive
36.6 basis points during the past 10 years. In a swap, two
parties agree to exchange fixed for variable-rate payments over
a set period. The swap rates are higher because the floating
payments are based on  interest rates  that contain credit risk,
such as the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.  The 10-year swap spread was nine basis points on Sept. 12
and averaged 12.44 basis points during the previous six months.
The spread had reached as high as 21.81 basis points on June 1
as Treasury bond yields plunged to a record low after a Labor
Department report showed the economy added fewer jobs than
forecast in May.  “If you really are getting a fiscal cliff of any size,
then you probably are getting a significant slowdown in the
U.S.,” Axel said. “If the U.S. is slowing, that’s not good for
anyone, and could worsen Europe. If you do have a worse  Europe ,
you have an increased demand for Treasuries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  