-- Lunar Meteorite Joins Herbie Hancock’s Martian Rock Sale
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2012-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/lunar-meteorite-joins-herbie-hancock-s-martian-rock-sale.html
Four decades ago, Apollo missions
hauled over 840 pounds of moon rocks back to Earth for
scientific evaluation. None of the dozen astronauts who
collected the samples received a personal specimen -- not even
the late  Neil Armstrong .  Nor has anyone else, for that matter: The rocks are
considered National Treasures. Hypothetical appraisals suggest
that even a tiny one, if made available, would be worth millions
of dollars.  On Oct. 14, you can still purchase your own piece of the
moon, however.  Heritage Auctions  is putting 127 meteorite lots
valued at more than $2 million on the block at the Fletcher-
Sinclair Mansion in  New York . The featured item: A four-pound
lunar meteorite expected to fetch over $340,000. Heritage calls
the piece “worthy of the most important natural history museums
in the world.” Pre-bidding has already reached $170,000.  Granted, this specimen wasn’t brought to Earth by an
astronaut, a reason it is less valuable than say the Apollo
samples, says Geoffrey Notkin, author of “Rock Star: Adventures
of a Meteorite Man.”  Rather, it was blasted out of the lunar surface by a
collision with an ancient asteroid, traveled to Earth in the
form of a meteor and eventually survived a fiery entry into its
atmosphere.  Moon Origin  A moon rock is a moon rock, whether it has human historical
significance or not. This one, called Dar al Gani 1058, is the
largest lunar meteorite ever offered at auction. When it was
found in 1998 in  Libya , geologic and chemical testing confirmed
its lunar origins. It forms part of only 135 pounds of lunar
material available on Earth outside of the Apollo cache.  Not surprisingly, because of the rarity of space rocks, a
good market exists for them. The total world inventory is
roughly equivalent to the annual production of gold, less than
3,000 tons. Metallic meteorites, the type most commonly found,
average just a few dollars per gram, while specimens from the
moon, like DaG 1058, or from Mars, command $1,000 to $2,000 per
gram.  Most meteorites don’t originate on the moon or Mars (hence
are cheaper), but come from the plentiful asteroid belt between
Jupiter and Mars where, scientists say, a small planet may once
have existed.  Heavy Metal  The heaviest -- metallics, mostly of iron and nickel --come
from that hypothetical planet’s center (core); the stony-irons
from its middle (mantle); and the stones from its surface
(crust).  A 63-pound Sikhote-Alin from the asteroid belt is expected
to sell for between $25,000 and $32,000 at the Heritage auction.
The wrinkled gray metallic is part of a large witnessed fireball
over eastern Siberia in 1947. Because the event was so recent,
the piece is in superb condition (no rust). Owners can see
“sculpting” done by the atmosphere, what meteorite collectors
call thumb prints.  “It really is nature’s art,” says Notkin, a longtime
meteorite collector and member of  The Explorers Club . “Not only
is it a marvelous messenger from deep space, but a functional
process of our planet. Without friction from our atmosphere
causing the surface to melt during entry, it never would have
acquired those stunningly beautiful features.”  Chilean Desert  Notkin has consigned some of his own pieces to Heritage: a
triangular 66.5-pound  Muonionalusta  from  Sweden  which contains
the rare mineral stishovite and is thought to be the oldest
meteorite found on earth (more than 800,000 terrestrial years);
a 0.33-pound Vaca Muerta stony-iron found in  Chile ’s Atacama
Desert; and a 1.5-pound Seymchan from Siberia.  The Muonionalusta ($7,000-$9,000) and Vaca Muerta ($3,000-
$4,000) were found by Notkin and co-host Steve Arnold while
filming their Discovery Channel show Meteorite Men. The Seymchan
($3,000-$4,000) is a stony-iron from Notkin’s personal
collection and features beautiful green and black olivine
crystals.  Some pieces in the sale are quite reasonable, depending
upon size, type, origin and condition. Notkin, for example, is
also listing a two-pound Canyon Diablo from the world’s most
famous meteor crater in  Arizona . Priced at less than $1,000, the
rust brown metallic is a relative bargain for those of us who 
are not rich.  Herbie Hancock  Other auction highlights include a meteorite that resulted
in the only documented fatality - a cow - and a piece of the
famous Peekskill fireball that fell 20 years ago near New York
and hit the trunk of a Chevy Malibu. But the “Herbie Hancock Meteorite,” from Mars, is especially interesting to collectors
-- and musicians.  Found in  Algeria ’s  Sahara Desert  in 2005, this rarity is
expected to fetch between $7,500 and $9,000. Although small
(just 4 grams), its surface displays the glossy “burnt-sugar”
fusion crust of the most coveted Martian meteorites.  Besides being from the red planet, it has another
provenance: Musician Herbie Hancock carried the rock in his
pocket in at the 25th Anniversary Gala Celebration of the 
Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz  in 2011. All proceeds from the
sale will go to the institute.  To preview (and bid on) auction items, click  here  or visit
 http://fineart.ha.com . The meteorites are on show in New York
before the Oct. 14 auction.  (Jim Clash is the author of “The Right Stuff: Interviews
with Icons of the 1960s,” (AskMen, 2012). He writes on
adventure for Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg
News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art and  Ryan
Sutton  on New York dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
James Clash at  Jamesmclash@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 