-- Erdogan Sets Sights on Presidency With Promise of Growth
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-03T09:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/turkey-premier-sets-sights-on-presidency-with-promise-of-growth.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told his party this week that he’s entering his last
term as its leader, then reassured them: “This isn’t goodbye.”  The comment at an Ankara congress Sept. 30 was one of the
clearest signs yet that Erdogan plans to run for president, an
above-party post, in 2014 when Turks will elect their head of
state for the first time since the republic’s foundation in
1923. He also told supporters that  economic growth , currently
the slowest in three years, is poised to rebound in the fourth
quarter and accelerate next year.  Erdogan’s need for support in presidential elections, where
polls signal he isn’t the nation’s first choice, puts him on the
go-for-growth side of a debate splitting Turkish policy makers.
The other camp says there are bigger risks such as above-target
 inflation  and the swollen current-account gap that accumulated
during recent booms.  “Erdogan’s presidential ambitions are the main focus for
him,” said Naz Masraff, a London-based analyst at Eurasia
Group, which monitors political risk. Economic success has
underpinned his support, and “now that growth has slowed down
in  Turkey , it’s becoming more disconcerting,” she said.
“That’s why he definitely wants to bring growth back.”  Turkey’s economy has grown an average 5.5 percent since
Erdogan’s party came to power in 2002. The only contraction was
in the year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in September 2008. The economy grew 2.9 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter of 2012. Erdogan has set growth
targets of 5 percent for the next two years.  ‘Still Too High’  At the congress, Erdogan was re-elected leader of the
 Justice and Development Party  for the third time, the most
allowed under party rules. He replaced 21 members of the party’s
50-seat executive board.  Foreign leaders attending included Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi, northern Iraqi chief Massoud Barzani and Hamas’s
 Khaled Mashaal . Under Erdogan, Turkey has expanded trade with
Middle Eastern countries as demand in crisis-hit Europe
declines, while relations with  Israel  have deteriorated.  The rare public dispute within Erdogan’s Cabinet surfaced
last week when Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan argued for lower
 interest rates  to boost growth. Erdogan has backed him, telling
ATV television that “the policy rate is still too high.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has eased rates within
his so-called corridor, which allows him to vary  borrowing costs 
daily, without moving the benchmark of 5.75 percent. Basci and
Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan have signaled that the
priority is fiscal discipline.  ‘Same Trap’  There are risks in pursuing “growth for political
purposes,” said Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market analyst
at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen. “Turkey might fall into the
same trap of an expanding current-account deficit and rising
inflation.”  Inflation accelerated to 9.2 percent in September from 8.9
percent, the official statistics office said today.  Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at Standard Bank
Group in  London , said a growth rate close to Erdogan’s target is
“probably sustainable.” He sees a bigger risk in the possible
splintering of Erdogan’s party if he leaves for the presidency.  “The biggest risk is that succession is not clear,” Ash
said. “Erdogan is such a dominant force.”  Erdogan engineered the move to an elected president with a
constitutional change in 2007. He has floated the idea of going
further by turning Turkey’s parliamentary system into a
presidential one, in which the head of state could have ties to
a party, instead of the current largely symbolic role.  Gul Popularity  In the run-up to the party congress, Erdogan’s government
announced increases in taxes on cars and gasoline, and in
electricity and natural gas prices. The measures helped push
benchmark bonds up more than 30 basis points in two weeks.  “Erdogan wants to realize these kinds of unpopular
measures long before the electoral cycle kicks in,” Masraff
said. Turkey is set to hold local elections in October 2013
before the presidential vote.  Outside the economy, another threat to Erdogan’s elevation
may be the incumbent, President  Abdullah Gul .  Rifts have surfaced between the longtime allies. Erdogan
this week rejected a call by Gul for the release of eight
opposition lawmakers who were elected last year while they were
in jail on charges of Kurdish terrorism or coup plots.  “I don’t want to go into a polemic with the president,”
Erdogan said. “It is obvious that we don’t share this
opinion.”  ‘Different Titles’  Gul also hinted at differences on the economy, saying
Turkey must “break the vicious circle of growth and  current-
account deficits .” The gap reached a record above 10 percent of
economic output last year.  Researcher  MetroPOLL  last month reported 51 percent support
for another Gul term, with only 23 percent saying Erdogan should
take over. The survey of 1,275 people cited a 2.7 percent margin
of error.  Still, the politicians have cooperated for two decades with
Erdogan backing Gul’s presidency in 2007. Now the premier is
signaling his own aspirations.  Addressing thousands of delegates in Ankara at this week’s
congress, Erdogan told them: “We will again be united, we will
again be together, with different titles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  