-- Turkish Inflation May Accelerate Even Before Gas Price Increase
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-02T14:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/turkish-inflation-may-accelerate-even-before-gas-price-increase.html
Turkish  inflation  probably
accelerated in September even before yesterday’s increase in gas
and electricity prices, supporting arguments against further
interest rate cuts.  The rate of inflation rose to 9.2 percent in September from
8.9 percent the month before, according to the  median estimate 
of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey. The statistics agency
will release the data at 10 a.m. local time tomorrow. The
government targets a rate of 5 percent for the year.  The government increased taxes on cars, gasoline and
alcohol on Sept. 22, and yesterday announced price increases of
9.8 percent for natural gas and electricity. The measures, aimed
at plugging a widening budget deficit, add to a pickup in
inflation that supports Turkish policy makers arguing for  price
stability  to be prioritized over growth.  “We’ve been warning for long time that inflation
expectations were too low and mispriced,” and investors are now
adjusting their forecasts, Turker Hamzaoglu, an economist at
 Bank of America Corp.  in  London , said in an e-mailed statement.
“The Turkish central bank’s 2012 forecast of 6.2 percent is
likely to have moved closer to 7 percent.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci lowered the top end of
the so-called rate corridor last month by 150 basis points, in
an attempt to spur growth which will slow to less than 3 percent
this year according to the median estimate of five economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s down from 8.5 percent in 2011.  Aggressive Easing  The central bank “has already eased monetary policy fairly
aggressively” said  Ahmet Akarli , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in London. “We will see the growth impacts of this
easing, probably sometime in the first quarter of 2013.”  Turkish policy makers have showed signs of division over
whether to prioritize growth or inflation. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan have said
 interest rates  should be lower, while Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan and Basci have signaled the priority is fiscal
discipline.  This year’s slower growth has depressed tax income, leading
Babacan to forecast a budget deficit of 2.5 percent, compared
with a target of 1.5 percent.  The tax and price increases have helped push  yields on
benchmark two-year lira bonds  up 31 basis points from a year-low
on Sept. 14, to 7.54 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  