-- Muslim Anger Could Spur Economic Growth
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-02T22:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/muslim-anger-could-spur-economic-growth.html
As the violent anti-American protests
in the Muslim world subside, those in the region and in the U.S.
are wondering whether the upheaval will have a permanent effect.  Although by no means inevitable, these events could have a
silver lining. If they spur leaders in North Africa to reassess
their economic and security policies -- - or if they prod
America to lean toward rather than away from North Africa --
the region could end up being better off than it was before it
erupted on Sept. 11, 2012.  There is always the possibility that the protests and
violence, which were triggered in part by outrage over the video
“The Innocence of Muslims,” will soon be forgotten. The
violence surrounding the publication of cartoons of the Prophet
Mohammad in a Danish newspaper in 2006 were shocking, too, but
few would argue they were a turning point. Those protests,
however, occurred under the old status quo of the Arab world, a
very different context from the volatile, uncertain and in some
ways more hopeful situation that has unfolded in the past 18
months.  One way in which the recent upheaval might have a lasting
effect is on how freedom of speech is (or isn’t) respected in
the new Middle East. Last week we witnessed a serious exchange
of views on the subject among world leaders at the United
Nations. U.S. President  Barack Obama   sought to explain  to the
world why Americans hold so dear the right to state even the
harshest of opinions; the presidents of Egypt and Yemen
presented  very different views  on the limits of expression.  Cultural Differences  In the past, such contrasts might have simply underscored
the significant cultural differences between the Arab world and
the U.S. This time, the conversation roughly coincides with
efforts to write new constitutions in Egypt, Libya and Tunisia.
It is possible that the internal debates surrounding civil
liberties in those countries will have greater sophistication
after a real-world test of society’s limits. Unfortunately, it
is also likely that advocates of more “Western” notions of
free speech will be hampered by association with the offensive
video.  More hopefully, the events of the past two weeks -- in
exposing weaknesses of the post-revolutionary governments --
could force leaders to confront realities they and the
international community have heretofore been happy to play down.
Libya, for example, seems newly inclined to address its biggest
problem: pervasive lawlessness and the proliferation of violent
militias.  After tens of thousands of Libyans turned out Sept. 22 in
Benghazi to protest against the attacks that killed U.S.
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and his three colleagues, the
president of Libya’s National Assembly, Mohammed
Magarief,  ordered the disbanding  of all militias not sanctioned
by the government. The army gave the groups a 48-hour deadline
to disarm and to evacuate compounds and public buildings.  Although this was an important and bold step, it isn’t a
comprehensive solution to Libya’s security challenges. Since
Muammar Qaddafi’s demise, the Libyan government has acknowledged
that it is unable to control its entire territory, and militias
have operated with impunity across much of the country. At the
same time, the government rejected the idea of allowing foreign
troops help keep the peace, or that it needed substantial help
from the international community in stabilizing the country.  The tragedy in Benghazi underscored that Libya’s insecurity
isn’t just a problem for Libyans, but for its neighbors and the
rest of the world. The best outcome will be if Libyans use this
moment to ask for more robust security assistance to build a
competent national army, track down chemical weapons left over
from the Qaddafi era and tamp down reluctant militias. This may
not necessarily take the form of a peacekeeping force, but
embedded trainers from friendly countries could help bolster the
Libyan army’s capabilities during a period of vulnerability.  Disbanded Militias  Moreover, Libya might ask the international community for
help in integrating members of disbanded militia into civilian
life or the nascent army -- the U.S. has some experience, albeit
of limited success, in such efforts in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Although perhaps much harder to envision, it is possible
that the anti-American protests in Egypt, too, will constitute a
turning point. President Mohamed Mursi’s slow but eventual
condemnation of the attacks against the U.S. Embassy in Cairo
could be the first stage in driving a wedge between his Muslim
Brotherhood and the more extremist Salafi groups. Mursi’s
initial reluctance to speak against the violence in part
reflected his reluctance to position himself against more
extremist elements, and that he overcame it is very significant.  This single instance of Mursi’s condemning anti-Americanism
might not prove he is looking for more moderate political
partners. But he has a bigger hurdle coming soon: negotiating a
$4.8 billion loan with the International Monetary Fund. Not only
will the loan come with stringent conditions on government
spending that are opposed by many politicians, but some Salafis
believe that paying interest to a non-Islamic entity such as the
IMF is a violation of religious principles. Mursi, and  Egypt ,
desperately needs the loan, and building on his denouncement of
the protests, he might find himself forced to break publicly
with his most conservative allies.  Although shifts in Libyan or Egyptian politics would be
significant, a more important legacy of the violence will be how
it affects U.S. commitment to the Middle East. Understandably,
the first reaction of many Americans was to throw their hands up
in dismay, and to ask why we should continue to spend money and
political capital on a part of the world that is so clearly
dysfunctional and anti-American.  Transitional Nations  This is exactly the wrong response. The problem isn’t that
the U.S. has done too much for these countries in transition; it
is that the U.S. hasn’t yet done enough. A fear of seeming
heavy-handed has led us to be nearly hands-off. Closer
engagement doesn’t mean smothering governments that want and
need to keep their political distance from  Washington  in order
to maintain public support, nor does it entail a greater
military presence. But it does mean a more systematic strategy
toward the region, one that recognizes the tentative nature of
every achievement made since the Arab revolutions began and
seeks to bolster the fortunes of those looking to build
moderate, economically open societies -- even if they have
conservative and Islamic leanings.  The U.S. can’t easily solve the unemployment problem in the
Arab world or close the yawning gap between the skills of
educated Arabs and the skills actually needed by employers. Nor
can it provide the social justice -- of which economics is only
a part -- that Arabs are looking to their new governments to
deliver. But the U.S. can help.  First, it can consistently stand up for the American
principles that are admired globally: political and economic
liberty. It can also infuse the Middle East with economic
advice, technical assistance, private-sector help and
educational partnering. These are the U.S.’s comparative
advantages. To some extent, this is already under way. The new
$60 million Egyptian Enterprise Fund, which will provide support
for small- and medium-sized Egyptian businesses, is a good
start. So was a  trip  by more than 100 U.S. businessmen last
month arranged by the embassy in Cairo.  But such programs need to occur on a larger scale that
holds some prospect of tipping the wobbly trajectory of today to
a definitively positive slope. Giving American business
significant incentives to invest in Egypt, providing Egyptian
products easy access to the U.S. marketplace, and offering
significant aid and expertise contingent on policy reforms
should be pillars of a strategy seeking to boost long-term
Egyptian prospects.  Doing far more to help these new democracies thrive isn’t
just in the interests of Arabs, who are deserving of a better
future, but also of the U.S., which needs better partners in
this part of the world.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. She is a foreign-policy adviser to the  Mitt
Romney  campaign. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to avert the fiscal cliff 
and on  New York’s lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. ; Margaret
Carlson on the election as  a referendum on Mitt Romney ; Clive
Crook on  finding an unextreme path for Europe ; Michael Kinsley
on  which gaffes will matter  at the debates; Peter Orszag on  the
widening U.S. longevity gap ; Thomas de Waal on  Georgia’s
democratic counterrevolution .  To contact the writer of this column:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 