-- Vanguard to Switch Target Benchmarks for 22 Index Funds
-- B y   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-10-02T14:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/vanguard-to-switch-target-benchmarks-for-22-index-funds.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the largest U.S.
mutual-fund provider, will drop  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  as the benchmark
provider for 22 index funds holding about $537 billion in
assets, to cut costs for fund shareholders over time.  Vanguard will adopt benchmarks from  FTSE Group  for six
international stock index funds, and benchmarks developed by the
University of Chicago’s Center for Research in Security Prices
for 16 U.S. equity and balanced funds, the Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based firm said today in a statement.  “With our clients’ best interests in mind, we negotiated
licensing agreements for these benchmarks that we expect will
enable us to deliver significant value to our index fund and ETF
shareholders and lower expense ratios over time,” Vanguard
Chief Investment Officer Gus Sauter said in today’s statement.  The change will affect both index mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds at Vanguard, whose ETFs are structured as
share classes of its mutual funds.  Vanguard Total Stock Market
Index Fund (VTSMX) , the company’s largest index fund with $197 billion
in assets, and its ETF share class are among those that will
switch from the MSCI benchmarks.  The change to FTSE benchmarks, which includes about $170
billion in fund assets, is the largest switch in international
index providers, FTSE said in a separate statement.  Charles Schwab Corp. cut fees for its proprietary ETFs last
month by an average of 40 percent and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said it
will reduce fees for some ETFs next quarter.  Vanguard, known for its low-cost index funds, manages about
$1.95 trillion in U.S. mutual fund assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saumya Vaishampayan in  New York  at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  