-- Vietnam to Allow Full Foreign Ownership of Some Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-02T12:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/vietnam-to-allow-full-foreign-ownership-of-some-companies-1-.html
Vietnam  is proposing to allow
foreigners to take full ownership of some joint-stock companies
and set up wholly owned securities firms in an effort to bolster
the stock market.  Overseas companies can acquire as much as 100 percent of
the registered capital of brokerages, up from the current
maximum of 49 percent, or establish wholly owned securities
firms if they have been operating in the banking and insurance
industries for two years and posted a profit in the most recent
two years, according to a draft measure posted on the State
Securities Commission’s website.  “The draft measure is surprisingly good as we did not
expect any new developments this year with regards to changes in
the rule,” said  Attila Vajda , Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at
ACB Securities.  Vietnam will allow foreigners to increase their stakes to
100 percent from 49 percent in public joint stock companies that
have been converted from so-called foreign-direct investment
enterprises, according to the draft. The investment cap at most
public joint-stock companies will still be kept at 49 percent.
There are about 700 companies listed on the country’s two
exchanges while there are about eight companies that have
converted from being FDI enterprises, ACB Securities said.  The proposal would help foreign investors “to be able to
participate more fully in the Vietnamese securities industry,”
said Brett Krause, Ho Chi Minh City-based country manager for
Citibank N.A. Vietnam. “Citi is working closely with the State
Securities Commission to develop the market and enable world-
class funds and broker dealers to set up business in Vietnam.”  Joint-Stock Companies  Public joint-stock companies are enterprises that either
have shares listed on exchange, have already sold shares to the
public or have shares that are owned by at least 100 investors
and have registered capital of at least 10 billion dong
($478,000).  Allowing foreign investors to increase their stakes in
publicly listed brokerages and joint-stock companies may boost
liquidity in the stock market. The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has fallen
21 percent from its high this year on May 8, more than the 20
percent some investors consider a  bear market . It dropped 0.6
percent at the 2:15 p.m. local-time close today.  Foreign investors are very interested in buying shares of
companies in some industries such as banks or  consumer goods ,
according to Giang Trung Kien, head of research at FPT
Securities Joint-Stock Co. “For some good companies like
 Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , overseas investors
always want to raise the cap to more than 49 percent.”  The State Securities Commission is seeking public comments
for the draft measure by Oct. 12, it said in the statement on
its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  