-- VimpelCom Sinks as Telenor Move Sparks Battle
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-10-02T00:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/vimpelcom-sinks-as-telenor-move-sparks-battle.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  fell from the highest
level in almost two weeks in the U.S. as  Telenor ASA (TEL)  moved to
boost its stake, escalating its conflict with the Russian
regulator and investors for control of the mobile phone company.  VimpelCom slipped 0.3 percent to $11.86 in  New York 
yesterday, retreating from the highest since Sept. 18. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
stocks listed in the U.S. jumped 1.8 percent to 99.57, led by
 OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY)  and  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY)  as crude oil climbed to a
one-week high. Futures expiring in December on Russia’s  RTS
Index (RTSI$)  dropped 1.2 percent to 149,010.  Telenor, the Oslo-based company that is VimpelCom’s biggest
shareholder, said yesterday that it raised its stake in the
mobile provider to 42.95 percent. The move “contradicts”
Russian law, according to the anti-monopoly service, which has
been trying to prevent Telenor from boosting its stake above
about 30 percent since February. Altimo, which holds 40.5
percent, brought the case as it seeks parity with Telenor.  “The stock is under pressure from the conflict and there
is no potential for growth until the dispute is solved,”
Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp.
in Moscow who has a hold rating on VimpelCom, said by phone
yesterday. “There is very little to no clarity on what is going
to happen next.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 1.8
percent to $29.31, the highest level since Sept. 24. The RTS
Volatility Index advanced 3.7 percent to 31.42.  Micex Expansion  Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  will incorporate 20 new
stocks starting Dec. 18, making the composition of the ruble-
denominated Micex identical to that of the 50-stock RTS Index,
which is priced in dollars.  “It will help boost liquidity in the market,” Andrei Bogdanov, who helps manage $8 billion in Russian equities and
bonds at OAO Gazprombank, said by phone from Moscow yesterday.
“One of the problems of the Russian market is its relatively
low liquidity level.”  Telenor wants to negotiate with Altimo to jointly buy
Ukrainian billionaire Viktor Pinchuk’s 6 percent stake in
VimpelCom so that both investors will have equal stakes in the
company,  Dag Melgaard , an Oslo-based spokesman for Telenor, said
by e-mail yesterday.  VimpelCom said in a statement yesterday that it will delay
registration of the increase in Telenor’s stake until a Moscow
court allows it to do so. The statement was released after New
York markets closed.  ‘Dash for Control’  “There is a chance of an outright dash for control if
negotiations fail,” said Mattias Westman, who oversees about $4
billion in Russian assets as chief executive officer of
 Prosperity Capital  in  London .  Altimo and Pinchuk’s EastOne Group declined to comment when
contacted yesterday. Bertofan Investments Ltd., which holds
Pinchuk’s stake in VimpelCom, operates under the EastOne Group’s
mandate.  “We are eager to see Altimo’s response” to the proposal
to achieve parity by purchasing shares from Pinchuk’s Bertofan,
Telenor’s Melgaard said by e-mail. “We hope for a quick
solution.”  Altimo will probably buy Pinchuk’s 6 percent stake in
VimpelCom, Otkritie’s Vengranovich said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. That would increase Altimo’s stake to 46.5 percent of
VimpelCom’s voting rights.  A Moscow court  banned  Amsterdam-based VimpelCom’s Russian
unit from paying dividends on 2011 profits because the anti-
monopoly service, knows as FAS, opposed Telenor’s moves to
increase its stake earlier this year. Telenor’s appeal was
rejected by a Moscow court last week. The first hearing on the
merits of the regulator’s claim is scheduled for Oct. 17.  Rostelecom Gains  VimpelCom,  Russia ’s third-biggest mobile phone company
after OAO Mobile TeleSystems and OAO MegaFon, was formed in 2011
when its Moscow-based unit merged with  Italy ’s Wind Telecom SpA,
forming the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone company by
subscribers. About 42 percent of Vimpelcom’s global revenue came
from Russia in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom Neft, Russia’s
fifth biggest oil producer, surged 4.6 percent to $24.79
yesterday, the most since Aug. 3. The ADRs settled at a 0.3
percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed stock. Shares of
Gazprom Neft climbed 1.2 percent to 154.49 rubles, or $4.97
yesterday. One ADR is equal to five ordinary shares.  ADRs for OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s biggest fixed-line
telephone company, rose 4.6 percent to $26.68, the highest since
Sept. 24. The company’s Moscow-listed  stock  gained 3.2 percent
to 138.61 rubles, or $4.46, yesterday. Six ordinary shares equal
one ADR.  Oil Advances  Crude oil for November delivery rose 0.3 percent to $92.48
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the
highest settlement price since Sept. 21. Crude in New York,
which is down 6.4 percent this year, increased 8.5 percent in
the third quarter.  Brent for November settlement was little changed at $112.19
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, fell 0.4
percent to $110.24 per barrel yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  