-- Voter Purge Over Citizen Status Sours Floridians on Republicans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-10-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/voter-purge-over-citizen-status-sours-floridians-on-republicans.html
Florida  residents erroneously
subjected to a Republican-led effort to purge noncitizens from
voter rolls said they’re furious, and several promised to vote
against the party’s presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, as a
result.  In interviews with 35 of the 2,625 people the state moved
to prevent from voting, all but two said they’re U.S. citizens,
with about a third identifying themselves as Republicans and
another third as Democrats. They included a Cuba-born physician,
a U.S. Army soldier who served in  Afghanistan , an entomologist
originally from  Canada  and a taxi driver from Haiti.  The attempt to remove potential noncitizens, led by
Republican Governor Rick Scott, may hurt his party in the
November presidential election by alienating voters being
courted heavily by Romney and President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat. Three of the past five presidential elections in
Florida have been decided by less than 3 percentage points. The
state has the most  electoral  votes of those viewed as
competitive by both campaigns.  Among those targeted was Rolando Baster, 60, of Miami, an
ear, nose and throat doctor originally from Cuba who said he has
been a U.S. citizen for a decade and has always supported
Republican candidates. This year, he said, he plans to vote for
Obama because of the “trouble” he was caused by Scott’s
administration.  Romney’s Belief  “If this is what Rick Scott believes, and this is what the
Republican Party believes, then maybe this is what  Mitt Romney 
believes, too,” said Baster, who runs an assisted-living
facility.  Scott has said he is seeking to battle voter fraud, and
some of those interviewed applauded the effort. Groups opposing
Scott questioned the data used by the state.  After a legal complaint by civil rights groups and others,
Florida last month said those erroneously removed would be
reinstated, and U.S. citizens threatened with removal would be
notified that they’ll remain on the rolls.  Chris Cate, a spokesman for the Florida State Department,
declined to say how many voters have been wrongly removed.  On Sept. 26, the state said it had identified only 198
residents who may be illegally registered, down from the
original 2,625. The state released names of those on the lists
in response to a public-records request.  ‘Cockroach’ Feeling  Of the 35 interviewed, four said that as a result of being
targeted, they would vote for Obama or were likely to. Twenty
said they were upset by the state’s questioning.  “This is incredibly untimely for Republicans,” said Paul
George, a professor who teaches Cuban-American history and
politics at Miami-Dade College in Miami. “This makes things
even more daunting for Romney, because he’s been trying to woo
the Hispanic vote. Every vote counts in Florida.”  Alejandra Ares, 50, who was born in  Venezuela  and lives
near Miami, said she “felt like a cockroach” after receiving a
letter questioning whether she was illegally registered to vote.  Ares, a real-estate agent, and others interviewed said they
grew concerned their citizenship was invalid or that their
identity was stolen.  Stephane Salnave, a soldier who served four tours in Iraq
and Afghanistan, said he felt “disrespected.” The Haiti native
is registered as a Democrat and said he votes for candidates
from both parties.  Leaning Toward Obama  Salnave, 30, said he is leaning toward Obama, partly
because of a letter he received from county election officials
saying he could lose his voting rights unless he proved he is an
American citizen.  “There should be an apology for me and everyone else this
has happened to,” Salnave said.  Murat Limage, 44, who was born in  Haiti  and became a U.S.
citizen in 2010, said he hadn’t been planning to vote this year
-- until receiving a letter from election officials questioning
his citizenship.  “This makes me change my mind,” said Limage, a Tampa taxi
driver who is a plaintiff in a lawsuit filed against the state
over the purge. “I blame the Republican Party, and I want my
vote to count for Obama.”  Anthony Verdugo, director of the Christian Family
Coalition, a Miami-based group that distributes voter guides at
South Florida churches and tends to support Republican
candidates, said the purge hurts the party.  Army Entomologist  “It wasn’t a very smart move at all,” Verdugo said.
“These missteps make it look like Republicans don’t care about
the community.”  Voters including Rob Lowen, a Canada-born entomologist in
the U.S. Army, blamed Scott, who faces re-election in 2014.  “I remember how people treat me,” said Lowen, 50, who is
registered to vote in Gainesville. “I usually judge a governor
by how little I hear from him.”  Thirteen voters interviewed said they weren’t bothered by
the questioning or having to show proof of citizenship.  “I have to show my ID for everything else. Why not this?”
said Zoe Alvarez, a 57-year-old Cuba native living in Miami who
said she has been a U.S. citizen for more than four decades. She
described Scott as “wonderful” and said she backs efforts to
prevent noncitizens from voting.  ‘Right Thing’  Scott, 59, said the program was worthwhile.  “Oh gosh, we did exactly the right thing,” Scott said
Sept. 18 during a question-and-answer session with reporters in
his Tallahassee office. “We believe in honest, fair
elections.”  While Republicans are looking for illegally registered
residents, they’re also confronting questions about their own
program to sign up voters. After potentially fraudulent voter
applications tied to the party were found in Florida, the
Republican National Committee last week discontinued
registration work ahead of a deadline in the state and four
others viewed as competitive by both parties.  Florida officials temporarily halted the search for
nonresidents when county elections supervisors complained about
using driver’s license data to determine  citizenship . Florida
requires residents to show proof of citizenship from their
countries before getting a license or other state ID. That
information, the election officials said, isn’t regularly
updated.  The hunt resumed after the state received access to
immigration data from the U.S Homeland Security Department in
July, 10 months after requesting it.  Not Voting  Using the federal data, the state’s initial roster was
pared back.  The state’s push led some U.S. citizens to decide not to go
to the polls this year. Sylvia Lepine, 56, who lives near
 Orlando , said she doesn’t plan to vote after receiving her
letter saying she needed to prove citizenship.  “I lost my papers about four years ago,” said Lepine, a
Canadian native who owns a powder-coating business. “They say I
can’t vote, so I’m not going to.”  A Democrat, Lepine voted in Florida in every presidential
election since 1992, according to state records.  Noncitizens were found on the rolls. In Miami-Dade, which
accounted for 1,599 of the 2,625 people on the list, 15 told
county officials they weren’t citizens.  Illegal Voting  Of the 198 voters on the latest list, 38 cast ballots in
previous elections, according to state records.  Among them is Anita Caragan, 72, who was born in the
 Philippines  and lives in Panama City Beach in the state’s
Panhandle region. Caragan said she has held a green card, giving
her permanent residency in the U.S., since 1970. Caragan has
voted in 12 elections, state records show.  It’s illegal for those holding green cards to vote in
federal elections. They can be deported from the U.S., according
to the Homeland Security Department.  She said she was issued a voter registration card when she
renewed a driver’s license, and thought it was legal to vote as
a result.  “I’ve been voting for many, many years,” she said. “So
what’s the problem?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  