-- Wal-Mart Sued in Tennessee by Women Workers Claiming Bias
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-02T19:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/wal-mart-sued-by-women-claiming-5-state-bias-lawyers-say.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, was sued in federal court in  Tennessee  for
allegedly discriminating against female workers in five southern
states.  Three women sued in Nashville today, seeking to proceed on
behalf of Wal-Mart’s female employees in the company’s Region
43, which comprises Tennessee and parts of  Alabama ,  Arkansas ,
 Georgia  and  Mississippi . Wal-Mart paid women less than men in
comparable jobs and blocked promotions for female workers, the
women claim.  “Wal-Mart has maintained a pattern or practice of gender
discrimination in compensation and promotion in Region 43,”
according to the complaint. “Its compensation and promotion
policies and practices have had a disparate impact not justified
by business necessity on its female employees.”  The suit is the third regional gender-discrimination claim
filed against Wal-Mart following the U.S. Supreme Court decision
last year rejecting a nationwide class action. Women in
California and  Texas  filed lawsuits last year.  The group action “is no more appropriate than the
nationwide class that the Supreme Court has already rejected,”
Randy Hargrove, a spokesman for the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
retailer, said today. “Wal-Mart has strong policies against
discrimination.” The claims are “unsuitable for class
treatment,” Hargrove said.  Seeking Changes  The Tennessee plaintiffs seek to represent current and
former female workers from December 1998 to the present. They
are seeking changes to Wal-Mart practices as well as back pay
and punitive damages.  The named plaintiffs are former Wal-Mart workers Cheryl
Phipps and Bobbi Millner and current employee Shawn Gibbons. All
live in Tennessee, according to the complaint.  The nationwide lawsuit was filed by six current and former
Wal-Mart workers alleging discrimination in pay and promotions.
The women were granted so-called class status in 2004, allowing
them to sue as a group. Wal-Mart appealed and in June 2011 the
 Supreme Court  blocked the nationwide case from going forward.  The Supreme Court said lawyers for women suing Wal-Mart
failed to point to a common corporate policy that led to gender
discrimination at thousands of its U.S. stores. The plaintiffs’
lawyers said after the loss at the Supreme Court that they would
file regional class actions alleging gender bias in pay and
promotions at Wal-Mart.  The new lawsuit is Phipps v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 12-cv-
01009, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee
(Nashville). The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart v. Dukes, 10-
00277, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  