-- Weber Says Euro Crisis to Persist as ECB Fails to Bring Calm
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-02T14:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/weber-says-euro-crisis-to-persist-as-ecb-fails-to-bring-calm-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Chairman and former European
Central Bank Governing Council member  Axel Weber  said the euro
region’s festering debt crisis will “continue to linger” as
the ECB fails to ease market disquiet and volatility.  “While many expect that the ECB’s strong action would
bring stability to financial markets, the risk is that the
pattern of short-term rallies and long-term uncertainty will
stay with us for some future,” Weber said today at an
investment conference in Moscow organized by VTB Capital.  The program of unlimited bond purchases unveiled last month
by ECB President  Mario Draghi  has sought to stamp out the crisis
by limiting government borrowing costs and giving debt-ridden
nations the chance to fix their economies and preserve the euro.
Weber, who during his tenure at the ECB opposed the central
bank’s previous bond-buying plan, predicted the monetary union
will overcome the crisis even as there won’t be a “quick fix.”  “The underlying fundamental perspective is not great at
the moment,” Weber said. “Austerity programs which are badly
needed to restore market confidence and create fiscal room to
maneuver will take a toll on the economy. So this will be a
rough patch that  Europe  is going through, but it will get
better.”  Confidence, Unemployment  Economic confidence in the region unexpectedly fell in
September after the euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, and indicators have since shown signs of a
deepening slump. Unemployment in the economy of the 17 nations
using the euro reached the highest on record and factory output
contracted for a 14th straight month in September.  “The Europeans just need longer to work it out,” Weber
said. “It’s very complex: this is a ship in storm, it has 17
captains.”  Weber, who is also a former president of  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said “the known flaws of the European construction
cannot be reversed,” nor do they merit “infinite” discussion.  “We are where we are,” he said. “There’s no argument
that anything could be changed now. What needs to be done is
courageous political decisions need to be taken, forceful
reforms need to be enacted, and the construction that we have
needs to be made to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  