-- Yield Fuels Canadian IPO Surge That Defies Global Slump
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/yield-fuels-canadian-ipo-surge-that-defies-global-slump.html
Regal Lifestyle Communities Inc. (0603184D)  and
 Ivanplats Ltd. (0604863D)  are among companies driving what’s expected to be
the biggest month for Canadian initial public offerings in
almost two years.  Companies plan to raise at least C$725 million ($738
million) through IPOs in October, which would be the highest
monthly tally since November 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Real-estate investment trusts and income trusts offering
high dividends are driving Canada’s new issuance market, bucking
a global IPO market slump that’s expected to extend into 2013
amid signs of slowing global growth.  “The overriding theme is the demand for yield, which
continues,” said Sante Corona, head of  equity capital markets 
at Toronto-based TD Securities, a unit of  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD) 
“There are REITs, energy trusts and mining companies coming to
market; it’s a confluence of circumstances that they will be in
the market together in October.”  The biggest Canadian-listed IPOs this year have been
dividend payers such as  Argent Energy Trust (AET-U) , HealthLease
Properties Real Estate Investment Trust, and Dundee Industrial
REIT, which is expected to start trading this week after raising
C$155 million on Sept. 26. That trend continues through October,
as Canadian investment banks bring more IPOs to the market to
meet demand.  “Say what you will about investment bankers, but if people
want to buy boots they’re not going to sell them shoes,” said
Les Stelmach, who helps manage C$900 million of high dividend
securities for Bissett Investment Management in Calgary.  Regal Lifestyle  Regal Lifestyle plans to sell 13.9 million shares for C$10
each in its C$139 million IPO as soon as Oct. 5, according to
documents. The company, which will trade in Toronto under the
symbol RLC and offer a yield of 7 percent, plans to use its
proceeds to buy 10 retirement communities across the country.  Meranex Energy Trust and  Crius Energy Trust (0611908D) , which are
using a corporate structure based on Canada’s once popular
income trusts, plan to sell units by the end of the month
offering payouts of about 10 percent to 11 percent, and 8
percent to 9 percent, respectively.  Meranex, which will invest in oil-and-gas assets in  Texas ,
aims to raise about C$150 million, according to people familiar
with the sale. Crius, which will invest in a U.S. energy
retailer, seeks to raise about C$140 million, said two people,
who declined to be identified because the terms aren’t public.  Resource IPOs  REITs and energy trusts have become “bright spots” in
Canada’s IPO market while mining and oil-and-gas have “fallen
out of favor,” according to Dean Braunsteiner, IPO services
leader in Toronto for PwC  Canada , a member of
PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd. The Ivanplats IPO
“could be a game changer,” he said.  “The market is waiting for that first mining IPO to go and
if that happens and commodity prices stay where they are there
could be some renewed interest on that front,” Braunsteiner
said. “It has the potential for being a turnaround.”  Ivanplats, the mining company founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, plans to sell 60.6 million shares for C$4.50 to
C$5.40 each in its IPO, to be priced Oct. 15, according to sale
documents. The offering, which could be as much as C$327.2
million, would be Canada’s third-biggest mining IPO in more than
a dozen years, according to Bloomberg data.  Other IPOs in the works include  Potash Ridge Corp. (0611977D) , which
submitted documents to regulators on Sept. 26.  The planned IPOs total the most since November 2010 when
companies including  Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU)  and  Whistler Blackcomb
Holdings Inc. (WB)  sold $960 million in initial offerings, according
to Bloomberg data.  Slowest Start  “I like to see IPOs,” said Stelmach, whose fund invested
in Argent’s C$212.3 million IPO in August. “It challenges the
pricing on what the products that are out there already and the
good names will hold their value.”  Canadian companies have raised C$1.17 billion in IPOs in
the first three quarters of the year, about half the amount
raised in the same period last year and the slowest nine-month
start since 2008, Bloomberg data show. Still, Canada had $319
million of IPOs in the third quarter, more than double the
second quarter, Bloomberg data show.  By comparison, initial share sales worldwide raised about
$24.5 billion in the three-month period, 39 percent less than
the previous quarter. Global IPOs last quarter dropped to the
second-lowest level since the  U.S. economy  ended its longest
recession since the Great Depression in June 2009, Bloomberg
data show.  “There’s a lot of people wanting to bring these new issues
into the public marketplace, but they’ve just had to wait
because of all the uncertainty,” PwC’s Braunsteiner said. “If
everything lines up quite well, it will be the sign of the
recovery for Canada’s IPO market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  