-- Zillow Falls After Saying SEC Questioned Financial Report
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-02T20:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-02/zillow-shares-drop-as-sec-questions-revenue-disclosures.html
Zillow Inc. (Z) , operator of the largest
real estate information website, fell after disclosing that the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked the company to
respond to questions about how it reported revenue.  The shares of Seattle-based Zillow declined 4.2 percent to
$39.11 at the close in New York. The  stock  has gained 74 percent
this year.  The SEC asked in a  letter  dated Aug. 30 why the company
didn’t report the percentage increase in the average price paid
for so-called  Premier Agent  subscriptions in its most recent
financial report, according to a regulatory filing. Zillow said
it would revise disclosures in its next quarterly report, the
filing showed.  “The additional datapoints requested by the SEC were
similar to those provided by Trulia in its recent IPO documents,
and we expect Zillow will likely expand its disclosures in
response to the SEC’s requests,” Mark May, an analyst at
Barclays Capital, wrote in a research report today.  Trulia Inc. (TRLA)  is a competing real estate website. None of the
issues raised by regulators require Zillow to restate earnings,
May said.  Zillow makes much of its money from subscriptions to its
premium service, which lets real estate agents advertise
listings and offers tools meant to help them run their
businesses.  Revenue Growth  The SEC also asked why total  marketplace  revenue growth
appears to be slowing while Premier Agent subscription revenues
look to be increasing. The Premier Agent revenue is reported as
part of marketplace revenue. In response, Zillow said in the
filing that it would start disclosing the average monthly
Premier Agent revenue per subscriber.  “This letter was in response to an early 2012 10-K filing
submitted by Zillow, and we have since responded to the SEC’s
satisfaction,” Katie Curnutte, a Zillow spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Separately, the SEC also asked Zillow to disclose the
number of unique users by domain name for different websites the
company operates, including Zillow.com and  RentJuice.com ,
according to a second letter released in a regulatory filing.  Trulia, operator of a residential-property listings
website, sold shares at $17 apiece in an initial public offering
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  