-- 
T. Rowe Price Profit Rises 29% on as Market Gains and Deposits Lift Fees

-- B y   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-26T20:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/t-rowe-price-profit-rises-29-on-market-gains-client-deposits.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the asset
manager that has posted a profit every quarter since going
public in 1986, said second-quarter earnings climbed 29 percent,
aided by rising markets and investor deposits.  Net income allocated to common stockholders rose to $203.8
million, or 76 cents a share, from $157.8 million, or 59 cents,
a year earlier, the Baltimore-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for profit of 77 cents a share.  Investors poured $9.8 billion into T. Rowe Price products
during the quarter, including $4.6 billion to mutual funds.
“Slightly” more money went into bond funds than equity funds,
Chief Executive Officer James Kennedy said. In the future, the
balance will depend on the political and economic situation in
the U.S. and  Europe , he said.  “It depends what happens with Washington and Europe and
when the politicians finally face up and make tough decisions,”
Kennedy said in a telephone interview. “If they make good,
tough decisions and start dealing with long-term deficit
reductions, then you may see a decent move in the equity
markets, and you’ll see more flows, more confidence in the
marketplace.”  Kennedy also said he doesn’t expect any “long-lived”
increase in stock markets if the U.S. doesn’t include a long-
term deficit reduction solution as politicians attempt to raise
the debt ceiling by Aug. 2.  Institutional Deposits  Of the $9.8 billion in new deposits, $5.2 billion went to
institutional accounts. Those investments tend to be “lumpy”
from quarter to quarter, Kennedy said. Target-date retirement
funds, which make up almost 21 percent of mutual-fund assets,
gained $2.2 billion in deposits during the quarter.  “The flow number was great,” Daniel Fannon, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview. “The organic
growth continues to be best in class.”  T. Rowe Price rose 9 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $60.06 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq stock market trading. The shares
have lost 6.9 percent since the start of the year, compared with
a 7 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 18-member index of
asset managers and custody banks.  Kennedy, 57, has built T. Rowe Price into the third-largest
manager of target-date retirement funds in the U.S., according
to research firm Morningstar Inc. The funds, which hold a mix of
investments and automatically shift to more conservative assets
as a customer ages, helped the firm attract $30.3 billion in net
new investments last year.  Record Assets  Vanguard Group Inc. of  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , and
Boston’s  Fidelity Investments  are the largest U.S. providers of
target-date funds.  Assets under management increased to a record $521 billion.
Revenue increased 24 percent to $714 million, boosted by a 24
percent increase in investment advisory fees. Operating expenses
increased 19 percent to $387 million, as compensation and
related costs rose 16 percent.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , owner of the Invesco,  Van Kampen  and
PowerShares funds, today said second-quarter earnings climbed
more than fourfold to $183 million. Investors deposited $7.3
billion in the three months ended June 30, including $3.5
billion in fixed-income funds and $2.6 billion in alternative
products. Equity funds lost $2.6 billion to withdrawals.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, said
July 20 that second-quarter profit rose 43 percent to $619
million, or $3.21 a share. The New York-based firm reported a
net $15.5 billion in investor withdrawals while fixed-income
market gains helped assets under management increase 0.3 percent
to $3.66 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Keeley in  Boston  at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  