-- 
3M Slumps as Profit Forecast Trails Estimates on Drop in LCD Screen Demand

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-26T20:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/3m-s-2011-earnings-forecast-trails-estimates-on-drop-in-lcd-screen-demand.html
3M Co. (MMM)  tumbled the most in almost
nine months after reporting lower-than-expected profit margins
and sales because of lower demand for products used in LCD
televisions.  3M fell $5.14, or 5.4 percent, to $89.93 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest decline since
Oct. 28 and the sixth largest drop today on the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX) 
Shares of the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company have gained 4.2
percent this year.  Profit margins were 21.6 percent, below an estimate of 22.1
percent from  Shannon O’Callaghan , an analyst with Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. Sales excluding acquisitions and
foreign-exchange gains rose 4 percent, missing O’Callaghan’s
estimate of 4.5 percent. Those organic sales likely won’t
accelerate in the second half of this year, said Stephen Tusa,
an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  “We are hard pressed to give the company the benefit of
the doubt here and the lower margins are a disappointment,”
Tusa said in a report today.  The maker of  Post-It Notes  and auto parts said 2011
earnings including pension and post-retirement expenses will be
$6.10 to $6.25 a share, an increase of 5 cents at the lower end
of the range. Lower taxes, which added 6 cents to earnings per
share in the quarter, would account for most of the increase,
said O’Callaghan. The forecast for 2011 trails the $6.31 per
share estimate from the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  LCD TV Weakness  Revenue in display and graphics dropped 7 percent to $973
million in the second quarter as optical systems sales slid 22
percent, the company said. Weakness at the unit, 3M’s third-
biggest, was caused by “a larger-than-anticipated contraction
in the LCD TV end-market demand,” Chief Executive Officer
George W. Buckley said today in a statement.  Net income in the quarter advanced to $1.16 billion, or
$1.60 a share, from $1.12 billion, or $1.54, a year earlier, the
company said. Analysts predicted $1.59 a share, the average of
15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  A lower  tax rate  helped the company meet expectations and
boost the low end of its forecast, “but not on the strength of
fundamentals,” Steven Winoker, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an e-mailed statement.  Organic Growth  Sales rose 14 percent to $7.68 billion, topping an average
projection of $7.62 billion from analysts. Acquisitions added 4
percentage points and foreign exchange boosted sales by 6.1
percentage points.  Japan’s earthquake in March reduced sales gains in the
quarter by 2.4 percentage points and earnings by 7 cents per
share, the company said.  The “organic growth rate was weak due to Japan and optical
systems,” said Winoker, who has an “outperform” rating on the
stock. “Margins were OK but not great.”  The worst of  Japan  is behind 3M, Buckley said on a
conference call with analysts, with lower demand there dragging
1 cent to 2 cents for the second half of the year. Japan will
become a “tailwind” for the company next year, he said.  The drop in the optical unit may be most pronounced in the
third quarter because demand was still strong a year ago. It
will improve in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier,
when sales began to weaken, Buckley said.  3M faces a 4 percent price increase in raw materials, which
make up about 25 percent of cost of sales, Buckley said. The
company will offset the rising expenses with price increases, he
said. During the quarter, selling prices rose 0.8 percent.  Acquisition activity may slow because targets have become
more expensive, Buckley said. The company lowered the sales
contribution of acquisitions to a range of 3 to 4 percentage
points from an earlier estimate of 4 to 6 percentage points.  3M has completed 12 purchases since the end of the second
quarter last year, according to Bloomberg data. The largest was
the $810 million purchase of Arizant Inc., a maker of surgical
patient-warming solutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  