-- 
Taiwan Says Chinese Fighter Jets Entered Its Airspace on ‘Routine’ Mission

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T02:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/taiwan-says-chinese-fighter-jets-entered-its-airspace-on-routine-mission.html
Two Chinese Su-27 fighter jets
crossed the unofficial centerline of the  Taiwan  Strait briefly
on June 29 during a routine training mission, Taiwan’s Ministry
of National Defense said in a statement.  The act wasn’t considered a "deliberate provocation," the
statement said. The Chinese fighter jets were in pursuit of a
U.S. spy aircraft, the Financial Times reported today, citing
unidentified defense sources in Taipei and Beijing.  Taiwan has been a flashpoint in  U.S.-China relations  since
1949, when the defeated Nationalist Chinese government fled to
the island after the Communist victory on the mainland. China
claims Taiwan to be part of its territory and has more than
1,000 missiles pointed at the island nation, which it threatens
to invade if it declares formal independence.  The Chinese fighter aircraft flew off soon after Taiwan
scrambled jets in response, Lt. Col. Chou Wei-kun at Taiwan’s
Ministry of Defense said in a telephone interview today. Chou
declined to comment on reports the fighters had crossed the
dividing line in pursuit of a U.S. reconnaissance aircraft.  Relations across the  Taiwan Strait  are improving as
Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou has worked to ease tensions by
abandoning his predecessor’s pro-independence stance and
boosting ties with the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The incident marked the first time in more than a decade
that Chinese military aircraft have entered Taiwan’s side of the
strait, the Financial Times reported. The U.S. is obligated by
law to help Taiwan defend itself while China considers Taiwan to
be a renegade province.  A news official at China’s Taiwan Affairs Office of the
State Council, who declined to be identified because of the
agency’s rules, said she couldn’t immediately comment. Calls to
the office of Geng Yansheng, director general of  China ’s
Ministry of National Defense’s information bureau, were not
immediately answered.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 Ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  