-- 
Al-Qaeda Leader in Arabian Peninsula Vows Loyalty to Zawahiri

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-07-26T17:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/al-qaeda-leader-in-arabian-peninsula-vows-loyalty-to-zawahiri.html
The leader of al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, Naser al-Wahishi, has announced his group’s
support for the late Osama bin Laden’s successor, Ayman al- Zawahiri, and said the U.S. is “impotent” in Yemen.  “I and your loyal fighters announce our loyalty to you and
on fighting the enemies of God,” al-Wahishi said in an audio
recording carried today on a website used by al-Qaeda. “We are
doing fine and making progress both at the domestic and foreign
levels and in line with the plan you have drawn for us.”  Al-Wahishi has led the Arabian Peninsula branch since 2009,
when it was created by the merger of al-Qaeda’s Yemeni and Saudi
Arabian organizations. Al-Zawahiri took over the leadership of
al-Qaeda last month, following the killing of bin Laden in May
in a U.S. raid on his compound in  Pakistan .  “The crusader American foe has stood impotent before the
situation in Yemen,” al-Wahishi said, accusing the U.S. of
“interference” by carrying out strikes in Yemen using unmanned
aircraft with the consent of both the government and opposition.
He also lashed out at Yemeni political parties, accusing them of
seeking to take credit for a popular revolt against President
Ali Abdullah Saleh.  The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency planned to use drones
to target al-Qaeda in Yemen after counter-terrorism operations
were disrupted by the anti-government unrest, the Washington
Post reported last month, citing unidentified American
officials.  Anti-government protests erupted in Yemen in January as
part of the movements sweeping the Arab world to call for more
jobs and freedom. Violence escalated after Saleh refused to sign
an Arab Gulf-brokered deal that would grant him immunity if he
left office within 30 days and turned leadership over to Vice
President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi. Saleh is being treated in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  for injuries sustained in an attack on
his compound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 