-- 
Alvarion Sees Growth in 2012 as Carriers Seek Mobile Bandwidth

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T14:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/alvarion-sees-growth-in-2012-as-carriers-seek-mobile-bandwidth.html
Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR)  predicts sales of its
network gear will rise next year as wireless carriers seek
additional bandwidth to cope with more people using mobile
phones to surf the Web, Chief Executive Officer Eran Gorev said.  “Networks can’t cope with the rise in demand,” Gorev said
in a phone interview today. “They’re looking to offload some of
the traffic onto other networks that are more cost-effective to
deploy and maintain. We’re working on developing our portfolio
in this area.”  Alvarion, based in Tel Aviv, sells systems based on so-
called fourth-generation Wimax technology. In April, Sprint
Nextel Corp., the third-largest U.S. wireless provider, agreed
to pay Kirkland, Washington-based Wimax provider  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) 
at least $1 billion during 2011 and 2012 for the use of its
network. Clearwire posted a net loss of $487 million last year.  Alvarion today said it had second-quarter net income of
$319,000 after a loss of $10.6 million a year earlier, the first
profit for the maker of wireless telecommunications equipment
since the third quarter of 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  Alvarion climbed 9.6 percent to 5.71 shekels in  Tel Aviv ,
the biggest increase since June 23, giving the company a market
value of 331 million shekels ($97 million). The shares have lost
35 percent this year compared with a 6.7 percent drop for the
TA-100 index.  “We referred to 2011 at the outset as a transition year
where we wanted to stem or stop the decline,” Gorev said.  ‘Staunch the Bleeding’  The company predicts quarterly revenue of about $50 million
in coming quarters, he added. Second-quarter revenue rose to
$55.4 million from $49 million a year earlier. Third-quarter
results are likely to be either breakeven or show a modest loss,
Alvarion said.  “What’s important is if this trend will continue,” said
 David Levinson , an analyst at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. “It isn’t an
achievement if all you do is staunch the bleeding. They need to
improve the business.”  Levinson is currently considering his recommendation of
“underperform” on the shares. “There is definitely room for
improvement when talking about long-term growth,” he said.
“But I’m not buying into their plans so quickly.”  In  New York , the company’s shares have fallen 34 percent
this year, compared with a 7.1 percent gain for the Nasdaq
composite index.  In early 2008, investors were willing to pay a 15 percent
premium for Alvarion sales compared with sales of the Nasdaq
Composite Index. Today they were paying a 77 percent discount.  There are 59 Israeli companies listed on the  Nasdaq , the
most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  