-- 
Amazon.com Jumps as Kindle, Digital Media Fuel Sales Growth

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-27T20:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/amazon-com-tops-profit-sales-estimates.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, gained the most in a month after its Kindle e-
reader and digital-media services helped second-quarter sales
and profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income was $191 million, or 41 cents a share, compared
with $207 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier, the Seattle-
based company said yesterday in a statement. That compared with
34 cents that analysts predicted. Net sales rose to $9.91
billion, compared with the $9.38 billion projection.  Amazon is benefiting from surging Kindle sales, propelled
by customers ditching paper books in favor of electronic
versions. Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  also is investing
in online entertainment and opening new distribution centers to
increase growth. While that spending is weighing on profit
margins, the soaring revenue is pleasing investors, said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  “We’re seeing continued robust revenue growth, better than
expected,” he said. Sebastian has an “outperform” rating on
the stock, which he doesn’t own. “Amazon is running on all
cylinders, despite the pressure on its margins.”  The stock rose $8.34, or 3.9 percent, to a record closing
of $222.52 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
for the biggest gain since June 27. The shares have climbed 24
percent this year.  Profit Forecast  The company forecast operating profit of $20 million to
$170 million this quarter, with sales of $10.3 billion to $11.1
billion. The outlook included $180 million in stock-based
compensation and the writedown of intangible assets. Analysts
had estimated operating income of $311.7 million and revenue of
$10.4 billion.  “Spending continues at a fairly aggressive pace and the
guidance for third-quarter operating income and earnings looked
a bit below what we were expecting,” said Fred Moran, an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida . “It’s not
really a surprise to  Wall Street  because Amazon’s management has
been forthright that they would be reinvesting heavily in the
business for an extended period of time.” Moran recommends
buying shares of Amazon, which he doesn’t own himself.  The company will invest in more than 15 fulfillment centers
this year, Tom Szkutak, Amazon’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday on a conference call.  “This is the strongest growth we’ve seen -- both in terms
of percentage growth on a dollar basis as well as local currency
growth -- in over 10 years,” he said. “Because of that, what
we see looking forward is we’re investing a lot in capacity.”  Tax Disputes  The online retailer has fought attempts by  California , New
York,  Texas ,  Rhode Island  and  North Carolina  to force it to
collect sales taxes on purchases, saying the moves infringe on
the federal government’s power to regulate commerce among
states. The company cut ties with 10,000 California-based
affiliates after Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a law imposing the
tax on Internet retailers with a physical presence in the state.  Amazon also is promoting its online entertainment services.
The company reached an agreement with CBS Corp. this month to
let customers of its Amazon Prime service watch thousands of
episodes of TV shows, including “Numb3rs and ‘‘Medium,’’ at no
additional cost. The  Amazon Prime program , which provides
unlimited two-day shipping, costs $79 a year.  Music Offerings  In an effort to compete with music offerings from Apple
Inc. and other rivals, Amazon increased the amount of space
available to users of its music storage service and began
offering a music application that plays songs on Apple’s iPad.  Book orders are increasingly shifting to electronic
versions, helping Amazon sell its Kindle e-reader. Amazon may
have sold more than 8 million Kindles last year, accounting for
about 5 percent of sales, according to Benchmark. Amazon refers
to the device as its best-selling product, without disclosing
exact figures.  Sales of the Kindle and electronic merchandise ‘‘are two
big drivers for Amazon that continued unabated,’’ Benchmark’s
Moran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  