-- 
Hamburg Housing Gains Show Germans Seek Anchor in Real Estate

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-07-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/hamburg-housing-gains-show-germans-seeking-safety-in-staid-property-market.html
Hendrik Hesselmann says he tells
customers he can’t promise spectacular returns from buying homes
through his Hamburg-based real-estate broker. That hasn’t
stopped the company from having its best year in six decades.  “We have a lot of very rich customers who say they want to
be on the safe side, that banks and markets are too dangerous,”
said Hesselmann, a manager at  Karla Fricke , which offers
properties at Hamburg’s Alster Lake and in HafenCity,  Europe ’s
largest inner-city development. “If they buy an apartment or
house, they know nothing strange will happen.”  Investment in  Germany ’s housing market is rising as
Europe’s debt crisis makes assets such as stocks more
unpredictable. Private individuals increased their spending on
German homes by 12 percent to 7.5 billion euros ($11 billion)
last year, after a gain of 24 percent in 2009, said Jacob Volckerts, head of investment advisory services at CB Richard
Ellis’s German division. That may climb 10 percent to 8.2
billion euros this year, he said.  While investment is growing, Fricke is right about the
returns: they are slow and steady. Average apartment values in
Germany have gained 1.9 percent this year, according to the
 Hypoport Index . They have risen 7.4 percent since falling to the
lowest in at least four years in March 2009, the index shows.  “An important factor is safety,” Volckerts said. “People
have lost money on the stock market and even now there is
uncertainty and risk. The philosophy is: ‘I know my local market
and my town.’”  Low  interest rates  and shrinking down payments helped drive
increased home ownership and soaring prices in markets from
 England  to Dubai in the years before the global financial crisis
caused values to tumble.  Steady in Crisis  In Germany, apartment prices fell by about 5 percent in the
four years before the credit crisis hurt global markets. In the
fourth quarter of 2008, the period after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. failed, residential values in Germany fell just
0.7 percent from a year earlier, compared with a decline of
about 15 percent in the U.K., 12 percent in the U.S. and 9.1
percent in Ireland, according to the Knight Frank Global House
Price Index.  House prices  in Germany have been relatively stable in the
last 25 years when adjusted for inflation, even through the
country’s reunification, according to a  research report  by
Erasmus University in Rotterdam. That’s partly due to rent controls 
that make buying less attractive, plentiful supply and financing 
that relies more on personal savings and building societies than 
bank loans, the report said.  Renters’ Market  Germany’s home-ownership rate of 43 percent lags behind the
European Union average of 65 percent, according to  Gagfah SA , an
 investment company  with 155,000 apartments in the country. That
may rise to 47 percent by 2020, Gagfah said.  “While other countries in Europe and around the world have
seen strong value appreciations followed by severe declines of
property values, real-estate prices in Germany have proved to be
stable even during the financial crisis, in line with their
sideways development in earlier years,” Gagfah said in its 2010
annual report.  Munich, Germany’s third-largest city, has the highest
average home price in the country at 679,000 euros, according to
a  survey  in May by Focus magazine and research firm Empirica.
That compares with 543,000 euros in Frankfurt and 436,000 euros
in Hamburg.  “The effects of the economic crisis on the German housing
market were barely noticeable,” property-market researcher
 Bulwien Gesa AG  said in June. “Both institutional and private
investors have rediscovered residential properties, partly
because of their lower risk as investment opportunities.”  Stocks Lose Luster  Investors are shunning all but the least volatile
securities as EU leaders struggle to stem the region’s debt
crisis. On July 12, Ireland became the third country using the
euro after Portugal and  Greece  to have its  credit rating  lowered
to below investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service.  Euro-area leaders agreed on July 21 to provide Greece with
an additional 159 billion euros in new aid. They also empowered
their 440-billion-euro rescue fund to buy debt across
economically distressed euro nations.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has fallen 2.1 percent this
year, after a 46 percent drop in 2008. Commerzbank AG, Germany’s
second-largest bank, has declined 40 percent in the past six
months. Deutsche Bank AG, the No. 1 lender, has lost 11 percent.  Property price increases will vary widely from city to city
in the coming years. While values of newly built homes may rise
4.2 percent nationally by 2015, the gain will be 7.2 percent in
Hamburg and 6.2 percent in Berlin, according to Bulwien Gesa.  West Is Best  Berlin, Cologne, Dusseldorf,  Frankfurt , Hamburg, Munich and
Stuttgart are the most expensive and developed cities in
Germany, according to Bulwien Gesa. Cities with the lowest price
growth and weak development prospects are mainly located in
eastern and northern Germany and include Wilhelmshaven,
Greifswald and Dessau.  Dessau, in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, is at the
bottom of a list of German cities in terms of house prices, with
an 11 percent drop in the last five years. That compares with a
15 percent increase in Munich and 13 percent gain in Hamburg.  “Last year was our best year ever,” said Hesselmann of
Karla Fricke, which has been selling property in Hamburg for
about 60 years. “So far this year, sales are up 50 percent.
It’s going to be a fantastic year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Barwell in  London  on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 