-- 
Americans ‘Disgusted’ as Politicians Fail to Compromise on Debt

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-07-26T15:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/americans-are-frustrated-as-politicians-fail-to-compromise-in-debt-talks.html
The inability of Congress and
President  Barack Obama  to reach a deal on raising the national
debt ceiling leaves retired Air Force pilot Phil Pignataro
filled with feelings, none of them good.  “All the negative emotions you can think of I pretty much
have when I see that there’s no compromise and they’re willing
to ruin the economy,” said Pignataro, a 65-year-old who lives
in Algonquin,  Illinois . “For better or for worse, my retirement
is all tied up in the government.”  Polls and interviews conducted over the past two days show
Pignataro is among Americans growing disenchanted by and
disconnected from congressional leaders and Obama, even as they
face a personal economic reckoning.  If Aug. 2 passes with no deal, the government won’t have
money to pay monthly Social Security checks, veterans’ benefits
and contracts with businesses, President Barack Obama said in a
televised address yesterday.  Interest rates  on credit cards,
mortgages and  car loans  would skyrocket, Obama said.  The average American had real disposable income after taxes
of $33,064, according to May figures from the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis . The lead debt-ceiling negotiators, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  each will  earn  $193,400 this year, according to U.S. Senate
data. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, reported assets worth up to $9.4
million on his annual financial disclosure statement released in
June. McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, reported assets up to
$19.8 million.  Yawning Divide  “They’re not in touch with reality,” said Cheryl Carroll,
51, who lives in Tinton Falls,  New Jersey , with her two
daughters. She has been applying for jobs in retail and 
subsisting off her family’s investments since her husband died
last year.  “They should really get an average American in Congress
who knows how to balance their checkbook,” Carroll said. “It
would be fixed in a week.”  A Washington Post-ABC News  poll  of 1,001 Americans showed
45 percent “strongly disapprove” of the way Obama is handling
the  budget deficit . The July 14-17 survey showed 77 percent said
Republican leadership has been not willing enough to compromise
on the issue.  Disapproval of Obama and lawmakers also is rising.  A CNN/Opinion Research Poll July 18-20 found that 54
percent of people disapproved of the way Obama is handling his
job, compared with 46 percent in an April 29-May 1 poll. The
survey showed 55 percent had an unfavorable opinion of the
 Republican Party , compared with 48 percent in a March 11-13
poll. The poll showed 49 percent had an unfavorable opinion of
the Democrats, compared with 48 percent in the March poll.  Outside the Beltway  “Politicians from both parties are out of touch,” Doris
Capello, 63, a retired college professor from Westchester
County,  New York , said yesterday while waiting for a train at
New York’s Grand Central Station.  “One of the arguments is that a lot of them have been in
 Washington  for too long,” said Capello, a registered Democrat.
“We need people who have experience but we also need them to
really be in touch with their constituents.”  Obama acknowledged anger in his speech yesterday.  Americans are “fed up with a town where compromise has
become a dirty word,” Obama said. “They work all day long,
many of them scraping by, just to put food on the table.”  Taking Offense  “They see leaders who can’t seem to come together and do
what it takes to make life just a little bit better for ordinary
Americans,” Obama said. “They are offended by that. And they
should be.”  The 2008 financial crisis that prompted the U.S. government
to prop up hobbled financial giants with a $700 billion
taxpayer-funded bailout left many Americans struggling with
unemployment, depressed wages, soaring foreclosure rates and
slashed retirement savings.  One in 111 U.S. homes had at least one foreclosure filing
in the first half of this year, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based provider of default data, reported July 14. The
U.S. unemployment rate inched up to 9.2 percent in June, from
9.1 percent in May, and has hovered around 9 percent since March
2009, according to Labor Department data.  “The status quo has gotten a lot of people rich,” said
Matthew Slade, 40, who is shop chairman of UAW Local 175 in
Ypsilanti,  Michigan , where he works for a General Motors plant
that packages vehicle replacement bumpers. “It’s worked out for
the elite very, very well.”  ‘So Disgusted’  Reid, the Senate majority leader, and House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, yesterday offered competing plans to lift
the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and avert default.
Lawmakers met to discuss the issue yesterday without a
resolution.  Karen Miller, 59, stopped watching the news after
negotiations stalled.  “I get so disgusted,” Miller, 59, of Paso Robles,
 California , said in an interview. “What’s the point of
following it until they get close to the deadline?”  Many are paying attention as the minutes tick off toward
the Aug. 2 set by the U.S. Treasury Department. Ben Keel III, a
financial planner in Katy,  Texas , said a client asked him
yesterday whether he should convert his 401(k) investments into
cash to guard against default. Keel said switching to cash isn’t
a good long-term strategy even though stock and bond prices may
get hit temporarily.  “People are worried,” Keel said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The debate is clearly causing some angst in the
public.”  Pinning Blame  The July CNN poll found that 51 percent of those surveyed
would blame Republicans if the debt ceiling weren’t raised,
compared with 30 percent who would blame Obama.  “If this goes past a deadline and people feel the impact
of that, then I think they will want to hold somebody
accountable,” Michael Dimock, associate director at the Pew
Research Center for the People and the Press, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. The Washington-based nonpartisan center
studies attitudes toward politics and policy issues.  Dimock said Americans, who generally believe the country’s
institutions have failed, will be swayed only by the final
product of the bruising arguments.  “If the process is ugly but they achieve something, that’s
what will stick in the minds of the public,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 