-- 
AMR’s ‘Project Apollo’ Shows How Airbus Courted Boeing Customer

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-07-26T13:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/amr-s-project-apollo-shows-how-airbus-courted-boeing-customer.html
AMR Corp. (AMR)  Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Arpey kept a secret in April as analysts questioned why
his turnaround strategies haven’t produced an annual profit at
the parent of  American Airlines  since 2007.  “Gerard, I’m normally not the type to go around quoting
Einstein,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Baker  told the CEO on a
conference call. “But I’m pretty sure he was the one that said
that insanity is defined by doing the same thing over and over,
but expecting different results.”  Arpey’s reply focused on stronger controls on online ticket
sales. Left under wraps was “Project Apollo,” American’s code
name for last week’s plan to buy 460 fuel-saving  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS planes with a list value of $38.5 billion, based on
average prices.  The biggest order in industry history came together in part
because of Airbus’s persistence in wooing American, even after
the airline had flown an all-Boeing fleet since 2009. And as
Boeing deferred a decision on a successor for its top-selling
737, Airbus got a jump on pitching the A320neo with upgraded
engines.  “They kept talking to us,” Vasu Raja, American’s managing
director for corporate planning, said in an interview. “As they
developed their new-engine option, they were talking with us.
They were very aggressive.”  Operating Costs  AMR had to take aggressive steps on its own. Operating
costs at  Fort Worth , Texas-based American are the highest among
its domestic peers, with a fuel-guzzling fleet that averaged 15
years of age in 2010. Hours before Baker’s April 20 urging to
Arpey for decisive action to revive the third-largest U.S.
airline, AMR posted its 12th loss in 14 quarters.  “I’m quite confident the market would reward you for some
really fresh thinking,” Baker told the CEO on the call.  Investors and analysts including the New York-based Baker
have yet to conclude that the July 20 jet order fills the bill.
While Boeing rose 1.1 percent and Airbus parent European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. jumped 4.6 percent through
yesterday from July 19, AMR tumbled 16 percent.  “AMR is free to use terms like ‘turbocharge’ and
‘transformational’” to describe the deal, Baker, who recommends
buying the shares, wrote in a note last week. “But we cannot
reconcile spending incremental capital while failing to earn
returns on its existing capital base.”  First Proposal  Airbus was the first of the planemakers to put a proposal
on paper, as far back as March, and the first to offer to let
American cut expenses by leasing jets instead of buying them
outright, two people familiar with the discussions said.  The Toulouse, France-based planemaker also made the initial
offer to help with financing, said one of the people, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. Airbus and Boeing ultimately would
agree to put up $13 billion to finance the first 230 jets, a
step American said was pivotal in securing the orders.  Aware that Airbus and American were talking, Chicago-based
Boeing was still surprised to learn how far the discussions had
progressed and how large the deal might be, these people said.
American has been a Boeing customer since 1955, and its last
order from Airbus came in 1987.  In buying 130 A320neos, American helped force Boeing to
decide to put new engines on the 737, one person said. That
marked a switch from Boeing’s preference for a new narrow-body
jet by 2020, a stance it maintained publicly until last week
even as orders and commitments for neos rose past 1,000 since
Airbus announced the model Dec. 1.  ‘Still Crystallizing’  “Airbus had an airplane they were out there with,” Raja
said. “Boeing’s thinking was still crystallizing.”  After the neo’s  Paris Air Show  success in June, airlines
began pressing for a firm date on a 737 successor model, which
spurred Boeing management to commit to re-engine in early July,
said the person familiar with that matter.  Boeing concluded that it couldn’t assure customers now that
a new jet would be ready by 2020 to go into high-volume
production,  Jim Albaugh , the commercial airplanes chief, said in
an interview.  Offering new engines probably will cost Boeing about $2.5
billion, compared with as much as $20 billion to develop and
produce a 737 replacement, according to Carter Copeland, a New
York-based analyst for Barclays Plc. Boeing directors still must
ratify that choice at a meeting next month.  “The board is aware of what our thinking is, but we have
not given the board a presentation in any detail,” Albaugh
said. Executives may face questions from analysts on the
turnabout when the company releases quarterly results tomorrow.  Future Deliveries  AMR’s Project Apollo -- unveiled on the anniversary of the
1969 lunar landing -- grew from talks with both planemakers to
replace the 340 aging Boeing MD-80s and 757s that make up 55
percent of American’s fleet, said Raja, the planning chief.  American sought the flexibility to switch future deliveries
to more-economical models as they become available, according to
Raja and, with almost $5.4 billion in long-term debt due through
2015, the airline also needed help financing the planes.  American has been replacing its MD-80s with Boeing 737-800s
that are 35 percent more fuel efficient on a seat-mile basis.
Deliveries began in 2009 on an order of 130 of the planes that
will be completed by 2013.  Negotiations with both planemakers became particularly
intense over the last few weeks, with the decision coming down
to whether American could accomplish the 460-aircraft order with
both companies, or be forced to scale back to a smaller number
of jets from one manufacturer, the people said.  ‘Liked Them Both’  “We realized both deals were getting to a point that we
liked them both,” Raja said. “They both had their merits, they
both had their drawbacks. Doing either one would be very, very
good and would enable us to solve our replacement challenges,
but over a much longer time horizon.”  To cover possible outcomes, an Airbus A318 and Boeing
737-800 were flown to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport,
according to American, along with a Boeing 787 Dreamliner, for
which the airline has an order. They were parked outside the
terminal where American would announce its order on July 20.  Also nearby were planemaker sales teams led by Albaugh and
Airbus CEO  Tom Enders , working from Dallas-area hotels in the
days before AMR’s board began meeting on July 19 to consider the
plan.  John Leahy , the Airbus sales chief, stayed in the Four
Seasons Resort & Club in suburban Irving, which already was a
footnote in Boeing history: The U.S. planemaker set up shop
there in 2000 while studying Dallas as a headquarters city
before moving to  Chicago  from  Seattle .  “We have absolutely no problem that we are sharing the
American order,” Leahy said in an interview after the European
company had met its publicly stated goal of winning a U.S.-based
Boeing operator.  As Boeing’s crew marked the event with a celebration at the
D/FW airport lounge where American announced the deal, people
familiar with the schedules said, members of the Airbus
delegation finished the day by dining with the airline’s Raja
and Treasurer Beverly Goulet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen West at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net  