-- 
Anadarko Pumps Profit With Record Petroleum Liquids Output

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-07-26T20:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/anadarko-pumps-up-a-profit-with-record-petroleum-liquids-output.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas company,
reported a quarterly profit yesterday on record production of
petroleum liquids and higher crude prices.  Net income in the second quarter was $544 million, or $1.08
a share, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said in a statement.
A year earlier, Anadarko reported a net loss of $40 million, or
8 cents a share, citing a loss on contracts that lock in
 interest rates .  Daily output of liquids -- including crude, condensate and
gas liquids -- rose by more than 30,000 barrels from a year
earlier to a record 297,000 barrels in the second quarter. The
company’s average price for crude and condensate climbed 46
percent. Excluding losses related to the declining value of some
assets, Anadarko’s profit was $1.14 a share, 19 cents more than
the average of 28 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, “the elephant in the room” for Anadarko continues
to be the prospect of a settlement with partner BP Plc on costs
related to last year’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.  “Everybody knows where  oil prices  are, everybody knows
where production is, but the biggest unknown is where do we
stand with the BP situation?” said Gheit, who is based in  New
York  and has a “market perform” rating on Anadarko’s shares
and an “outperform” on BP’s American depositary receipts.  Macondo Overhang  Anadarko owns a 25 percent stake in BP’s Macondo well,
which exploded in the Gulf on April 20, 2010, leading to the
biggest U.S. offshore oil spill. BP, based in  London , owns 65
percent of Macondo and is the operator.  BP already settled its cost-sharing dispute with another
partner that owned 10 percent of Macondo, a unit of Mitsui Oil
Exploration Co., which is about 70 percent-owned by  Japan ’s
Mitsui & Co. In May, a Mitsui unit agreed to pay BP about $1.07
billion to settle costs related to the disaster.  Anadarko has maintained that it shares no blame in the
disaster and shouldn’t have to pay. The company said in June
2010 that the explosion was preventable and that actions by BP
“likely represent gross negligence or willful misconduct.” As
the spill passed its one-year anniversary, Anadarko Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett said May 3 that his company
was “prepared to come to the table” with BP for a resolution.  Arbitration Approved  A federal judge this month ruled that BP can pursue
arbitration to resolve liability over expenses.  Arbitration may not start until sometime next year, Bobby
Reeves, Anadarko’s general counsel, said today during a
conference call with analysts and investors. A privately
negotiated settlement with BP remains a possibility. The company
is confident in its position that it isn’t obligated to pay
costs, “but at the same time (we) remain open to discussions,”
Reeves said.  Based on BP’s Mitsui settlement, it’s unlikely Anadarko
will be willing to settle for much more than $2.5 billion, said
 Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis 
who has an “outperform” rating on Anadarko shares and owns
none.  “To the extent you can get a settlement, taking that risk
off the table will be positive for Anadarko and BP,” he said,
adding that a resolution may occur this year.  Global Expansion  Anadarko rose $1.70, or 2.1 percent, to $84.28 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The company hit the top end of its forecast for sales
volumes with the equivalent of 62 million barrels of oil in the
quarter. Revenue in the second quarter rose 41 percent from a
year earlier to $3.68 billion.  Anadarko is developing projects in areas such as the
onshore U.S., the  Gulf of Mexico  and  Africa  to boost production
in coming years. Gross production at the Jubilee project in
which Anadarko is a partner off  Ghana  is about 80,000 barrels of
oil a day, the company said yesterday.  In  North America , Anadarko has reported higher output in
such formations as the Eagle Ford in  Texas  and the Marcellus
Shale in Pennsylvania.  “We’re excited about the numerous significant catalysts in
the months ahead,” Hackett said on today’s conference call.  ‘Significant Catalysts’  Those catalysts include prospects expected to be drilled in
West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico, as well as expansion of
horizontal drilling in the Niobrara formation of Colorado and
Wyoming, according to a presentation slide.  The company said it ended the second quarter with about
$3.4 billion in cash, as well as an undrawn $5 billion credit
facility.  Apache Corp. (APA)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent companies don’t own
refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  