-- 
Apollo Global Management Said to Market Natural Resources Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/apollo-global-management-said-to-market-natural-resources-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC, the
private-equity firm founded by  Leon Black , aims to raise as much
as $1.5 billion for a fund that will invest in natural
resources, said a person familiar with the matter.  The pool will make long-term bets on metals, mining and
energy prices, according to the person, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the plans aren’t public. New York-based
Apollo is touting its record running companies including  Noranda
Aluminum Holding Corp. (NOR) , Metals USA Holdings Corp. and Parallel
Petroleum to pitch prospective backers, the person said.  The world’s biggest buyout firms are building investment
teams to snap up assets tied to energy and natural resources.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. have said they’re raising
money to capitalize on increasing demand from developing markets
and to buy mature oil and gas fields that the world’s biggest
energy companies are shedding to finance new exploration.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity company by
assets, plans to complete an initial round of financing for the
energy fund this month, company founder Steve Schwarzman told
analysts during a July 21 earnings conference call. KKR had
attracted $257.5 million in commitments as of March 31, the New
York-based firm said in a May regulatory filing.  Apollo is diversifying and boosting assets to make the
company more attractive to public investors. It agreed this
month to buy Gulf Stream Asset Management LLC, a Charlotte,
North Carolina-based manager of corporate-credit assets. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  The acquisition will increase assets under management in
Apollo’s capital-markets business by more than $3 billion to
about $27 billion, the firm said in a July 8 statement.  The firm’s first foray into an investment strategy focused
on metals and mining ended in August when it shuttered a London-
based hedge fund, two people familiar with the matter said at
the time. The company had invested $40 million in the Apollo
Metals Trading Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  