-- 
Apple Mac OS X Violates S3 Patents, IPhone Cleared, ITC Says

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-26T21:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/apple-s-mac-operating-system-violates-s3-patents-judge-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Mac OS X computer
system violates patents held by S3 Graphics Co., while the
platform for the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad tablet doesn’t, a
U.S. agency said in a July 1 ruling made public today.  Mac computers have an operating system that infringes two
S3 patents related to graphics chips, U.S. International Trade
Commission Judge James Gildea said. Notice of the ruling was
disclosed July 1 without explaining which products were in
violation. Additional information was released today.  Closely held S3, which agreed this month to be bought by
Taiwanese smartphone company  HTC Corp. (2498) , makes image-compression
technology. If Gildea’s decision is upheld in a review by the
full six-member commission, the ITC can ban U.S. imports of some
Macs, which generated $17.5 billion in sales last fiscal year,
or 27 percent of Cupertino, California-based Apple’s revenue.  Macs that have  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  graphics processing units have
an implied license to the patents, the judge said. Gildea found
that two other S3 patents were invalid, as were aspects of the
two patents found to be infringed. Fremont, California-based
S3’s Texture Compression feature is used in Nintendo Co.’s Wii
and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation portable gaming systems.  The iPhone and iPad are no longer under threat of a ban
from the S3 case. The two devices accounted for about 46 percent
of Apple’s revenue last fiscal year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  HTC Flyer  HTC, which makes phones that run on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, agreed to pay $300 million to buy S3 on July 6
in an effort to boost its standing in a patent dispute with
Apple. A different ITC judge found on July 15 that HTC’s Android
phones infringed two Apple patents, a decision that could lead
to a block of the HTC phones from the U.S. if upheld.  Apple filed a separate complaint against HTC at the trade
commission on July 15, this one targeting the new Flyer tablet
computers as well as HTC’s Android-based phones.  HTC Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in an
interview today that the companies have had talks to settle the
fight “on and off,” and the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company is
open to a settlement.  The full ruling on the S3 case isn’t yet public as the
companies debate what confidential information should be
redacted, Gildea said. The conclusion naming specific products
was released at Apple’s request, according to the order.  The case In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices with
Image Processing Systems, 337-724, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  