-- 
Argentina, Brazil Corn, Soy Plantings May Rise, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-26T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/argentina-brazil-corn-soy-plantings-may-rise-oil-world-says.html
Farmland planted with corn and
soybeans may rise in  Argentina  and  Brazil , the largest exporters
of both crops behind the U.S., as Chinese demand increases and
profitability improves, oilseeds analysts Oil World said in a
report.  Acreage competition between corn and soybeans will probably
intensify in Argentina as Chinese demand for both commodities
increases, Oil World said today. Brazilian farmers may plant an
additional 1 million acres with soybeans, the Hamburg-based
researcher said.  “An Argentine trade delegation is currently negotiating
several trade agreements with Chinese officials,” Oil World
said. “In Brazil, corn plantings are likely to be expanded in
the southern and some central parts, as farmers are responding
to the improved profitability of corn production, mainly used
domestically.”  Argentina is expected to produce 26 million tons of corn in
the 2011-2012 marketing year, up 18 percent, and 53 million tons
of soybeans, up 7 percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said in a report earlier this month. Corn exports will total 18
million tons, up from 14.5 million a year earlier, according to
the report. Soybeans shipments will surge 33 percent, USDA data
show.  Brazil will produce 55 million tons of corn, the same as
the prior year, and 72.5 million tons of soybeans, also on par
with 2010-2011, USDA data show. Soybeans shipments will gain 10
percent, USDA data show. Exporters will ship 8 million tons of
corn, down from 8.5 million a year earlier, according to the
report.  Chinese Imports  China may import 56.5 million tons of soybeans, up 8.7
percent from the prior year, and 2 million tons of corn, up from
1.5 million a year earlier, according to the USDA.  China  will have to import more corn next year to feed
animals and for industrial purposes, benefiting producers and
exporters in Argentina, the researcher said.  “It is expected that Argentina will benefit considerably
from rising Chinese corn import requirements in the years
ahead,” Oil World said. “This is likely to improve the
attractiveness of corn growing and thus implies increased
acreage competition for soybeans in Argentina.”  In Brazil, growers in the northern states of Maranhao,
Bahia, Tocantins and Piaui, and in northern Mato Grosso will
increase soybean planting, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  