-- 
Copa America Failure Costs Argentina Soccer Coach Sergio Batista His Job

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-07-26T13:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/argentina-soccer-coach-sergio-batista-quits-after-team-s-copa-america-flop.html
Sergio Batista ’s yearlong stint as
 Argentina  soccer coach is over after the host nation managed one
win at the Copa America, where it lost in the quarterfinals.  Batista, who took over as caretaker coach 12 months ago
before being hired full time in November, had his  contract
rescinded  last night after tendering his resignation, Argentine
Football Association spokesman Ernesto Cherquis Bialo said.  “I don’t know the reasons,” Cherquis Bialo said last
night in a televised news conference in Buenos Aires. “What I
know is that yesterday we saw people play in the Monumental and
Argentina wasn’t there.”  Uruguay, which ousted a Lionel Messi-led Argentina team in
the last eight, beat Paraguay 3-0 two days ago at Buenos Aires’s
Estadio Monumental to win its record 15th South American
continental title and move one ahead of Argentina.  Argentina, the pre-tournament favorite, won one of its four
games at the 12-nation tournament, a 3-0 victory against  Costa
Rica . Batista’s team drew 1-1 with Bolivia, 0-0 with Colombia
and was eliminated by Uruguay 5-4 on penalties following a 1-1
draw after extra time.  As well as World Player of the Year Messi, Argentina’s
squad included Carlos Tevez,  Sergio Aguero ,  Gonzalo Higuain  and
Javier Mascherano.  Batista, 48, guided Argentina to eight wins, six draws and
three defeats after taking over from Diego Maradona. He
previously coached Argentina’s youth teams and guided the under-
23 squad to the gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  Sabella for Post?  Cherquis Bialo didn’t say when a new coach would be
appointed. Argentina’s Aug. 10 exhibition match against  Romania 
in Bucharest has been postponed, the AFA said on its website.  The AFA is seeking to hire Alejandro Sabella to replace
Batista, Argentine media, including newspapers La Nacion and
Clarin and sports television broadcaster TyC, said. Sabella has
delayed leaving for the United Arab Emirates, where he’s
scheduled to start coaching the Al Jazira club, to speak to the
AFA, La Nacion reported today.  Sabella, who played for  England ’s Sheffield United and
Leeds United in the late 1970s and early 1980s, coached Club
Estudiantes de La Plata until February. With Estudiantes,
Sabella won the local championship in 2010 and South America’s
Copa Libertadores in 2009. Sabella also worked as assistant
coach to Daniel Passarella on the national team between 1994 and
1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  