-- 
ARM Second-Quarter Sales Rise on Doubling of Smartphone Licenses

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-26T08:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/arm-second-quarter-sales-rise-on-doubling-of-smartphone-licenses.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs
are used in Apple Inc.’s iPad, said second-quarter revenue
climbed 18 percent as the company doubled the number of licenses
sold for smartphones and tablet computers in the first half.  Second-quarter sales rose to 117.8 million pounds ($192
million) from 100 million pounds a year earlier, the Cambridge,
England-based company said in a statement today. That beat
analysts’ estimates for revenue of 109 million pounds, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  “In the first half of 2011, we have seen strong license
revenues driven by an increase in design activity around ARM
technology,” Chief Executive Officer Warren East said in the
statement.  ARM, with its low-power designs, is seeking to broaden its
range of products, as it takes on  Intel Corp ., the world’s
largest computer chipmaker. The company’s processor designs will
be in almost one-quarter of all  notebook computers  shipped in
2015, according to researchers at IHS Inc.  ARM doubled the number of licenses sold in the first half
of the year to 68, compared with a year earlier. The company
sold 29 licenses in the second quarter.  ARM shares rose 0.2 percent to 617.5 pence at 9:05 a.m. in
 London  trading.  Microsoft Corp. is enabling the next version of its Windows
software to run on ARM-based chips for the first time. The
Windows system will be tailored for battery-powered products,
such as tablets, netbooks and other handhelds, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said.  Competition between smartphone manufacturers won’t affect
average royalty prices, Chief Financial Officer Tim Score said
today. The level of chip prices remains “pretty flat,” he
said. Research In Motion Ltd., maker of BlackBerry smartphones,
said yesterday it plans to cut 2,000 jobs, or about a tenth of
its workforce, as sales slow.  Second-half revenue in U.S. dollars will be “in line”
with estimates, ARM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  