-- 
Sands China Climbs in Hong Kong as Quarterly Profit Doubles

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-27T10:09:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/las-vegas-sands-quarterly-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-asia-casino-growth.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino
company controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , rose by a
record after reporting second-quarter profit doubled.  Sands China rose 9.9 percent, the most since its debut in
November 2009, to HK$23.40 at the 4 p.m. close of trading on the
 Hong Kong  stock exchange. Net income rose to $267.4 million in
the three months ended June 30 from $133.6 million a year
earlier as gamblers placed more bets at its Venetian Macao and
Sands Macao venues.  Chinese gamblers are betting more on high-stakes baccarat
and increasing spending on hotel rooms as the company taps
growing demand for  slot machines  to boost Macau revenue. Casino
gambling  revenue  in  Macau , already more than four times that of
the  Las Vegas Strip , may grow by more than 43 percent this year,
according to estimates by  David Bain , an analyst with Sterne,
Agee & Leach.  “This report could be the catalyst we have been waiting
for at both Sands China and Las Vegas Sands,” Anil Daswani, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a note to
clients today.  Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands Inc., which yesterday reported a
rise in its own earnings, owns about 70 percent of Sands China.
The Hong Kong-listed Macau unit named Edward Tracy to become
chief executive officer, with Adelson remaining as chairman.  Galaxy Macau  At Sands China’s Venetian casino in Macau, adjusted
property earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, climbed 34 percent to $258.4 million.
Ebitda at the Sands Macao rose 18 percent to $95.6 million.  The opening of HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) Galaxy Macau
near the Venetian Macao on the Chinese city’s Cotai Strip
benefited the Sands-owned casino, Adelson said on a conference
call. Billionaire Lui Che-woo’s  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ,
part-owned by Permira Advisers LLP, has quadrupled in market
value over the past year while Sands China has almost doubled.  Adelson, whose Marina Bay Sands is one of only two casinos
in  Singapore , predicted in May his company would generate more
than $3 billion in  cash flow  this year as gambling in  Asia 
accelerates and Las Vegas recovers.  Las Vegas Sands’ net income was $367.6 million, or 45 cents
a share, compared with a loss of $4.68 million, or 1 cent, a
year earlier, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a
separate statement. The figures reflect preferred dividend
payments. Profit excluding some items was 54 cents, more than
the 44-cent average of 23 estimates.  Marina Bay  Quarterly sales jumped 47 percent to $2.35 billion,
reflecting gains from Marina Bay Sands, which opened in April
2010. Singapore cash flow was $405.4 million in the quarter.  “Singapore is now the biggest profit contributor to  Las
Vegas  Sands,” Jon Oh, a New York-based analyst for CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets who recommends buying the stock, said in a note
to clients. “While market seasonality remains unclear, we urge
investors to pay less attention to quarterly volatility and
instead focus on the medium-term cash-flow potential in
Singapore.”  The company named George Tanasijevich chief executive
officer of the Marina Bay Sands, Chief Operating Officer Mike Leven said yesterday on a conference call. Tanasijevich had been
interim CEO since January. The Wall Street Journal reported his
permanent role earlier yesterday.  Las Vegas Sands rose 12 cents to $46.30 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday.  Las Vegas is staging an uneven recovery from a record two-
year drop in gambling and conventions. Gambling revenue on the
Strip increased 5.2 percent this year through May, according to
the Nevada Gaming Control Board.  Las Vegas Sands said it has enough workers to start opening
its project on sites 5 and 6 of Macau’s Cotai Strip from the
first quarter of next year.  The company’s Macau cash flow rose 28 percent to $391.6
million. Macau, the only place in  China  where casinos are legal,
saw gambling revenue surge 58 percent last year and 45 percent
in the six months ended June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  