-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Ringgit, on Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-07-26T10:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/asian-currencies-strengthen-as-u-s-debt-stalemate-spurs-dollar-sell-off.html
Asian currencies rose, led by
 Malaysia ’s ringgit and  South Korea ’s won, on speculation central
banks will raise  interest rates  to combat inflation.  The ringgit climbed to its strongest level since September
1997 after Bank Negara Malaysia said it is focused on taming
rising prices.  India ’s rupee reached a 12-week high after the
country’s central bank raised its benchmark rate by more than
economists forecast today. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active currencies,
advanced after Republicans and Democrats failed to agree on a
plan to tackle  U.S. debt , spurring a dollar sell-off.  “There’s still room for higher rates, not just in Malaysia
but across most economies in Asia that are still facing
inflation threats,” said Nik M. Khairul, a currency trader at
Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “We expect the U.S.
will do all it can to avoid a default or an economic crisis.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.6 percent to 2.9535 per dollar
as of 6 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won appreciated 0.4 percent to 1,051.95, India’s
rupee climbed 0.4 percent to 44.2275, the Philippine peso gained
0.4 percent to 42.225, and Thailand’s baht advanced 0.2 percent
to 29.71.  The Dollar Index traded on ICE Futures in  New York , which
compares the currency to those of six major trading partners,
dropped 0.6 percent to 73.647.  Malaysian Inflation  Obama called on lawmakers to put politics aside to agree on
raising the debt ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline to avoid
default. U.S. House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid unveiled proposals to tackle the debt problem
yesterday. Obama endorsed Reid’s plan and said last night that
Boehner’s measure is simply “kicking the can further down the
road.” Both sides will have to compromise further, he said.  Bank Negara Malaysia  Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said
yesterday a lot of attention is being paid to dealing with
inflation because it erodes purchasing power.  Malaysia’s consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in June from a
year earlier, the most since March 2009, the government said on
July 20. Bank Negara Malaysia kept its overnight policy rate at
3 percent on July 7, after lifting it once in 2011 and three
times in 2010. Policy makers next meet on Sept. 8.  Indian Rate Surprise  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased the repurchase rate to
8 percent from 7.5 percent. None of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predicted the move. Twenty forecast a quarter-
point rise, while the rest expected no change.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation gauge, which
accelerated to 9.44 percent in June, may remain near 10 percent
until November, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Yes Bank Ltd.  “While the 50-basis point hike was an aggressive move,
this is not the end of it,” said Leif Lybecker Eskesen, the
Singapore-based chief economist for India and Southeast  Asia  at
HSBC. “The RBI is seriously concerned about anchoring inflation
expectations and we expect the policy rate will reach at least
8.25 percent this year.”  The won rose after the central bank said economic growth
will accelerate and on speculation exporters converted overseas
earnings. Growth will pick up in the second half of the year and
policy makers will tackle inflation, central bank Deputy
Governor Kim Jae Chun said in an interview yesterday. The won
has rallied 1.5 percent this month as global funds bought $1.5
billion more South Korean shares than they sold, according to
exchange data.  “The BOK’s comments on the economy are supportive of the
won, which will likely continue its strong momentum into the
second half,” said Bae Jin Chul, a Seoul-based dealer at the
state-run Industrial Bank of  Korea . “The market is receiving a
steady flow of month-end dollar sales from exporters as well.”  Elsewhere, the  Singapore  dollar strengthened 0.4 percent
to S$1.2025 against its U.S. counterpart.  China ’s yuan
appreciated 0.06 percent to 6.4414, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.1
percent to NT$28.829, and Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.2 percent
to 8,507.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 