-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as Earnings Counter U.S. Debt Concerns; Canon Advances

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-26T11:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/asian-stocks-rise-as-earnings-counter-u-s-debt-concerns-canon-advances.html
Asian stocks rose as forecasts for
higher earnings at companies from  Canon Inc. (7751)  to Baidu Inc.
countered concerns the deadlock on the U.S. debt ceiling could
derail the global economic recovery.  Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, led exporters
higher as it advanced 2.6 percent after boosting its profit
forecast as  Japan ’s record earthquake on March 11 had less
impact on earnings than expected, even as the yen strengthened
against the dollar. Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest Internet company
by market value, jumped 9.3 percent in Singapore after
forecasting third-quarter revenue that beat analyst estimates.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company by market
value, advanced 1.1 percent as copper and gold prices rose.  “It is optimism over earnings globally that is holding up
stock markets up at the moment,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion under management globally. “Earnings are
fundamentally in good shape, and that’s to some extent easing
concern over the many risks that are still out there.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index increased 1.1 percent 139.19 as
of 7:58 p.m. in  Tokyo . About two stocks rose for each that fell
on the gauge. The measure rose 2.5 percent last week, erasing
the regional benchmark index’s loss for the year, as steps by
European leaders toward easing the region’s sovereign debt
crisis, including fresh aid for  Greece , boosted the earnings
outlook for Asia’s banks and exporters.  Positive Central Banks  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 0.5 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi index increased 0.9 percent as Bank of Korea
Deputy Governor Kim Jae Chun said economic growth will pick up
in the second half and exports are “pretty strong.”  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1 percent after the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
nation’s subdued household spending will likely rebound.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 1.3 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite index climbed 0.5 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today, erasing losses of as much as 0.5 percent. The S&P
retreated 0.6 percent yesterday in  New York  as Republicans and
Democrats wrangled over separate plans to raise the federal debt
limit and avoid a government default.  President Obama said in a televised speech from the White
House that the nation’s burgeoning deficit threatens to do
“serious” damage to the economy and pressured Congress to
reach a compromise on a deal to raise the debt ceiling and
address future shortfalls.  Dollar Slides  The dollar fell to below 78 yen for the first time since
March as Obama urged Congress to address future deficits while
lawmakers struggle to reach an accord to raise the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling by an Aug. 2 deadline. Positive
earnings forecasts from Canon and  Kao Corp. (4452)  outweighed concern
that the stronger yen is reducing the outlook for earnings at
Japanese exporters when overseas income is repatriated.  Canon jumped 2.6 percent to 3,885 yen, the third-biggest
boost to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and biggest support to
Japan’s broader Topix index, which climbed 0.5 percent. Kao
gained 4.7 percent to 2,262 yen to its highest level since
April.  Canon said yesterday its full year net income may total 260
billion yen ($3.3 billion), 18 percent higher than the company’s
April forecast, on a lower-than-expected impact from Japan’s
strongest earthquake. Kao said net income in the quarter ended
June 30 rose 22 percent to 15.2 billion yen and boosted its
full-year net income outlook by 7.5 percent to 57 billion yen.  ‘A Good Start’  “Companies thought the recovery from the quake would take
longer, but earnings are coming back quickly,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “More and more companies will raise
earnings forecasts even after factoring in the impact from the
yen’s rise.”  In  Singapore , American depositary receipts of Baidu jumped
9.3 percent to $164. The company said revenue will rise to
between 3.95 billion yuan ($613 million) and 4.05 billion yuan
in the three months to Sept. 30, beating 11 analysts estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Internet companies Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Alibaba.com
Ltd. also advanced, rising 1.9 percent and 2.2 percent
respectively in Hong Kong.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was unchanged this year through
yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.3 percent by the  S&P 500 
and a drop of 1.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Copper, Oil  BHP rose 1.1 percent to A$43.52, the biggest support to the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-
largest mining company by sales, advanced 1.1 percent to
A$82.99. Jiangxi Copper Co., the Chinese producer of metal, rose
2.6 percent to HK$28.05.  Copper in  London  gained as much as 1.1 percent to $9,756 a
metric ton today, climbing for the first time in five days.
Crude oil for September delivery was at $98.80 a barrel, up 40
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
today.  Casino stocks in Hong Kong pared declines that followed a
blast at a Macau restaurant that injured 13 people, according to
the fire department. The blast was caused by leaks from gas
tanks, the department’s spokesman Lam Io-Fan said by telephone.  Wynn Macau Ltd., a unit of the casino operator founded by
billionaire Steven Wynn, lost as much as 4.5 percent before
paring declines to 0.4 percent.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , Asia’s biggest
casino company by market value, retreated 1.8 percent after
sliding 3.5 percent.  The blast at a restaurant near Macau’s main ferry terminal
was an accident, police spokesman Suen Kam-Fai said to Bloomberg
News by telephone. The fire department is at the site and
handling the situation, Suen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 