-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Goldcorp Sees $1,700 Gold by Year-End

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-28T22:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/asia-commodity-day-ahead-copper-soars-on-strike-at-largest-mine.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Goldcorp CEO Sees Gold Price at $1,700 an Ounce by End of Year  Chuck Jeannes, chief executive officer of Goldcorp Inc.,
the world’s No. 2 bullion producer by market value, expects the
price of the metal to rise to as high as $1,700 an ounce by the
end of this year because of economic turmoil and increasing gold
demand in China and  India .  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Biggest Pig Farmer to Sell First Bond in 4 Years: Russia Credit  Miratorg, Russia’s largest pork producer, is planning its
first bond sale since 2007 this month as the biggest grain
harvest in four years lures investors to higher-yielding
agricultural debt.  Coal India May Decide on Labor Wage Increases by End of August  Coal India Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
said it may sign a wage agreement with labor unions by the end
of August.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Climbs as Strike at Biggest Mine Spurs Supply Concerns  Copper rose after BHP Billiton Ltd. canceled shipments from
Chile’s Escondida mine, the world’s biggest source of the metal,
as a strike extended to seven days.  BHP  Chile  Workers Vow to Prolong Strike at Biggest Copper Mine  Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida unit in Chile
pledged to extend a weeklong strike that has halted shipments
from the world’s biggest copper mine and helped push up prices
of the metal.  Aluminum Stockpiles Jump Most in Seven Months on Vlissingen (1)  Aluminum stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
rose the most in almost seven months on an increase in the Dutch
city of Vlissingen.  MINING:  Barrick Gold Hikes Pascua-Lama Cost Forecast by $1.4 Billion (2)  Barrick Gold Corp., the largest producer of the metal, said
the projected cost of its Pascua-Lama mining project on the
border of Argentina and Chile rose by $1.4 billion on higher
labor and raw-material expenses.  Potash Raises 2011 Forecast as Fertilizer Prices Climb (3)  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, raised its full-year earnings forecast and
reported second-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
as crop-nutrient prices gained.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Decline on Investor Sales After Rally to Record  Gold futures fell for the second straight day on investor
sales after the metal surged to a record. Silver dropped the
most in two weeks.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Futures Decline as U.S. Exports Ebb; Orange Juice Gains  Cotton declined for the first time in three days on signs
of reduced demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter. Orange-juice futures advanced.  Corn, Soybeans Drop as Midwest Rains Boost U.S. Yield Potential  Corn and soybeans fell on speculation that precipitation
and cooler weather boosted depleted soil moisture and aided
crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest producer, after a Midwest
heat wave.  Wheat Falls as Increased World Production May Cut U.S. Exports  Wheat futures fell the most in a week on concern that
rising grain harvests in  Russia  and the European Union will
erode demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter.  North Dakota  Wheat Yields May Drop After Rains, Tour Shows (1)  Wheat yields in North Dakota, the largest U.S. producer,
may fall 9.8 percent this year after excessive rains eroded
crops, a three-day tour of the state’s fields showed.  Hogs Advance on Rising Pork Demand, Tight Supply; Cattle Gain  Hog futures rose for the first time this week on signs of
climbing demand for U.S. pork amid tightening supplies. Cattle
prices also gained.  Cocoa Falls on Rising West Africa Supplies; Sugar, Coffee Slump  Cocoa fell to a one-month low on signs that rising supplies
in Cameroon and  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest producer, will
compound a global production surplus. Sugar and coffee declined.  SHIPPING:  Commodity Ship Costs Extend Longest Slump Since April on Ore  Commodity shipping costs slumped for a 15th session as a
lack of iron ore cargoes cut charter rates for vessels that
transport the ingredient used to make steel.  Tropical Storm Don on Track for Landfall in Southeast Texas (3)  Storm alerts were posted from the Texas-Mexico border north
to Galveston Island as Tropical Storm Don moves through the  Gulf
of Mexico  on track for landfall on the Texas coast overnight
tomorrow.  ECONOMIES:  Auction Demand Weakest in a Year on Cash Crunch:  China  Credit  Demand at China’s government debt sales is declining to the
least in at least a year as higher reserve-requirement ratios
leave financial companies with fewer funds to invest in the
securities.  U.S. Contingency Plan Said to Give Priority to Bondholders  The  U.S. Treasury  will give priority to making interest
payments to holders of  government bonds  when due if lawmakers
fail to reach an agreement to raise the debt ceiling, according
to an administration official.  U.S. Economy: Jobless Claims Fall, Home Sales Contracts Rise  Applications for  unemployment benefits  fell more than
forecast last week to the lowest level since April, a sign the
weakness in the labor market is fading.  U.S.  Consumer Confidence  Decreases on Concern Over Economy (2)  Consumer confidence dropped last week as Americans’ views
of the economy plunged to the lowest level since the recession.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Retreat as Optimism Over Debt Compromise Fades  U.S. stocks fell, dragging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a fourth day, as lawmakers indicated they were no
closer to reaching an agreement to increase the debt ceiling and
avoid default.  Dollar Approaches Postwar Low Versus Yen Before U.S. Budget Vote  The dollar dropped toward a postwar low against the yen and
touched a record low against the Swiss franc as the U.S. House
of Representatives prepared to vote on debt-limit plan that
faces opposition in the Senate.  Pound Gains Versus Euro on Debt Woes, U.S. Impasse; Gilts Rise  The pound gained versus the euro and gilts rose amid
concern that the U.S. and euro-region nations will struggle to
contain their debt burdens, increasing the relative appeal of
British assets.  Oil Edges Up as U.S. Jobless Claims Fall Near Four-Month Low  Crude oil  edged higher in  New York  after U.S. jobless
claims dropped to the lowest level in almost four months, a
signal that fuel consumption may increase as the weakness in the
labor market fades.  SPORTS:  Bradley Fired as Coach of U.S. Men’s National Soccer Team (1)  Bob Bradley was fired as coach of the U.S. men’s national
soccer team, less than a year after agreeing to a four-year
contract extension.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 