-- 
Dollar Falls to Record Low, Stocks Slide

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-26T20:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/asia-stocks-gain-u-s-futures-oil-fall-before-obama-speech-on-debt-limit.html
The dollar slid to a record low
versus the Swiss franc, stocks fell and the cost of insuring
 U.S. debt  rose to a 17-month high as Democrats and Republicans
continued to wrangle over competing plans to cut the deficit.  The dollar depreciated against all 16 major peers at 4 p.m.
in New York and earlier dipped below 80 centimes versus the
franc. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,331.94 and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 0.4 percent.
Credit-default swaps on U.S. debt increased two basis point to
58 basis points. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities climbed
0.6 percent, rebounding from a 0.7 percent drop, as zinc, cotton
and copper added at least 1.7 percent.  The Obama administration threatened a presidential veto of
House Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-step plan to raise the U.S.
debt ceiling and cut $3 trillion in  government spending . Stocks
were also pressured after home prices fell the most in 18
months,  3M Co. (MMM)  forecast earnings that trailed analyst estimates
and United Parcel Service Inc. said the third quarter will be
“fairly slow.”  “The biggest tax that Washington is putting on the  U.S.
economy  right now is an uncertainty tax and it’s dragging the
market down,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee about $445 billion
as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “I would expect some companies to
show signs of a lackluster economy, but the overwhelming theme
this earnings season is the resilience of corporate earnings in
the face of a slow economic rebound.”  ‘Theme of the Day’  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, declined 0.7 percent to a seven-
week low of 73.53 for the fifth decline in the past six days.
 South Africa ’s rand, Sweden’s krona and the Norwegian krone rose
more than 1.2 percent to lead gains against the U.S. currency.  “The theme of the day is once again sell the dollar,”
said Kathleen Brooks, research director at Forex.com, a unit of
Gain Capital Holdings Inc., an online currency-trading company.
“Playing this argument out in public, rather than trying to
iron out differences behind closed doors, is causing shock waves
in the markets. Every public spat is a step back from reaching
an agreement by the Aug. 2 deadline.”  Boehner said today that his two-step plan to raise the
nation’s debt limit and cut spending can pass both chambers of
Congress, and he hopes President  Barack Obama  would sign it.
Obama’s Office of Management and Budget said it “strongly
opposes” the measure, which the House is set to vote on
tomorrow, and would recommend a veto if it were passed by
Congress.  Two-Step Plan  “To think about the fact that we’re a week away from a
default, or a pseudo default, is a reflection of the fact that
 Washington  is less than a place of great intellectual wisdom,”
 Michael Steinhardt , whose hedge funds returned more than 20
percent a year for almost three decades, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  Treasuries rose, sending the 10-year yield down five basis
points to 2.95 percent, following today’s auction of $35 billion
in two-year notes. Existing two-year note yields lost two basis
points to 0.40 percent.  The securities sold today, which will be issued a day
before the limit is reached, drew a yield of 0.417 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 0.414 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary
dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with amount of securities offered, was
3.14, compared with 3.08 last month and an average of 3.39 at
the past 10 sales.  U.S. Default Swaps  At 58 basis points, credit-default swaps to protect U.S.
debt are the most-expensive since Feb. 9, 2010. Still, they are
cheaper than swaps on 54 of 58 countries tracked by data
provider CMA. Only swaps on Finland, the Netherlands, Norway and
Sweden cost less, according to CMA data. Swaps on  Greece  are at
1,652 basis points and Ireland are at 874.  The S&P 500 extended losses after yesterday slumping 0.6
percent. All 12 stocks in a gauge of homebuilders declined after
 home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in the year ended in May
by the most in 18 months, adding to evidence the housing market
is struggling. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities fell 4.5 percent from May 2010. Other data showed
sales of new homes unexpectedly declined for a second month in
June.  Consumer Confidence  Stocks fell even after confidence among American consumers
unexpectedly rose in July from an eight-month low, led by a
rebound in the outlook for jobs over the next six months. The
Conference Board’s index climbed to 59.5 from a revised 57.6
reading in June that was lower than previously estimated.  3M slid 5.4 percent after projecting full-year earnings
that trailed analysts’ estimates as lower demand for LCD
televisions curbed sales in its display and graphics business,
the company’s third-biggest unit.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
retreated 3.3 percent as the shipping company said it expects a
continued “extremely sluggish” U.S. business environment.  Gains in technology companies helped limit losses in
stocks. Broadcom Corp., the supplier of communications chips for
Apple Inc.’s mobile devices, surged 9.4 percent after
forecasting sales that topped estimates. Lexmark International
Inc. surged 18 percent, the most in almost 11 years, after the
maker of laser and inkjet printers posted second-quarter
earnings that topped estimates.  Baidu,  India   The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.7 percent, led by
a rally in technology companies, after Baidu Inc.,  China ’s
biggest Internet company by market value, forecast third-quarter
sales that topped estimates as customers spent more on search-
engine advertising. India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index dropped 1.9 percent, the most in a month on a closing
basis, as the central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate 
more than economists estimated.  The  New Zealand dollar  climbed as much as 1.2 percent to a
record versus the greenback as investors sought alternatives to
the U.S. currency. China’s yuan advanced as much as 0.1 percent
against the dollar to its strongest level in 17 years after the
central bank placed the currency’s reference rate at a record
high.  Copper advanced 1.6 percent, the most in more than two
weeks, to $4.478 a pound as a strike at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
Escondida copper mine in  Chile , the world’s biggest, entered a
fifth day. Gold futures for December delivery rose $4.90, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $1,619.30 on the Comex in  New York . The
August contract reached a record $1,624.30 yesterday.  Corn for December delivery rose 1.8 percent on the Chicago
Board of Trade and soybean futures climbed 1.2 percent as dry
weather in the Midwest worsened crop conditions in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  