-- 
AT&T Tells FCC T-Mobile Deal Will Add Capacity, Improve Service

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/at-t-tells-fcc-t-mobile-deal-to-drop-prices-relative-to-quality.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  said that its proposed $39
billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. would lower prices and
increase service in large metropolitan markets, according to a
regulatory filing touting the public benefits of the deal.  The transaction proposed March 20 “will relieve
significant capacity restraints faced by both companies and lead
to improved service quality,” according to a letter submitted
yesterday by AT&T to the Federal Communications Commission. The
letter accompanied an analysis of the deal’s potential impact on
15 U.S. markets, including  New York ,  Los Angeles  and  Washington .  The analysis, which AT&T developed after the FCC began its
review of the deal, focuses on the price impact the purchase
would have on AT&T and T-Mobile subscribers and the potential
efficiency of the companies’ combined operation in the 15
markets, according to the letter.  “In each market, the merger simulations project that
industry output will rise and average price adjusted for quality
will fall as a result of the transaction,” AT&T and Deutsche
Telekom AG, which owns Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile, said
in the letter.  Parts of the cover letter, provided by Dallas-based AT&T,
were redacted. The AT&T submission itself will be “confidential
and filed under seal,” company spokesman Michael Balmoris said
in an e-mail yesterday. Balmoris did not respond to a request
for further comment.  The FCC on July 20 stopped the clock on its informal 180-
day timeline to complete its review of the acquisition, citing
AT&T’s new economic models. The agency said in a July 20 letter
posted on its website that it will restart the clock once it
receives the information from AT&T and third parties “have a
meaningful opportunity to comment on the submission.”  ‘A Greater Good’  If completed, the merger, which was proposed March 20,
would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create
a new market leader, ahead of current No. 1 Verizon Wireless.
The FCC and the  Justice Department  are vetting the deal.  The new submission is part of AT&T’s message that “there’s
a greater good to be had and the benefits outweigh any
shortcomings associated with the transaction,” Jeffrey Silva, a
Washington-based analyst for Medley Global Advisors LLC, said
yesterday in an interview.  “This could help AT&T but I don’t see it as tilting the
balance either way,” Silva said. “There are so many other
factors involved in this, both policy and political.”  Neil Grace, a spokesman at the FCC, did not return e-mails
yesterday asking for comment.  Concerns are building among some U.S. lawmakers that the
deal may harm wireless competition. Senator  Herb Kohl , a
Wisconsin Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary subcommittee
on antitrust matters, opposes the transaction, saying it would
further consolidate an “already highly concentrated market” in
a letter sent July 20 to Attorney General Eric Holder and FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  ‘Do-Over’  In a separate letter sent July 20 to Holder and
Genachowski, Democratic Representatives  Edward Markey  of
 Massachusetts , John Conyers of  Michigan  and Anna Eshoo of
California said the deal “raises serious questions regarding
the future competitiveness of the wireless industry.”  “AT&T’s ‘do-over’ submission is a last-ditch attempt to
distract regulators, politicians and consumers from the fact
that it has failed to provide any evidence that its proposed
takeover of T-Mobile yields meaningful benefits,” Vonya McCann,
senior vice president of government affairs for  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  