-- 
Mauritius’ Jugnauth Quits as Party Member Charged With Graft

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-07-26T14:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/mauritius-s-finance-minister-resigns-as-party-member-is-charged-with-graft.html
Mauritius’s Finance Minister Pravind Jugnauth said he and four other ministers from his party
resigned from the Cabinet in solidarity with Santi Bai
Hanoomanjee, the health minister who was charged with graft.  “We cannot support Hanoomanjee and be present at Cabinet
meetings,” Jugnauth told reporters today in the capital,  Port
Louis . Jugnauth’s Mouvement Socialiste Militant party will
remain in an alliance with the ruling  Labour Party , he said.  Hanoomanjee was charged by the Indian Ocean island nation’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption last week for
“favoritism” in awarding a tender for a hospital. Other
ministers who left the Cabinet were Tourism Minister Nandcoomar
Bodha, Showkutally Soodhun, the minister of cooperatives, Leela
Devi Dookun-Lutchoomun of Social Security and Civil Service
Minister Ashit Gungah.  Jugnauth, 49, was re-appointed finance minister in May last
year, having been in the position from 2003 to 2005. His party
backed Prime Minister Navinchandra Ramgoolam in the Alliance de
l’Avenir after elections in 2010.  “I have spoken to the prime minister and explained to him
our position,” Jugnauth said. “I am loyal to the PM and
Alliance de l’Avenir.”  The government is in the process of replacing the
ministers, Deputy Prime Minister Rashid Beebeejaun said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The government is thus functioning
normally and in total stability”. Prime Minister Navinchandra
Ramgoolam is on an official visit to  London , according to the
government’s website.  Beebeejaun held a meeting with the ruling alliance’s
elected members coming from the Labour Party and the Parti
Mauricien Social Democrate, he said, following the resignations.  Mauritius’s rupee strengthened as much as 1 percent and
traded 0.5 percent up or 27.90 at 5:30 p.m., in Port Louis. A
close at this level would be its strongest since July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  