-- 
Australia Picks Ex-Groundsman Among Test Cricket Rookies to Face Sri Lanka

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-26T06:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/australia-selects-hughes-marsh-for-test-cricket-series-against-sri-lanka.html
Australia  picked four rookies,
including a spin bowler who was working as groundsman six months
ago, for its three-Test cricket series in Sri Lanka starting
next month.  Off-spinner Nathan Lyon was joined by fast bowlers Trent
Copeland and James Pattinson and batsman Shaun Marsh as the
newcomers in a 15-man squad. All-rounder Steve Smith and pace
duo Doug Bollinger and Ben Hilfenhaus were omitted.  Lyon, 23, was selected after just four first-class games
and will head to Sri Lanka, where the pitches typically assist
spin bowlers, alongside fellow spinner Michael Beer, who made
his Test debut in January as Australia slumped to a 3-1 Ashes
series loss to England.  “It was a surprise selection,” chairman of selectors
 Andrew Hilditch  said in a televised news conference. Lyon
“nearly needed a heart starter when I told him the news. We
think in Sri Lanka there’s a chance of playing two spinners.”  Lyon was working as a groundsman at the Adelaide Oval when
the South Australia state team picked him in January for its
Twenty20 campaign. He made his first-class debut the following
month and was chosen for Australia’s second-string team on its
June and July tour of Zimbabwe, where he was named player of the
one-day series after taking 11 wickets.  Lyon and Beer were chosen ahead of Cricket Australia’s
contracted spin bowlers as Xavier Doherty, Jason Krejza,  Nathan Hauritz  joined all-rounder Smith in being overlooked.  Warne Void  Australia has struggled to find a front-line spinner
following  Shane Warne ’s retirement 4 1/2 years ago. Should Lyon
play in  Sri Lanka , he would be the 10th specialist to be tried
since Warne quit with a national-record 708 Test wickets.  “It has certainly come out of the blue but I’m not going
to knock it back,” Lyon said in a televised news conference.
“I always thought it possibly could happen if I really worked
on my own game and backed my skills.”  Phillip Hughes  will open the batting in Sri Lanka with
vice-captain  Shane Watson , Hilditch said. Former skipper  Ricky Ponting , his replacement  Michael Clarke , Mike Hussey and Usman
Khawaja are the other batsman in the squad.  Marsh, the son of former Australia opener Geoff, has been
under consideration “for some time as a player who could have a
real impact at international level,” Hilditch added.  The best-of-three contest, which will be Clarke’s first
Test series since replacing Ponting as captain in March, starts
Aug. 31 in Galle with matches in Kandy and Colombo to follow.  After his appointment, Clarke said Australia needed to “go
back to basics,” having slipped from first to fifth in the
International Cricket Council’s Test  rankings .  “We need some experienced players, which we think we’ve
got,” Hilditch said. “We also need to find a couple of new
champions in the next couple of years.”  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Michael Clarke (captain), Shane Watson
(vice-captain),  Michael Beer , Trent Copeland, Brad Haddin, Ryan
Harris, Phillip Hughes, Michael Hussey, Mitchell Johnson, Usman
Khawaja, Nathan Lyon, Shaun Marsh, James Pattinson, Ricky
Ponting, Peter Siddle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  