-- 
Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Rise to Records After Inflation, Confidence Reports

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-27T07:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/australian-dollar-near-record-before-cpi-kiwi-approaches-post-float-high.html
The Australian dollar surged to a
record after a government report showed consumer prices rose
more in the second quarter than economists had forecast,
prompting traders to slash bets on an interest-rate cut.  New Zealand ’s currency also climbed to the highest since it
was freely floated in 1985 after a private survey showed
business confidence improved in July. Both reports added to
pressure for the nations’ central banks to tighten monetary
policy, increasing demand for their assets among investors
seeking a haven from the U.S.’s debt deadlock. The  Reserve Bank
of New Zealand  will hold a policy meeting tomorrow.  “The money market will take out most, but probably not all,
of the rate cuts that it’s got priced in for the next 12
months,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest lender.
“Not just the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, but U.S. dollar
weakness across the board will boost the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency advanced to as high as $1.1063, the
strongest since it was floated in 1983, before trading at
$1.1051 as of 4:56 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0956 in  New York . The
so-called Aussie climbed 0.6 percent to 85.87 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to 87.51 U.S. cents
after earlier reaching a record 87.65 cents. The currency gained
0.3 percent to 68.01 yen.  Australia’s consumer price index rose 0.9 percent from the
previous three months, the Bureau of Statistics said today. That
was more than the 0.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 25 economists. Prices were 3.6 percent higher
than a year earlier, compared with the median forecast of 3.4
percent.  Rate Bets  The report reflects lingering effects of floods in the
nation’s northeast that shut mines and wiped out crops and were
followed by a cyclone that tore through sugar- and banana-
producing areas. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens , who has paused rate
increases for the longest stretch since 2007, this week said the
inflation data will help determine the path of monetary policy.  Swaps traders reduced bets on an interest-rate cut in
Australia after the report, according to a Credit Suisse AG
index. Stevens will reduce the benchmark 23 basis points over 12
months down from 39 yesterday, it shows.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced after a survey by ANZ
National Bank Ltd. showed business confidence rose to a 14-month
high in July amid record-low borrowing costs and higher
commodity prices.  Business Confidence  A net 47.6 percent of companies expect the economy will
improve over the next year, the highest level since May 2010,
and up from 46.5 percent in June, the survey shows. A second
measure of expectations for companies’ sales and earnings rose
to 43.7 percent, compared with 38.7 percent in June.  “There is now more pressure on New Zealand’s Reserve Bank
to tighten conditions than there was before the report,” said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The report was kiwi
positive and should push it to a new post-float high.”  RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard last month signaled expectations
of a quarter-point rise in December were consistent with his
estimates. A Credit Suisse index shows traders are wagering that
rates will increase about 1 percentage point over 12 months.  One of the Few  New Zealand is one of the few developed nations with a
strengthening economy and that’s encouraging investors to buy
the country’s currency, Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an
interview with  Radio New Zealand  today.  “We are now starting to be seen as something of a safe
haven and that’s what’s been driving our  New Zealand dollar 
higher,” he said.  BlackRock Inc., Loomis Sayles & Co. and Franklin Templeton
Investments said the U.S. faces losing its top-level debt rating
as officials struggle to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit.
The government needs to boost the cap by Aug. 2 so it can keep
paying its bills, according to the Treasury Department.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, rose five basis points to 3.67 percent.  Australia ’s three-year bond yield gained 12 basis points to
4.49 percent. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rose four
basis points to 4.98 percent.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  