-- 
Baidu Revenue Forecast Beats Estimates on Ad Demand for China Web Searches

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-07-26T10:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/baidu-revenue-forecast-beats-estimates-on-ad-demand-for-china-web-searches.html
Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest Internet
company by market value, forecast third-quarter revenue that
surpassed analysts’ estimates as customers spend more on search-
engine advertising in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Revenue will rise to between 3.95 billion yuan ($613
million) and 4.05 billion yuan in the three months to Sept. 30,
Baidu said in a statement yesterday. The Beijing-based company’s
guidance beat all 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Baidu climbed 8.9 percent in late U.S. trading as the
forecast underscored demand for advertising on the company’s
search-engine service, which is gaining users and extending its
lead over  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in China. Chief Executive Officer Robin Li, ranked the nation’s richest man by Forbes magazine, is
adding services to meet rising competition from Internet rivals
including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  “Baidu enjoys superior pricing power versus Internet peers
in China, driven by its dominant market share,” Richard Ji, who
rates the stock “equal-weight” at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong,
wrote in a report today. He raised his estimates for the
company’s sales this year by 8 percent, citing higher average
spending by customers.  The shares surged as much as $13.97 to $170.51 in extended
trading, after closing at $156.54 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The stock has gained 62 percent this year after more than
doubling in 2010, outperforming the Hong Kong-traded shares of
Tencent, China’s biggest online-games company, and  Alibaba.com
Ltd. (1688) , the business-to-business unit of Alibaba Group, the
country’s biggest e-commerce company.  Profit Surges  Second-quarter net income almost doubled to 1.63 billion
yuan from 837.4 million yuan a year earlier, Baidu said. That
beat the 1.5 billion yuan average of analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 78 percent to 3.4 billion yuan.  “The search-engine market potential is huge,” Chief
Financial Officer Jennifer Li said in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “Asia Edge” today. Baidu’s
business is generating “a lot of cash” that could be re-
invested by the company to sustain growth, she said.  Baidu expects to gain users by adding new products such as
a Web browser and social-networking services, CEO Li said in a
conference call with analysts today.  Average Spending  Average spending per customer rose to 11,500 yuan last
quarter, a 53 percent increase from a year earlier, CFO Li said.
Revenue from customers in the electronic-commerce industry more
than doubled in the quarter, she said.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second-quarter, rising from 75.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 18.9
percent from 19.2 percent, the researcher said.  “Sectors like education and financial continue to spend
more on Baidu to build awareness,” Eric Wen, who rates Baidu
shares “buy” at Mirae Asset Securities in  Hong Kong , wrote in
a July 22 report. “Baidu’s growth potential is still bright.”  Google has been losing ground in China’s search-engine
market since January 2010, when the  Mountain View , California-
based company said it was no longer willing to comply with
Chinese regulations requiring it to self-censor Web content. Two
months later, the U.S. company shut its Google.cn service and
redirected Chinese users to its site in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  