-- 
Bank of Korea’s Deputy Kim Sees Rebound Even as Debt Crisis Clouds Outlook

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-07-26T04:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bank-of-korea-s-deputy-kim-sees-rebound-even-as-debt-crisis-clouds-outlook.html
Bank of Korea Deputy Governor Kim Jae Chun said economic growth will pick up in the second half
and exports are “pretty strong,” leaving room to concentrate
on quelling inflation.  “A possible economic slowdown is not in our list of policy
concerns,” Kim, 57, said in an interview in his office in  Seoul 
yesterday. “The economy will pace up in the second half on a
year-on-year basis.”  The won strengthened as Kim’s comments underscored the
likelihood that Asian policy makers will focus on inflation
even as export growth moderates and  Europe ’s debt crisis clouds
the outlook for the global economy. South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak ’s government said today it will increase imports 
of pork to restrain costs, limit gains in public service fees 
and watch for signs of price fixing.  South Korea  will release its preliminary gross domestic
product data at 8 a.m. Seoul time tomorrow. The economy probably
expanded 3.5 percent from a year earlier, less than the 4.2
percent gain in the previous quarter, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  “Second half growth will be stronger on improving domestic
demand and steady export growth and also partly due to more
favorable year-earlier bases for comparison,” said Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. He said
overseas factors such as the European debt crisis and  Japan ’s
March 11 earthquake weighed on second quarter expansion.  Taiwan  Growth  Taiwan will release its second-quarter GDP report at 4 p.m.
local time on July 29. Growth likely slowed to 4.5 percent from
6.55 percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 11 economists.  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,052.05 per dollar as
of 1:25 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won has gained 7 percent against the dollar this year. The
Kospi stock index rose 0.4 percent.  “The BOK’s comments on the economy are supportive of the
won, which will likely continue its strong momentum into the
second half,” said Bae Jin Chul, Seoul-based dealer with state-
run Industrial Bank of  Korea .  Inflation has exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent target
limit every month since January, prompting officials to raise
the seven-day repurchase rate three times this year, to 3.25
percent.  `Chronic Problem'  “Our biggest concern is inflation becoming a chronic
problem,” Kim said in yesterday’s interview. “We expect 4
percent for inflation this year, which is an alert level, given
the current pace of our economic growth and structure.”  To tame price gains, South Korea’s government will increase
imports of food in short supply such as pork and bananas, and
inspect large restaurants and franchises for any irregular price
fixing moves, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement today. In
 China , Premier  Wen Jiabao  said July 12 that stabilizing prices
remains his nation’s top priority.  Kim, who has worked at the central bank for more than 30
years, is one of five deputy governors and is in charge of
research and international affairs, including managing the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves.  The deputy governor’s prediction of a pickup in the pace of
growth tallies with a central bank forecast this month that the
economy will expand 4.2 percent in the third quarter and 5.2
percent in the fourth quarter this year after a 3.5 percent
increase in the second.  Using currency policy to tackle inflation “is not
desirable,” Kim said. “We will let the market decide the
foreign-exchange rate and will carry out smoothing operations
only when the won moves too sharply on speculative investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 