-- 
BC Partners Proposes Terms on $1.1 Billion Com Hem Buyout Loans

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-07-26T13:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bc-partners-proposes-terms-on-1-1-billion-com-hem-buyout-loans.html
BC Partners  Ltd., a London-based
private-equity firm, proposed terms for 7.1 billion kronor ($1.1
billion) of loans for its buyout of Swedish cable company Com
Hem AB, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The loans are part of 14.65 billion kronor of debt that
also includes 3.5 billion kronor of short-term loans to be
refinanced by senior secured notes and 4.05 billion kronor of
funding to be replaced by senior unsecured bonds, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the deal is
private.  Com Hem is proposing to pay interest of 425 basis points
more than benchmark lending rates for the six-year portions of
the loans and an interest margin of 475 basis points for the
6.5-year tranche, the person said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  BC Partners said July 21 it agreed to buy Stockholm-based
Com Hem from U.S. buyout firms  Carlyle Group  and  Providence
Equity Partners .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Nordea Bank AB, UBS AG, Deutsche
Bank AG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley are
arranging the financing, BC Partners said in the statement.  The banks are inviting a wider group of lenders to a bank
meeting in  Stockholm  on July 29, said the person.  BC Partners plans to use 4.47 billion kronor of its own
funds for the buyout, said the person. The acquisition debt
represents 6.4 times Com Hem’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, said the person.  An official at BC Partners wouldn’t comment.  Com Hem’s Ebitda was 1.85 billion kronor on sales of 4.3
billion kronor in 2010,  according to  the company’s website. The
company, which bills itself as  Sweden ’s fastest-growing TV
operator, said digital TV subscribers grew 8 percent last year,
while broadband customers increased 3 percent and telephone
customers 7 percent.  Details of the loan financing are as follows:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  