-- 
Beef Tainted by Radiation to Be Recalled in Japan as Contamination Widens

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-07-26T04:18:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/beef-tainted-by-radiation-to-be-recalled-in-japan-as-contamination-widens.html
Japan  will help meat producer groups
remove beef tainted with cesium from the market and has directed
them to seek compensation from Tokyo Electric Power Co. as
radioactive contamination spreads in the country’s food supply.  The government will financially support the purchase,
storage and incineration of meat from cattle fed with
contaminated hay, which may cost as much as 2 billion yen ($25
million), said Hideo Harada, director for livestock policy
planning at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
The ministry said today that 2,906 cattle ate tainted feed
before shipment.  Fallout from Tepco’s crippled Fukushima nuclear plant poses
a growing threat to Japan’s food supply as unsafe levels of
cesium found in beef on supermarket shelves were also detected
in vegetables and the ocean. Prolonged exposure to radiation in
the air, ground and food can cause leukemia and other cancers,
according to the London-based  World Nuclear Association .  “Beef containing cesium has already entered into the
market,” Harada told reporters in Tokyo today. “We have to
prevent it from emerging on consumer tables by checking meat and
recalling tainted products from the market.”  Beef from cattle fed with tainted hay was shipped to 46 out
of Japan’s total 47 prefectures, Harada said. Test results
showed 23 out of 274 beef samples contained radioactive cesium
that exceeded the government’s standard, he said. The recalled
beef will be stored and tested and could be shipped to the
market again if cesium levels don’t exceed standards, he said.  Hokkaido, Shimane  A total of 166 farms in 16 prefectures used contaminated
hay as feed, according to the ministry. The prefectures include
the northern island of Hokkaido, Japan’s largest cattle-growing
region and as far west as Shimane.  The government on July 19 banned cattle shipments from
Fukushima prefecture, though not before some had been
slaughtered and shipped to supermarkets. A ban on shiitake
mushrooms from another part of Fukushima was introduced on July
23 because of cesium levels, the health ministry said.  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found contaminated with cesium
and iodine as far as 360 kilometers from the nuclear plant.  Think Ahead  Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano said this month
officials didn’t foresee that farmers might ship contaminated
hay to cattle ranchers. That highlights the government’s
inability to think ahead and act, said Mariko Sano, secretary
general for Shufuren, a housewives organization in  Tokyo .  Aeon Co., Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, said yesterday
that 4,108 kilograms (9,056 pounds) of beef suspected of being
contaminated was inadvertently put on sale at 174 stores across
Japan. Tokyu Corp. supermarket chain said in a statement on July
25 that it sold beef from cattle fed with tainted hay at 63 of
its stores.  Supermarkets started testing beef after the Tokyo
Metropolitan Government found radioactive cesium in slaughtered
cattle this month.  Beef prices in Tokyo slumped as consumers shunned the
product amid safety concerns. The price of A-4 grade wagyu meat
plunged to as low as 598 yen a kilogram on July 19 from 1,623
yen on July 1 on the Tokyo meat market, according to the
agriculture ministry.  Beef imports rose 11 percent in the first five months and
may maintain that pace for the rest of the year, said Tetsuro Shimizu, chief researcher at Norinchukin Research Institute Co.  U.S. beef exports to Japan will probably rise 33 percent to
140,000 tons this year, Philip Seng, chief executive officer of
the U.S. Meat Export Federation, said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  