-- 
BG Says Fewer Brazil Wells Needed to Reach Plateau Output

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-26T16:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bg-says-fewer-brazil-wells-needed-to-reach-plateau-output-1-.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , which plans to invest
$30 billion in Brazil in the next decade, said it needs fewer
wells than first estimated to reach plateau production at
offshore fields.  Appraisal drilling and initial production show wells will
flow for longer at higher rates and cost less per barrel than
expected, said Chief Executive Officer  Frank Chapman . Last
month, the company doubled its estimate of reserves and
resources in Brazil’s  Santos Basin  to about 6 billion net
barrels of oil equivalent.  “We expect all of this resource to be recovered using the
same surface facilities we’ve envisaged in our field development
plans,” Chapman told reporters on a conference call. “We now
expect an earlier ramp-up to plateau production from fewer
wells.”  BG rose 61.5 pence, or 4.3 percent, to 1,486 pence in
 London , the highest price since May 3. It was the best performer
on the 102-member  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   BG,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  and  Repsol
YPF SA (REP)  plan to use as many as 13 floating, production, storage
and offloading vessels, or FPSOs, to pump oil and gas off
Brazil’s coast. They will have a combined capacity of 2.3
million barrels of oil a day. The Lula, Guara, Cernambi, Iara
and Carioca fields account for 95 percent of BG’s total reserves
and resources in the Santos Basin, the company said today in a
statement.  20 Percent ‘Feasible’  The partners plan to increase FPSO capacity to allow higher
extraction rates at “higher aggregate plateau production,”
Chapman said. “You can de-bottleneck all those facilities,
which is a common goal for all offshore facilities, and numbers
up to 20 percent could be feasible, but I am not giving this as
a target.”  BG and Petrobras will connect the first export gas pipeline
from the Lula field, formerly known as Tupi, via the  Mexilhao
platform  to the land terminal “in the coming days,” Chapman
told investors on a conference call.  To date, BG has exported about 1 million barrels of oil net
to the company from the Lula field, the largest oil discovery in
the Americas in more than 30 years. The wells off Brazil can
pump 25,000 to 50,000 barrels of oil a day, Chapman said.  To transport oil from the Brazilian fields, BG took
delivery of the Windsor Knutsen oil tanker, which was converted
from a conventional Suezmax vessel into the world’s largest
shuttle tanker, with capacity of 1.1 million barrels, BG said.  In June, BG agreed with  Teekay Offshore Partners LP (TOO)  to
charter four more Suezmax-size shuttle tankers with expected
deliveries between 2013 and 2014. Samsung Heavy Industries Co.
will build the vessels in South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  