-- 
Bonds Top Kiwi Debt First Month in Four on Slow Rebound: Australia Credit

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-27T06:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bonds-leading-global-gains-as-recovery-slows-australia-credit.html
Australian  government bonds  are
outpacing New Zealand debt for the first time in four months on
bets the smaller nation is more likely to raise  interest rates .  Australian debt returned 1.7 percent since June 30,
including reinvested interest, while New Zealand’s bonds gained
0.1 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Australian securities rose 6.2 percent this year and its
neighbor’s bonds climbed 6.3 percent, the most among 20
developed nations, as investors seek alternatives to the dollar
amid concerns the U.S. may lose its AAA credit rating.  Investors are betting Bollard will hold the nation’s cash
rate at a record-low 2.5 percent tomorrow and signal he is read
to raise it on concerns  New Zealand ’s resurgence will boost
inflation. His Australian counterpart  Glenn Stevens  is likely to
delay to November any increase in the developed world’s highest
borrowing costs, economists say, while futures show traders
judge Stevens may hold interest rates unchanged.  Bollard faces pressure to “begin removing stimulus earlier
than December,” said  Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The longer the central bank
hangs off, the greater the probability the economy builds a real
head of steam, forcing inflation into the fast lane.”  Diverging Outlooks  Australian two-year borrowing costs fell this month while
New Zealand’s climbed as the growth outlooks for the two nations
diverge.  The rate to swap floating rates for fixed in  Australia  slid
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, since June 30 to
4.885 percent as of 4 p.m. in Sydney, as slumping consumer and
business confidence added to signs of economic weakness.  The rate jumped 15 basis points today after a report showed
Australia’s second-quarter consumer price index rose 0.9
percent, faster than economists had forecast.  The equivalent New Zealand yield rose 30 basis points this
month to close at 3.67 percent today as the nation’s rebound
from Christchurch’s earthquakes quickened.  The spread contracted to 1.04 percentage points on July 22,
the narrowest since Sept. 7.  Ebert forecasts quarter-point increases by the  Reserve Bank
of New Zealand  in September, October and December.  Bollard last month signaled market expectations of a
quarter-point rise in December were consistent with his
estimations. Since then, economic indicators have been stronger
than forecast, spurring traders to price in a 72 percent chance
of an RBNZ quarter-point increase in September, according to
swaps prices offered by Westpac Banking Corp. There is a 100
percent chance the benchmark will be 2.75 percent in October.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Stevens on July 5 kept
the nation’s benchmark rate unchanged at 4.75 percent, where
it’s been since November. Since that central bank meeting,
private reports showed weaker business and consumer confidence.  Growth Moderating  The advance in the nation’s terms of trade, a measure of
income from exports, has probably ended and as a result, any
future growth in consumption is likely to be “moderate,”
Stevens said in a speech yesterday in Sydney.  Australian households are saving more as assets including
stocks and houses decline in value. A 21 percent rise in the
local dollar in the past year, spurred by a surge in mining
investment to meet demand from India and  China , is hurting the
manufacturing and tourism industries.  Record High  The so-called Aussie climbed to a post-float high of
$1.1063 after today’s inflation report, which prompted investors
to scrap bets Stevens will cut rates this quarter.  Rates futures show a 28 percent chance the RBA will lower
borrowing costs to 4.5 percent by year-end, down from a 100
percent chance of a cut on July 25. September futures show a 2
percent possibility of a rate rise, from a 26 percent chance of
a cut yesterday.  The benchmark 10-year Australian note’s yield rose four
basis points to 4.98 percent, paring its decline this month to
23 basis points. New Zealand’s 10-year rate fell 1 basis point
to 5.06 percent, little changed since June 30.  Economists expect Bollard to address the recovery in
domestic demand when he announces his rate decision at 9 a.m. in
Wellington tomorrow. Still, none of the 15 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast a rate increase then. Five
forecast an advance before December.  In a year, traders expect New Zealand’s cash rate will be
101 basis points higher, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
index based on swaps. A similar index shows investors expect
Australia’s cash rate to be 19 basis points lower.  Emergency Cut  Bollard cut New Zealand’s cash rate by 50 basis points in
March to revive confidence after an earthquake struck the
southern city of Christchurch, killing more than 180 people,
wrecking homes and closing the central business district.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, more than twice the central bank’s forecast for a 0.3
percent expansion, according to a report on July 14. Consumer
prices climbed 1 percent in the three months through June,
faster than Bollard’s 0.7 percent pick, a July 18 report showed.  By contrast, Australia’s economy shrank in the first
quarter by the most in 20 years as floods in the state of
Queensland hurt coal and other exports. From a year earlier,
growth was 1 percent, lagging behind New Zealand’s 1.4 percent
pace.  The RBNZ forecasts annual growth of 4.7 percent in 2012.
The RBA predicted Australia’s economy would grow 3.75 percent
next year, in its May Statement on  Monetary Policy .  Bollard will likely wait to see more evidence of recovery,
particularly in the labor and construction markets, and will
want to be sure the global economy isn’t faltering before
raising borrowing costs, said  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland.  “We imagine that the RBNZ sees increased risk of weaker
external demand,” said Gibbs, who expects no change in rates
until December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  