-- 
Bosera Asset to Start Three New Funds in Hong Kong This Year

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-26T08:34:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bosera-asset-to-start-three-new-funds-in-hong-kong-this-year.html
Bosera Asset Management
(International) Co.  plans to start three new funds in  Hong Kong 
this year, seeking to tap foreign demand for Chinese assets.  Bosera, whose Shenzhen-based parent company looks after $29
billion of assets in China, is preparing to start a “mini-
QFII” fund that targets individual investors in Hong Kong and
abroad, Chief Executive Officer Keith Li said in a briefing in
Hong Kong today. China is reviewing its qualified foreign
institutional investor program under which overseas institutions
are granted quotas to invest in yuan-denominated equities and
bonds, Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
said July 19.  “Foreign investors are passionate about investing in
China,” Li said. “We would like to be ready for the market
once the mini-QFII scheme is approved,” he said, referring to a
proposal for  China ’s financial companies to start yuan funds in
Hong Kong that invest in mainland securities.  Bosera is also looking to begin a fund for professional
investors that invests in yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong,
securities known as dim sum bonds, and a balanced fund for
individual investors that will allocate funds to equities and
fixed-income products in the city, Li said. A “reasonable
size” for the funds would be at least $50 million, he said,
without giving more precise figures.  ‘Golden Decade’  A sluggish stock market and government restrictions on
property transactions in China may prove “catalysts” that
encourage Chinese people to invest more heavily abroad, Li said.  “It’s now China’s golden decade,” he said. “Chinese
people will gradually put some of their wealth into overseas
financial assets after buying handbags and watches outside the
country. They will look for assets that aren’t available in the
domestic markets.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index of shares has declined 3.7
percent this year, after sliding 14 percent in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s cabinet said this month
it will expand measures to cool prices to smaller cities after
limiting real-estate purchases in metropolitan areas including
Beijing and Shanghai.  Sales of dim sum bonds in Hong Kong total 87.7 billion yuan
($13.6 billion) this year, more than double last year’s tally of
35.7 billion, according to Bloomberg data. The yuan has
strengthened 2.3 percent so far in 2011 and touched a 17-year
high of 6.4382 per dollar today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  