-- 
BP Chief ‘Open’ to Refining Spinoff as Earnings Disappoint

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i c o l e   I t a n o
-- 
2011-07-26T16:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bp-chief-open-to-refining-spinoff-as-earnings-miss-estimates.html
BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  said “all options” are possible including a
refining spinoff as  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company reported
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  “We are open to all kind of ideas, but they have to be
ones that build long-term value for shareholders, not a short-
term pop,” Dudley said in a Bloomberg television interview
today. “We will continue to look at those options.”  Splitting up the company could unlock as much as $100
billion for investors because its assets are worth more than its
market value, JPMorgan Cazenove said this month. BP shares are
down 28 percent since last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill even
after Dudley sold assets to shore up the balance sheet.  “Management will come under more pressure to do something
radical with its strategy,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The numbers are disappointing
and profitability is the lowest we’ve seen in some time.”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said earlier this month it will spin off its
refining operations in the first half of 2012 to focus on
exploration and production in Texas, Norway,  China  and the U.K.
Its plan follows a similar move announced by  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) 
at the start of the year.  Misses Estimates  BP reported net income of $5.6 billion in the second
quarter, compared with a record $17 billion loss in the year-
earlier period, according to a statement by the London-based
company earlier today.  Adjusted for one-time items and changes in inventory,
profit was also $5.6 billion, below the average estimate of $5.9
billion in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  “It was a heavy maintenance period and production in the
Gulf was down, while taxes were higher,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  London .
“They have their work cut out for them.”  BP fell 2.6 percent in London trading, the steepest one-day
decline since April. The shares closed at 463.25 pence at 4:30
p.m. local time.  Production slipped 11 percent from a year earlier to 3.43
million barrels of oil equivalent a day, mainly due to the
suspension of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and the company’s
divestments. Higher turnaround times and maintenance also
lowered output.  ‘Could Do Better’  “We could do better, we will do better going forward,”
Dudley said in the interview. “This is probably one of our
tougher quarters.”  Iain Conn, head of the refining and marketing unit, also
told reporters that splitting up the company was an option.  “We’ll consider our strategic options extremely
carefully,” Conn said after a press conference at BP’s
headquarters. “We have an urgent intent to restore the value of
this company. That’s not suggesting any particular direction,
it’s just saying we have a lot of options and we’re determined
to get it right.”  Since taking over in October, Dudley has overseen the sale
of $25 billion of fields in  Argentina , Colombia, Pakistan and
Vietnam. While freeing up cash, asset disposals have also
reduced the company’s output as  oil prices  gained.  The effective  tax rate  rose to 35 percent in the second
quarter from 30 percent a year ago. The dividend was maintained
at 7 cents a share.  Reliance, Rosneft  Dudley’s plan is to focus on higher-growth fields and new
discoveries. He signed a $7 billion deal with Reliance
Industries Ltd. to explore offshore India, and planned an $8
billion tie-up with OAO Rosneft to explore Russia’s Arctic Kara
Sea in January that was later blocked by the billionaire
partners in the TNK-BP venture.  BP said that future cash flows will grow faster than output
as more profitable production comes on stream. BP has yet to
return to drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  since President Barack
Obama halted deepwater exploration in the wake of the spill. The
ban was lifted Oct. 12.  Higher oil prices supported BP’s second-quarter earnings.
Brent crude prices averaged $117 a barrel in the second quarter,
compared with $79 in the year-earlier period. As a rule of
thumb, BP says that each $1 increase in the price of Brent will
bolster profit by about $380 million a year, according to its
website.  Refining profit fell 36 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier as stoppages at the Texas City plant reduced
throughput. BP said it expects “a typical seasonal decline in
refining margins in the third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  