-- 
BP Chief Dudley ‘Open’ to Oil-Refining Spinoff as Earnings Miss Estimates

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i c o l e   I t a n o
-- 
2011-07-26T10:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bp-chief-dudley-open-to-oil-refining-spinoff-as-earnings-miss-estimates.html
BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  said “all options” are possible including a
refining spinoff as  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company reported
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  “We are open to all kind of ideas, but they have to be
ones that build long-term value for shareholders, not a short-
term pop,” Dudley said in a Bloomberg television interview
today. “We will continue to look at those options.”  Splitting up the company could unlock as much as $100
billion for investors because its assets are worth more than its
market value, JPMorgan Cazenove said this month. BP shares are
down 29 percent since last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill even
after Dudley sold assets to shore up the balance sheet.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said earlier this month it will spin off its
refining operations in the first half of 2012 to focus on
exploration and production in Texas, Norway,  China  and the U.K.
Its plan follows a similar move announced by  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) 
at the start of the year.  BP reported net income of $5.6 billion in the second
quarter, compared with a record $17 billion loss in the year-
earlier period, according to a statement by the London-based
company earlier today.  Adjusted for one-time items and changes in inventory,
profit was also $5.6 billion, below the average estimate of $5.9
billion in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  ‘Heavy Maintenance’  “It was a heavy maintenance period and production in the
Gulf was down, while taxes were higher,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London.
“They have their work cut out for them.”  BP fell as much as 2.9 percent in London trading, the
steepest intraday decline since April. The shares were at 465.05
pence as of 11:03 a.m. local time.  Production slipped 11 percent from a year earlier to 3.43
million barrels of oil equivalent a day, mainly due to the
suspension of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and the company’s
divestments. Higher turnaround times and maintenance also
lowered output.  “We could do better, we will do better going forward,”
Dudley said in the interview. “This is probably one of our
tougher quarters.”  Since taking over in October, Dudley has overseen the sale
of $25 billion of fields in  Argentina , Colombia, Pakistan and
Vietnam. While freeing up cash, asset disposals have also
reduced the company’s output as  oil prices  gained.  Higher Tax  The effective  tax rate  rose to 35 percent in the second
quarter from 30 percent a year ago. The dividend was maintained
at 7 cents a share.  Dudley’s plan is to focus on higher-growth fields and new
discoveries. He signed a $7 billion deal with Reliance
Industries Ltd. to explore offshore India, and planned an $8
billion tie-up with OAO Rosneft to explore Russia’s Arctic Kara
Sea in January that was later blocked by the billionaire
partners in the TNK-BP venture.  BP said that future cash flows will grow faster than output
as more profitable production comes on stream. BP has yet to
return to drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  since President Barack
Obama halted deepwater exploration in the wake of the spill. The
ban was lifted Oct. 12.  Higher oil prices and more profitable refining supported
BP’s second-quarter earnings. Brent crude prices averaged $117 a
barrel in the second quarter, compared with $79 in the year-
earlier period. As a rule of thumb, BP says that each $1
increase in the price of Brent will bolster profit by about $380
million a year, according to its website.  Global refining margins rose to an average of $13.92 a
barrel in the second quarter from $11.04 year ago, according to
BP’s refining marker margin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  