-- 
BP Profit Misses Estimates on Gulf of Mexico Slowdown

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-07-26T07:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bp-posts-second-quarter-profit-after-record-loss-last-year.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, reported earnings that missed analyst estimates after
field maintenance in the Gulf of Mexico,  Angola  and the North Sea
cut production.  Net income of $5.6 billion in the second quarter compared
with a record $17 billion loss a year earlier, the London-based
company said today in a statement. Adjusted for one-time items
and changes in inventory, profit was also $5.6 billion, compared
with an average estimate of $5.9 billion in a Bloomberg survey
of 12 analysts.  “It was a heavy maintenance period and production in the
Gulf was down, while taxes were higher,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London.
“They have their work cut out for them, but are doing the right
things.”  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  is selling fields and
disposing of half BP’s U.S. refining capacity to recover from
last year’s spill. Splitting up the company could unlock as much
as $100 billion for investors because its assets are worth more
than its market value, JPMorgan Cazenove said this month.  BP fell as much as 2.9 percent in London trading, the
steepest intraday decline since April. The shares were at 463.40
pence as of 8:12 a.m. local time.  Stock Performance  BP shares are down 29 percent since the Macondo oil spill,
compared with a 15 percent gain for larger rival Royal Dutch
Shell Plc in the same period. Shell will probably report a
profit of $6.6 billion on July 28, according to a separate
Bloomberg News survey.  Production slipped 11 percent from a year earlier to 3.43
million barrels of oil equivalent a day, mainly due to the
suspension of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and the company’s
divestments, it said. Higher turnaround times and maintenance
also lowered output.  “We expect the momentum of our recovery to build into 2012
and 2013 as new projects come on stream, particularly in higher-
margin areas,” Dudley said today. “We are committed to seeing
the true value of the business more strongly reflected in out
share price.”  Since taking over in October, Dudley has overseen the sale
of $25 billion of fields in Argentina, Colombia, Pakistan and
Vietnam. While freeing up cash for the company’s balance sheet,
that also reduced the company’s output as  oil prices  gained.  The effective  tax rate  rose to 35 percent in the second
quarter from 30 percent a year ago. The dividend was maintained
at 7 cents a share.  BP Strategy  Dudley’s plan is to focus on higher-growth fields and new
discoveries. He signed a $7 billion deal with Reliance
Industries Ltd. to explore offshore  India , and planned an $8
billion tie-up with OAO Rosneft to explore  Russia ’s Arctic Kara
Sea in January that was later blocked by the billionaire
partners in the TNK-BP venture.  BP said that future cash flows will grow faster than output
as more profitable production comes on stream. BP has yet to
return to drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  since President Barack
Obama halted deepwater exploration in the wake of the spill. The
ban was lifted Oct. 12.  Higher oil prices and more profitable refining supported
BP’s second-quarter earnings. Brent crude prices averaged $117 a
barrel in the second quarter, compared with $79 in the year-
earlier period. As a rule of thumb, BP says that each $1
increase in the price of Brent will bolster profit by about $380
million a year, according to its website.  Global refining margins rose to an average of $13.92 a
barrel in the second quarter from $11.04 year ago, according to
BP’s refining marker margin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  