-- 
Braff’s Dumb Hooker, Mopey Stoner Make ‘New People’ Old Hat: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-26T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/braff-s-dumb-hooker-mopey-stoner-make-new-people-old-hat-jeremy-gerard.html
Zach Braff, whose slacker movie
“Garden State” made him a critics’ darling nine long years
ago, has written a slacker play unlikely to endear him to
anyone.  “All New People,” like the film, is set in  New Jersey , in
this case at an upscale beach house studded with art that
signals to the audience “Modigliani.” “Stella.” “African
primitive.” Etc.  The lights come up on Charlie (Justin Bartha, hirsute and
zhlubby) trying to hang himself from the cathedral ceiling with
an electrical cord. Enter Emma (Krysten Ritter, sporting the
worst British accent since Lindsay Lohan’s fake Haley Mills in
“The Parent Trap”), a logorrheic real estate agent. She is
clearly as incompetent in her chosen endeavor as Charlie is in
his.  Enter also Myron (David Wilson Barnes), the glue-sniffing,
drug-dealing fire chief with an unrequited hankering for Emma.
And enter, finally, Kim (Anna Camp), a happy hooker with an IQ
somewhat south of her platform-shoe size, sent from  Manhattan  as
a gift to cheer up Charlie.  Sample dialog:  Emma: I’m an illegal alien.  Kim: Funny, I would never have guessed you were Mexican.  Stop Action  Braff, doubtless having studied playwriting, endows each
member of this mongrel quartet with a big terrible secret,
revealed in film clips that stop the action cold. They have even
less credibility than the live exchanges onstage. Like the art
sprinkled throughout the house, everything about “All New
People” screams “Phoney! Phoney! Phoney!”  The play is staged very loud and very fast; perhaps
director Peter DuBois thought we wouldn’t notice the vacuum
within, not to mention the tired but still ugly sexism that
passes here for humor.  Call me squeamish but using female anatomy as a slur and
making an actress say repeatedly that her character is there for
anyone to do whatever they want to her -- and isn’t that just
fun? -- seems so, I don’t know, 1980s.  Pity these good actors. “All New People” is testament to
the fact that they give their all even when, like Kim the call
girl, they usually end up not with  Richard Gere  but  Larry King .  At 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-246-4422;
 http://www.2st.com  Rating: (no stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 