-- 
Brazil Banks Cut Short Dollar Positions to 14-Month Low

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-07-26T17:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/brazil-banks-cut-short-dollar-positions-to-14-month-low-1-.html
Brazilian banks reduced their short
dollar positions to a 14-month low after the central bank
increased the cost for this type of bet against the U.S.
currency.  Short dollar positions held by  Brazil ’s banks fell to $8.13
billion on July 22 from $14.7 billion in June, Tulio Maciel, the
central bank’s economic department head, told reporters today.  The central bank this month raised  reserve requirements  on
short dollar positions in a move to limit losses investors and
banks may face in case the real weakens amid a global crisis.
Brazilian companies such as Sadia SA, Grupo Votorantim and
Aracruz Celulose SA lost billions of reais in 2008 because of
currency hedging and bets gone wrong in the aftermath of Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy. Sadia, a food
processor, and Aracruz, a pulp maker, were taken over by rivals
after posting currency-related losses.  “If there is a turnaround in the  currency market , the
central bank is the only one with dollars to sell,”  Francisco Carvalho , currency director at Liquidez DTVM, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “The central bank wants to prevent
the excessive exposure to the dollar that happened in 2008.”  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.5369 per  U.S. dollar  at 1:07
p.m. New York time as investors bring money into Brazil to
profit from the world’s second-highest-inflation-adjusted
interest rate. The real is the second-best performer against the
dollar in 2011 among the seven major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  Colombia ’s peso.  Currency War  If the central bank hadn’t increased reserve requirements
on short dollar positions, the real would have strengthened
further, Carvalho said.  The central bank this month began to require banks to make
non-interest bearing deposits with the central bank equivalent
to 60 percent of their short dollar positions exceeding $1
billion dollars.  The new rule amended a regulation introduced in January
that required banks to pay deposits on short positions above $3
billion.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega today said that the
government may take additional steps to stem currency gains in a
bid to protect domestic producers.  “We won’t let the currency war defeat us,” Mantega said
in an event today in Brasilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  