-- 
Brazilian Real Strengthens as Inflation-Adjusted Rates Attract Investors

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-07-26T21:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/brazil-real-climbs-as-interest-rates-lure-foreign-investors.html
Brazil ’s real gained as the
country’s economic expansion and world’s second-highest
inflation-adjusted  interest rates  lured investors seeking refuge
from the debt crises in Europe and the U.S.  The real advanced 0.1 percent to 1.5391 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. in New York, from 1.5400 yesterday. The currency has
advanced 7.9 percent this year.  Brazil’s central bank raised its benchmark lending rate for
a fifth straight meeting last week to 12.5 percent in a bid to
rein in inflation that’s accelerated to a six-year high.  “Brazil is demonstrating that it has a strong economy and
a tendency to maintain high interest rates for a certain period
of time,”  Francisco Carvalho , currency director at Liquidez
DTVM, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “This
attracts capital.”  Policy makers said they twice bought dollars in the spot
currency market today, first at 1.5331 reais per dollar and then
at 1.5360 reais each. The dollar purchases are part of an effort
by policy makers to curb the currency’s gains.  Yields fell on most interest-rate futures contract due
after this year.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017 declined two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.56 percent. The
yield has increased 10 basis points since July 20 when policy
makers didn’t include with a statement accompanying their
decision to boost the benchmark Selic rate a commitment made in
April and June to raise rates for a “sufficiently long”
period.  ‘Hawkish View’  Today’s decline in yields on longer-term contracts may be a
result of investors “positioning themselves” ahead of
Thursday’s release of the minutes from the July 19-20 policy
meeting, said  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief strategist at Credit
Agricole Brasil SA in Sao Paulo.  “The most likely scenario at least for me, and I believe
that many people share this view, is that the central bank will
not hesitate on drawing a hawkish view of the situation,” he
said by phone. “They’ll try to dispel any notion that they’re
going to take a soft stance regarding inflation and the interest
rate. In that case, further hikes on the short-term would cause
inflation to go down on the medium and long-term and as such
that would help longer rates to go down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  