-- 
Pound Gains Against Dollar on U.K. Economic Growth, U.S. Deficit Impasse

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-26T15:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/british-pound-declines-against-euro-before-gross-domestic-product-report.html
The pound rose to a six-week high
against the dollar after a report showed U.K. economic growth
matched economists’ forecasts and U.S. lawmakers failed to agree
on a debt plan, boosting the relative appeal of British assets.  Britain’s currency erased a decline against the euro and
climbed versus the yen after the data showed gross domestic
product rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter, slowing from the
first quarter’s 0.5 percent pace. That matched the median
forecast of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s a bit of relief that the data wasn’t weaker than
expected,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro Financial
Services Ltd. in  London . “The pound is benefiting against the
dollar because of that and because of what’s going on with the
U.S. debt situation, which is affecting all currencies.”  The pound was 0.7 percent stronger at $1.6395 as of 4:50
p.m. in London after reaching $1.6422, the highest level since
June 14. It was little changed at 88.43 pence per euro, after
weakening as much as 0.6 percent before the data was released.
It gained 0.4 percent to 127.96 yen.  The dollar fell against its major counterparts as President
 Barack Obama  said the U.S. may have a “deep economic crisis”
if leaders fail to reach a compromise and avoid a debt default.  Sterling is still down 7.5 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  ‘Relief Rally’  “We have seen a pound relief rally,” said Lee McDarby,
head of dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk
at Investec Bank Plc in London. “We don’t feel that this
fundamentally changes the general weak outlook for the U.K.”  Bank of England officials said this month that the weakness
in the economy may persist “for longer than previously
thought” as they kept the key interest rate at 0.5 percent.  Seven of the bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee,
led by Governor  Mervyn King , voted to keep the rate unchanged
this month, saying that recent developments “reduced the
likelihood that a tightening in policy would be warranted in the
near term.” One official wanted more stimulus and two favored a
rate increase.  Interest-Rate  Outlook  The central bank will keep the rate at 0.5 percent until
the first quarter of next year, when it will increase it to 0.75
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists. The
 European Central Bank  has raised its refinancing rate twice this
year, to 1.5 percent, and is forecast to increase it to 2
percent by the end of the first quarter of next year, a separate
survey shows.  Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said it would be
“naive” to exclude the risk of a double dip in the U.K.
economy, the German newspaper  Handelsblatt  reported today,
citing an interview.  Even so, an increase in the central bank’s benchmark
interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point in recent
months would have had “very little impact on demand,” while
signaling that the bank is equally worried about inflation and
economic growth prospects, the newspaper cited Weale as saying.  While the U.K. economy is struggling to pick up, price
growth continues to exceed the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent
target. Inflation was 4.2 percent in June, and the central bank
said last week it would “likely” exceed 5 percent in the
coming months.  U.K. 10-year government bonds declined, with the yield
rising two basis points to 3.07 percent. Two-year yields were
little changed at 0.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  