-- 
Bulgaria’s Top Tobacco Maker Posts Profit Ahead of Sale

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-07-26T12:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/bulgaria-s-top-tobacco-maker-posts-profit-ahead-of-sale-1-.html
Bulgartabak Holding (57B) , the Bulgarian
state tobacco company being offered for sale, reported a net
income of 34.1 million lev ($25.3 million) in the first six
months because of increased sales and cost cutting.  The profit compares with a 577,000 lev loss a year ago,
the Sofia-based company said in a stock exchange filing today.
Revenue rose 78 percent to 46 million lev in the first half of
the year from the same period a year ago. Exports rose 29.5
percent to 7.36 million cigarettes. The company didn’t report
second-quarter results.  Bulgaria’s asset-selling agency admitted three candidates
to buy an 80 percent Bulgartabak stake in the country’s fourth
attempt in a decade to sell it.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
and Austrian-registered BT Invest GmbH, are the only two
companies that bought tender documents to submit binding bids
by Aug. 29, the Sofia-based agency said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Bulgaria, the  European Union’s  poorest country, is
recovering from its worst recession in more than a decade and
needs to raise cash to narrow its  budget deficit  and meet
increasing social benefits payments ahead of October
presidential and local elections.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s debt rating
on July 22 to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, from
Baa3, citing the government’s tight spending policy and
“relative resilience” to debt crisis contagion from
neighboring  Greece . Bulgaria will need to raise some 500
million euros ($718 million) to refinance global bonds
maturing in 2014, Bulgarian Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov 
said in July 22 interview.  Bulgartabak aims to keep its 30 percent share of the
domestic market, it said. It started exports to Poland,
Croatia,  Israel  and Turkmenistan earlier this year. The
tobacco-maker is in talks to expand exports to African and
Middle Eastern countries. It has six units, including four
cigarette makers and a trading division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  