-- 
HTC Says Willing to Negotiate With Apple on Patent Dispute

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-26T08:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/htc-says-it-s-willing-to-negotiate-with-apple-over-patent-fight.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone
maker locked in a patent battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , says it’s
willing to negotiate with the iPhone maker after both sides
scored victories at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  “We have to sit down and figure it out,” Winston Yung,
chief financial officer of the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company,
said by phone today. “We’re open to having discussions.”  HTC on July 6 announced a $300 million deal to buy S3
Graphics Co., less than a week after that company won an ITC
ruling against Apple over two patents. In a July 15 initial
determination, the same commission ruled in Apple’s favor on two
other patents.  “We are open to all sorts of solutions, as long as the
solution and the terms are fair and reasonable,” Yung said.
“On and off we’ve had discussions with Apple, even before the
initial determination came out.”  Yung said he’s not aware of any formal talks having been
held since this month’s two separate ITC rulings. Carolyn Wu, a
Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately answer
three calls to her mobile phone today.  HTC shares have lost 7 percent since it announced July 6
that it would buy Fremont, California-based S3 Graphics from a
fund controlled by HTC Chairwoman Cher Wang and  VIA Technologies
Inc. (2388) , which is also chaired by Wang. The stock climbed 5.7
percent to NT$970 at the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei, the highest
since July 7.  Apple violates two S3 Graphics patents related to
compression technology, the U.S. ITC said in a July 1 notice.
HTC infringes two Apple patents related to data-detection and
data transmission technologies, the commission ruled July 15.
Both rulings are subject to review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 