-- 
Cairn India Advances as Higher Output Boosts Profit 10-Fold

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-27T05:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/cairn-india-profit-jumps-10-fold-to-record-on-higher-oil-output.html
Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , the energy
explorer that’s the target of a takeover by  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , advanced in Mumbai trading after higher output and prices
boosted quarterly profit 10-fold.  Net income at Cairn India and its units rose to a record
27.3 billion rupees ($618 million) in the three months ended
June 30 from 2.8 billion rupees a year earlier, the company
based in Gurgaon near New Delhi said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The median estimate of 18 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg was a profit of 26.3 billion rupees. Shares rose as
much as 1.7 percent.  Profit at the unit of U.K.-based  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  has
surged since the explorer started producing oil from  India ’s
biggest onshore oil deposit in 2009. London-based Vedanta’s
proposed $8.7 billion acquisition was approved by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet on June 30 on the condition it pays
royalties on output from the field in western Rajasthan state.  “Higher production from here on will depend on how soon
everything with the stake sale and various approvals fall into
place,” said Sandeep Randery, an analyst with Brics Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The additional royalty they may have to pay
would be a burden.”  Average daily production at Cairn’s Rajasthan block almost
tripled to 125,127 barrels from a year earlier, the company said.
The oil was sold at $105.90 a barrel compared with $71.80 a year
earlier.  Production Plateau  Output at the Mangala field in the block is about half the
area’s potential and has plateaued at about 125,000 barrels a
day since August. Production may get a boost following approval
of the deal between Vedanta and Cairn Energy.  Cairn India  has declined 2.6 percent this year compared
with a 9.8 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index. The
stock climbed 0.4 percent to 324 rupees as of 10:42 a.m. local
time on the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Vedanta won cabinet approval to take control of Cairn
Energy’s local unit on condition it bears part of the royalty
payments now covered by state-run Oil & Natural Gas Corp., a
partner with a 30 percent interest in the Rajasthan block.  Vedanta and Cairn Energy need to agree that royalty
payments by ONGC will be deducted from the project’s revenue,
Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said June 30 after a cabinet
meeting. Cairn India also needs to withdraw arbitration against
the government over tax on crude oil sales.  Shareholder Approval  Cairn India plans to seek shareholder approval through a
postal ballot for the conditions set by the government,
according to the statement. Revenue and profit after tax would
have declined by 12.9 billion rupees in the first quarter if
royalties were made cost recoverable, Cairn India said.  The government wants Cairn India to “comply” with the
cabinet’s decision within a month, Chief Executive Officer Rahul Dhir told analysts on an earnings conference call yesterday.
“That may be difficult because the postal ballot itself will
take more than a month,” Dhir said.  Approval for the Vedanta-Cairn deal came 10 months after
the transaction was announced.  ‘Optimal’ Development  Cairn India is awaiting approval from a panel, which
includes representatives from the regulator and the government,
to increase production from the Mangala field in Rajasthan to
150,000 barrels a day. Output from Mangala, which started in
August 2009, is sold to customers including Indian Oil Corp. and
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)   “The optimal development of this resource will only be
possible with the active support of our joint venture partner,
ONGC, and the government of India,” Dhir said on the conference
call.  The three fields in Rajasthan may produce a combined
240,000 barrels a day, which is about 30 percent of India’s
current crude output, according to the company’s annual report
for the year ended March 31.  Cairn India sells oil at market-linked rates. Crude oil in
 New York  rose 31 percent to an average of $102.34 a barrel in
the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Vedanta Group held 28.5 percent of the fully diluted
share capital of Cairn India as of July 12, after purchasing a
10 percent stake from Cairn India. Vedanta earlier acquired an
8.1 percent holding from Cairn India’s minority shareholders and
10.4 percent from  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  Vedanta agreed June 27 to buy an additional 30 percent
stake in Cairn India from the parent after getting approvals
from the Indian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  