-- 
California Taps Banks Including Goldman for $5.4 Billion Loan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-27T04:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/california-taps-banks-including-goldman-wells-fargo-for-5-4-billion-loan.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  led a syndicate of eight banks and investors who won
the bidding to loan  California  $5.4 billion before any credit-
market disruption should the U.S. default on its debt.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Merrill Lynch,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and US Bank also will
participate, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said yesterday in a
statement. The state will pay 0.237 percent, or about a third of
the rate on comparable debt. The loan matures by Nov. 22.  Lockyer is rushing to borrow before an Aug. 2 deadline for
President Barack Obama and Congress to reach a deal that would
raise the U.S. debt ceiling and avert a default. Missing the
deadline may cost the government its top-ranked  credit rating ,
upend financial markets and send  interest rates  higher.  “California had to obtain this interim financing to
protect the state from the immediate, drastic consequences of a
failure by  Washington  to resolve the debt ceiling impasse,”
Lockyer said in the statement.  California will use the proceeds to help pay bills until it
can sell about $5 billion of short-term debt called revenue-
anticipation notes, or RANs. The sale was scheduled for late
next month.  Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo each will loan the state about
$1.47 billion, followed by $736.4 million from Citigroup and
$490.9 each from Barclays and JPMorgan, while Merrill Lynch,
Morgan Stanley and US Bank agreed to loan about $245.5 million
apiece, Lockyer said.  Third Loan  The terms Lockyer received compare with a 0.9 percent rate
on an index of tax-exempt notes maturing in three months,
according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value.  The bridge loan is California’s third in as many years. The
state borrowed $6.7 billion from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and five
other banks in October, when a record 100-day budget impasse
prevented Lockyer from selling short-term notes. The state paid
1.4 percent on the October loan, or $6.7 million of interest,
until it was repaid when Lockyer sold $10 billion of sort-term
debt in November.  In August 2009, he borrowed $1.5 billion from JPMorgan with
a 3 percent interest rate after a similar budget stalemate
forced the state to issue IOUs to pay some bills. Lockyer sold
$8.8 billion of short-term notes a month later and used some of
the proceeds to repay the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  