-- 
California Seeks $5B ’Bridge’ Loan to Pay Bills

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/california-seeks-5-billion-loan-as-states-gird-for-u-s-default.html
California  will borrow $5 billion
today through a temporary loan as U.S. states make plans to cope
with any credit-market disruption should lawmakers fail to raise
the federal debt ceiling by the Aug. 2 deadline.  Proceeds from California’s bridge loan will help pay bills
until the state can sell cash-flow notes that had been scheduled
for late August.  New Mexico  is asking agencies to complete
requests for federal reimbursement by midday July 29 to ensure
the it can get repaid, and  Maryland  was forced to cut $206
million off a planned bond sale as the debt talks dragged on.  “Given the uncertainty in  Washington  with the debt
ceiling, the treasurer felt it was prudent to get a bridge
loan,” said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for California Treasurer
Bill Lockyer. “We couldn’t have planned on the president and
Congress taking us to the brink.”  States and local governments face higher borrowing costs if
Congress fails to reach a compromise by the deadline. Because
the U.S. borrows money through the sale of Treasury notes to pay
its bills and refinance maturing debt, it could default if the
limit isn’t increased. That might cost the government its top-
ranked credit score, upend financial markets and send  interest
rates  higher.  Moody’s Investors Service has said it may lower its top
ratings on Maryland,  South Carolina , New Mexico, Tennessee and
Virginia because their dependence on federal revenue makes them
vulnerable to a U.S. credit cut should talks to raise the debt
limit fail.  Costing Taxpayers  Moody’s has also said another 7,000 top-rated municipal
credits would have their ratings cut if the U.S. government
loses its Aaa grade.  “It would ultimately cost taxpayers in  Virginia  more” if
the state’s rating is cut, said Jeff Caldwell, a spokesman for
Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, a Republican.  Without the ability to borrow, the federal government would
have to cut about  $134 billion  of spending in August, according
to a report by the Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center,
which advocates politically balanced policy making. That could
prompt the government to choose which payments to make, such as
Medicare subsidies, which may affect California’s cash flow.  New Mexico takes in about $500 million of federal funds
each month for programs such as aid to unemployed workers and
forestry. The New Mexico Board of Finance last week gave the
treasurer the authority to issue tax-and-revenue anticipation
notes if federal money is cut off and the state runs out of
reserves.  Card to Play  “We anticipate we do have money in reserves and we are not
alarmed, but this is just another card to play,” said Tim
Korte, a spokesman for New Mexico’s Finance and Administration
Department.  The prospect of an upheaval in the credit markets has some
states and local governments avoiding them. Municipal-bond
issuance scheduled for the next 30 days is projected to shrink
to about $6.3 billion in the next month, the lowest daily gauge
since it reached a 2011 high on July 14, according to
Bloomberg’s index of 30-day visible supply.  If no solution is reached, municipal-debt sales may drop
further, said John Hallacy, the head of municipal research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York .  “A lot of issuers who are contemplating entering the
market will hold back to see what will happen in the
aftermath -- at least the ones who can,” he said. “We have no
benchmark to look at, no history for this kind of thing.
Obviously to the extent investors become more skittish, it would
require offering higher yields.”  Maryland Cuts Sale  Maryland yesterday reduced a bond sale planned for this
week by $206 million to remove a refunding component. Patti
Konrad, Maryland’s director of debt management, said in a
telephone interview that the state would postpone indefinitely
the planned advance refunding as the refinancing may not
generate enough savings. The state is still offering about $512
million of securities this week.  California’s Lockyer had planned on borrowing about $5
billion through revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, at the end
of August to pay state bills until the bulk of  tax revenue  comes
in later in the years. Without those short-term securities, the
state may run out of cash, as it did in 2009, when it issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs.  California Loan  Facing market turmoil that could boost the state’s
borrowing costs if he waited until August, Lockyer instead will
accept competitive bids from investment banks, commercial banks,
 credit unions  and investment funds for a private $5 billion loan
today.  California used a similar $6.7 billion bridge loan from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and five other banks in October, when a
record 100-day budget impasse prevented Lockyer from issuing
RANs. The state paid 1.4 percent on the October loan, or
$6.7 million of interest, until it was repaid when Lockyer sold
$10 billion of RANs at the end of November.  He will repay the new loan once he is able to sell RANs.  “It seems like an expensive strategy but this is probably
a better time than any to have to use this strategy,” said
Kelly Wine, executive vice president of Encino, California-based
RH Investment Corp. “It’s probably a cautious play, and given
the size of the deal it’s probably the smart way to play it. But
there’s a cost involved in that.”  Still, California Governor  Jerry Brown  said he is holding
out hope that Congress and President  Barack Obama  will strike a
deal.  “The federal government is not going to default,” Brown
said in  Los Angeles  yesterday. “They’re going to do whatever
they have to do. It’s unthinkable. Republicans will rise to the
occasion along with the Democrats. They’re posturing because
they’re getting ready for the election. But they’re not going to
let the United State of America go down the drain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  