-- 
Calpers Joins Pension Funds Urging Agreement on Raising U.S. Debt Ceiling

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/calpers-joins-pension-funds-urging-accord-on-u-s-debt-limit-1-.html
Overseers of 10 public pension funds
with combined assets topping $1 trillion joined a call for a
deal on raising the U.S. debt ceiling, warning that a failure by
leaders in  Washington  would have “devastating” consequences.  The nation needs the ability to borrow more to avert
default, while President Barack Obama and top lawmakers should
work to reduce the deficit over the long term, the pension
chiefs said in an open letter to Obama and Congress.  The funds including the  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System, the nation’s largest public pension, serve
7.7 million active and retired workers in California,  Florida ,
 Colorado , New York City,  Maryland , Ohio and  North Carolina . They
joined a group including asset managers such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  that earlier made public a similar call for
an agreement to head off a U.S. default.  “America is now a debtor nation and it must show the world
that the nation’s word is its bond,” the pension chiefs
including Calpers said in one of the letters released yesterday.
“It is critical that the debt ceiling be raised to avoid a
default,” the group said. “The huge  budget deficit , both
current and long-range, is the real problem.”  Calpers, with  $240.1 billion  in assets, reported July 18
that it had earned almost 21 percent on its investments in the
12 months through June, its largest gain in 14 years.  ‘Terrible’ Consequences  A U.S. debt default would set off a “terrible and swift”
reaction in financial markets,  Joe Dear , the chief investment
officer of Sacramento-based Calpers, said July 18.  “The fact that a pension fund of our size has to seriously
contemplate a default by the U.S. government on its debt
obligations would have been inconceivable and incomprehensible
to me a couple of years ago,” Dear said that day in an
interview outside a Calpers board meeting in Petaluma, north of
 San Francisco . “We certainly hope the policy makers will find a
way to protect the credit rating of the U.S. because it is in
everybody’s interest.”  Negotiations have been stalemated between the Obama
administration and congressional Republicans on raising the
$14.3 trillion debt limit.  Ohio  Republican John Boehner, the
speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, and Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, have offered
competing plans to increase the ceiling while reducing spending.  Default Threat  If the parties are unable to reach agreement by Aug. 2, the
U.S. government may default because it no longer will be able to
pay its bills and refinance maturing debt. Such an outcome would
cost the government its top-rated credit score, threaten to
upend financial markets and push up  interest rates .  Another group of pension systems and companies separately
said a downgrade would have far-reaching consequences, in an
open letter made public earlier yesterday and addressed to Obama
and Congress. The letter cited effects such as higher borrowing
costs for all Americans, diminished retirement savings as asset
values and the dollar fall, and years of slower economic growth.  The coalition includes public pensions in North Carolina,
Florida, Mississippi,  New Jersey  and South Carolina, as well as
companies including  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , BlackRock and
Legg Mason.  “Addressing the current federal debt ceiling crisis, by
itself, will not fix the entire problem,” they said in the
letter. “We would be deluding ourselves as a nation. If we want
strong economic growth and  job creation  we must fix the deficit
for real, for good, for the future of all Americans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  