-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls on Ample Stockpiles, Milder Forecast

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-26T19:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/canadian-natural-gas-falls-on-ample-stockpiles-milder-forecast.html
Canadian natural gas fell as
supplies were expected to remain strong and forecasters
predicted milder weather in the U.S. that would cut demand.  Canadian gas prices, which usually follow their U.S.
counterparts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , dropped 0.9
percent as Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
predicted mostly normal or below-normal temperatures in the
Northeast from Aug. 5 through Aug. 9.  “With the extended heat that we’ve had, the supply of
natural gas is certainly not getting crippled at all,” Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at INTL FCStone Inc. in
 St. Louis Park , Minnesota, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
going to play in a range here for a while.”  Alberta gas for August delivery declined 3.25 cents to
C$3.41 per gigajoule ($3.43 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:25 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX , a Canadian
Internet market. September gas shed 4.75 cents to $3.38. Gas
traded on the exchange goes to users in Canada and the U.S. and
is priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery fell 1.6 cents to settle at
$4.37 per million Btu on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Power plants  use 30 percent of U.S. gas supplies, according
to the Energy Department.  Texas Heat  Temperatures in Dallas today may reach 100 degrees, 3 above
normal, according to AccuWeather Inc. of  State College ,
Pennsylvania. The forecaster predicted highs of 100 or higher in
Dallas until July 30, when the expected high is 98.  “The forecast has shifted in the hotter direction across
Texas, where several days of ‘much-aboves’ were added,” Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather in
Gaithersburg, Maryland, said in a note to clients. “Some of
these ‘much-aboves’ should stretch toward the Midwest” and
“the Northeast will remain plenty hot as well.”  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta  system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.6 billion cubic
feet as of 2 p.m. in New York.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.52 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.92 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 952 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.81 billion cubic feet today, about 65 percent of its
capacity of 2.76 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 1.6 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $4.5227 per million as of
1:33 p.m. New York time on the Intercontinental Exchange.
Alliance is an express line that can carry 1.5 billion cubic
feet a day to the Midwest from western  Canada .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas dropped 3.61 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $4.1058.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 