-- 
Canada’s Dollar Hits a Three-Year High on U.S. Debt-Ceiling Negotiations

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-26T21:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/canada-s-dollar-hits-a-three-year-high-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-negotiations.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated to the
highest level since November 2007 as the greenback declined
against all of its most-traded counterparts on concern the U.S.
may fail to reach agreement on raising its debt cap.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known,
underperformed its commodity-based peers, the dollars of  New
Zealand  and  Australia , as President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
may experience a “deep economic crisis” if leaders fail to
reach a compromise on spending cuts and the nation defaults. The
U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner.  “The Canadian dollar has a lot of momentum right now, and
this is clearly linked to the impasse in the U.S. debt-ceiling
talks,” said Francois Belanger, director of foreign exchange
sales at Bank of  Montreal ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, in a
telephone interview from Montreal. “The global appetite for
Canadian assets in general is quite strong, and it’s become
stronger since the end of June.”  The Canadian currency gained 0.3 percent to 94.43 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 94.72 cents
yesterday. It touched 94.07 cents, the strongest level since
Nov. 9, 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0590.  The currency weakened 0.7 percent against the Aussie and
0.5 percent versus the kiwi.  Overseas Demand  International purchases of Canadian bonds have set records
the past two years as investors favored the securities of
governments with lower debt burdens. Non-resident investors
purchased a net C$11.1 billion ($11.8 billion) of  government
bonds  in May,  Statistics Canada  said July 18.  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell two
basis points to 1.48 percent as the price of the 2 percent note
due in August 2013 rose 4 cents to C$101.03. The yield on the
10-year note fell four basis points to 2.89 percent.  Obama blamed the stalemate in the U.S. on a group of
Republicans in the House who are insisting on budget cuts and no
tax increases. “If we stay on the current path, our growing
debt could cost us jobs and do serious damage to the economy,”
Obama said in a prime-time televised address yesterday from the
White House.  “If they fail to come to an agreement and they fail to
raise the debt ceiling, then it could be a very different
picture,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange
strategy at Morgan Stanley, by phone from London. “Then I think
the risk is it does start to spill over then into having a
broader negative impact on risk appetite. But we continue to
believe the U.S. authorities will come to an agreement.”  Central Banking  Demand for the Canadian dollar has also been buoyed since
 Bank of Canada  policy makers on July 19 eliminated the word
“eventually” from a phrase about the timing of the next
increase.  “The Bank of Canada sent the signal that they are going to
raise rates in the medium term, and that has sparked additional
interest in the Canadian dollar,” BMO Capital’s Belanger said.
“But if there’s a deal in  Washington  I wouldn’t be surprised to
see the loonie pull back to 96.50 or 97 in the next two weeks.”  Crude oil futures rose as much as 1.4 percent to $100.62 a
barrel in  New York  before trading at $99.26. Crude is Canada’s
largest export. Copper for three-month delivery rose $165, or
1.7 percent, to $9,820 a ton on the  London  Metal Exchange.
Canada derives about half its export revenue from raw materials.  Canada’s dollar has weakened about 2 percent this year
versus the currencies of nine other developed nations in the
fourth-worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 7.9 percent,
the yen is off 3.6 percent and sterling is down 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  