-- 
Celgene’s Blood-Cancer Treatment Backed by U.K. Cost Agency

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/celgene-s-blood-cancer-treatment-backed-by-u-k-cost-agency.html
The U.K.’s health-cost agency
recommended  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s thalidomide for an incurable blood
cancer a month after  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  lost its appeal against
using its rival’s cheaper product to fight the disease.  Celgene’s thalidomide, marketed in the U.S. as Thalomid, is
recommended in combination with two other therapies as an
initial treatment for multiple myeloma for patients who can’t
receive high-dose chemotherapy and stem-cell transplants, the
 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  said today
in a statement.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s bortezomib
drug, known as Velcade, may be substituted for use by those who
can’t tolerate thalidomide, the regulator said.  Thalidomide, which is taken as a pill, costs an average of
2,100 pounds ($3,400) for each treatment cycle, said the London-
based agency, known as NICE. Velcade, given intravenously, costs
an average of 3,000 pounds for each cycle, NICE said. The agency
advises the state-run  National Health Service  on which
treatments represent value for money.  Thalomid had sales of $390 million last year, comprising
more than 10 percent of Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene’s 2010
revenue, according to Bloomberg data. J&J’s Velcade accounted
for $1.1 billion in 2010 sales, or 1.8 percent of the company’s
total revenue.  Thalidomide was linked to severe  birth defects , including
malformed limbs, in the 1960s and temporarily withdrawn from the
market. The drug returned as a potent tumor-fighter, with a
warning against use by women who are pregnant. It works by
programming cancer cells to commit suicide, and by creating an
environment that stalls tumor reproduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  