-- 
Charter International First-Half Profit Falls 36% on Items

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-26T15:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/charter-international-first-half-profit-falls-36-on-items-1-.html
Charter International Plc (CHTR) , the
welding and automation-equipment maker that has rebuffed two
indicative bids in the past four weeks, said first-half profit
fell 36 percent on impairment charges and one-time items.  Net income declined to 32.3 million pounds ($52.8 million),
or 19.3 pence a share, from 50.8 million pounds, or 30.3 pence,
a year earlier, Dublin-registered Charter said in a statement
today. Revenue increased 13 percent to 946.5 million pounds.  Charter, which has turned down two indicative cash-and-
share offers from  Melrose Plc (MRO) , appointed Gareth Rhys Williams as
chief executive officer on July 15 to sort out its ESAB welding
unit, where margins have fallen and working capital has risen.
Margins at its Howden unit improved.  “Both businesses are global leaders and there is nothing
fundamentally broken,” Rhys Williams said in a phone interview
today. “But there issues in ESAB. We have to improve the
working  capital ratios , which have unacceptable.”  Melrose, an investment firm run by the former management
team at Wassall Plc, said yesterday it would consider raising
its proposed offer of 840 pence per share, which values the
company at 1.4 billion pounds, if Charter could show it was
materially undervalued.  Charter Chairman Lars Emilson declined to say whether there
had been further contacts with Melrose since it rejected its
second proposed offer on July 15.  Earnings were reduced by one-time items of 11 million
pounds and impairment and amortization charges of 21.8 million
pounds. The company is taking a total charge of 32 million
pounds this year and next as part of a plan to reduce annual
costs at ESAB by 38 million pounds.  The shares rose 1 penny to 798 pence in London trading.  Charter raised its interim dividend 6.7 percent to 8 pence
a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 