-- 
Chilean Peso Strengthens to Three-Month High as Price of Copper Advances

-- B y   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-07-26T20:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/chilean-peso-strengthens-to-three-month-high-as-copper-advances.html
Chile ’s peso rose to the strongest
in three years as copper prices surged and the dollar fell
against all of its most-traded peers after U.S. politicians
struggled to agree on raising the U.S. debt ceiling and reducing
the deficit.  The peso advanced 1.1 percent to 457.68 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:34 p.m.  New York  time, the strongest since April 2008, from
462.57 yesterday.  “The fiscal situation in the  United States  has made the
dollar depreciate with respect to other currencies, which is
making commodities more expensive and benefiting the Chilean
peso,” Cristobal Doberti, an economist at Bice Inversiones,
said in a telephone interview from Santiago. “That’s why we are
seeing the peso break the 460 barrier, and it could reach all
the way to 455 this week if the crisis in the U.S. persists.”  Chile’s peso had the biggest increase today of the six
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “You have the peso outperforming other currencies because
of copper’s strong performance,” said Dirk Willer, head of
Latin American local markets strategy at Citigroup Inc., in a
telephone interview from New York.  Copper, which accounts for half of Chile’s exports, climbed
1.6 percent on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , its biggest
gain in almost three weeks. Workers at Chile’s Escondida copper
mine, the world’s biggest producer of the metal, continued to
strike for the fifth day today. The walkout has decreased
production by 12,000 metric tons so far and fueled speculation
supply will fall short of demand.  Chile’s one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of future rates, fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 5.55 percent as of 3:59 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  