-- 
China Pork Prices Fall for First Time Since April, Aiding Inflation Fight

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T10:22:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/china-pork-prices-fall-for-first-time-since-april-aiding-inflation-fight.html
China ’s pork prices fell last week
for the first time in three months, aiding the government’s
efforts to contain the fastest inflation in three years.  The price of the Chinese staple dropped 0.2 percent in the
week ended July 24 from the previous week as supplies increased
and demand slowed, the  Ministry of Commerce’s  said on its
website today. That was the first decline since the week ending
April 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Hu Jintao  said last week that stabilizing prices
remains policy makers’ top priority in the second half of the
year. The central bank has raised interest rates three times and
increased the reserve requirement for lenders six times in 2011
to rein in inflation, which has breached the government’s 4
percent target each month this year.  “It’s a piece of good news,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-
based economist with Societe Generale SA. “But it is still too
early to be sanguine on the inflation outlook just based on a
single week’s price change.”  Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since June 2008. Pork prices, which
jumped 57 percent, may have accounted for a fifth of the overall
increase, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists.  Societe Generale’s Yao estimates inflation of about 6.3
percent this month.  Boosting Supplies  The  central bank  has raised  interest rates  five times since
October and boosted the banks’ reserve requirements to a record
as part of Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to stem inflation and
limit the risk of asset bubbles. The government has also
announced measures to boost pork supplies, including subsidies
for hog production.  China has 200,000 metric tons of pork in reserves and may
sell the stocks at the “appropriate time” to help stabilize
prices, Ministry of Commerce spokesman Yao Jian said July 15.
Some provinces including Liaoning have already released reserves,
he said without saying when sales may take place.  Pork prices are likely to stabilize for the rest of the
year as supplies increase, Citigroup Inc. economists led by Shen Minggao said in July 21 note.  Mutton costs rose 1 percent in the week ended July 24 from
the previous week and beef gained 0.6 percent, the commerce
ministry said in today’s statement.  The National Development and Reform Commission and the
Ministry of Agriculture also publish data for meat prices.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  