-- 
China’s Baidu Jumps to Record; Analysts Lift Price Target

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-26T20:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/china-s-baidu-jumps-to-record-as-sales-guidance-beat-estimates.html
Baidu Inc.,  China ’s biggest Internet
company by market value, jumped to a record as analysts raised
their price targets for the company after its second-quarter net
income and third-quarter revenue forecast beat analysts’
estimates.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts jumped 5 percent to a
record $164.36 at 4:30 p.m. New York time, the biggest intraday
gain since June 21. They earlier reached $165.96.  Seventeen analysts raised the price target for Baidu’s ADRs
today to as much as $217, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Baidu
said yesterday second-quarter net profit almost doubled from a
year earlier to 1.63 billion yuan ($253 million), exceeding the
1.5 billion yuan average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Its guidance on revenue for the quarter ended in
September also beat analyst estimates.  “The second-quarter results beat both ours and Street
estimates by surprise,” analysts led by Hong Kong-based Cynthia
Meng at Jefferies Group Inc. wrote in a research note today.
“Baidu benefits from favorable industry fundamentals, limited
and weakening competition, as well as paid clicks volume
increase due to technology improvement.”  Baidu, the owner of China’s most popular online search
engine, said its revenue will rise to between 3.95 billion yuan
and 4.05 billion yuan in the third quarter. That compared with
the 3.81 billion yuan average forecast of 12 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Market Share  The company accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-
engine market by revenue in the second quarter, rising from 75.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Analysys International. Google’s share dropped to 18.9
percent from 19.2 percent, the researcher said.  Baidu expects to gain users by adding new products such as
a Web browser and social-networking services, Chief Executive
Officer Robin Li said in a conference call with analysts
yesterday following its earnings report.  Price targets for Baidu’s ADRs set by 26 analysts who
published forecasts averaged $184.51, Bloomberg data show. Among
a total 34 analysts surveyed, 30 rated the company’s ADRs
“buy,” two rated “hold,” and one gave it a “sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  