-- 
Chrysler Reports a $181 Million Profit After Paying Back Government Loans

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-26T18:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/chrysler-posts-181-million-profit-in-second-quarter-after-repaying-loans.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , reported second-quarter
net profit of $181 million, after excluding losses from paying
off U.S. and Canadian government loans early.  The adjusted profit compares to a net loss of $172 million
during the same time period last year, the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker said today in a statement. Including
losses from the debt repayment, Chrysler lost $370 million in
the quarter, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  paid off the
government loans during the quarter as he works to quicken the
merging of Chrysler and Fiat operations. He may announce a
merged management structure for Fiat and Chrysler this week, two
people familiar with the matter have said. They declined to be
identified discussing the restructuring before it’s announced.  “Refinancing our debt and repaying our government loans
six years early, reinforces our conviction that we are on the
right path to rebuilding this company,” Marchionne said in a
statement.  Chrysler and Fiat are “a few days” away from announcing
the combined leadership structure for the two companies, he said
today in a conference call with reporters and analysts.  Extracting Value  “It is really the way in which we ultimately will extract
the highest possible value from the alliance,” he said. Merging
the automakers, he said, will start showing “benefits pretty
quickly.”  Chrysler reiterated the automaker’s goal of turning an
annual net profit of $200 million to $500 million in 2011 after
losing $652 million last year. The 2011 forecast excludes the
$551 million in losses from paying off the government debts on
May 24, the company said.  Chief Financial Officer Richard Palmer had said Chrysler
would have costs of about $500 million associated with paying
off the loans early.  Chrysler reported a first-half adjusted net profit of $297
million and a net loss of $254 million.  Second-quarter net revenue rose 30 percent to $13.7
billion. Global sales rose 19 percent to 486,000 vehicles during
the quarter, as the automaker gained market share in the U.S.
and  Canada . Marchionne has set a target of 32 percent growth to
2 million for the year.  Chrysler shipped 999,000 vehicles, a 23 percent gain,
through the first half, the company said.  ‘In Reach’  “The 2 million number is totally in reach of Chrysler,”
Marchionne said today of the shipments in a conference call with
analysts and reporters.  U.S. sales of the Jeep and Dodge brand, helped by the
redesigned Grand Cherokee and new Durango, respectively, drove
much of Chrysler’s sales growth. Jeep sales rose 64 percent in
the second quarter compared with last year while Dodge
deliveries increased 13 percent, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Chrysler’s bottom line was further helped by a 19 percent
reduction in average customer discounts and an 11 percent
increase in average transaction price, according to TrueCar.com,
a  Santa Monica , California-based website that tracks auto sales.  The automaker was helped by improved product and tight
inventory industrywide following the March earthquakes in  Japan 
that disrupted competitors’ production, said  Jesse Toprak , an
industry analyst with TrueCar. .  ‘Best-Case Scenario’  “The best-case scenario for any automaker in terms of
earnings impact is when the transaction prices are up and when
incentives are down,” he said. “It just means the direct flow
is to the bottom line.”  Second-quarter modified operating profit, a measure that
excludes items such as taxes, interest and pension-related
costs, more than doubled to $507 million from $183 million a
year earlier, the company said.  The improvement was primarily because of increased sales
and improved pricing and inventory mix, Chrysler said.
Advertising and manufacturing costs also rose, the company said.  The company had $10.2 billion in cash on hand at the end of
June, an increase of $300 million from the end of March,
Chrysler said.  Fiat’s Stake  Marchionne is moving to raise Fiat’s ownership in Chrysler
to 58.5 percent this year after paying back U.S. and Canadian
loans and buying out the taxpayers’ shares.  Fiat, without spending any cash, gained 20 percent
ownership of Chrysler through the U.S. automaker’s 2009
bankruptcy reorganization. By exercising purchase options and
meeting certain performance milestones, Fiat has obtained 53.5
percent of Chrysler on a fully diluted basis.  Marchionne has said he expects to meet the third and final
milestone, tied to Chrysler assembling a 40 mpg vehicle in the
U.S., by the end of the year, granting it a 5 percent stake.  The United Auto Workers retiree health-care trust is
Chrysler’s other owner.  Chrysler and the UAW began formal contract negotiations
yesterday. Their current four-year accord expires Sept. 14.  “All indications so far suggest that there is at least a
shared intent to keep these organizations highly competitive in
the marketplace,” Marchionne said.  An agreement needs to include workers sharing cost risks
with the company, he said.  “This remains the key objective,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  