-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Says Clock Ticking for U.S., European Policy Makers on Debt

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-26T15:50:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/clock-is-ticking-for-u-s-europe-lagarde.html
Christine Lagarde , the new head of
the  International Monetary Fund , urged U.S. policy makers to
quickly agree on a fiscal plan and avoid default, while warning
Europeans that they are also under pressure to implement their
own measures to alleviate the debt crisis.  “They don’t have the luxury of time, there is an
expectation that things now have to happen and have to be
delivered,” Lagarde, speaking in New York, said of Europeans.
In the U.S. “the clock is irremediably ticking and people have
to try to find the appropriate solution,” she said.  Sovereign debt is one of three major challenges to the
world economy cited by Lagarde, along with growth and social
instability. European policy makers last week agreed to new aid
for  Greece  and widened the scope and power of their bailout
fund, while in the U.S., Republicans and Democrats have been
unable to find a fiscal compromise to avert a possible default
next month.  Speaking three weeks after starting as the IMF managing
director, Lagarde said “there is still a level of uncertainty”
in markets about the firewall Europeans tried to erect against
the debt crisis. That’s because the agreement is “complicated”
and because “there is still work to be done,” she said.  “What from the IMF point of view remains to be done is
clearly implementation” by Greece of measures attached to a
first 110-billion euro ($159 billion) package, while governments
that signed off on the new rescue plan last week must act as
well, she said in her speech at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , a non-partisan research organization and publisher.  Default ‘Very Serious’  A default or a significant downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt
by credit agencies would be a very, very, very serious event”
for the U.S. as well as for the global economy, she warned.  In the written text of her remarks, Lagarde said that while
measures to narrow the deficit in general reduce growth in the
short run, credible measures would have a limited effect on
demand in the U.S. At the same time, because the U.S. faces the
risk of a “another jobless recovery,” the fiscal consolidation
should not happen too fast, she said in the prepared remarks.  Lagarde, 55, was named the first female head of IMF last
month to take on  Europe ’s debt crisis and balance the demands of
fast-growing emerging nations with the needs of a recovering
developed world.  The former French finance minister hinted that she may seek
more money for the IMF. The decision by the group of 20 nations
in 2009 to triple IMF resources “was exactly the right move,”
she said. “The question is do we still have the level of
resources that is now needed and appropriate to address the
crises?” she asked. Later she added that the institution ‘could
do with more.”  She said this issue would be revisited “in the not-so-
distant future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  New York  at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  