-- 
Clorox Board Rejects Icahn’s Raised $10.7 Billion Offer

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-07-26T21:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/clorox-board-rejects-icahn-s-revised-10-7-billion-offer-as-inadequate-.html
Clorox Co. (CLX) , the maker of the
namesake bleach, rejected  Carl Icahn ’s raised $10.7 billion
takeover bid, saying the offer is “inadequate.”  The board unanimously agreed that the revised bid
undervalues the company, Oakland, California-based Clorox said
today in a statement.  Icahn, the company’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent
stake, increased his offer to $80 a share on July 20, after
Clorox rejected his earlier bid of about $10.2 billion, or
$76.50. Clorox on July 18 also adopted a shareholder rights plan
to guard against a takeover.  “If Icahn’s serious about it, now he’s got to put his
money where his mouth is,” Jason Gere, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in  New York , said in an interview. “It’s not
surprising that Clorox is putting up a fight.”  Clorox rose 19 cents to $73.49 at 4:55 p.m. after the close
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company’s
products include Glad trash bags, Fresh Step cat litter, Burt’s
Bees skin-care products, Kingsford charcoal and Green Works
natural cleansers.  “Our board has carefully considered Mr. Icahn’s revised
proposal and concluded that it is inadequate and unlikely to be
completed,” Gary Michael, lead director of Clorox’s board, said
today in the statement.  Strategic Buyers  Susan Gordon , a spokeswoman for Icahn, said the investor
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  and affiliates will put $5.2 billion,
including their Clorox shares, in escrow to demonstrate the
credibility of the offer, Icahn said July 20 in a filing. The
investor has urged directors to seek offers from strategic
buyers including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)   “If we buy it, we might split it up and possibly keep one
of the divisions,” Icahn said in the interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart with Carol Massar and Matt Miller,”
declining to specify which unit he would retain.  Clorox cut its annual profit forecast in May, citing
higher-than-anticipated commodity costs and a challenging
economy. It predicted earnings per share from continuing
operations of as much as $3.95, compared with a previous
projection of as much as $4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.netundefined  