-- 
Clorox Investor Sues to Force Buyout Talks With Carl Icahn

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T17:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/clorox-investor-seeks-to-bar-use-of-poison-pill-against-carl-icahn-bid.html
Clorox Co. (CLX) , the bleach-maker that
rejected a buyout offer from  Carl Icahn  last week, was sued by a
shareholder seeking to prevent the company from using a “poison
pill” defense to thwart takeover bids.  Clorox directors are obligated to hold talks on the Icahn
proposal and work to obtain the highest offer for the company,
the City of Dearborn Heights Police and Fire Retirement System
said in a complaint made public today in Delaware Chancery Court
in Wilmington. The pension system seeks a court order barring
Clorox’s use of a newly adopted shareholder-rights plan.  “Not only is the Icahn proposal plainly negotiable, but it
contemplates and encourages the Clorox board to explore what
alternative transactions might be available from Clorox’s
strategic competitors,” the pension system said.  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent stake,
increased his offer for the company to about $10.7 billion on
July 20 after a previous bid was rejected. Icahn told Bloomberg
Television last week that he may break up the company if his bid
succeeds. He has urged Clorox directors to seek offers from
buyers including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)   Clorox, based in Oakland,  California , adopted a
shareholder-rights plan after Icahn’s initial offer, a decision
the billionaire investor called “reprehensible.” The plan would
allow current investors to buy additional shares if an entity
acquired more than 10 percent of the company in a transaction
not approved by the board.  ‘Stockholder Value’  The plan, designed to make takeovers prohibitively
expensive, would “impede maximization of stockholder value,”
the retirement system said in its complaint.  “In refusing duly to consider the Icahn proposal, or other
alternatives, the board is not acting in good faith and is
deriving an improper personal benefit in impeding the sale of
Clorox,” the retirement system said.  “The company believes the lawsuit is without merit and
intends to vigorously defend itself,” Kathryn Caulfield, a
spokeswoman for Clorox, said in an e-mail.  Clorox rose 47 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $73.16 at 1:10
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Icahn is
offering $80 a share. The company’s products include Glad trash
bags, Fresh Step cat litter and Burt’s Bees skin-care products.  The case is City of Dearborn Heights Police and Fire
Retirement System v. Knauss, CA6709, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 