-- 
CLP Agrees to Pay $745 Million for 17% Stake in Nuclear Power Plant

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T09:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/clp-agrees-to-pay-745-million-for-17-stake-in-nuclear-power-plant.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s
biggest electricity producer, will pay 4.8 billion yuan ($745
million) for a 17 percent stake in a nuclear power plant in
southern China.  CLP will make an upfront payment and further investment in
stages based on construction progress, the Hong Kong-based
company said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News today. The
utility announced the stake purchase yesterday, without
providing the investment figure. Total spending on the 6,000-
megawatt Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station in Guangdong will be 70
billion yuan, funded by equity and loans, according to CLP.  CLP is increasing spending on nuclear power even after
 Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi crisis, the worst atomic disaster
since Chernobyl in 1986, prompted  China  to halt approval of new
projects. The utility has also acquired non-nuclear assets in
 Taiwan ,  Australia , India,  Thailand  and the  Philippines  to
counter government curbs on returns from its power business in
Hong Kong.  The Yangjiang payment will be financed from reserves and
existing debt facilities, CLP said today. The plant, about 220
kilometers (124 miles) from Hong Kong, will start operating in
phases from 2013 to 2017, according to yesterday’s statement.  S&P Rating  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services won’t change its rating
on CLP because of the deal, which follows the acquisition of 20
percent of Eastern Star Gas Ltd.’s permits in the Gunnedah basin
in Australia for A$284 million ($310 million) on July 18.  “We expect CLP Holdings to have sufficient financial
flexibility to finance both investments without significantly
increasing its gearing ratio,” S&P said in a statement today.  CLP and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  in December agreed to buy retail
electricity assets from New South Wales for A$5.3 billion,
outbidding  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  to gain millions of customers in
Australia’s most-populous state, the state said at the time.  Construction of Yangjiang started in 2008, according to
yesterday’s statement. CLP signed a cooperation agreement with
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Co. in July 2010 for the 17
percent stake. Other investors include Guangdong Yudean Group
Co. and CGN Phase I Private Equity Fund Co., CLP said then.  China Guangdong is also CLP’s partner in the Daya Bay
nuclear power station in southern China.  China’s Nuclear Strategy  China continues to promote the development of nuclear power
even after it stopped approving new plants. On July 21 it
connected an experimental reactor to the electricity grid that
produces less radioactive waste than current designs, according
to Xu Mi, chief engineer at the experimental fast reactor
program of the China Institute of Atomic Energy.  The Hong Kong-based company has begun collecting sun
irradiation data at Indian wind farms and may invest in its
first solar project in the nation next year, Mahesh Makhija,
director of renewables at CLP’s  India  unit, said on June 23.  CLP’s finances are likely to “meaningfully improve” from
2013, when its power projects in India are fully commissioned
and the integration of its New South Wales assets is largely
completed, S&P said. The company’s adjusted ratio of funds from
operations to total debt may fall to about 25 percent in 2011 to
2012, from 30.8 percent at the end of 2010, the ratings company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  