-- 
Congress Wants a Race to the Bottom on Concealed Handguns: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-26T00:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/congress-wants-a-national-race-to-the-bottom-on-concealed-handguns-view.html
Congress is moving ahead on
legislation designed to increase the number of handguns on
American streets and lower the standards imposed on those
who wish to conceal and carry those weapons.  The  National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity  bill would
require all states to allow out-of-state visitors to
conceal and carry firearms as long as the visitors are
permitted to do so in their home states. The relatively
stringent conceal-and-carry laws of  California ,  Illinois 
and  New York , for example, would be rendered obsolete. So-
called shall-issue states, where authorities have little
discretion over permits (and thus “shall issue” them to
anyone who meets the criteria), would become the new norm.
The state with the most lax laws would establish a lowest
common denominator for the nation.  The  Police Foundation  says the bill, if enacted, will
endanger the lives of police officers, who would have no
way of distinguishing legitimate out-of-state gun permits
from fraudulent ones. The  Major Cities Chiefs Association ,
another police group, calls the legislation “dangerous and
unconstitutional.” Yet even those familiar with the state
of gun politics in the U.S. might be surprised to learn
that, despite such opposition, the bill is already co-
sponsored by the majority of the  House of Representatives .
South Dakota Republican  John Thune  says he will introduce
similar legislation in the Senate in coming weeks.  So the  National Rifle Association  appears poised for
another victory. The gun lobby ingeniously marries the
desires of a manufacturing sector to the diverse interests
of hunters, sportsmen, gun enthusiasts and citizens fearful
for their safety -- while criminals, including Mexican drug
gangs, hitch a ride on the organization’s maximalist
positions.  Because the gun lobby has succeeded in having
government data on firearms restricted, and because the
market in private sales at flea markets and gun shows is
unregulated, the precise number of gun sales in the U.S. is
unknown. But the decline in gun ownership -- down from more
than half of households in the late 1970s to one-third of
households today -- makes the business imperative clear: to
maintain profits, the industry must sell more guns to fewer
people.  Concealed-carry laws enable manufacturers to appeal to
old customers with new wares, ranging from the Beretta PX4
(“well-suited for concealed carry,” according to the
manufacturer’s  website ) to the Ruger SR40c (“another strong
concealed carry option from Ruger”). Weighing only a pound
and a half -- Colt’s Single Action Army Revolver, by
contrast, weighs 40 ounces -- such “subcompact” guns are
easily hidden and cost less than $600.  Do concealed-carry laws lead to increased gun
violence? The  Violence Policy Center  counts 319 people
killed by concealed-handgun permit-holders, although it’s
hard to know what role, if any, the permits played in those
killings. Crime is complex. But common sense needn’t be:
More hidden guns increase the potential for violence, and
that can’t be good.  Lawmakers representing gun-friendly regions have used
states’-rights arguments to fend off health-care reform,
federal education policy and more. For the sake of
consistency, those same lawmakers should avoid imposing
their concealed-carry mandate on states that don’t want it.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 