-- 
Copper Gains as Strike Enters Fifth Day at Escondida, World’s Biggest Mine

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-26T18:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/copper-rises-a-first-day-in-five-as-strike-fuels-supply-concern.html
Copper rose the most in more than
two weeks on speculation that a strike at the world’s biggest
mine may worsen a global supply shortage.  A strike at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida mine entered a
fifth day as Chilean labor authorities prepared to mediate talks
between union and company officials. The stoppage has cost about
12,000 metric tons in lost output, said Roberto Arriagada, a
union director. World consumption is set to exceed production by
377,000 tons this year, the International Copper Study Group has
forecast.  The strike “just adds to people’s preconceived idea that
there is a tightness in supply,” Jaspar Crawley, a broker at
Triland Metals Ltd., one of the 12 companies on the floor of the
 London  Metal Exchange, said today in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for September delivery gained 7.15 cents, or
1.6 percent, to close at $4.478 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the
Comex in New York, the biggest gain for a most-active contract
since July 7.  The metal has gained 39 percent in the past year, reaching
a record $4.6575 on Feb. 15, as mining companies struggled to
keep pace with rising consumption.  “In addition to the strike, copper is mostly benefiting
from a weaker dollar,”  Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview
Financial in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. The
weakness in the greenback makes the metal more attractive to
“foreign buyers,” he said.  The dollar declined against all of its major counterparts,
falling to the lowest level since May 5 against a six-currency
basket, as U.S. politicians struggled to reach an agreement on
raising the nation’s debt limit and reducing the deficit.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months added $165,
or 1.7 percent, to $9,820 a metric ton ($4.45 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  