-- 
Cows-for-Bride Inflation Spurs Cattle Theft Among Mundari in South Sudan

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/cows-for-bride-inflation-spurs-cattle-theft-among-mundari-in-south-sudan.html
Emmanuel Gambiri said an educated
wife in his cattle-herding Mundari tribe in South  Sudan  costs 50
cows, 60 goats and 30,000 Sudanese pounds ($12,000) in cash.  At that price, some men who otherwise can’t afford a bride
turn to stealing livestock in order to buy a wife and gain
status, said Gambiri, citing a friend who is now a cattle
rustler. A surge in “bride price” has fueled cattle raids in
which more than 2,000 people are killed each year.  In his village of Terekeka, in the state of Central
Equatoria, Gambiri recalls a time when wives cost as little as
12 cows and tribal chiefs wielded enough power to call the
parents and set an affordable bride price.  Today, he says, it’s a different story.  Even as South Sudan celebrated its independence July 9, a
two-decade civil war has left scars. The war eroded traditional
authority and farming practices, leaving a generation of young
men who have grown up either in the army, militias or refugee
camps.  “These boys now don’t know how to cultivate. All they know
how to manage well is an AK-47,” said Gambiri, 37, a program
manager for a non-profit organization, in an interview.  In rural communities, where livestock is the measure of
wealth, the ripple effects of the surge in bride prices pose one
of the biggest social and economic challenges for the world’s
newest nation. About half of South Sudan’s 8 million people live
on less than $1 a day and 85 percent of the adult population is
illiterate, according to the UN.  Cow as Currency  South Sudan has only 40 miles of paved road, compared with
almost 100,000 miles in the north. Amid such poor
infrastructure, cattle are the most valuable commodity,
supplying dairy and beef.  “In such an economy your stock market is just that:
livestock,” said Calestous Juma, a professor of international
development at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of
Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “There is little to
exchange except that one currency on the hoof.”  With about 20 breeds, South Sudan has a cattle population
of 11.7 million, as well as 12.4 million goats and 12.1 million
sheep, according to the UN’s Rome-based Food and Agriculture
Organization. That ranks South Sudan as having the sixth-largest
livestock herd in Africa, with an asset value estimated at the
equivalent of $2.6 billion.  In the countryside, a cow can fetch between 400 and 500
pounds ($150-190). In the capital of Juba, cows cost 1,000 and
1,500 pounds ($375-560) a head, and bride price is between 150
cows and 400 cows.  Bidding War  Since the end of a  civil war , in which almost 2 million
people died, thousands of men have returned home looking for
wives. Greater competition has triggered a bidding war.  Bride prices have surged 44 percent since 2005, when a
U.S.-brokered peace accord came into force, and currently half
of the male population in rural areas can’t afford a bride,
according to an unpublished  United Nations  report obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Frustrated by the prohibitive cost of getting married, some
aspiring grooms go into debt. Others join armed gangs of as many
as 50 men that plot raids. Two-thirds of respondents said men
had to raid livestock to pay the bride price, according to the
UN-Norwegian People’s Aid study that interviewed 1,284 men and
1,392 women between January and March last year in five of 10
state capitals.  The study found that today’s cattle raiders are poor,
uneducated youths who were born in the shadow of the armed
conflict between the Muslim north and the south, where
traditional religions and Christianity predominate.  350,000 Stolen Cows  About 350,000 cattle are stolen a year, costing farmers 200
million Sudanese pounds in lost revenue, according to a 2010
study carried out by SNV, a non-profit organization, for the
 Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries . In 2009, about 2,500
people were killed in cattle raids, the study estimated.  At least 100,000 marriages take place each year at an
average of 30 head of cattle, generating demand for 3 million
head of cattle, the report estimated.  The casualties from cattle raids are often owners who put
up resistance or villagers caught in the line of fire, leading
to a cycle of reprisals and tribal violence.  Natural disasters such as drought or famine can also
trigger cattle theft.  David Gressly, acting principal deputy special
representative of the UN secretary-general for South Sudan, said
he is aware of “no evidence” that criminality is caused by
young men’s desire get married.  Bride Price Inflation  The driving factors for bride prices, on the rise since the
late 1990s, have to do with the financial resources of the
prospective groom’s family, the educational level of the young
woman, the size of the prospective bride’s family or the
political connections of the young man, Gressly said in response
to e-mailed questions.  The causal link between high bride price and cattle theft
varies and can only be made in some areas of the country, such
as the Lakes State mostly populated by Dinka, the country’s
largest ethnic group, according to Peter Biar Ajak, an economist
at the  World Bank  in  Washington .  “Cattle theft is driven by underemployment of youth who
have a lot of time on their hands and a human desire to use
their youth energy in accumulating wealth,” he said in an e-
mail.  On May 24, some members of the UN Security Council flew an
hour north the capital Juba by helicopter to visit a Dinka
village where the men re-enacted enthusiastically a cattle raid
as a Western-style shootout with goats standing in for cows.  Dinka Tribe  For the  Dinka , who traditionally herd cattle when it’s dry
and grow millet during the rainy seasons, livestock used to be
the only currency used to buy wives. In the most rural areas,
where boys herding cattle use burned cow dung on their skins as
mosquito repellent, this is still the case.  Dinka men, who are among the tallest in  Africa , value women
for their beauty, social rank and education. A daughter of a
chief or a girl with a high-school diploma, for example, will
cost more. When courting, the men dye their hair red with cow
urine.  A practice that goes back 4,000 years to the cradle of
civilization in ancient Mesopotamia, bride price prevails in 90
percent of sub-Saharan Africa, where marriage payments are
typically  four times  the annual household income, says Siwan
Anderson, a development economist at the University of British
Columbia in  Vancouver .  ‘Just Want Cows’  Though Dinka men are allowed to marry as many women as they
want, most can only afford one wife. Traditionally, the bride
price is paid by the groom´s family to consolidate an alliance
between families from different clans, and men seek to marry
outside of their clan to extend their lineage.  By custom, the groom’s family distributes cows to members
of the bride’s family, down to uncles and brothers. That pattern
has changed. Survival considerations now shape the rules, and
the bride’s parents tend to keep the cattle.  “If a parent has 15 children and three of their daughters
are old enough to marry, how else will the parents feed the rest
of the children?” said Gambiri. “In rural areas, if you bring
them cash, they will say, ‘No, we just want the cows’.”  Bride price is linked to societies where women play a key
role in agriculture, especially where rudimentary farm tools
such as a hoe are used, according to Anderson, who wrote a 2007
paper on the economics of bride price. When a husband’s family
pays for a bride, they gain ownership of her labor as well as
ability to bear children.  Violence or Security?  Detractors say bride price exacerbates poverty by forcing
young men to borrow -- or steal -- and exposes women to domestic
violence because they are seen as bought and paid for by their
husbands. Defenders say the practice is steeped in tradition and
confers status and security to women, much like a diamond
engagement ring in Western society.  Almost two-thirds of Ugandan women in rural communities
said the drawbacks of bride price -- abuse, lack of education,
impoverishment -- outweigh the benefits, according to a  2009
report  carried out among 257 women in eastern  Uganda , which
borders with South Sudan.  “More and more, bride price is seen as cementing gender
inequality, giving women little power and turning them into
commodities to be passed from family to family,” Janet Otte, a
field researcher on the study, said in an interview.  The death knell for bride price will likely be economic
development and urbanization, according to Anderson. As more
pastoral nomads settle into cities, roles will be reversed and
the financial value shifts from the woman to the man.  In time, a father might find that instead of receiving a
payment in cows, he will be expected to pay a dowry to find his
daughter a suitable husband.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  or
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net :
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net  