-- 
Criminal Checks for U.S. Job Seekers Defended by Business Group

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-07-26T18:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/criminal-checks-for-u-s-job-seekers-defended-by-business-group.html
Limiting criminal background checks
by employers as a way to speed hiring and cut unemployment will
lead to unsafe workplaces, a national business group said as the
U.S. weighs restrictions on the practice.  “We understand the frustration some have in finding
employment, especially in a time of national economic stress,”
the  National Retail Federation , the world’s largest retail trade
group, told the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission today in
a letter. “Attempts to ease unemployment frustrations”
shouldn’t “come at the expense of keeping people and business
safe from physical and financial harm.”  The commission is considering revisions to guidelines on
criminal background checks, which took effect in 1987 under
President  Ronald Reagan . The agency might bar employers from
using old arrest or conviction records when reviewing an
applicant. The agency held a hearing today on arrest and
conviction records as a barrier to employment.  Since the rules took effect, “many employers are routinely
excluding all job applicants with criminal records from
consideration, no matter how minor or dated their offenses,”
said Maurice Emsellem, policy co-director of the National
Employment Law Project. “Many employers have gone way too far,
shutting out highly qualified applicants.”  Commissioner Stuart Ishimaru said criminal checks have a
“disparate impact on certain groups.” Unemployment among
blacks is 16 percent, according to the New York-based National
Employment Law Project. The U.S. jobless rate in June was 9.1
percent, the Labor Department reported.  “The fact, is I think we need to act, and we need to act
quickly, and we don’t necessarily need to do it one bite,” he
said. “I hope we can make progress and do it soon.”  Barry Hartstein, a lawyer representing employers at Littler
Mendelson PC in  Chicago , said changing guidelines for background
checks will add to the regulatory uncertainty that is hindering
businesses, he said.  “The last thing we want to do is create a regulatory
quagmire,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  