-- 
Crystal Sugar Gains 20% in Brazil on Limited Supply, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-26T09:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/crystal-sugar-gains-20-in-brazil-on-limited-supply-cepea-says.html
The price of crystal sugar in
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer, climbed 20 percent this
month as supplies remain limited, according to Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group.  Crystal sugar, which accounts for 68 percent of the
sweetener sold within Brazil, was at 68.38 reais ($43.97) a 50-
kilogram (110-pound) bag on July 22, up from 56.78 reais on June
30, data from Cepea compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Supply remains relatively low in the  spot market ,” Cepea
analyst Heloisa Lee Burnquist said in a report dated yesterday.
“Prices have been moving up on a day-to-day basis since mid-
June.”  Higher prices stem from limited supplies, Burnquist said,
adding that some mills were stocking up part of the production.
While demand has decreased, prices were unaffected due to tight
availability, she said in the report.  Raw-sugar futures traded in  New York  rose 19 percent from
June 30 to July 22, while the white, or refined, variety
advanced 10 percent in London.  Sales of crystal sugar in Brazil’s domestic market last
week were on average 7 percent more profitable than exports of
the sweetener, Cepea calculations showed. Domestic sales were on
average 1 percent more profitable in the previous week,
according to the research group.  Reduced Output  Sugar output in Center South, Brazil’s main producing
region, fell 19 percent from the start of the harvest to July 1,
data from industry group Unica showed. Output for the current
season will drop for the first time in six years to 32.4 million
metric tons, Unica estimates.  Crystal sugar sales last week were 54 percent more
profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the type blended into
gasoline, and 67 percent more advantageous than sales of the
hydrous variety, used in flex-fuel cars, Cepea said. Both
ethanol and sugar are made from sugar cane in Brazil.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined sugar futures traded on NYSE
Liffe in  London  call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 