-- 
Czech Interest-Rate Increases May Be Delayed by Euro Crisis, Tomsik Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-07-27T14:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/czech-interest-rate-increases-may-be-delayed-by-euro-crisis-tomsik-says.html
Czech policy makers may be able to
delay raising  interest rates  as the euro area’s debt crisis
lowers the outlook for borrowing costs in the region, said
Vladimir Tomsik, a central banker in Prague.  Money “market rates are affected by the debt problems in
some euro countries and this has pushed the Euribor outlook
down,” central bank Vice Governor Tomsik said. “This may be
one of the reasons for some delay in raising interest rates in
the  Czech Republic .” Euribor is the euro interbank offered
rate.  The first increase in the record-low 0.75 percent two-week
repo rate since 2008 may not happen until next year, Tomsik said
in an interview on July 25. Accelerating Czech economic growth
being driven by exports, rather than domestic consumption, also
limits pressure for higher rates, he said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the benchmark rate
unchanged as policy makers across  Europe  raised interest rates
to curb inflation. The  European Central Bank  increased borrowing
costs for a second time this year in July, raising its main rate
to 1.5 percent and widening its spread above the Czech rate,
which may make the eastern European country’s assets less
attractive to investors.  Forward rate agreements locking in three-month euro-area
interest rates in nine months time dropped to 1.7 percent today
from 2.1 percent on May 5, when the Czech central bank published
its latest economic forecasts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Eastern Rates Rise  Rising inflationary pressures have prompted central banks
across Europe to boost borrowing costs this year. Poland has
increased the benchmark rate by one percentage point to 4.5
percent since January, while policy makers in  Hungary  raised the
main rate to 6 percent by January from 5.25 percent in November.  The Czech central bank’s May forecast signaled interest
rates may rise as early as in August, said Tomsik, 37. Rate
setters in Prague will meet on Aug. 4 and publish new forecasts
as they debate when to tighten monetary policy. The central bank
will probably raise its estimate for 2011 economic growth to
about 2 percent from 1.5 percent, Tomsik said.  “Until now, we have said the turning point may come in the
third or the fourth quarter,” Tomsik said. “But in the current
situation, when I consider the effect of the lower outlook for
the euro-area’s market rates, the turning point may be pushed
back.”  Investors’ Rate Bets  Investors scaled back bets on higher Czech interest rates,
with forward-rate agreements locking in three-month interest
rates in six months dropping to 1.41 percent as of 3:50 p.m. in
 Prague  from 1.62 percent on May 5. Forwards locking in three-
month rates in nine months dropped to 1.52 percent from 1.60
percent yesterday.  Gross domestic product will probably grow faster than the
bank predicted two months ago as German economic expansion
boosts demand for Czech products including Skoda Auto vehicles
and car parts.  The latest GDP outlook was based on an assumption of about
2.5 percent economic expansion in Germany, which buys about half
of Czech exports to the euro area, said Tomsik, who has voted
with the board’s majority to keep the main rate stable at all
meetings since September while at least one policy maker backed
an increase.  ‘Taming Inflationary Pressures’  “As  Germany  is now forecast to grow one percentage point
faster, that means the Czech economy should grow about a half-
percentage point faster,” he said. “The question I’m asking is
whether this higher growth is pro-inflationary or not.” Growth
is driven by exports, “which is supporting koruna appreciation
and thus taming inflationary pressures.”  The central bank’s models use an analyst consensus forecast
for German growth, he said.  Czech inflation unexpectedly slowed in June to less than
the central bank’s 2 percent target, dropping to 1.8 percent
from 2 percent in May. Consumer-price expectations are now
“well-anchored,” Tomsik said, adding that inflation stripped
of the impact of an expected increase in the value-added  tax
rate  will probably remain near the bank’s target.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some saying economic recovery may stoke price
pressures and that warrants higher borrowing costs now. Two
policy makers voted for a quarter-point rate increase on June
23.  “I can’t rule out the turning point will come this year,
nor can I rule out that it will come next year.” Tomsik said.
“With the degree of uncertainty we’re facing at the moment,
nothing can be ruled out.”  -- Editors: Balazs Penz, Andrew Langley, James Gomez  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  