-- 
TD Bank Sued by Trustee Liquidating Rothstein Law Firm

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-07-26T22:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/td-bank-sued-by-trustee-liquidating-rothstein-firm-for-aiding-ponzi-scheme.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  was sued by
the bankruptcy trustee liquidating Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA
for allegedly assisting in a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme  run by
the  Florida   law firm ’s former chairman.  Scott Rothstein pleaded guilty in January 2010 to five
counts of racketeering,  money laundering  and  wire fraud ,
admitting he sold investors interests in bogus settlements in
fake sexual-harassment and whistleblower cases. He was sentenced
to 50 years in prison.  The bank’s authorized agents let Rothstein use its name,
facilities and accounts to deceive investors, the trustee,
Herbert Stettin, said. He accused the bank of ignoring “red
flags” and letting Rothstein open accounts and transfer “huge
sums” of money among them.  “TD Bank played a central role in this massive fraud by
giving Rothstein’s settlement program the appearance of
legitimacy,” Stettin said in a filing yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  The firm collapsed after other attorneys there said they
found evidence that Rothstein was running an illegal side
business. Rothstein said he used the law firm to run a scheme
that financed his lavish lifestyle and let him buy political
influence.  ‘Aggressively Defend’  “We just received the complaint yesterday and are
currently reviewing it,” Mohammed Nakhooda, a spokesman for the
Toronto-based bank, said today in an e-mail. “TD Bank plans to
aggressively defend against this lawsuit.”  Creditors of Rothstein Rosenfeldt filed a petition Nov. 10,
2009, sending the defunct law firm to bankruptcy. Stettin was
appointed Chapter 11 trustee that month, court papers show.  The bank was a “linchpin” in Rothstein’s scheme and
disregarded numerous red flags, including hundreds of millions
of dollars that moved out of law firm trust accounts, investors
said in a complaint filed in November 2009 in state court in
 Fort Lauderdale . The investors accused the bank of breach of
fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting fraud, and negligent
misrepresentation.  The investors, known in court papers as the “Razorback
creditors,” with more than $150 million in losses, seek
“extensive relief” from Rothstein and about 27 co-conspirator
defendants, according to court papers. The suit is scheduled for
trial in March 2012, according to a May court filing.  The lawsuit is Stettin v. TD Bank NA, 11-ap-2368, and the
bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein, 09-34791, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale). The state
court case is Razorback Funding LLC v. Rothstein, 09062943,
Circuit Court, 17th Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 