-- 
Daily Mail Earnings to Rise on Growth Outside Newspaper Unit

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T16:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/daily-mail-earnings-to-rise-on-growth-outside-newspaper-unit-2-.html
Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO) , the
publisher of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper, predicted
“modest” growth in adjusted earnings this year as increases in
its business services unit outweigh declines in advertising.  Third-quarter revenue was 495 million pounds ($809
million), London-based Daily Mail said in a statement. That’s a
2.6 percent decline from 508 million pounds a year earlier.
Excluding the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and currency
exchange rates, sales rose 2 percent, the company said.  Underlying growth in business-to-business operations, which
include conference and exhibition services, helped offset a
decline in newspaper and advertising sales. Advertising revenue
on an adjusted basis dropped 7 percent from a year ago, amid a
“nervous consumer and retail market,” the company said.  The  Daily Mail ’s circulation declined 4.2 percent this year
through June, according to researcher ABC. Overall circulation
of daily newspapers in the U.K. dropped 4.2 percent.  Daily Mail shares fell 1.3 percent to 420.3 pence in London
trading today. The stock has dropped 27 percent this year.  Business-to-Business  The company’s business-to-business unit sales were 229
million pounds, compared with 234 million pounds a year earlier.
Adjusted for currency changes, acquisitions and divestitures, it
represents an 8 percent increase, the company said. Consumer
media, which includes the Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday
newspapers, fell to 266 million pounds from 274 million pounds.  The Daily Mail raised the cover price for its weekday
edition to 55 pence from 50 pence this month, the first increase
in more than three years as the newspaper works to counter
declining advertising revenue.  The Mail on Sunday was the second-biggest UK Sunday title,
behind News Corp.’s News of the World, which closed this month
in the wake of phone-hacking allegations, according to the ABC
report ending in June. Advertisers boycotted the News of the
World after allegations that reporters had tapped the voicemails
of murder victims and their families and paid police officers
for stories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  