-- 
Daley Says Boehner’s Debt Proposal Won’t Pass in Congress

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-26T21:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/daley-says-boehner-s-debt-proposal-won-t-pass-in-congress-1-.html
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-stage plan to
raise the federal debt ceiling won’t pass Congress.  Businesses need “certainty” coming out of the debt
debate, Daley said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.
Boehner’s plan would force another fight over the debt ceiling
next year as both parties are gearing up for the 2012 elections.  “With the difficult economy, the worst thing we can have,
once again, is another one of these crises,” Daley said. “The
fact is that bill is not going to pass.”  Daley spoke a short time after the White House Office of
Management and Budget said President Barack Obama’s advisers
would recommend he veto the Boehner legislation if it reaches
his desk. He said Republicans in Congress “should not
underestimate” the veto threat.  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. won’t be able to
pay all its obligations unless Congress raises the $14.3
trillion debt limit by Aug. 2. Obama said in a nationally
televised address last night the U.S. risks a “deep economic
crisis” if the government defaults.  While Boehner, an Ohio Republican, seeks to round up votes
to win approval for his plan in the Republican-controlled House,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, is seeking
support for his alternative that would provide a $2.4 trillion
debt-ceiling increase, enough to get through the 2012 elections.  Senate Plan  Daley said he expects Reid will win enough support to get
Senate passage. Daley also said Obama won’t seek to use his
executive authority to unilaterally the raise debt ceiling,
saying that is “not a realistic answer.”  The former JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive said a rise in
U.S. Treasuries is a “good sign” that markets aren’t
overreacting to the political impasse over raising the federal
debt ceiling. “Maybe certain investors have more faith in our
political system than some people in this town,” he said.  Treasuries rose, sending the 10-year yield down five basis
points to 2.96 percent, as speculation lawmakers will reach
agreement to lift the debt limit boosted investor demand at
today’s auction of $35 billion in two-year notes.  The securities, which will be issued a day before the limit
is reached, drew a yield of 0.417 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 0.414 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers.  Dollar Declines  Still, the dollar depreciated against all 16 major peers at
4 p.m. in  New York , stocks fell and the cost of insuring  U.S.
debt  rose to a 17-month high.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,331.94 and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 0.4 percent.
Credit-default swaps on U.S. debt increased two basis point to
58 basis points.  Daley said it would be “incomprehensible” for Congress
not to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2.  In a separate interview on CNBC, Daley said he’s
“confident” that a government default won’t happen.  “I think that there’s reason for concern because we are in
the final week before Aug. 2,” Daley said on CNBC. “But I have
eternal optimism.”  Even so, he suggested in the Bloomberg interview the White
House may soon reveal its contingency plans should the debt
limit measure fail and the government’s obligations exceed its
available funds. In that case, the government would have to
choose which bills to pay and which to leave unpaid. So far, the
White House has not disclosed priorities for payments.  “We will follow what has been the plan that every other
administration, Democrat or Republican, has prepared,” Daley
said. “The Treasury secretary will speak to that at some point
as we get closer to the day and lay out exactly what that
process will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 