-- 
Daley Says Chamber Support of Boehner Plan ‘Political Statement’

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/daley-calls-u-s-chamber-s-backing-of-boehner-plan-political-.html
White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley dismissed the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s backing of a
House Republican plan to raise the debt limit in two stages as a
“political statement” by the nation’s biggest business lobby.  Daley said he was surprised the group wrote lawmakers
yesterday urging them to support the measure proposed by House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, because Chamber
President  Tom Donohue  didn’t tell him about it during a
conversation earlier in the day.  “He said he was sending a letter to the Hill to basically
encourage them to come to an agreement, and didn’t indicate to
me that he was supportive of a deal that wasn’t going to pass
the Senate,” Daley said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I guess it’s a political statement by the
chamber.”  The chamber’s move adds to the tensions between the
lobbying group and the White House, even after a series of
overtures the administration has made this year to improve
relations with it and the business community. Included in that
effort was President Barack Obama’s decision to appoint Daley, a
former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive, as chief of staff and
having him serve as a liaison to business.  A spokeswoman for the Washington-based  chamber  refused to
comment on private conversations between Daley and Donohue.  ‘Viable’ Legislation  “Our priority is ensuring the debt ceiling is increased,”
the spokeswoman, Blair Latoff, said. “At this time, there isn’t
another viable piece of legislation out there. Supporting
Speaker Boehner’s proposal does not preclude us from supporting
others. However, we need a solution fast and Congress needs to
act immediately.”  Obama and lawmakers are struggling to come up with a deal
that raises the country’s debt limit and tackles future spending
ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline to avoid a potential default.  While expressing confidence that Congress ultimately will
act, Daley suggested the administration may soon reveal its
contingency plans should no deal be reached on the debt limit
and the government’s obligations exceed its available funds. In
that case, the government would have to choose which bills to
pay and which to leave unpaid.  “We will follow what has been the plan that every other
administration, Democrat or Republican, has prepared,” Daley,
62, said. “The Treasury secretary will speak to that at some
point as we get closer to the day and lay out exactly what that
process will be.”  Administration Opposition  Daley reiterated the Obama administration’s opposition to
the Boehner proposal. Earlier yesterday the White House Office
of Management and Budget said Obama’s advisers would urge the
president to veto the measure should it reach the president’s
desk.  Daley said there was little chance of that. “The fact is,
that bill is not going to pass,” he said.  Boehner’s proposal is intended to make $1.2 trillion in
spending cuts in the first phase and up to $1.8 trillion in a
second step. The debt limit would be raised in two stages as
well, raising the potential for another standoff next year as
both parties are gearing up for the 2012 elections.  “With the difficult economy, the worst thing we can have,
once again, is another one of these crises,” Daley said.  CBO Estimate  Late yesterday, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
estimated the Boehner plan would save less than advertised.
special congressional committee. The agency said the first phase
would save about $850 billion and that it couldn’t score the
second because it couldn’t predict if lawmakers would follow
through with the cuts.  Obama has endorsed a competing proposal offered by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  which would cut spending by $2.7
trillion and would provide the debt-limit increase Obama seeks
to get through the election season.  Daley said he expects Reid will win enough support to get
Senate passage. He also said Obama won’t seek to use his
executive authority to unilaterally the raise debt ceiling,
saying that is “not a realistic answer.”  The former banking executive said a rise in U.S. Treasuries
is a “good sign” that markets aren’t overreacting to the
political impasse over raising the federal debt ceiling. “Maybe
certain investors have more faith in our political system than
some people in this town,” he said.  Treasuries rose, sending the 10-year yield down five basis
points to 2.96 percent, as speculation lawmakers will reach
agreement to lift the debt limit boosted investor demand at
today’s auction of $35 billion in two-year notes.  Securities Yield  The securities, which will be issued a day before the limit
is reached, drew a yield of 0.417 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 0.414 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers.  Still, the dollar depreciated against all 16 major peers at
4 p.m. in  New York , stocks fell and the cost of insuring  U.S.
debt  rose to a 17-month high.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,331.94 and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 0.4 percent.
Credit-default swaps on U.S. debt increased two basis point to
58 basis points.  Daley said businesses haven’t “stepped forward as loudly
as they should have” to call for a balanced approach to deficit
reduction, even as the deficit increased under earlier
administrations.  “You’ve had a silence from the business community to the
political establishment over the last number of years that’s
been unfortunate,” Daley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 