-- 
De Beers Gem Sales Rise to Record as Price Gains Mitigate Lower Production

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-26T10:51:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/de-beers-gem-sales-rise-to-record-as-price-gains-mitigate-lower-production.html
De Beers , producer of more than a
third of the world’s rough diamonds, said first-half sales rose
to a record as price gains mitigated below-target output.  “Sales were driven by exceptional price growth, powered by
strong demand for diamonds in the U.S.,  China  and  India ,” the
company said in a  statement  today. Rough diamond revenue at its
trading arm rose 33 percent to $3.49 billion and underlying
earnings more than doubled to $666 million, the company said.  Price gains, expected to continue this half, made up for
“extreme difficulties in ramping up” output, Chief Financial
Officer Stuart Brown said in an interview. De Beers, 45 percent
owned by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , reduced its 2011 output estimate to
about 35 million carats from 38 million carats after producing
15.5 million in the first half, less than anticipated. Excess
rain and a lack of skills in  South Africa  were among the causes.  The growth in revenue will help spur Anglo’s earnings, due
to be announced July 29, and underscores the jewelry market’s
recovery since 2008, when commodity and gem prices plummeted.
Rough prices rose more than 49 percent in the first half, adding
to two straight annual gains of more than 30 percent, according
to calculations by  WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd.   De Beers would account for about 9 percent of Anglo’s
underlying earnings, based on the $2.61 per share median
forecast of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Underlying
earnings comprise net profit attributable to shareholders
adjusted for the effect of one-time or special items and re-
measurements, less tax and minority interests.  ‘Very Strong’  De Beers’ profit is “very strong,” Liberum Capital Ltd.
analyst Dominic O’Kane wrote in a note today, adding the result
beat the brokerage’s estimate by 24 percent. Sales matched the
estimate of Des Kilalea, an analyst at Royal Bank of  Canada .  “Not only have we seen very significant price growth in
rough diamond prices but we’ve seen over the last six months the
strongest growth in polished prices over a six-month period in
the last 30 years,” De Beers’ Chief Commercial Officer Bruce Cleaver said on a call today. U.S. Christmas sales, Diwali in
India and Chinese New Year should be “strong,” he said.  Demand in the U.S., the biggest retail market for diamonds,
may grow about 6 percent to 8 percent this year, Cleaver said.
China, India and the  Middle East  combined are likely to make up
about 40 percent of consumer demand by 2015, overtaking the U.S.  Costs, including above-inflation pay gains in South Africa,
may slow the expansion in De Beers’ earnings. Workers began a
strike on July 22, demanding a 15 percent increase.  Growing Costs  “Our cost base is growing rapidly in South Africa, and
indeed Southern Africa,” Brown said. “Rampant wage inflation
significantly above the  consumer price index  is a threat to the
long-term sustainability of our operations in South Africa.”  South African diamonds accounted for 7.6 million carats of
the 33 million carats that De Beers mined last year. The company
also mines the gems in Botswana, Canada and  Namibia .  Anglo may seek to increase its diamond holdings as prices
of the gems climb, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. said May 25. South
Africa’s Oppenheimer family, who founded De Beers in 1888, owns
40 percent, while the Botswana government holds 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  