-- 
Debt Forgiveness Is Unavoidable in Euro Crisis: Hannes Androsch

-- B y   H a n n e s   A n d r o s c h
-- 
2011-07-26T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/debt-forgiveness-is-unavoidable-in-euro-crisis-hannes-androsch.html
Bailout II, which European leaders
arranged for  Greece  last week, is unlikely to bring the problems
of that country or the euro area to an end.  Some commentators have estimated that the package of an
additional 109 billion euros ($158 billion) of assistance, from
all sources, will reduce Greece’s ratio of debt-to-gross
domestic product by about 12 percent. As Greek debt had been
projected to peak at 166 percent next year, no likely level of
official support is really going to resolve the crisis.  As of now, Bailout II contains everything: debt rollover,
bond buybacks, debt swaps with lengthening maturities, and
reduced funding costs. Where can we go from here? There are
three ways out of an unsustainable level of debt: A country can
grow out of it, inflate out of it -- or default.  Growth seems like a pipe dream under present circumstances;
the austerity measures extracted by the country’s creditors have
left the real economy in a coma. Greece has limited control over
its inflation rate. Thus, we have default, and a restructuring
of the debt far into the future. These options ignore the
“ Newfoundland  solution,” whereby Newfoundland surrendered its
sovereignty and became a province of  Canada  in the 1940s, as a
way out of its debt dilemma.  In times of crisis, commentators like to conjure up a
doomsday scenario and the demise of the euro area and its single
currency. Yet, the sovereign-debt problem and the abandonment of
the euro aren’t linked in any way.  Lunatic Fringe  A lunatic fringe notwithstanding, no one has any incentive
to promote, or anything to gain from, the breakup of the euro.
On the one hand, the currency of a nation, or bloc, is a socio-
political decision, much like the country’s flag or language. It
is difficult to imagine any European politician taking a quasi-
suicidal decision to leave the zone and seek to introduce a new
national currency under present circumstances.  The benefits of unity -- the elimination of exchange-rate
uncertainty with major trading partners, the international
liquidity of domestic money -- are too great, and the risks of
going it alone too horrendous. It would hardly solve the debt
problem. Nor are markets in any position to dictate terms on
what monetary numeraire a country must use. Such a view simply
confuses the euro area with  Bretton Woods . The comparison
doesn’t hold water. The euro, is a mainstay of foreign-exchange
markets, a sign of success rather than failure.  Mere Prestige  One should bear in mind that the euro is no mere prestige
creation of the European Union, but an essential element of an
efficiently functioning common market. The creation of the euro
was a remarkable achievement on the road to European
integration. But, as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has suggested, it does harbor certain risks, which
require tighter fiscal discipline and coordination.  The contortions of the euro area’s political leaders may
not be a pretty sight, but this hand-wringing anguish is a well-
worn ritual in arriving at tough decisions. If it were merely a
case of Greece defaulting and being barred from capital markets,
that would hardly be a problem. It would certainly impose
budgetary discipline on Greece, and others, in the future. The
real fear is of a chain reaction of default, whose limit we can
only guess at and whose fallout might engulf us all.  The only real alternative is a measure of debt forgiveness,
where the balance has a fair chance of being repaid, while
keeping up pressure for fiscal reform. The entire EU, and not
just the euro area, must accept responsibility for Greek debt,
refinancing it on world capital markets at the most favorable
rates possible -- in the manner of the  International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  -- and reducing the Greek portion
to what is manageable. As the current debt of 340 billion euros
is unmanageable, it is no more than a charade to implement
rescue packages, which make the burden even greater.  Risk Premium   Increasing the risk premium is also counterproductive. The
reluctance with which troubled countries have been willing to
accept assistance from the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund  suggests the risk of moral hazard has been overplayed. It
is no more than a superficial pretense at market discipline.
Under present circumstances, it exacerbates the basic problem.  In the Old Testament ( Leviticus ), debt forgiveness is
recommended after a period of 50 years. The logic is that a debt
that can’t be repaid in half a century is as much the fault of
the creditor as of the debtor. In this spirit, the euro area
should bow to the inevitable and prepare for an orderly default
on the part of Greece.  In the process, it could centralize the financing of
national budgetary deficits in the future through the issue of a
euro bond and other euro securities. Any national  government
borrowing , over and above sanctioned levels, would no longer
have sovereign status, or have any backing of the euro area,
implicit or otherwise.  This would be in keeping with the spirit of Maastricht.  (Hannes Androsch was  Austria ’s finance minister from 1970
to 1981. He is founder of AIC Androsch International Management
Consulting in Vienna. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Hannes Androsch at  office@aic.co.at   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Henry at   djhenry2@bloomberg.net  