-- 
Declining U.S. Growth Forecasts Mean Fed May Keep Rates Low

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/declining-growth-projections-for-u-s-economy-mean-fed-may-keep-rates-down.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is among
major banks cutting their forecasts for third-quarter U.S.
growth as business inventories swell and consumer confidence
declines.  Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch said the economy will expand at a 2.5 percent
pace, down from earlier projections of as much as 3.25 percent.
A more-muted rebound from a slow first half would keep pressure
on the Federal Reserve to hold  interest rates  near zero,
according to the banks’ economists.  “The soft patch is giving way to a spongy patch,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan in New York,
who cut his third-quarter forecast from 3 percent on July 14.  Both Feroli and Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman
Sachs in  New York , said it’s possible the U.S. is headed into a
recession, though they added this isn’t their base forecast.  While Feroli said he believes “the economy will be able to
avoid a recession,” he added that recent economic reports make
it a “legitimate question” to ask if the U.S. is in danger of
a slump.  With third quarter growth looking weaker than before, the
probability that the Fed will ease monetary policy has risen,
Hatzius said in a July 15 report. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
told Congress on July 13 the central bank is prepared to take
additional action, including buying more  government bonds , if
the economy appears to be in danger of stalling.  “Fed officials would undoubtedly ease if the economy
returned to recession -- not our forecast, but clearly a
possibility,” said Hatzius, who reduced his third quarter
growth forecast from 3.25 percent.  More Explicit Pledge  Federal Reserve  Bank of  Chicago  President  Charles Evans 
said July 21 that he would back a more explicit pledge by the
central bank to keep interest rates low if this quarter proves
to be weak. The Fed cut its target for the federal funds rate to
a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and has held it
there since.  “If we continue to have weakness in the third quarter,
it’s going to be harder to plausibly sustain this idea, ‘The
next six months is going to get better,’” Evans told reporters
in Chicago. “We’ve been saying that for quite some time.”  The economy shrank 0.4 percent in May, according to
Macroeconomic Advisers, which compiles its own estimate of
monthly gross domestic product. The contraction, which followed
a flat reading in April and a 1.2 percent expansion in March,
“is still in line with a rising trend,” the St. Louis-based
company said in a July 15 release to clients.  For the second quarter, GDP grew at a 1.8 percent pace,
after a 1.9 percent gain in the first, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before Commerce Department
figures due July 29.  Rising Inventories  What’s worrying economists like Hatzius and Feroli is that
much of the growth in the second quarter came from an expansion
of inventories rather than from demand. Domestic final sales --
which strip out inventories, exports and imports -- rose at an
annualized pace of just a half percent in April-June, according
to Hatzius.  Business inventories climbed 1 percent in both April and
May, according to Commerce Department figures released on July
14. The rise brought the stockpile-to-sales ratio to 1.28
months, the most this year, from 1.27 months in April.  Manufacturing companies reported that their stocks of
unsold goods expanded further in June, according to a July 1
report from the  Institute for Supply Management  in Tempe,
 Arizona . Its inventories index came in at 54.1 last month, up
from 48.7 in May. Readings over 42.7 are consistent with a rise
in stockpiles, the institute said.  ‘Inventory Overhang’  “We’re entering the quarter with somewhat of an inventory
overhang,” Feroli said, suggesting that companies will need to
rein in production during the next few months.  The rise in inventories comes as Americans have become more
worried about the future. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell in July to
63.8, the weakest reading since March 2009, three months before
the recession ended. And while the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index showed that confidence picked up a bit in the week ended
July 17, its minus 43.3 reading was still at a level consistent
with an economic slump.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, said
July 21 that profit this year will increase more slowly than it
previously projected because of rising commodity costs and
cooling customer demand.  Slowing Earnings Growth  Earnings per share for the Purchase, New York-based company
will grow 5 percent to 7 percent in 2011, excluding a benefit
from translating overseas currencies into dollars, Chief
Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said on a conference call.
PepsiCo forecast in April a 7 percent to 8 percent gain.  “It’s the consumer and competitive picture that has become
more difficult than we expected,” Chief Executive Officer  Indra
Nooyi  said on the same conference call.  One reason for the bleaker mood is the struggling labor
market. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent in June from
9.1 percent in May and 8.8 percent in March. More cuts are in
the offing.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest networking-
equipment maker, said July 18 it plans to eliminate about 6,500
jobs, or 9 percent of its full-time workforce, to help trim $1
billion in annual costs.  A day later, Goldman Sachs, which makes most of its money
from trading, said it will trim about 1,000 employees after a
plunge in fixed-income revenue that was bigger than analysts
estimated.  ‘Bigger Delay’  “We have penciled in a bigger delay in the recovery in the
job market,”  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in a
July 15 note.  The unemployment rate will be “essentially flat” this
year, added Harris, who trimmed his third-quarter GDP growth
forecast to 2.5 percent from 2.9 percent.  Not everyone is so pessimistic.  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist for Wells Capital Management in
 Minneapolis , sees the economy growing 3.5 percent in the second
half of the year as the temporary forces that held it back in
the first half dissipate. These include supply-chain disruptions
from the Japanese earthquake and rising gasoline prices.  “The wind increasingly is now at the back of the economic
boat,” he said in a July 15 note.  Debt Crisis  Business and consumer confidence also may have been hurt by
nervousness over the outcome of negotiations on the U.S. debt
ceiling and the debt crisis in  Europe , said Chris Varvares,
senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers. If policy
makers can quiet those fears, the economy should benefit, said
Varvares, who forecasts third-quarter growth of 3.3 percent.  “Given all the shocks we’ve had over the first half of the
year, the fact we’re growing 2 percent is pretty damn good,” he
said, adding “we don’t feel we’re at a knife’s edge and about
to fall into a double dip.”  The strong start to the corporate-earnings season also
suggests the economy will revive as companies have the financial
firepower to invest and hire, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.  “I’m not writing off the third quarter,” said LaVorgna,
who sees growth of 3.5 percent in the period.  Among 161 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks that have reported earnings for the second quarter, 75
percent exceeded the average analysts’ estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg as of July 22.  Temporary Constraints  While acknowledging that the economy will benefit from an
unwinding of temporary constraints that held it back it in the
first half, Feroli argues that the impact may turn out to be
less than he initially thought.  Automakers have yet to ramp up production disrupted by
supply-chain bottlenecks, while gasoline prices have risen since
early July, he said. A gallon of regular fuel at the pump cost
$3.70 on July 21, up from $3.55 at the end of June, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group.  “The third quarter should be better than what was a very
weak second quarter, but that in itself isn’t saying much,”
Feroli said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 