-- 
U.S. Default May Discourage Americans From Saving, Borzi Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-26T16:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/default-by-u-s-may-discourage-americans-from-saving-labor-official-says.html
A U.S. default would be “very, very
disruptive” to retirement savings and the nation’s pension
system, a Labor Department official said today.  A default on debt may have a “profound effect” on the
rate of savings in  retirement plans  such as 401(k) and
individual retirement accounts, said Assistant Secretary of
Labor Phyllis Borzi at a hearing in Washington today. Investors
may be “less likely” to put money in them because of fears
that they wouldn’t be able to easily access their funds as the
result of restrictions on withdrawals from tax-deferred
retirement savings, she said.  “Nothing good could come from an American default” in
terms of the pension system, said Borzi. Some pension funds,
particularly the larger ones, have investment policies that
require them to hold AAA bonds and most of them have U.S.
Treasuries, Borzi said. Fiduciaries for those plans would have
to figure out how not to violate their investment guidelines if
U.S. government bonds were downgraded, she said.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the U.S. may
experience a “deep economic crisis” if leaders fail to reach a
deal and the nation defaults, while House Speaker  John Boehner 
said the president “wants a blank check” to keep spending.
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and the Democratic leader in the
Senate,  Harry Reid  of Nevada, unveiled competing plans yesterday
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Borzi responded to questions about the debt limit at a
hearing before the House Subcommittee on Health, Employment,
Labor and Pensions on a separate issue related to the extent of
fiduciary responsibility for those giving investment advice to
workers with retirement accounts.  U.S. retirement assets totaled $18 trillion as of March 31,
according to the  Investment Company Institute  in Washington.
Savings in IRAs were $4.9 trillion at the end of the first
quarter, while assets in 401(k)-type plans were $4.7 trillion,
ICI data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 