-- 
Deutsche Bank Slashes Peripheral Europe Risk, Takes Writedowns on Greece

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-26T10:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/deutsche-bank-reduces-peripheral-europe-risk-takes-writedowns-on-greece.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
bank, cut its sovereign risks related to peripheral European
countries by 70 percent this year after writing down the value
of Greek debt holdings and as bonds matured.  Net sovereign risks related to  Portugal ,  Italy , Ireland,
Greece and  Spain  fell to 3.67 billion euros ($5.32 billion) as
of June 30 from 12.1 billion euros at the end of 2010, the
Frankfurt-based bank said today in a  statement  on its website.
Deutsche Bank slashed risk related to Italy to 996 million euros
from 8.01 billion euros in the period, the company said.  The lender sought “to offset the exposures” added with
the acquisition of Deutsche Postbank AG and increased protection
with credit default swaps, Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause
said today.  The bank, which today reported a 3.3 percent gain in
second-quarter profit, said its 1.78 billion-euro pretax profit
in the period included a 155 million-euro writedown linked to
Greek government debt. The lender stands to lose more than 300
million euros from writedowns on Greek debt after European
leaders forged a 159 billion-euro aid plan for  Greece  that
leaves private investors footing part of the bill, analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a note last week.  Banks will voluntarily agree to write down the value of
their Greek securities by 21 percent as part of the bond
exchange and debt buyback program, the IIF said in a statement
last week.  Europe ’s 90 biggest banks hold about 98 billion euros
of Greek debt, according to the European Banking Authority.  Redemptions, Writedowns  “This looks skinny to us,” said Cormac Leech, a bank
analyst at Canaccord Genuit Ltd. “We had expected a writedown
of double that based on the 21 percent haircut outlined by the
 Institute of International Finance .”  A 450 million-euro reduction in risk related to Greece is
“explained by redemptions, which means we have maturing
exposures, as well as some of the markdowns taken since December
of 2010,” Krause said on a conference call.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said today it raised
its net risk related to Italy to 1.31 billion Swiss francs
($1.64 billion) as of June 30 from 395 million francs at the end
of 2010. Risks related to Greece jumped to 116 million francs
from 31 million francs in the period.  Following is a table showing Deutsche Bank’s net sovereign risk
related to certain European countries. Figures are in euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  