-- 
Deutsche Bank Net Income Rises 3.3% as Jain, Fitschen Prepare to Take Over

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-26T08:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/deutsche-bank-net-rises-less-than-estimated-as-ackermann-prepares-to-leave.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
bank, reported an increase in second-quarter profit on gains at
its consumer-banking business, a day after naming co-chief
executive officers to succeed  Josef Ackermann .  Net income rose 3.3 percent to 1.2 billion euros ($1.74
billion), the Frankfurt-based bank said today, compared with the
1.3 billion-euro average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company wrote down the value of its Greek debt
holdings and paid a German bank levy.  Deutsche Bank said yesterday that investment-banking chief
Anshu Jain and management board member Juergen Fitschen will
become co-CEOs next year, while Ackermann may ascend to the role
of supervisory board chairman. The bank confirmed a goal today
of 10 billion euros in operating pretax profit this year, while
saying the European sovereign debt crisis will make it more
difficult to reach a target at its investment bank.  “Lifting the uncertainty over the CEO succession issue is
positive for the shares and the good results at the private
clients and asset management unit help as well,” said  Olaf Kayser , an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who
recommends investors buy the stock.  Deutsche Bank rose as much as 2 percent in Frankfurt
trading, and was 49 cents, or 1.3 percent, higher at 38.71 euros
by 10:06 a.m. The shares have fallen 0.9 percent this year, less
than the 10 percent decline in the 49-company Stoxx 600 Banks
Index.  Ackermann, Boersig  Ackermann, 63, will step down at the next annual general
meeting, a year before his contract expires, the bank said
yesterday. Deutsche Bank plans for him to join the supervisory
board and replace 62-year-old Clemens Boersig as chairman, the
company said.  The corporate banking and securities unit, run by Jain,
reported a 26 percent increase in pretax profit from a year
earlier to 982 million euros, the company said, less than the
1.25 billion-euro estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Business conditions became more challenging,” Ackermann,
63, said in a letter to shareholders published on the company’s
website. “We saw increased volatility in the world’s financial
markets as well as a retreat from riskier assets, including the
sovereign debt of some euro-zone states.”  Target at Risk  A target of 6.4 billion euros in profit from the corporate
banking and securities unit “may now be difficult to achieve
and is dependent on a swift and sustained resolution of the
European sovereign debt crisis as well as a significantly
improved operating environment in the second half,” Ackermann
said.  Deutsche Bank aims to reduce its reliance on  investment
banking  by building up its consumer banking and money management
businesses. Ackermann bought Bonn-based consumer lender Deutsche
Postbank AG, private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim and ABN Amro
Holding NV’s commercial-banking operations in the Netherlands in
the last two years.  Earnings before tax at the private and business clients
unit, which includes consumer banking, almost doubled to 458
million euros in the second quarter. Profit from the asset and
wealth management division jumped to 227 million euros from 65
million euros from a year earlier, beating the 177.3 million-
euro estimate of analysts.  “The private clients and asset management unit is growing
in importance,” said Kayser, who is based in Mainz, Germany.
“The results show that the strategy to grow in this stable
business and reduce dependence on investment banking is
successful.”  Greek Writedown  Earnings before tax included a 155 million-euro writedown
related to Greek  government bonds . Deutsche Bank had net
sovereign risks related to  Portugal ,  Italy , Ireland,  Greece  and
 Spain  of 3.67 billion euros as of June 30, a decline of 70
percent from the 12.1 billion euros at the end of 2010, the bank
said.  Non-interest expenses rose 17 percent to 6.3 billion euros.
Of that, 712 million euros can be attributed to the
consolidation of the bank’s acquisition of Postbank and 62
million euros to a first time accrual for a German bank levy,
Deutsche Bank said.  Deutsche Bank’s payments under a German bank levy may rise
in coming years from 124 million euros in 2011 as the basis for
the calculation increases, Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause
said on a conference call with analysts.  The company’s core tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 10.2 percent on June 30 from 8.7
percent at the end of 2010, according to today’s statement.  “The capital development is very positive, especially as a
lot of investors have been critical of the company’s capital
position,” said  Philipp Haessler , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Equinet Bank who recommends buying the bank’s shares. “While
the personnel news is as expected, it’s good that a solution has
been found. It remains to be seen if the co-CEO solution really
works.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  