-- 
Dollar Falls to Record Against Australian, N.Z. Currencies on Debt Impasse

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-07-27T11:15:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/dollar-is-0-2-from-record-low-against-franc-before-house-vote-on-ceiling.html
The dollar slumped to record lows
against the Australian and New Zealand currencies as President
 Barack Obama  and lawmakers struggled to end an impasse over
raising the U.S. debt limit and preventing a default.  The euro fell against the yen and retreated from a
three-week high versus the dollar as Germany’s Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said his country opposes a “blank check”
for the euro-area rescue fund to purchase bonds on the secondary
market. The dollar touched a four-month low against the yen and
approached a three-year low versus the Canadian dollar.  “The foreign-exchange market is acting like this is the
only thing going on in the world,” said Kathleen Brooks,
research director in  London  at Forex.com, a unit of the online
currency trading company Gain Capital Holdings Inc., referring
to the U.S. debt impasse.  The dollar slipped 0.1 percent to 77.81 yen at 7:11 a.m. in
 New York , from 77.88 yesterday, after touching 77.57, the lowest
level since March 17. The euro dropped 0.3 percent to $1.4472,
from $1.4511, after touching $1.4536, the highest since July 5.
The euro slid 0.4 percent to 112.59 yen, from 113.01.  The U.S. currency sank to a record 87.66 cents per  New
Zealand dollar  before trading at 87.47 cents, down 0.5 percent.
The greenback dropped to a record $1.1081 against the Australian
currency before trading at $1.1047.  Obama Veto Threat  The Obama administration threatened a veto of House Speaker
John Boehner’s two-step plan to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling and cut $3 trillion in expenditure. A vote on the
measure had been scheduled for today and was postponed until
tomorrow. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
U.S. will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2.  A cut of the top AAA credit rating for the U.S. would
likely raise the nation’s borrowing costs by increasing Treasury
yields by 60 to 70 basis points over the “medium term,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Terry Belton said yesterday on a
conference call hosted by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated on July 21 that the chance of
a downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months and said it
may cut the nation as soon as August.  “Looking for catalysts to sell the dollar is no problem at
all,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “If politicians fail to reach an
agreement, dollar selling will accelerate. Even if they do
agree, spending cuts will slow the  U.S. economy .”  Canadian Dollar  The Canadian currency gained 0.3 percent to 94.19 cents per
 U.S. dollar  after appreciating yesterday to 94.07 cents, the
strongest level since November 2007. The U.S. dollar was little
changed at 80.07 Swiss centimes after touching an all-time low
of 79.96 centimes.  Orders for U.S. durable goods rose 0.3 percent in June
after a 2.1 percent gain the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s report from the Commerce Department.  The euro fell against most of its 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg after Schaeuble echoed remarks by
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , who said a day after the July 21
summit of European leaders that she’s opposed to allowing the
currency region’s 440 billion euro ($637 billion) fund
unconditional bond-buying in the secondary market.  ‘Tight Conditions’  “In the future such purchases must only take place under
very tight conditions, when the ECB establishes that there are
extraordinary circumstances in financial markets and dangers to
financial stability,” Schaeuble said in a letter to German
lawmakers summarizing the results of the summit.  The euro advanced last week after European leaders agreed
to a new bailout for  Greece  and expanded the role of the
region’s rescue fund.  Bank of  Japan  board member Hidetoshi Kamezaki today said
he’s watching the yen’s gains with great caution as they could
damage the economy. The BOJ will take needed policy action
proactively, he said.  Group of Seven nations sold the yen on March 18 after it
reached a postwar record of 76.25 to the dollar the previous
day, saying in a statement they wanted to reduce “excess
volatility and disorderly movements.”  Japan’s  Finance Ministry  sold 692.5 billion yen ($8.9
billion) that month in its first intervention since a unilateral
action in September.  “I guess Japan has already got a nod from the U.S. on an
independent intervention,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in  Tokyo  at FX Prime Corp. a currency margin company.
“It won’t come about straight away, but preparations must have
been done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  