-- 
DP World Plans First New Deepwater Port in London in 20 Years

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/dp-world-digs-london-gateway-as-economy-slows-freight-markets.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW)  is preparing to spend
1.5 billion pounds ($2.5 billion) on Britain’s first deepwater
port in at least 20 years at a time when the economy has yet to
recover from the last recession.  The world’s fourth-largest port operator is dredging about
106 million cubic feet to accommodate the world’s biggest ships
at  London Gateway , about 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of the
capital. It’s designed to win clients by combining a harbor
terminal with an onsite distribution center, luring wholesalers
and retailers away from older ports such as  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s Port of Felixstowe, about 50 miles northeast.  DP World is pinning the investment on Britain’s need for
more modern facilities that will help companies save on
transport costs at a time when U.K. economic growth is set to
trail global expansion. If completed as planned,  London  Gateway
would expand the U.K.’s capacity for ultra-large  container ships 
and become  Europe ’s sixth biggest port, based on  2009 rankings .  “The U.K. is a mature slow-growth container market,” said
Mark McVicar, an analyst at Nomura International Plc in London.
Still, “for reasons of proximity to London, over the long term
it will work” and “it could be an important and incremental
profit contributor.”  McVicar has a “buy” rating on Dubai-based DP World. Its
shares have fallen 9 percent in the past three months on concern
cooling global trade will reduce demand at ports.  Cost Savings  DP World is pressing ahead with the project even as the
global economic expansion cools. While the company has committed
about 400 million pounds for work such as dredging and
reclaiming land, the pace of development may depend on how
quickly it wins clients. It said in February the onsite
distribution facility will save clients “significant” costs
and cut about 65 million freight miles a year.  Gross volumes at its ports rose 11 percent in the first
half of the year to 26.2 million  20-foot containers , or TEU,
often used as the industry measure, DP World said in a statement
yesterday. That matched growth in the fourth quarter and
compares with a 14 percent increase for all of 2010 versus 2009.  “We’re still on track,” DP World Chief Executive Officer
Mohammed Sharaf said yesterday when asked about London Gateway
on a conference call. “The essential infrastructure work is
going on, but we have still not decided on a date. We can speed
it up as and when we see the market comes back, or slow it down.
It will all depend on how the market reacts and what the
situation is in the market.”  IMF Forecasts  Growth in world trade will ease to 8.2 percent this year
and 6.7 percent in 2012 from 12.4 percent in 2010, the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast on June 17. The IMF also
cut its forecast for 2011 global economic growth to 4.3 percent.  At the same time, the U.K. economy is struggling. Gross-
domestic-product growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the three months through March, data
released yesterday showed.  “As we go into the second half of the year, there is some
uncertainty around the global economy, making it difficult to
forecast how global trade will develop,” Sharaf said.  Britain is trailing recoveries in other industrial
economies: Gross domestic product is about 3.9 percent below its
peak in the first quarter of 2008. The U.S. and  Germany  have
already recovered all the ground lost during the recession.  London Gateway will directly support as many as 1,500 U.K.
jobs a year during construction and about 12,000 once
operational, according to a report by Oxford Economics
commissioned by DP World. Shipping Minister Mike Penning said in
February that the plan has the government’s “full support.”  Biggest Ships  Neil Davidson, a port adviser at Drewry Shipping
Consultants Ltd. in London, said London Gateway will increase
Britain’s capacity for so-called ultra-large container ships.
Among them is A.P. Moller Maersk’s Emma Maersk, the world’s
biggest, with a carrying capacity of 14,770 containers.  Maersk has ordered 20  Triple-E class  container ships this
year that can carry 18,000 containers each to help meet
increasing trade demand between  Asia  and Europe. The first of
the vessels is expected to sail in 2013.  “It’s a very big order book, and they will inevitably be
deployed in the Asia-to-north-Europe trade route,” Davidson
said. “So we know that all the bigger ships are coming to U.K.
ports in increasing numbers in the coming years.”  A fully realized London Gateway would have a maximum
capacity of 3.5 million containers. At the same time, other
ports are expanding:  Felixstowe  is increasing its capacity of 3
million containers by 50 percent.  Expansion Proposals  Including London Gateway, there are nine active or dormant
proposals to develop new or expand existing deep-water container
terminals. They have the potential to add the equivalent of 14
million containers to total capacity, according to Drewry.  U.K. trade is benefiting from growth in emerging markets
such as  China , a bright spot for the economy. In the three
months through May, U.K. exports by volume rose 8 percent from a
year earlier, while imports increased 3.3 percent, according to
data from the country’s statistics office. Retail sales were up
an annual 0.9 in the quarter through June.  Freight traffic rose 12 percent to 8.3 million containers
in 2010 as volumes rebounded from a 16 percent drop the previous
year during the global financial crisis, according to Drewry.
That compares with a peak of 9.4 million in 2007.  Drewry expects volumes to grow as much as 5 percent a year,
meaning Britain’s ports may be dealing with more than 12 million
containers by 2020. That compares with a current potential
capacity of 10.5 million.  Stages  DP World inherited London Gateway when it bought Peninsular
& Oriental Steam Navigation Co., at the time the U.K.’s No.1
port operator, in 2006. The purchase also gave it stakes in
container terminals at Southampton, the U.K.’s second-largest
port, and Tilbury on the  River Thames , the distribution hub for
the London 2012 Olympic Games.  The port operator is 80 percent controlled by state-owned
Dubai World, which roiled global markets in 2009 when it said it
was seeking to reschedule debt payments. Dubai World reached an
accord with creditors to restructure about $25 billion in March.  Hutchison Whampoa’s Felixstowe is the U.K.’s largest
container port, handling more than 40 percent of British imports
and exports a year. The terminal tested two berths that can
handle ultra-large container ships in February that are due to
open this year.  In the U.K., most large ports are located in or near
coastal cities, limiting the space for expansion or building
neighboring logistical facilities, Nomura’s McVicar said. That
results in containers having to be sent to distribution centers
sometimes more than a hundred miles away.  “If you talk to DP World, their view is, ‘We expect to be
able to attract volume from existing ports because of the
quality of service,’” he said. “The cost to the shipper of
moving stuff from  Hong Kong  to Oxford Street will be lower.
Which is very different from adding more capacity in somewhere
like Felixstowe because you’re not changing the proposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  