-- 
DreamWorks Animation Profit Rises 42% on Sales of TV Rights

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-26T22:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/dreamworks-animation-s-profit-climbs-42-on-sales-of-tv-rights-to-movies.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
independent film studio, said second-quarter profit rose 42
percent on sales of television rights to movies including “How
to Train Your Dragon.”  Net income increased to $34.1 million, or 40 cents a share,
from $24 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier. Profit beat the
37-cent average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 38 percent to $218.3 million, the
Glendale, California-based company said today in a statement,
exceeding estimates of $191.7 million.  DreamWorks Animation benefited from sales of TV rights to
three films, including “Dragon,” and the theatrical release of
the 3-D comedy “Kung Fu Panda 2,” Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Katzenberg said on a conference call. He reiterated the
company’s commitment to make all of its films in the three-
dimensional format.  “It is actually one of the best returns on investment of
anything DreamWorks Animation has done,” Katzenberg said on a
conference call.  The added cost of making a DreamWorks film in 3-D has come
down from about $15 million two years ago to “less than half of
that,” Katzenberg said.  The CEO declined to say whether the company is in talks to
offer exclusive film streaming rights to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  He also
declined to say whether the studio will renew its distribution
contract with Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures when their
contract expires at the end of 2012.  Tough Comparisons  DreamWorks Animation is in talks with Netflix, the mail-
order and online service, on a streaming agreement to replace
the studio’s accord with Time Warner Inc.’s  HBO , a person with
knowledge of the situation said on July 23.  During the second quarter, DreamWorks Animation faced
difficult theatrical comparisons. “Kung Fu Panda 2,” released
on May 26, has generated $598 million in worldwide ticket sales,
according to  Box Office Mojo , an industry tracker.  “Shrek Forever After.” in theaters a year ago, collected
$753 million in ticket revenue, and “How to Train Your
Dragon,” released in March 2010, was still producing at the box
office in last year’s second quarter on its way to $495 million
in worldwide theatrical sales.  “Kung Fu Panda 2” was hurt by the popularity of  Warner
Bros .’ raunchy, R-rated comedy “The Hangover: Part II.” The
film, which opened on the same weekend, attracted more younger
moviegoers in the U.S. than DreamWorks Animation expected,
Katzenberg said. “Panda,” made for $150 million, took in
$160.8 million in the U.S. and  Canada .  “We had a terrible, terrible calamity here in the U.S. and
it’s heartbreaking because there’s no recovering from it,”
Katzenberg said.  DreamWorks Animation fell 47 cents to $21.57 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and has declined 27
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  