-- 
Eaton’s Cutler Says Adding Jobs Hinges on Faster Economic Growth

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-07-26T16:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/eaton-s-cutler-says-adding-jobs-hinges-on-faster-economic-growth.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN)  Chief Executive Officer
Sandy Cutler, who attributes his company’s workforce gains in
2011 largely to acquisitions, said curbing U.S. unemployment
requires more rapid growth than economists project this year.  U.S. gross domestic product gains of about 2.5 percent, the
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey, are “not enough growth
to drive unemployment reduction,” Cutler said in a telephone
interview this week. “We need to see an economy that grows more
quickly than it does currently.”  While  Cleveland , Ohio-based Eaton has increased its number
of employees to about 73,000 from 70,000 at the end of 2010,
most of that is from acquisitions, Cutler said.  “We have some businesses such as the heavy-duty truck
business that has been ramping up very strongly in the U.S., so
we’ve been hiring there, but I would call it not very material
hiring yet,” he said.  Eaton, a power-management company with business segments
from electrical to fluid power and automotive, projects sales
this year will top the 2008 record of $15.37 billion by 6
percent. Revenue climbed 22 percent in the first half, the
company said yesterday in a statement.  That growth has been driven by higher energy prices, Cutler
said, with crude oil climbing more than 8 percent this year
before today.  “It’s costing every one of us about $20 more per week to
fill up our gas tanks,” Cutler said. The effects of that climb
are reverberating through the economy and driving Eaton
customers to invest in energy-efficiency “because they know
energy will cost more next year than it will this year,” he
said.  Quarterly Sales  Eaton’s second-quarter sales increased 21 percent to $4.09
billion, the company said yesterday. That included a 16 percent
revenue gain at the Electrical Americas segment that specializes
in energy solutions, solar power and green products, Eaton said.  About $225 million from acquisitions will be added to the
current year’s revenue, Cutler said. The company has made more
than 50 acquisitions in the past 11 years, with five so far in
2011, and plans to continue purchases, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is quite good right now in terms of the number
of opportunities we are seeing, so it would be our expectation
to continue to grow through acquisitions,” he said.  Cutler plans to increase sales 2 percent to 4 percent a
year through acquisitions and 10 percent a year with so-called
organic growth.  Eaton fell $1.59, or 3 percent, to $51 at 12:12 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  