-- 
Hedge-Fund Chief Ruddock Gives Millions to V&A, Shuns Spotlight

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/hedge-fund-chief-ruddock-gives-millions-to-charity-shuns-spotlight-at-v-a.html
Paul Ruddock was eight when, on a
visit to London’s  Victoria & Albert Museum , he came across a
boarded-up room of sculpture casts.  “I remember looking through a chink in the plywood, seeing
Trajan’s Column, and just being blown away,” says Ruddock.  Today, Ruddock, 52, is co-founder and chief executive of
London-based Lansdowne Partners Ltd. and the V&A’s chairman. He
is worth 270 million pounds ($443 million) according to the
Sunday Times  Rich List , a figure he won’t disagree with.
Lansdowne is one of  Europe ’s largest hedge-fund companies, with
$14.4 billion under management, though, he says, it’s having “a
tough year.”  Ruddock has been on the V&A’s board for nine years and
chairman for the past four. He has helped raise 120 million
pounds for the museum’s overhaul, co-funded the revamp of its
Medieval and Renaissance galleries, and named its first non-
British director (German-born Martin Roth). A donor to the
 British Museum  -- with his name on a gallery -- he joined the
board of  New York ’s  Metropolitan Museum of Art  in January. His
lifetime donations are “in the tens” of millions of pounds.  “Everybody who can afford to should give some time to some
charity, because that’s about giving back to society: Society
has been good to you,” he says. “Whether it’s helping out with
the local church group, at the soup kitchen, or as a trustee of
a charity.”  “A lot of people in our financial industry have skill sets
which are very good” for philanthropy, he says.  In person, Ruddock is affable, driven, and guarded. Our
interview, his first ever about philanthropy, takes a year to
set up, and happens in impersonal settings: a Lansdowne meeting
room, and a bar at nearby  Claridge’s , where he seldom goes.  Engraved Watch  Gray-haired Ruddock wears suits with open-neck shirts and
frameless glasses. One striking accessory -- an Audemars Piguet
watch -- turns out to be a gift from a friend and ex-colleague
(he flips it over to show the personalized engraving).  Ruddock has shunned the media since his company got slammed
for profiting from a short position in Northern Rock Plc, the
lender that was nationalized after suffering the U.K.’s first
run on a bank in more than a century. Newspapers said Ruddock
made 100 million pounds on the collapse.  “It is public record that Lansdowne, on behalf of the
funds that it managed, made significant profits from shorting
Northern Rock,” he says. “We lost money on Northern Rock for
two years on that short, then we made some money.”  “The large amounts of money some have quoted me making on
Northern Rock are wildly exaggerated,” he says. “I am one of
18 partners, and in a typical year, there are always going to be
some partners who make quite a bit more money than I do.”  Hands-on Chairman  At the V&A, Ruddock is hands-on.  “There are some chairmen who just host dinners and oversee
great board meetings,” says philanthropist John Studzinski,
senior managing director of  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  “Paul is
actually on the ground not only as a good businessman and leader
for the board, but also as a passionate and intellectually
curious collector.”  Ruddock says he spends at least 10 hours a week of his own
time on the V&A. He has coaxed his friends Michael Hintze (of
CQS U.K. LLP) and William and Judith Bollinger into giving to
the museum. The V&A -- led through June by Mark Jones -- now has
in-house fundraisers who target donors by income tier, and lure
wealthier benefactors by finding out their passions.  Ruddock was born in Solihull in central  England . His
parents “came from very poor backgrounds,” he says. He got a
first-class law degree from Oxford University, then found the
British legal profession “very snobbish and hierarchical.”  “I wanted to go somewhere where, if I was really good, I
could make some money sooner rather than later,” he says.  Goldman, Lansdowne  He joined  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in London in 1980, left
in 1984 for Wertheim & Co., and co-founded Lansdowne in 1998.  Meanwhile, he began collecting medieval art, as “a very
good small medieval alabaster” cost relatively little. He has
lent to the  British Museum ’s current “Treasures of Heaven”
relics show, and prefers “old art.”  “A lot of people view contemporary art as a business, so
they’re trying to figure out who’s going to be the next star,”
he says. “I have no interest in that.”  A father of two, Ruddock is married to  Jill Shaw Ruddock , a
U.S.-born ex-banker who is on the board of the Donmar Warehouse
Theatre and just released a candid, interview-based book on the
menopause (proceeds go to charity).  Still enthralled by his job and the “curveballs” thrown
his way -- most recently, the Japanese tsunami and Mideast
uprisings -- he is preparing for a new challenge: raising
another 100 million pounds for the V&A’s redevelopment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London    farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 