-- 
Medicare Drug Benefit Trims Spending on Hospitals, Study Finds

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-07-26T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/medicare-drug-benefit-trims-spending-on-hospitals-study-finds.html
Offering prescription drug coverage
to the federal Medicare program’s elderly beneficiaries reduced
spending on hospitals and nursing homes, a study found.  The effort increased access to medicines and improved
patients’ adherence to drug regimens, according to the study
published today in the Journal of the  American Medical
Association .  The results support arguments of advocates of the so-called
Part D benefit Congress created in 2003. They said enrolling
Medicare beneficiaries with inadequate coverage in subsidized
drug plans from insurers such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  would reduce acute-care spending.  The drug program “has been even more beneficial than we
previously knew,” said J. Michael McWilliams, an assistant
professor of health policy at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston ,
and lead author of the study, in a telephone interview.  Medicare  spent  about $62 billion for prescription drugs in
2010. Spending on non-drug  health services  fell about $1,200 a
year for about 10 million patients lacking employer-sponsored
health plans or who otherwise had inadequate coverage before the
benefit took effect, the study found. The $1,200 is about 11
percent lower than the spending would have been without the
benefit.  “Expanding the Medicare program to incorporate a drug
benefit increased the use of  prescription drugs , lowered out-of-
pocket costs and improved adherence” to prescriptions,
McWilliams said. “What was unclear is if that translated to
better control of chronic diseases and lowered spending on acute
and post-acute care.”  No Estimate Available  During the debate before Congress overhauled Medicare in
2003, the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  couldn’t
estimate how much a drug benefit would reduce spending on acute
care, said Joe Antos, who studies health policy at the  American
Enterprise Institute  in Washington and worked for the agency in
2001 and 2002.  “It looks like we have saved some money,” Antos said of
the findings. “I strongly suspect we’ve also improved health
care and very likely also improved people’s actual
functioning.”  The Medicare drug benefit didn’t change spending patterns
for seniors who had employer-sponsored retiree plans or private
policies before the Medicare benefit was established. The cost
of subsidizing these individuals may have driven up Medicare
costs for taxpayers, said Antos.  Access to Medicines  The study “has the potential to turn a page in the
economics of health care that everybody could have used a few
years ago when this debate was in full force,” said Mark Merritt, president of the Pharmaceutical Care Management
Association, a group representing companies that sell Medicare
drug plans including Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth
Group and Humana of Louisville,  Kentucky .  “Many illnesses, hospitalizations and emergency room
visits are caused simply because people didn’t have access to
the medications they needed,” Merritt said by phone.  McWilliams said his study suggests the U.S. may save even
more money in the next decade as the health-care overhaul passed
in 2010 reduces the amount Medicare beneficiaries have to pay
out of their own pocket for drugs.  Improved coordination of drug therapy might yield further
savings under new partnerships between doctors and hospitals
that could “track adherence” to prescriptions and “improve
quality and outcomes” for patients, McWilliams said. Under the
health law, the partnerships, known as accountable care, can
share in some savings they produce for Medicare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  on 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington on 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 