-- 
Tel Aviv Tent Protesters Dismiss Netanyahu Pledge to Reduce Housing Costs

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-27T11:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/tel-aviv-tent-protesters-dismiss-netanyahu-pledge-to-reduce-housing-costs.html
Israeli union and municipal leaders
pledged to support protesters camped in the heart of  Tel Aviv 
and help pressure Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to find a
solution to rising housing costs.  Unless Netanyahu agrees to meet with protest leaders by
July 30 to discuss the issue, the Histadrut labor federation
will bolster the youthful demonstrators camped out on Rothschild
Boulevard, Chairman Ofer Eini said today. The leader of a body
representing Israeli mayors also said it may call a daylong
cutback in municipal services Aug. 1.  “Starting Sunday, we are joining the struggle with all of
our means,” Eini said at a Tel Aviv news conference, declining
to elaborate. He demanded a response by the weekend from the
prime minister, whose spokesman declined to comment immediately
on the threat.  Some 30,000 people rallied in Tel Aviv on July 23 to
protest housing costs and the tent camps have spread to
 Jerusalem , Beersheva, Haifa and other cities.  Home prices  rose
13.7 percent in the 12 months through April-May, about triple
the inflation rate, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  reported on
July 15. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  warned July 8
that Israel must deal with a potential “housing bubble” that
was fueling inflation.  Building Incentives  Netanyahu convened a press conference in Jerusalem
yesterday with the housing and finance ministers to lay out a
plan that would lead to the construction of 50,000 units across
the country within 18 months. Incentives for building the
cheapest rental apartments include free state land.  “He talks about free land and who’s going to get it -- the
contractors and rich businessmen,” Daphne Liff, a protest
leader told reporters afterward amid the hundreds of tents on
Rothschild Boulevard in Tel Aviv. “What he’s offering us is
nothing less than fraud.”  The Union of Local Authorities, which represents Israeli
mayors, will hold a meeting tomorrow to decide on a proposal to
join the protest by refusing to receive the public at municipal
offices for one day next week, its chairman Shlomo Buchbut, told
 Israel  Radio.  Israel’s inflation rate has exceeded the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target every month this year and was at 4.2
percent in June.  Expected Inflation  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects the rate of
inflation traders expect, was at 2.97 percent at midday,
compared with 2.95 percent yesterday at the beginning of
Netanyahu’s press conference.  Netanyahu’s popularity has declined, with only one third of
the people surveyed giving him a favorable rating compared with
51 percent two months ago, Haaretz reported yesterday, citing a
survey by the Dialog polling organization. Eighty-seven percent
said they supported the housing demonstrations. The survey of
493 people had a margin of error of 4.5 percent.  The protests are “a very significant event,” said Yoram Meital, chairman of Ben Gurion University’s Herzog Center for
Middle East Studies in Beersheva.  “It is difficult to see how
the government will succeed in containing the demands.”  The demonstrations follow a Facebook group boycott over the
rising cost of cottage cheese. More than 100,000 Israelis joined
a Facebook group last month calling for a boycott of the dairy
product whose price surged after government price supervision
was lifted. The outcry prompted dairy companies, including
Strauss Group Ltd., to lower the cost and the government to set
up a committee to examine rising food prices. Another Facebook
group, called “Buy Less - Bring Down Prices” is now targeting
consumer products, including diapers and  breakfast cereals .  Poland  Trip  Netanyahu, 61, acknowledged the impact of the housing
protests in a Cabinet meeting the day after the Tel Aviv rally,
pledging to take steps to ease the situation. He also canceled a
trip to Poland that was planned for this week to focus on
housing.  “We’re going to unplug the cork,” the prime minister said
yesterday. “The first thing we’re going to do is free the
blockages to planning housing projects and the second thing
we’re going to do is free the blockages to selling land for
apartments.”  Fischer endorsed Netanyahu’s plan, saying in a statement
that the key to solving the problem is to increase the supply of
housing.  Construction Starts  In the past year, construction starts have increased 11
percent and gradually the number of homes completed is
increasing as well, the central bank said. This, over time, is
expected to have a moderating effect on housing and rental
prices, the bank said.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said an analysis by his
ministry forecasts “a moderating and even a drop in prices by
the end of 2011 or the first few months of 2012.”  Netanyahu’s plan to free up land for construction may
benefit construction companies which would see more business,
while cutting the value of the land they hold, which may harm
companies which have borrowed money to buy land, said Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist for Ayalon Group.  Housing construction companies include  Shikun & Binui Ltd. (SKBN) ,
which has slid about 16 percent since the beginning of the year.
The benchmark TA-25 index has declined about 5 percent in the
same period.  “This needs to be handled with silk gloves,” Pagot said.
“You could solve one problem and create a worse one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 