-- 
EPA Says It Won’t Issue Ozone Standards by July 29 Deadline

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T18:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/epa-says-it-won-t-issue-ozone-standards-by-july-29-deadline-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said it will miss a July 29 deadline to issue tighter
ozone standards as President Barack Obama’s administration
reviews the regulation opposed by industries.  The White House Office of Management and Budget is leading
an interagency examination of the proposed rule, the EPA said
today in a statement. The EPA, which said this month it would
meet the deadline it set with a federal court, didn’t say when
the rules may be issued. The White House will work as “quickly
as possible” to complete the review, Meg Reilly, a spokeswoman
for the budget office, said in a statement today.  The EPA’s proposed regulations for ground-level ozone, a
main ingredient of smog, would tighten those issued under
President  George W. Bush  in 2008. Critics such as  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker, say the EPA is rushing the
process and that the  Clean Air Act  mandates a reexamination
every five years, with the next one in 2013.  The opponents say the changes may cost as much as $90
billion and have urged the Obama administration to delay action.
The EPA, which has said the stricter rules are needed to
safeguard public health, faced lawsuits challenging the Bush-era
rule.  “A new ozone standard will be based on the best science
and meet the obligation established under the Clean Air Act to
protect the health of the American people,” the EPA said in a
statement. The agency said it will “consider costs, jobs and
the economy.”  The White House budget office received the proposed rule
from the EPA on July 11. Its review typically requires about 90
days “to ensure that all interested agencies have an
opportunity to comment,” according to Reilly.  ‘Most Expensive’ Rule  Dow, based in Midland,  Michigan , said the rule “promises
to be the single most expensive regulation ever imposed on the
 U.S. economy ,” according to a letter sent last week by Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  to Obama’s chief of
staff,  William Daley .  State and local governments that aren’t in compliance with
new ozone rules would have to find ways to lower emissions and
might stop issuing new air permits, according to trade groups
such as the Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute , the
largest lobbying group for the oil and gas industry.  Industry groups including the Business Roundtable, which
represents top executives at companies such as Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) , have said the new
standards aren’t necessary and will be impossible for most U.S.
counties to meet.  Jackson’s Meeting  EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson met on July 15 with
representatives from the Washington-based  Business Roundtable 
and the API to discuss the proposed ozone limits. API CEO  Jack
Gerard  said in an interview after the meeting that the rules
will “impose a severe burden” on the economy.  The EPA has said tighter ozone restrictions will help
prevent 12,000 premature deaths and save as much as $100 billion
in health costs.  States and environmental groups filed lawsuits challenging
the 2008 rules on the grounds that the agency ignored a
scientific advisory panel’s recommendations for stricter limits.  In 2009, the court granted the EPA’s request to suspend the
legal challenges while the agency reworked the rules. Those
cases remain on hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  