-- 
Fukushima Bill Plans for Tepco, Stakeholders to Help Provide Compensation

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-07-26T07:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/tepco-draft-compensation-bill-seeks-stakeholder-cooperation-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co.
shareholders and related parties will be asked to help
compensate those affected by the Fukushima nuclear disaster,
according to a revised draft of legislation.  “To ensure that compensation for the damage caused by
atomic energy is carried out quickly and appropriately, the said
nuclear power operator shall ask for the necessary cooperation
from shareholders and other interested parties,” the draft bill
obtained by Bloomberg News today said.  Japan ’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano in May roiled
bank stocks when he said “people won’t support” using taxpayer
funds for the utility known as Tepco unless banks waive some
loans made before the March earthquake and tsunami crippled its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Two weeks later he said he wasn’t
requesting banks to forgive loans to Tepco.  “The wording can be viewed in a negative light,” Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. analyst Toshiyasu Ohashi said.
“We can no longer say with certainty that shareholders won’t be
asked for a 100 percent decrease in capital or that lenders
won’t be asked to modify the terms of their loans or waive some
of them.”  The bill is being discussed in Japan’s parliament today and
is likely to be voted on this week. The legislation is needed to
provide a legal framework to pay damages after the disaster, the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  The company’s main lenders include  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking
Corp., Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., according to a securities filing in June.  Tepco received almost 2 trillion yen of emergency loans
from banks including Sumitomo Mitsui after the quake and tsunami
knocked out power and cooling systems at the Fukushima plant.  Tepco shares fell 4.3 percent today to 512 yen. The stock
is down 76 percent since the day before the disaster.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  shares rose 1.8 percent, while  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  was up 0.8 percent and  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  gained 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  