-- 
Epson Claims Ex-Singapore Staff Defrauded Printer Maker With ‘Secret Fund’

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-07-26T09:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/epson-claims-ex-singapore-staff-defrauded-printer-maker-with-secret-fund-.html
Seiko Epson Corp. (6724)  claimed three
former employees in Singapore conspired with three suppliers to
pay out funds based on fake or inflated bills, the printer
maker’s lawyer said at the start of a trial in the city.  Part of the money was then kept in a “secret fund” used
to provide unauthorized rebates to dealers and distributors,
Epson’s lawyer  Boey Swee Siang  said at the Singapore High Court
hearing today. Epson hasn’t determined the size of the fund,
according to the lawsuit.  The alleged fraud allowed Epson’s former employees to get
bonuses for meeting sales targets which they may not have
otherwise met, according to the suit. The suppliers deducted
fraudulent administrative costs for their role, according to the
lawsuit.  Epson was also “unwittingly” made to fund the dealers’
purchases of the printer maker’s own products, which were then
exported in breach of contract, Boey said.  Epson accused Felicia Gan, the former sales head of its
 Singapore  operations, of being the “mastermind behind the rogue
employees’ scheme,” according to the lawsuit. Gan conspired
with former colleagues Kimberly Ong and Lawrence Tan to instruct
the suppliers to issue the fake or inflated bills, Epson, based
in Suwa, central  Japan , said in the lawsuit.  Epson also sued S2 Computer Supplies Pte, Design Marketing
Pte and Concept Alliance Asia Pte.  Gan’s lawyer, A Rajandran, declined to comment on ongoing
litigation, as did Design and Marketing’s lawyer Kesavan Nair.  Ong and Tan will give evidence for Epson after agreeing to
settle the lawsuit, according to Boey. S2 Computer has agreed to
settle, the supplier’s lawyer Vinit Chhabra said, as has Concept
Alliance  Asia , according to its lawyer Sunil Singh Panoo.
Settlement terms were not disclosed.  The cases are Epson Singapore Pte Ltd v S2 Computer
Supplies Pte Ltd & Ors.. S569/2010, S542/2010 and S541/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  