-- 
Merkel, Trichet Watch Pregnant Venus, Tadpoles in Bayreuth

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-07-26T00:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/merkel-trichet-watch-pregnant-venus-mutant-tadpoles-at-bayreuth-review.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took a break
from  Europe ’s debt crisis with a pregnant goddess, some giant
tadpoles and a crowd of pilgrims dressed as cleaners.  The  Bayreuth Festival  opened its 100th edition last night
with a new production of Richard Wagner’s opera “Tannhaeuser”
and a guest list that read like a “Who’s Who” of  Germany .
Trichet and Merkel occupied adjoining boxes.  A storm of boos erupted as the director, a 42-year-old
Berliner and newcomer to the festival called Sebastian
Baumgarten, took his curtain call with the production team. His
staging transposes Wartburg castle to an organic waste recycling
plant and features a pregnant Venus living in a cage with giant
tadpoles and furry, ape-like nymphs.  The recycling-plant set, designed by Joep van Lieshout,
remains largely unchanged through the opera’s three acts. It
comprises a big green tank of nutrition (we’re told it’s a
celery product), a blue tank of biogas (made from human
excrement) and a long red storage cylinder of alcohol (distilled
celery juice.) The program notes contain a detailed diagram
explaining how this represents the full energy cycle from food
and alcohol, through digestion and waste back to gas and energy.  Mutant Tadpoles  This utilitarian interpretation of Wagner’s vision of the
Wartburg struck me as somehow very German. Organic waste
recycling is equated with virtue and order in this ecologically
aware reading. Stray too far into waste and excess, and you may
end up writhing in mud in a pair of grubby shorts with some
mutant tadpoles and an expectant girlfriend.  The Venusberg is a cage that rises up above the stage
whenever the temptations of the goddess return, like a
subconscious urge floating to the surface.  As a device it works well, especially in the singing
contest when the rest of the cast is lured into Venus’s fiery
aura as Tannhaeuser sings to them of lust. In the final scenes
it steams and smolders from beneath the stage as Tannhaeuser
wrestles with his conscience and his instincts.  Yet the drama of Tannhaeuser’s predicament relies on this
internal schism, the inability to choose between the two worlds.
The trouble with Baumgarten’s staging is that neither seems very
appealing. Anyone fancy life in a recycling plant with distilled
celery juice? Perhaps the tadpoles would be preferable.  Chemistry Lacking  Devoted, saintly Elisabeth -- expressively played by
Camilla Nylund -- darts around the waste management plant in
inappropriate evening attire. The chemistry (or should that be
bio-chemistry) between her and Tannhaeuser (Lars Cleveman) is
virtually non-existent.  Her scenes with Wolfram, whose part is sung with passion
and power by Michael Nagy, have far more poignancy and even some
humor. More of both would have helped to lighten the evening.  Instead, it felt like a science lecture at times, as
equations and text flashed up on video screens along with
microscope images of organisms and x-rays of hands.  Even so, it was probably a relaxing evening away from the
job for anyone who has been busy trying to save the euro.  Rating: *.  The Bayreuth Festival runs through Aug. 28. “Tannhaeuser”
performances take place on Aug. 1, 7, 13, 19 and 25. For more
information, go to  http://www.bayreuther-festspiele.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Bayreuth at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 