-- 
Tax Amazon, Other E-Commerce at Source: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-07-26T00:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/let-states-tax-amazon-e-commerce-at-source-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
(Corrects to note that legislation has not been introduced
yet in eighth paragraph.)  Danny Diaz, spokesman for the
 Alliance for Main Street Fairness , was recently in  Tennessee  for
one of his daughter’s basketball games. “The strip malls are
empty,” he said.  “There are for-lease signs everywhere. When do we get to
the point where these retailers just close up shop? What the
hell do we do with that square footage? It is critical that we
let these small employers compete.”  What Diaz is hyperbolizing about -- and the alliance’s
reason for being -- is what he considers an unfair subsidy for
companies, such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , that sell products over the
Internet. Go to your local bookstore, if you can find one, and
you’ll pay the local sales tax. Order a book online from an out-
of-state vendor and you will owe your home state a sales tax on
it, too -- but nobody will collect it. The  Supreme Court   has
ruled , most recently in 1992, that states cannot order out-of-
state companies to collect these taxes.  This disparity is indeed unfair both to the mom-and-pop
retailers that Amazon’s critics like to talk about and to the
larger companies, such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
that provide much of those critics’ financial support. Worse, it
distorts the economy, because it means that Internet-based
companies do better for reasons unrelated to their ability to
provide good products to consumers at low cost.  A Real Problem  Although Amazon’s critics have identified a real problem,
their solution is a mistake. They want an Amazon tax that
replaces one type of unfairness with others, and imposes costs
on the economy out of proportion with any revenue it might
generate. There’s a better solution, although not one that
proponents of the Amazon tax like.  Over the past two years, state governments have considered
instituting such a tax as a way to help them balance their
budgets. Eight states have already done so. Some of these are
liberal states such as Illinois and  California . But the Texas
legislature passed the most recent of these laws, and by
overwhelming margins.  These states tax Amazon, which is based in  Seattle , and
other Internet businesses when they have affiliates or
distribution centers inside their borders. But whether states
may use this maneuver is the subject of litigation that seems
likely to last a long time, and Amazon has sometimes responded
by cutting off its affiliates or threatening to move its
distribution centers.  'National Solution'  Nobody, by contrast, questions the legal power of Congress
to allow the states to tax e-commerce. So Senators  Dick Durbin ,
an Illinois Democrat, and Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican, plan
to introduce legislation authorizing states to form a compact.
Internet-based companies would have to collect taxes when
selling to a customer in any of the states that belong to it.  Some governors, such as Tennessee Republican Bill Haslam,
are fans of this “national solution” to the taxation of Internet
commerce. But this has serious downsides.  Consider, for starters, the different compliance costs
Internet vendors will face. A brick-and-mortar company doesn’t
have to ask whether its customer is from out of state, much less
to discover the  sales-tax  regime that applies there. Internet
companies will have to keep track of sales-tax rates and
exemptions for each of thousands of localities.  Or let’s say you live by the border of a state with a lower
sales tax than your state’s. You can drive across the border,
buy goods and pay a lower  tax rate . If the Amazon tax is in
effect, though, ordering online from out of state won’t yield
any tax savings. How is that fairer than the status quo?  A 2006  PricewaterhouseCoopers study  found that small
retailers have pretty high compliance costs: about 17 cents for
each dollar of revenue. Diaz’s group favors exempting these
small retailers from the collection mandate. If they do, the
rationale of minimizing distortions to the economy is gone.  A Better Plan  There are dueling studies about how much revenue state and
local governments forgo by not collecting taxes from  Internet
sales . But experience seems to side with the low estimates.
 Rhode Island  imposed an Amazon tax in 2009 -- and its  officials
say  that it has generated no revenue at all.  A far better solution would be for states to levy sales
taxes based on where products are coming from rather than on
where they’re going -- or for Congress to tell them to do so.
Under an origin-based tax rather than a destination-based tax,
for example, Washington state would have the power to tax
Amazon.com’s sales. For physical stores, sales taxes would keep
being collected as before.  This would be a much simpler tax system with lower
compliance costs. It would tend to constrain sales taxes by
increasing competition among the states: A state that raised its
rates too high would induce businesses, particularly catalog or
Internet businesses that can sell remotely, to locate elsewhere.  Feature, Not Bug  To my mind, that’s a feature, not a bug. State governments
that are eager to tax Amazon and other e-businesses because they
want cash, rather than because they want fair tax rules, will
doubtless see it differently.  To hear proponents of the Amazon tax talk, you would think
that the principal flaw of an otherwise pure sales-tax system in
this country is its inability to collect taxes from Internet
businesses. In the real world sales taxes are a chaotic mess,
inefficient and unfair. States and localities often tax services
one way, food and clothing another, and all other goods still
another. They observe arbitrary tax holidays.  Origin-based sales taxes would eliminate the different
treatment of Internet sales. They also might get state and local
governments to rely less on sales taxes altogether -- which
would be a good thing.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor at National Review and a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 