-- 
Metro Posts Operating Loss at Media Markt, Saturn Shops

-- B y   M a r i a j o s e   V e r a   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 
2011-07-26T08:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/metro-s-media-markt-saturn-unit-posts-second-quarter-operating-loss.html
Metro AG (MEO)  said its Media-Saturn
household electronics unit posted an operating loss of 44
million euros ($64 million) in the second quarter as sales
dropped.  Media-Saturn had a “strong” decline in comparable sales
in  Germany  in the period, Dusseldorf-based Metro said today in
an e-mailed statement. The loss compares to the profit before
interest, taxes and extraordinary items of 41 million euros
posted in the year-earlier period.  The unit, which runs Media Markt and Saturn stores, will
change its strategy to “strongly focus on price and cost
leadership,” said Media-Saturn Chief Executive Officer Horst
Norberg in the statement.  The company will offer online sales for Saturn in Germany
in October and for Media Markt in January and aims to generate 5
billion euros in online sales by 2015. Media-Saturn will make
more acquisitions to accelerate growth on the Internet, it
added. The company bought online retailer Redcoon in March.  Metro Group confirmed its earnings forecast for 2011,
saying it expects to profit before extraordinary items to rise
about 10 percent from the 2.42 billion euros reported last year.
Operating profit will increase at Media-Saturn in the second
half through cost-cutting measures.  Metro shares rose as much as 1.20 euros, or 3.1 percent, to
39.80 euros and traded at 39.41 euros at 9:46 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
The stock has declined 27 percent this year.  “Investors have expected bad figures; it is more important
today that the full-year guidance was confirmed,” said
Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe, said by
telephone.  The Media-Saturn results are preliminary, Metro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariajose Vera in Munich Bureau at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  