-- 
EU Ban on Drugmaker-Patient Communication Under Review

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-28T15:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/eu-plans-review-of-ban-on-drugmaker-patient-communications-1-.html
(Corrects second paragraph of article published July 26 to
show letter was from Polish presidency of EU.)  European Union restrictions on
pharmaceutical companies communicating directly with patients
will be reviewed by regulators planning new draft rules, EU
officials said.  The European Medicines Agency received a letter from the
Polish presidency of the EU’s Council of Ministers saying that
it will review the policy, said Peter Arlett, head of the
agency’s drug safety unit, at a meeting in  London  today. The
rules are intended to make regulations more uniform across the
27-nation bloc.  “The European Commission will revise the proposals to
clarify and harmonize the rules in what companies can and can’t
say to patients,” Arlett said in an interview. It’s uncertain
whether restrictions will be lifted, he said.  Previous debate suggests the measure probably won’t allow
the type of direct-to-consumer television commercials that
drugmakers air in the U.S., or general magazine or newspaper
advertisements, said Richard Bergstrom, director general of the
 European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations , a trade group in Brussels.  EU regulators will suggest new rules “by September/October
at the latest,”  Frederic Vincent , a spokesman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mail. Any proposal will need the
support of EU governments and the European Parliament before it
can come into force.  Previous Proposal  The proposal replaces an earlier draft by regulators three
years ago that failed to win the backing of governments and
lawmakers. The earlier version would have limited print ads to
health-related publications, Bergstrom said in a telephone
interview.  Members of the trade group would welcome being able to
directly communicate with patients about their medicines and
more consistent rules throughout European countries, Bergstrom
said.  “We in industry are largely supportive,” he said. “Today
it is a patchwork. If you are in the U.K. or  Sweden  you can
usually get high-quality information rather than relying on your
doctor, whereas in southern  Europe  there is nothing.  “Our position is, it’s bizarre that you can get all sorts
of other information” about medicines “on the Internet but we
as producers are banned from giving it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  