-- 
Europe Needs to Overcome Its Cognitive Dissonance: Scott Minerd

-- B y   S c o t t   M i n e r d
-- 
2011-07-26T18:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/europe-needs-to-overcome-its-cognitive-dissonance-scott-minerd.html
In the early 1950s, the American
social psychologist Leon Festinger conducted an  experiment  that
provides a valuable insight into  Europe ’s current troubles.  He encountered a religious cult that believed UFOs were
coming to rescue its members from a cataclysmic flood that would
destroy the earth. He infiltrated the group to research a theory
he called “ cognitive dissonance ,” or the psychological tension
experienced when people are presented with evidence that
contradicts their assumptions or beliefs.  When the prophesied Day of Judgment came and went, without
so much as a drop of rain or a flying saucer sighting, Festinger
observed how the members coped with the dissonance of reality.
Because the group had committed considerable expense in support
of its view, altering its course was simply too costly. Instead,
the leadership transposed its expectation to a future date, and
encouraged followers to escalate their commitment and even
proselytize others. Some members found a way to lessen the pain
of disconfirmation; but ultimately, reality would prevail.  Festinger concluded, “Though they may try to hide it, even
from themselves, the believers still know that the prediction
was false and all their preparations were in vain. The
dissonance cannot be eliminated completely by denying or
rationalizing the disconfirmation.”  Political Psychology  In many ways, this paradoxical story is analogous to the
political psychology of the European debt crisis. Policy makers
have committed, at considerable cost, to a path of bailouts and
austerity programs. The recent European Council agreement out of
Brussels offers more of the same -- billions in additional
liquidity, yet no meaningful structural solutions.  It should be painfully clear by now that liquidity is not
the answer. Equally evident is that austerity is not the cure.
Throughout the European periphery, the disconfirming data mount
as the calendar marches forward. Time, once thought a precious
ally that could be bought for a price, is proving to be an
adversary. It most certainly is not healing all wounds, as the
economic data attest.  Thus far in 2011, Greece’s debt burden,  budget deficit ,
cost of funding and unemployment rate are rising, while its
economic output and tax revenue are declining. Ireland and
 Portugal  are likely to follow in Greece’s footsteps and need
additional support. Complicating matters further is the
continued rise in  interest rates  in Italy and  Spain , which puts
additional pressure on their anemic economic growth and fragile
banking systems. By the fourth quarter, economic contraction is
likely to have engulfed the entire European periphery.  Austerity Doesn’t Work  In short, the data are proving that without  currency
devaluation , austerity simply doesn’t work. Crisis in Europe has
not been averted; it has only been modestly postponed. Yet
policy makers remain committed to the path of waiting and hoping
for the best, seemingly oblivious to the need for significant
structural reform.  What action should European leaders pursue? As  Sherlock
Holmes  said, “When all other contingencies fail, whatever
remains, however improbable, must be the truth.” Admitted or
not, the realization hitting European policy makers is that the
survival of the euro region will inevitably require a greater
degree of fiscal unification. As German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  recently confessed, “The nation state as the
sole level of policy making has exhausted its effectiveness.”
He also admitted, “When we founded this monetary union, Germany
was in favor of a political union, too.”  Narrowing the Discussion  Although “political union” is a vague term, European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has narrowed the
discussion. He asked rhetorically in a recent speech, “Would it
be too bold, in the economic field, with a single market, a
single currency and a single central bank, to envisage a
ministry of finance of the union?” Under Trichet’s proposal,
the European Union would have the power to veto the budget
measures of countries that go “harmfully astray.” In an
indirect fashion, his wish has already been partially granted.
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal are currently subject to
governance by the EU, the ECB and the  International Monetary
Fund .  The argument remains that Europe is far from possessing
the political will for increased fiscal union. Politicians view
it as unsalable to nationalist constituents. But the lack of
action by European leaders may do the selling for them as the
crisis deepens. As Jean Monnet, the man who built the very
foundation for the European Union, once said, “People only
accept change in necessity, and see necessity only in crisis.”  Drastic Measures  Just as crisis forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
somehow muster the political will to implement drastic fiscal
measures, so it may be with the rest of Europe. The growing
financial crisis across the monetary union will ultimately help
France and  Germany  find the political will to lead the euro
region into a new era of fiscal alignment.  Although it may not seem plausible now, a lot of things
seemed unthinkable in the  United States  the week before  Lehman
Brothers  collapsed. This time around, wouldn’t it be better for
Europe to end the denial and pursue a structural solution to
circumvent a financial catastrophe?  Darkest Hours Ahead  As long as economic and fiscal reforms remain unaddressed,
the darkest hours of the crisis still lie ahead. Eventually, the
darkness will give way to the dawn of a structural solution. In
this new day, a fiscal framework will emerge across the common
currency, transforming the monetary union from a failing
experiment to a sustainable reality.  Unfortunately, it appears that the only way to reach the
dawn is to pass through the present darkness of denial. The most
resisted resolution for the crisis is also the only viable
solution. This is the cognitive dissonance of Europe. Recent
policy actions have only delayed the inevitable. The endgame
remains clear: Europe will either embrace a closer fiscal union
willingly or wait until crisis requires it.  (Scott Minerd is chief investment officer at Guggenheim
Partners LLC. The opinions expressed are his own. Guggenheim
Partners Asset Management does not own any European sovereign
debt securities.)
Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer on this story:  Scott.Minerd@gpam.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 