-- 
Ex-TPG Axon’s Kumar Stops Raising Investor Money for LionRock Hedge Fund

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-26T03:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ex-tpg-axon-s-kumar-stops-raising-investor-money-for-lionrock-hedge-fund.html
LionRock Capital Pte, run by a
founding partner of TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, will stop
seeking outside investors for its hedge fund that will focus on
managing the partners’ money.  “I can confirm that LionRock will no longer be accepting
external investors and will instead only manage the capital
provided by the partners,” Hari Kumar, who started Singapore-
based LionRock in 2009, said in a e-mailed reply to queries from
Bloomberg News.  The firm’s funds under management are expected to be about
$100 million and will be managed “in a long-term fundamental
investing style reflective of a family office or endowment
model,” he said. Kumar started the multistrategy hedge fund in
2009 with $75 million of initial capital from him and Julian
Snaith, a partner, two people familiar with the plan said then.  Increased scrutiny of  hedge funds  and trading conditions
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 have
made it difficult to raise assets, leading about 100 Asian hedge
fund to close down in the 12 months through January, according
to Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte. Investment performance
remains the most important factor when assessing a hedge fund
manager, according to a Deutsche Bank AG annual investor survey.  “We decided that the best way to manage and compound our
capital over a 10- to 20-year horizon was to create a
concentrated portfolio with a long-term investing horizon,”
Kumar said. “Given that this style is different from a typical
long/short equity hedge fund and since this style would not be
in line with what the majority of potential investors would
expect, we decided that we would focus solely on our capital.”  Declining Performance  The LionRock Master Fund has declined since it started
investing in June 2009, two people with knowledge of the matter
said, requiring anonymity because the information is private.
The fund lost almost 9 percent this year through May, one of the
people said. Kumar declined to comment on the fund’s
performance.  Asia-focused multistrategy funds fell 0.2 percent in the
first half of the year, according to  Eurekahedge .  “We believe that we have enough critical mass with our
capital to allow us to continue to run the fund with the
appropriate research and operational infrastructure,” Kumar
said.  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner  Dinakar Singh 
founded New York-based hedge fund TPG-Axon with Kumar and two
other colleagues from the investment bank. Prior to starting
TPG-Axon, Singh set up the Asian arm of Goldman Sachs’s
principal strategies group in 1998. Kumar was one of the
earliest members of the Asian desk, rising to become managing
director running the business in  Asia  outside  Japan  before
leaving in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  