-- 
Lexmark Soars After Topping Estimates on Corporate Demand

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-26T20:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/lexmark-reports-earnings-beating-estimates-on-demand-for-corporate-inkjets.html
Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) , a maker
of laser and inkjet printers, surged the most in more than 10
years after second-quarter earnings topped analysts’ estimates
on strong demand from corporate customers.  The stock climbed $5.09, or 18 percent, to $33.93 at 4:01
p.m.  New York  time, the most since October 2000 and the biggest
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The shares had dropped
17 percent this year before today.  Lexmark Chief Executive Officer Paul Rooke is benefiting as
the company prepares to stop making lower-end consumer printers
in favor of business-focused inkjet and laser models. The
company’s focus on printers that are used more often helped
increase supply sales in the quarter, said Jeff Fidacaro, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group.  “The strategy is to cull the low-end inkjet business
completely out,” said Fidacaro, who has a “neutral” rating on
the stock. “They’re doing a good job of executing on the
transition.”  Net income rose to $101.3 million, or $1.27 a share, from
$85.1 million, or $1.07, a year earlier, the Lexington,
Kentucky-based company said in a statement today. Profit
excluding some items was $1.36, beating the average $1.03
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales Beat Estimates  Sales rose 1 percent to $1.04 billion. Analysts had
projected revenue of $1.01 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Earnings excluding some items in the current quarter will
be as much as $1.04 a share, Lexmark said. That compares with an
average analyst estimate of 99 cents.  Rooke said Lexmark is benefiting from the $280 million
purchase of Perceptive Software Inc. last year has helped
broaden the corporate-customer base. Perceptive allows companies
to digitize paper documents and organize and share them
electronically.  “We’re looking at natural adjacencies like that, primarily
software and services areas that can expand our core imaging
business into higher growth and profitable areas,” Rooke said
in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 