-- 
F&C Asset Says India at ‘Inflexion Point’ of Interest-Rate Cycle

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-26T11:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/f-c-asset-says-india-at-inflexion-point-of-interest-rate-cycle.html
Sam Mahtani, director of emerging-
market equities at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , which has $6
billion in assets, comments on the outlook for the nation’s
equities after the central bank raised its benchmark  interest
rate  by a more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point. He spoke in
a phone interview from  London .  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, sank
353.07, or 1.9 percent, to 18,518.22 at the 3:30 p.m. closing in
Mumbai, the most in five weeks. The measure was the biggest
loser today among key indexes in Asia.  “The rate increase was non-consensus as most people were
expecting a 25 basis point hike. If anything, I’ve got stronger
conviction after today’s move. I would definitely be adding to
Indian stocks. Before today, I expected interest rates to be
pushed throughout the year. Corporate and households can start
planning and budgeting with interest rate known rather than if
rates continue to increase. Today’s is potentially the last of
the rate hikes. We are at an inflexion point at the top of the
rate-hike cycle.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised the repurchase rate to 8
percent from 7.5 percent. None of the 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the quantum of the increase, 20 estimated a
quarter-point rise, while the remainder expected no change.  On outlook for inflation:  “We’re making a call inflation will peak at some point.
Markets tend to anticipate three months before. We are sticking
to the view that interest rates and inflation will peak. This
time next year people in India won’t be talking about inflation
as a major issue.”  On outlook for earnings:  “We expect earnings to grow at 15 to 16 percent this year
in line with consensus estimates. Our outlook remains the same.
Foreign fund flow will not be affected. Everyone was expecting
some form of rate-tightening to happen and factoring in a 50
basis point rise in the next few months.”  On risk of the economy experiencing hard landing:  “We don’t believe there will be a hard landing in  India .
There are strong long-term, structural things taking place to
ensure there’s no hard landing. There is growth in rural income
because of rural employment plans and 15 percent increase in
urban wages. There’s a lot of consumer demand. We’re holding up
reasonably well. Growth may slow to 7 percent, not below that.”  On stocks, sector preferences:  “We’re still holding Tata Consultancy Services, Mahindra &
Mahindra, ITC, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Auto. There’s not been any
change. Software and financial services are still growing. Tata
Consultancy had a fantastic earnings quarter. Reliance
Industries earnings were okay. There’s no change in our sector
preferences. We are focusing on autos and financials. These are
the two key areas.”  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s second-biggest lender,  HDFC
Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the third-largest, and  Housing Development Finance
Corp. (HDFC) , the top mortgage lender, are among Mahtani’s favorite
banking stocks. He also favors  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the
nation’s biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles and tractors,
and  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , the second-largest motorcycle maker.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-largest cigarette maker by market
value,  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s top producer of the fuel,
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest engineering company,  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , the nation’s most valuable drug
maker and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the biggest cell-phone operator,
are among F&C Asset’s top holdings, Mahtani said in a July 22
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  