-- 
Fabricato Rises as CEO Sees ‘Great Benefits’ of U.S. Trade Deal

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-26T16:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fabricato-rises-as-ceo-sees-great-benefits-of-u-s-trade-deal.html
Fabricato SA advanced after
 Colombia ’s biggest textile maker reported a rise in sales and as
Chief Executive Officer Ivan Zuluaga said the company will see
“great benefits” financially by 2013 if the U.S. passes a
free-trade agreement with Colombia this year.  “It will stabilize business with the U.S. in the long-
term,” Zuluaga said in a teleconference with analysts today.
“If the deal is approved, clothing makers from around the world
including Brazil and  Asia  will push to do business in Colombia
so they can send their products to the U.S. without tariffs.”  Fabricato rose 3.6 percent to 71.5 pesos at 11:57 a.m. New
York time. The stock had gained 157 percent this year through
yesterday and is the best-performing member of the IGBC index.  Fabricato has been in talks with European brand producers
seeking to use Colombia as a potential tariff-free base for
shipping to the U.S. ahead of a potential trade deal, Zuluaga
said.  The company reported second-quarter net income of 2.7
billion pesos ($1.5 million), compared with a loss of 5.6
billion pesos in the second quarter of 2010. Sales rose 17
percent from a year ago to 156.5 billion pesos, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday.  Profits rose even as the Colombian peso’s gains caused “a
bit of deterioration” in net income for Colombian exporters,
Zuluaga said. The currency has jumped 8.7 percent since March 1,
the best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Fabricato’s 2011 profit and revenue growth may not be as
“excellent” as 2010, Zuluaga said.  Juan Carlos Cadavid, currently vice president of marketing,
will take over from Zuluaga the acting head of the company on
Aug. 1, Fabricato said in a regulatory filing yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  