-- 
Facebook Lets Users Opt Out of ‘Tag Suggestions’ Feature, Connecticut Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-26T17:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/facebook-lets-users-opt-out-of-tag-suggestions-feature-connecticut-says.html
Facebook Inc. made it easier for
subscribers to opt out of the “tag suggestions” facial-
recognition feature, addressing privacy concerns raised by
Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen.  Facebook has begun to run online ads linking users to their
privacy settings and allowing them to opt out, the attorney
general said today in an e-mailed statement. The  Palo Alto ,
California-based social media website also made it easier to
report impostor profiles, he said.  The “tag suggestions” feature uses facial-recognition
software to identify users in photographs and link them with
their names. Jepsen said in June that he had told Facebook a
“critical” component of consumer privacy would be to let users
choose to opt in before the company could use the images.  “For any users who opt out, any facial recognition data
collected will be deleted,” Jepsen said today. He said the
company assured him it wasn’t using the data for commercial or
marketing purposes and that the feature couldn’t be used by
people to gain access to other user information.  “People across the country using Facebook will be more
aware of our personalized privacy settings and how they can be
used to benefit their experience on the site,” Tim Sparapani, a
Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The attorney
general has been an effective partner on this project.”  Lawmaker Identity  Jepsen said Facebook also responded to his concerns about
impostor accounts.  In February, while probing claims that a Connecticut
lawmaker’s identity had been misused in a scam to solicit money,
Jepsen wrote the company asking how it responded to reports of
fraudulent or hacked accounts.  State Representative Kim Rose said in a Bloomberg interview
at the time that someone had created a Facebook page using her
name and photograph without her permission and then requested
money from her “friends.” She said she tried dozens of times
to report the fraud to the company.  Facebook added new language and links to a contact form to
help users trying to report an impostor or fake profile, Jepsen
said today. He said similar complaints also had led Facebook to
recently start to use a “roadblock” system. Once an account is
reported as fake, the company keeps it from being used until
it’s verified through telephone numbers or other information.  Recently Facebook shut down a second impostor account that
Rose discovered within an hour, Jepsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 