-- 
Facebook Said to Be in Talks to Bring Credits to Mobile Browsers

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-26T18:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/facebook-is-said-to-be-in-discussions-to-bring-credits-to-mobile-browsers.html
Facebook  Inc. is in talks to let
developers sell virtual goods within mobile Web browsers, part
of an effort to generate more revenue from smartphones and
tablet computers, three people familiar with the matter said.  The change would let developers use Facebook’s currency,
called Credits, on mobile applications accessed over the Web,
according to the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. That means Facebook could get about 30
percent of revenue generated by the sale of virtual goods. Right
now, that commission typically goes to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
because they run the operating systems for phones.  The discussions are part of Facebook’s efforts to revamp
its mobile strategy, helping the company take advantage of the
shift to smartphones and apps. Facebook is one of the most
popular mobile apps on Apple’s iPhone and Google’s Android,
though it makes no revenue from the programs.  In an e-mailed statement,  Palo Alto , California-based
Facebook declined to comment on any plans for mobile Credits.  Developers of Facebook apps make money when users buy
virtual items within their programs -- say, a pony in Zynga
Inc.’s “FarmVille.” When customers make those purchases using
Facebook on a computer, the company gets its cut. When it
happens within the apps of Apple or Google, Facebook doesn’t.  HTML5 Standard  Facebook is asking select developers to build versions of
their applications for the emerging HTML5 Web standard, the
people said. This provides a way to render graphics and
animation through a Web browser without having a user download
software directly to the device through Apple or Google’s
application stores. The TechCrunch blog previously reported on
Facebook’s HTML5 efforts.  Facebook, which has more than 750 million users, makes most
of its money from ads. It’s likely to generate more than $2
billion this year in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in May. The company is valued at $72.9 billion on
 SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for shares of private businesses.  Facebook started testing Credits in 2009, in part to
diversify its revenue sources. The system lets users buy items
in different games using a single virtual currency, with a
commission going back to Facebook. This year, the company made
Credits mandatory for the sale of virtual goods in all
applications on its site.  Virtual goods will be a $20 billion market by 2014,
estimates  ThinkEquity LLC . Spending on mobile games alone will
generate $7.1 billion in sales that year.  Rivaling Apple  Facebook is seeking to build a software community that
rivals Apple’s. That company’s  App Store  boasts more than
425,000 programs, and it contributed to almost $1.4 billion in
sales from Apple’s iTunes last quarter.  In another effort to help developers get more attention and
make money, Facebook may include a separate news feed on its
home page that displays activity in apps, three people familiar
with the matter said. The news feed would appear on the right
side of Facebook pages and include updates about what users are
doing in games or other applications, the people said.  “We’re always testing new ways to improve app discovery on
Facebook, however we have no further details to share at this
time,” Facebook said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 Asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  