-- 
Dodd-Frank May Be Subject of Confirmation Hearing for U.S. Bank Regulators

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-26T16:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fdic-occ-nominees-to-face-dodd-frank-queries-from-senate-panel.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominees to
head agencies overseeing the biggest U.S. banks were quizzed
over plans for implementing new regulations at a Senate hearing
that provided a contrast to Washington’s debt-ceiling battle.  Martin J. Gruenberg and Thomas Curry, who helped guide the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. through the 2008 credit crisis,
testified at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on Gruenberg’s
nomination to be FDIC chairman and Curry’s selection as
comptroller of the currency.  Gruenberg, a longtime Senate staffer who is serving as
acting FDIC chairman, and Curry, who was nominated as an FDIC
board member by President  George W. Bush  in 2004, haven’t
inspired the partisan rancor that led Senate Republicans to
block or threaten Obama nominees for the  Federal Reserve  and the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Still, lawmakers pressed the two men on how they plan to
handle new responsibilities imposed by the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul enacted last year.  Curry, 54, was asked about his position on capital rules
for banks. Acting comptroller  John Walsh  was assailed by Senate
Democrats including Banking Committee members  Sherrod Brown  of
 Ohio  and  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  for questioning whether
requiring banks to hold higher levels of capital would force
them to cut back on lending and undermine economic recovery.  “I would agree that capital is critically important to the
health of the financial system,” Curry told the panel. Basel
III, or the international banking standards, “would work to
eliminate unlevel playing fields on an international basis.”  ‘Times of Stress’  Curry, who would oversee national banks, told lawmakers
that his 25 years of experience as a regulator have
“underscored the fundamental importance of a safe and sound
banking industry to our economy particularly in times of
stress.” Before joining the FDIC, he served five Massachusetts
governors as the commonwealth’s commissioner of banks between
1990 and 2003.  Gruenberg, 58, who has been FDIC vice chairman since 2005,
would inherit the broader authority that  Sheila Bair  fought to
gain for the agency before she stepped down this month. The new
duties expand on the agency’s traditional role insuring deposits
up to $250,000 at about 7,500 banks and overseeing safety and
soundness at nearly 5,000 small and mid-sized lenders.  ‘Leading Role’  “As the primary federal regulator of the majority of our
country’s community banks, the FDIC carries a particular
responsibility for the future of this crucial segment of our
financial industry,” Gruenberg said in his remarks. “The FDIC
will also continue to play a leading role in expanding access to
insured financial institutions to all Americans as a means for
economic opportunity.”  Arthur Wilmarth, a George Washington University law
professor, said in an interview yesterday that both Curry and
Gruenberg would have a “difficult challenge ahead of them” as
their agencies work to restore the flow of credit in the
financial system.  “They benefit from the fact that they have lived through
the crisis. I would hope the Senate would see it as a big
plus,” Wilmarth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  