-- 
FDIC, OCC Nominees Pressed for Views on Dodd-Frank, Basel Rules

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-26T19:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fdic-occ-nominees-pressed-for-views-on-dodd-frank-basel-rules.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominees to
lead agencies overseeing the biggest U.S. banks told lawmakers
that higher capital standards will play a crucial role in
efforts to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  Martin J. Gruenberg and Thomas Curry, who helped guide the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. through the 2008 credit crisis,
made the comments today at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on
Gruenberg’s nomination to be FDIC chairman and Curry’s selection
as comptroller of the currency.  “I would agree that capital is critically important to the
health of the financial system,” Curry, an FDIC board member,
told the panel, saying the Basel III standards would “eliminate
unlevel playing fields on an international basis.” Gruenberg
also endorsed the international banking accords.  Gruenberg, a longtime Senate staffer who is serving as
acting FDIC chairman, and Curry, who was nominated to the FDIC
board by President  George W. Bush  in 2004, testified at a
hearing that was largely free of the partisan rancor that led
Senate Republicans to block or threaten Obama nominees for the
 Federal Reserve  and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  If approved by the full Senate, both Gruenberg, 58, and
Curry, 54, would play central roles in implementing the
international banking accords as well as the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, whose implementation remains a partisan
flash point a year after its enactment.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the Banking Committee’s
top Republican, said after the hearing that he would support
Gruenberg’s nomination and that he would review Curry’s record.  Undermine Recovery  Global regulators said last month that lenders deemed too
big to fail would need to set aside from 1 percentage point to
2.5 percentage points in additional capital.  Curry’s support of higher capital standards struck a
contrast with acting Comptroller  John Walsh , who was assailed by
Senate Democrats including Banking Committee member  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio  for questioning whether the rules might undermine
economic recovery by forcing banks to curb lending.  In case of large banks, the new rules accounts for
“systemic risks they pose and brings about greater leveling of
the playing field of the smaller institutions,” Gruenberg said.  Gruenberg, who has been FDIC vice chairman since 2005,
would inherit the broader authority that  Sheila Bair  fought to
gain for the agency before she stepped down this month. The new
duties expand on the agency’s traditional role insuring deposits
up to $250,000 at about 7,500 banks and overseeing safety and
soundness at nearly 5,000 small and mid-sized lenders.  OCC Independence  Curry, who would oversee national banks, was pressed for
his views of new OCC rules outlining when federal regulations
trump state law. The final rules were approved after an initial
proposal drew rebukes from the U.S. Treasury Department and
state regulators who said it ignored the intent of Dodd-Frank.  “The actual language in Dodd-Frank is a matter of some
controversy. The principle is clear that federal law supersedes
state law,” Curry told the panel. “It is incumbent on the OCC
to maintain its independence as a bank regulatory agency.”  Dodd-Frank directed the OCC to revise rules on so-called
preemption after groups representing state attorneys general and
bank regulators faulted the agency for failing to rein in
national banks’ lending abuses before the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  