-- 
Female U.S. Senators Call on Saudi Arabia to Let Women Drive

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/female-u-s-senators-call-on-saudi-arabia-to-let-women-drive.html
Fourteen female U.S. senators called
on  Saudi Arabia  today to end its ban on women driving cars,
adding new public support to a once-quiet campaign to change
Saudi policy.  In a letter to  King Abdullah , the senators called on the
kingdom to honor its commitments to the United Nations Human
Rights Council and the Arab Charter on Human Rights by giving
women the right to drive.  “The prohibition on women driving motor vehicles, even in
cases of emergency, makes it impossible for citizens to exercise
a basic human right,” wrote Senator  Barbara Boxer  of
 California , the second-ranked Democrat on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, along with 13 colleagues from both
political parties.  “We strongly urge you to reconsider this ban and take an
important step toward affording Saudi women the rights they
deserve,” they wrote.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke out last month for
the first time in support of the right of Saudi women to drive,
ending what her spokeswoman had described as “quiet diplomacy”
on the issue.  Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world with such a
ban on women driving. The kingdom enforces restrictions
interpreted from the Wahhabi traditions of Sunni Islam. Women
aren’t allowed to apply for a driver’s license, though some defy
the rules by driving when they are in desert areas away from
cities.  The driving campaign began in May when a group of Saudis
called on women with international driver’s licenses to drive
their cars in June in a show of support for a policy change.  “We welcome the support of so many U.S. senators,” said
Saudi Women for Driving, the group that organized the
initiative, in a written statement. “It’s high time that
American leaders start taking the lead, and demanding that Saudi
women be afforded the most basic human rights.”  Nail al-Jubeir, director of the information office at the
Saudi embassy in  Washington , did not immediately respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  