-- 
Fiat Targets $3 Billion 2011 Profit After Consolidating Chrysler Results

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-26T15:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fiat-increases-2011-earnings-revenue-targets-after-chrysler-consolidation.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker with
a majority stake in Chrysler Group LLC, revised its full-year
earnings targets after consolidating the American automaker.  Fiat forecasts 2011 earnings before interest, tax and one-
time items, which it calls trading profit, of about 2.1 billion
euros ($3 billion) and revenue of more than 58 billion euros,
the Turin-based company said in a statement. The previous
target, which did not include Chrysler, was for trading profit
of as much as 1.2 billion euros and 37 billion euros in sales.  Sergio Marchionne , who runs both carmakers, said today
he’ll announce a joint management structure for Fiat and
Chrysler in a “few days” as he moves to combine the two. The
Italian automaker, which last week increased its Chrysler stake
to 53.5 percent, aims to merge the carmakers to reduce costs and
achieve more than 100 billion euros in revenue by 2014.  Fiat’s targets “appear to be driven entirely by the
consolidation of Chrysler rather than any underlying increases
in the budgets for either business,”  Max Warburton , a London-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note to
investors. “We see little reason why Fiat Auto can grow
profitably from here.”  Fiat closed down 33 cents, or 4.5 percent, to 7.17 euros in
Milan trading. The stock has gained 7.1 percent this year,
valuing the automaker at 8.8 billion euros.  Profit Advances  Second-quarter trading profit advanced 71 percent to 525
million euros, exceeding the 494 million-euro average estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue gained 40
percent to 13.2 billion euros. The earnings include one month of
Chrysler results, which Fiat consolidated beginning June 1.  Second-quarter net income surged to 1.31 billion euros from
90 million euros a year earlier because of one-time gains
related to the consolidation of Chrysler. Excluding profit from
Chrysler and extraordinary items related to the integration,
Fiat earned net income of 76 million euros compared with 8
million euros last year.  Chrysler posted second-quarter adjusted net income of $181
million compared with a loss of $172 million last year, the
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker said today in a
statement. Including the repayment of U.S. and Canadian
government loans, Chrysler lost $370 million in the quarter, the
company said.  European Struggles  Fiat struggles in Europe to compete with Volkswagen AG and
PSA Peugeot Citroen. The carmaker’s second-quarter deliveries in
the region dropped 7.6 percent to 252,700 vehicles as the
overall market contracted 1.7 percent following the end of
government incentive programs. The company, which doesn’t break
down results by region, lost about 1 billion euros last year on
its home continent, according to Warburton.  The Italian carmaker counts on  Brazil , which the CEO calls
“the Cinderella story” of the group, to counter the European
losses.  Fiat sales increased 4.9 percent in the country in the
first half to about 290,000 cars, according to Anfavea, the
Brazilian car manufacturers’ association. Fiat retained the
leading position with a 22.4 percent market share in the first
six months, it said earlier this month.  Fiat, initially granted a 20 percent stake in Chrysler by
the U.S. government, expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting a 5
percent stake in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler. The United Auto Workers union’s trust will have the
remaining 41.5 percent. Marchionne will end up paying about $2
billion to reach the 58.5 percent holding.  Shared Technology  The CEO has laid out a plan to use common technology for
Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge and Alfa Romeo models. Marchionne
last month stopped selling Chrysler in continental  Europe  after
four decades, converting the brand’s dealers to Lancia SpA. The
move is part of his plan to end losses in Europe and cut costs
by 1.5 billion euros by 2014.  “We believe Fiat offers a unique combination of structural
and operational value creation,” Goldman Sachs analyst Stefan Burgstaller, who has a “buy” rating on the stock, wrote in a
note to investors last week. “Successful execution of the five-
year plan offers further operational upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  