-- 
Fiat and UAW Health Trust Disagree Over Value of Stake in Chrysler Group

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-26T20:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fiat-and-uaw-health-trust-disagree-over-value-of-stake-in-chrysler-group.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and the United Auto Workers
retiree health care trust disagree over the value of
Chrysler Group LLC, said Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who runs both companies.  “It would be nonsensical for us to open a discussion of
the acquisition of the interest in VEBA given their
expectations” of Chrysler’s worth, Marchionne told analysts and
reporters today.  The best way for the union trust, known as VEBA, to exit
its stake is through the “ capital market ,” he said. Marchionne
didn’t provide specifics.  The dispute follows Fiat’s buyout of the U.S. and Canadian
governments’ shares in  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.
Fiat last week completed a $500 million payment for the  U.S.
Treasury ’s final 6 percent holding and $125 million for  Canada ’s
1.5 percent stake.  Those deals were based on open-market references and not a
multiple of earnings, Marchionne said. A similar valuation for
the trust’s stake would put its value at more than $3 billion
while the trust believes it’s worth more, Marchionne said.  The trust can’t force a sale of its stake until 2013.  “We don’t have to hit that hurdle until January 1, 2013,
when VEBA is in a position to require registration,” Marchionne
said. “We’re going to use this time between now and then to
explore all possible ways in which we can get to what we
consider the right answer,” he added.  Fiat’s Stake  Fiat, initially granted a 20 percent stake in Chrysler by
the U.S. government, expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting 5
percent in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler. The union’s trust will have the remaining 41.5 percent
of Chrysler at that time.  Marchionne reiterated that he won’t risk Fiat’s credit
rating to buy the stake even though Turin, Italy-based automaker
has the cash necessary for the acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  