-- 
Firms May Drop Millions of IRA Savers on Rule Change, Sifma Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-26T17:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/firms-may-drop-millions-of-ira-savers-on-rule-change-sifma-says.html
Brokerage firms may drop millions of
individual retirement account holders if a proposed U.S. Labor
Department rule takes effect, a lobbying group said today.  The Labor Department wants to expand the scope of fiduciary
responsibility to protect those saving for retirement from
conflicts of interest, such as recommending investments with
higher fees. The rule would require investment professionals who
advise employers and workers with retirement savings plans such
as 401(k)s or IRAs to act in the best interest of their clients.  The change may cause financial firms to offer fewer
investment options in retirement accounts and shift to a fee-
based model used by investment advisers, which will raise costs,
Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice president for public policy and
advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, said at a  Washington  hearing before the House
Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions.  “Most firms require a minimum account balance for advisory
accounts that could result in millions of IRA account holders
being dropped,” Bentsen said in written testimony. There are
more than 7 million IRA accounts with balances under $25,000
that are commission-based, according to Sifma, a lobbying group
for banks and brokerages. The rule may force a number of small
account holders “to go looking for services somewhere else and
at a higher cost,” Bentsen said at the hearing.  “The broker concern is perhaps due to misunderstanding,”
Assistant Secretary of Labor Phyllis Borzi said at the hearing.
“We’re not intending to overturn a commission-based system.”  Exemptions Exist  Exemptions already exist in Labor Department rules that
would allow brokers to continue to provide securities, mutual
funds and annuities to IRA owners, Borzi said. “We’re very
concerned about closing off advice to small investors.”  Employers generally are held responsible for making sure
their  retirement plans  operate in the best interest of
employees. The proposed Labor Department regulation would apply
a fiduciary standard to firms that advise plan sponsors and
investors about investments even if they don’t give that advice
regularly.  “It’s not about raising the standard, it’s about turning
off whole lines of business,”  Jim McCarthy , managing director
of wealth advisory solutions at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney in
Purchase,  New York , said in a telephone interview.  If firms are considered fiduciaries by the Labor
Department, selling investors bonds from a brokerage’s inventory
or recommending a trade that would generate a commission may be
considered a conflict of interest and a “prohibited
transaction,” said McCarthy. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
manages about $430 billion in retirement assets, he said.  No Exaggeration  “I think the industry is not exaggerating when they say
they will abandon this business,”  Barbara Roper , director of
investor protection for the  Consumer Federation of America  in
Washington, said in a telephone interview.  Improved regulation of retirement plans is needed because
employers and participants may not understand that the person
educating them about their investments may have a financial
stake in the choices they make, the U.S. Government
Accountability Office said in a  report  released in February.  U.S. retirement assets totaled $18 trillion as of March 31,
according to the  Investment Company Institute  in Washington.
Savings in IRAs were $4.9 trillion at the end of the first
quarter, while assets in 401(k)-type plans were $4.7 trillion,
ICI data show.  Selling Product  The Labor Department should clarify which actions would be
exempted and wouldn’t trigger prohibited transaction penalties,
said Roper of the Consumer Federation. The agency also should
close a loophole in the regulation that “you could drive a
truck through,” which exempts investment professionals who only
sell a product, Roper said.  Investment professionals who are only selling products
rather than giving advice won’t be considered fiduciaries, Borzi
said.  “They are putting their entire rule at risk in their rush
to finalize this,” Roper said.  The Labor Department has said
it plans to make the rule final by the end of this year.  “We’re not rushing ahead,” Borzi said at today’s hearing.
“It’s more important for us to get it right rather than meet
that regulatory agenda.”  Slow Down  “Everyone wants them to take the foot off the gas,”
Representative Phil Roe, a Tennessee Republican and chairman of
the subcommittee, said after the hearing. The industry won’t
move forward because they don’t know what the final rules
will be including which transactions would be exempted, Roe
said.  As part of the Dodd-Frank financial-services overhaul law
enacted last July, Congress asked the Securities and Exchange
Commission to study existing standards for registered investment
advisers and broker-dealers. In January, the SEC recommended a
common standard for those who provide personalized investment
advice.  The agencies are working together to make sure the final
rules don’t conflict, Borzi said at the hearing.  The Labor Department rule also may apply to advice given to
savers when they are leaving a job and trying to decide whether
to roll their money into IRAs. Fees on IRAs typically are 25
basis points to 30 basis points higher than fees on 401(k)s, and
can be as much as 65 basis points higher, the GAO study said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Worker Responsibility  The shift by employers to 401(k)s from traditional pension
plans has meant that workers have more responsibility for how
they invest their retirement savings, said Norman Stein, who
testified on behalf of the  Pension Rights Center , a consumer
advocacy group in Washington. Savers are “highly dependent” on
the advice they receive, which may be subject to conflicts of
interest, said Stein, who is a  professor  of law at the Earle
Mack School of Law at  Drexel University  in Philadelphia.  “Some investment advisers receive revenue-sharing and
other payments from the vendors of the products they
recommend,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 