-- 
Ford Motor Falls on Outlook for Increased Pressure for Prices of Vehicles

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-07-26T21:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ford-second-quarter-net-drops-less-than-estimated-as-car-prices-increase.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, fell in New York trading after saying it may
benefit less from higher vehicle prices and face higher costs in
the second half.  Automakers may spend more on incentives as they boost
inventories that were depleted by the March tsunami in Japan,
Ford Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said today. Higher
prices for models such as the Fiesta subcompact boosted revenue
by $1.1 billion in the second quarter.  Higher prices may not be sustainable “at quite the same
level as the first half,” Booth said in a phone interview.
Costs for commodities such as steel, plastics, copper and
aluminum “stay under pressure” and contribute to about half of
the $4 billion in higher costs that Ford sees this year.  Ford fell 23 cents to $12.94 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 23 percent
this year after a 68 percent gain in 2010.  Net income in the second quarter fell to $2.4 billion from
$2.6 billion a year earlier, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said
today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was 65 cents
a share, beating the 61-cent average of 14 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The results precede negotiations that begin this week
between Ford and the  United Auto Workers . Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said today that talks will focus on efforts
“to improve every element of competitiveness.”  Labor Costs  Ford has estimated it faces an $8 an hour gap in labor
costs compared with the mostly non-union factories of foreign
automakers and rival Chrysler Group LLC, which began UAW talks
yesterday.  The negotiations for a new contract are an “important
consideration” among ratings companies as they consider
boosting Ford to investment grade, Robert Schulz, a  New York- 
based credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , wrote today in a
report.  “Ford’s financial performance is tracking levels
consistent with a higher rating,” he said, citing cash
generation from automotive operations that may exceed $4 billion
this year. Ford lost its investment-grade ratings in 2005.  Pretax profit in Ford’s European operations plunged 45
percent to $176 million. While the results compared unfavorably
to a year earlier when the company was rebuilding inventories
after government programs to scrap older vehicles, the figures
were “well in-line with our planning,” Booth said.  Sales Slow  Industrywide U.S. light-vehicle sales slowed to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 12.1 million in the quarter
from 13.1 million in the prior three months, according to
Autodata Corp. Ford said the March tsunami in  Japan  wiped out
2.5 million units of global industry output in the quarter.  Ford’s U.S. deliveries rose 9 percent to 1.07 million in
the first half, trailing the industry’s 13 percent gain. The 9
percent figure includes year-ago sales of Volvo vehicles.  “We’re looking at it being a rough ride for the rest of
this year not just for Ford, but for the industry as a whole,”
Stephen Spivey, an analyst at Frost & Sullivan Inc. in  San
Antonio , said in a phone interview.  Ford raised prices three times this year and lowered
discounts more than the industry average in their home market
during the first half, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-
based Autodata.  Mulally, 65, is betting U.S. consumers will switch from
larger vehicles to more fuel-efficient cars such as the Fiesta
as gasoline prices rise and pay more for amenities such as
heated leather seats. Regular unleaded gas has exceeded $3.50 a
gallon in the U.S. since March, according to AAA.  Higher Costs  The cost of developing new models and improving the Ford
and Lincoln brand images will add $2 billion to the company’s
structural costs this year. Ford also reiterated its forecast
for commodity costs to rise by another $2 billion.  The forecast for $4 billion in higher costs “increasingly
looks only modestly conservative” rather than “excessively
conservative as we had hoped,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Himanshu Patel said today in a research note. He rates Ford
“neutral” with a $19 price target.  “There are various kinds of initial hits to the bottom
line as you’re bringing out new product, but if it’s done right
you make that up on the back end,”  Stephen Brown , a Chicago-
based analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said in a phone interview before
results were released.  Ford’s second-quarter sales climbed 1.4 percent to $35.5
billion. The improvement even after last year’s sale of Volvo
Cars topped nine analysts’ average estimate for $32.1 billion.  Production Boosted  The automaker boosted North American production for the
quarter by 8.7 percent percent to 710,000 cars and trucks, in
line with its forecast on April 26. Pretax profit for the region
rose less that 1 percent percent to $1.91 billion.  Ford forecast a 7.5 percent increase to third-quarter
production to 630,000 units in  North America , according to
today’s statement. Worldwide output will rise 7.3 percent to
1.35 million.  Ford maintained its forecast for full-year industrywide
U.S. sales of 13 million to 13.5 million vehicles, including
medium-and heavy-duty trucks.  “We probably feel closer to the bottom end of that, but
we’re still expecting to see some recovery in the second half as
availability of product from all manufacturers becomes better,”
Booth told reporters today in Dearborn.  Longer Contraction  The “snap back” that Ford has said it expects in the U.S.
auto market during the second half “seems improbable at this
point,” said Spivey, the Frost & Sullivan analyst.  “Built into these forecasts is some sense of economic
recovery that doesn’t seem to be taking place,” he said. “The
industry contraction may be here a bit longer than expected.”  Profit in Ford’s credit operations will fall by about $1.1
billion this year because of changes in lease depreciation and
credit-loss reserves, the company said, repeating a previous
forecast. Ford reiterated its estimate that the unit will
distribute about $3 billion to the parent company this year.  Ford Motor Credit distributed $1 billion to the parent
company in the second quarter, bringing first-half contributions
to $1.9 billion.  Ford’s $1.79 billion of 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031
rose 0.125 cent to 114.125 cents on the dollar today in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Credit Rating  “We try to rate through the cycle,” said Brown, the Fitch
analyst. “We want to make sure the fundamentals underlying the
business are such that this company could retain an investment-
grade status even at the bottom end of the cycle. That’s
realistic to get there, but requires some additional work.”  Ford’s automotive operations had $22 billion in cash on
June 30, up from $21.3 billion on March 31. The company cut
automotive debt to $14 billion on June 30, from $16.6 billion on
March 31. Ford targets $10 billion of debt by “mid-decade.”  “I suspect they want to see a little bit more clarity on
the economy and perhaps to see us get through the UAW
discussions and maintain our competitiveness,” Booth said of
credit-rating agencies. “The performance we’re delivering is
getting us toward investment grade sooner rather than later.”  While Ford reduced debt by $14.5 billion last year, the
company has more than rivals because it borrowed $23 billion in
late 2006 before credit markets froze. That helped Ford avoid
the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  