-- 
Forint Gains 1st Day in Three as Central Bank Keeps Rates Steady

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-26T14:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/forint-strengthens-before-central-bank-rate-meeting-zloty-gains.html
Hungary’s forint strengthened
against the euro for the first day in three after the central
bank held rates steady to fight inflation and help the economy
weather the U.S. and European Union debt crises.  Hungary’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 268.11 per euro as
of 3:53 p.m. in Budapest. The yield on the  government bonds 
maturing in 2014 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 6.611 percent. The Czech koruna appreciated 0.3
percent to 24.342.  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent today, matching economists’ forecasts, saying borrowing
costs will need to stay at that level for an “extended period”
to control inflation. Policy makers may have shunned a rate cut
to avoid fueling the currency’s decline, which increases costs
for borrowers and may harm growth and financial stability. The
euro area’s debt crisis is the most important risk factor to the
interest rate path, the Monetary Council added in a statement.  “The slightly hawkish skew of the comments is a way to
calm markets and keep the forint stable,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a
Copenhagen-based strategist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a
research report after the meeting. “If risk sentiment improves,
we still see room for a rate cut at the end of the year.”  The forint has lost 5.8 percent against the Swiss franc and
0.8 percent against the euro this month, the second-biggest
declines among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg after the Turkish lira.  Inflation  The inflation rate fell to 3.5 percent in June, the lowest
since April 2009, from 3.9 percent in May. Policy makers said in
June that inflation would slow to their target of 3 percent by
the end of next year if the benchmark rate remains at 6 percent.  The EU agreed on a second rescue plan for  Greece  on July
21, including contributions from investors, which rating
companies say would be a technical default. The dollar slid to a
record low versus the Swiss franc today and the cost of insuring
 U.S. debt  rose to a 17-month high as President  Barack Obama 
dueled with House Speaker  John Boehner  over the country’s
borrowing limit.  “The global market environment does not allow any room for
easing,”  Gaelle Blanchard  and Guillaume Salomon, strategists at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in a research note today.
“Despite the EU plan for Greece released last week, which
provided some relief, markets remain cautious and  risk aversion 
could put the forint and Hungarian assets under pressure
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  