-- 
Fox Delays Access to TV Shows Online for 8 Days With Paywall

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-27T20:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fox-limits-internet-access-to-tv-shows-for-8-days-with-new-paywall-plan.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox television network
will delay Web access to new shows for eight days after their
initial broadcast, creating a new TV pay wall to protect
advertising and subscription sales.  Viewers without Hulu Plus, Dish Network or other
participating pay-TV services won’t be able to watch Fox shows
such as “Bones” and “The Simpsons” on the Web during that
time, Los Angeles-based Fox said yesterday in a statement.  The change, effective Aug. 15, is designed to “enhance the
value” of pay-TV subscriptions, Michael Hopkins, Fox’s
president of affiliate sales, said in the statement. Fox is
asking cable systems to pay so-called retransmission fees for
the right to carry the network’s signal, giving the broadcaster
a stake in protecting pay-TV revenue.  “It’s about preserving the integrity of the network TV
business and retransmission ecosystem,” David Bank, an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in an e-mail. “In the
long run, if you give it away for free on the Internet, you
can’t charge for it on cable.”  Fox, the most popular TV network among the younger viewers
targeted by advertisers, is the first broadcaster to create an
exclusive period for shows on the Internet. ABC, owned by  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  are also weighing a pay-TV wall, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified sources.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 16 cents to $16 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have
gained 9.9 percent this year.  Cable networks already restrict Web access to paying
subscribers. Disney’s ESPN and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN this year
began providing Web and mobile access to programming to
subscribers of participating pay-TV services.  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  are streaming channels live
on the Internet to customers.  Fox’s decision also makes the $7.99-a-month version of
Hulu, a provider of TV shows online, comparatively more valuable
than its free service.  Hulu, owned by Fox, ABC and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal,
was put up for sale last month. The Los Angeles-based site is
drawing interest from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc. and Yahoo Inc.,
among others, people with knowledge of the situation said
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  