-- 
France, U.S. Have Highest Depression Rates in World, Study Suggests

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-26T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/france-u-s-have-highest-depression-rates-in-world-study-suggests.html
More people reported being depressed
in  France  and the U.S. than anywhere in the world, according to
interviews of more than 89,000 people in 18 different countries.  The study, sponsored by the  World Health Organization ,
found that 21 percent of people in France and 19.2 percent of
people in the U.S. reported having an extended period of
depression within their lifetime. On average, 15 percent of
people in high-income countries reported having an episode,
compared with 11 percent in low-income countries, according to
the study,  published  July 25 in the journal BMC Medicine.  Depression affects nearly 121 million people worldwide and
is the second leading  contributor  to shorter lifespan and poor
health for individuals 15-44 years of age, according to the
Geneva-based WHO. The higher percentage of depression reported
by people in wealthier countries may reflect differences in
societal expectations for a good life, said study co-author
 Ronald Kessler .  “There are a lot of people in the U.S. who say they aren’t
satisfied with their lives,” Kessler, a professor of health
care policy at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston ,  Massachusetts ,
said in an interview. “U.S. expectations know no bounds and
people in other countries are just happy to have a meal on the
table.”  The disease is the third-largest contributor to lowered
productivity in the workplace, Kessler said.  Depression Differences  Researchers took into account both clinical depression, a
biological condition that leads to low self-esteem and loss of
interest in otherwise enjoyable activities, and types of mild
depression, which can be situational or caused by environmental
influences. The latter was likely the cause of higher rates in
the U.S. and France, Kessler said.  “There’s no change in biological depression, but what’s
going up is the more mild depression,” Kessler said.
“Objective things haven’t changed. We have an expectation that
everything’s going to turn out perfect but it doesn’t.”  Scientists from twenty different institutions worldwide
worked with the WHO’s World Mental Health Survey Initiative,
obtaining data by interviewing 89,037 people in 18 different
countries from 2000 to 2005. Trained interviewers spoke with
respondents in person or over the phone about traumatic events
in that person’s life, substance abuse, relationships,
happiness, and other factors that could influence mental health.  The report also found that women were twice as likely to
experience depression, and the strongest link to depression was
separation or divorce from a partner.  “Most people that come out of medical school or
residencies do not learn about depression, so they don’t know
how to recognize it,” said lead researcher Evelyn Bromet, a
professor and epidemiologist at  Stony Brook  University Medical
Center in Stony Brook,  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 