-- 
Fundtech Offers Biggest New York Premium on S1: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-07-27T14:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/fundtech-offers-biggest-new-york-premium-on-s1-israel-overnight.html
Fundtech Ltd. (FNDT) , the Israeli provider
of banking software for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and HSBC Holdings
Plc, posted a smaller decline in New York than in Tel Aviv as
lawyers began investigating a buyout offer of S1 Corp.  Fundtech retreated 1.9 percent to $18.79 by 5:19 p.m. in
New York yesterday, after the Israeli-traded stock fell 6.7
percent to 60.40 shekels, or the equivalent of $17.81. Fundtech
shares in the U.S. traded at a 98-cent premium to the Tel Aviv
shares, the biggest difference among the largest Israeli
companies that are dually traded, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares climbed 5.4 percent to 63.65 shekels, or
the equivalent of $18.68, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  Levi & Korsinsky, a  law firm  with offices in New York,
Washington and  California , said yesterday it is investigating
the board of Norcross, Georgia-based S1 for possible breaches of
fiduciary duty after  ACI Worldwide Inc. (ACIW)  proposed to acquire the
technology company. ACI’s offer came a month after Fundtech,
based in Herzliya, Israel, said it agreed to be bought by S1 in
a transaction valued at about $700 million.  “ACI is coming at the 11th hour to spoil Fundtech’s
plans,” said John Kraft, an analyst at DA Davidson & Co. in
Great Falls,  Montana . “Now they’re going to be competitors
instead of being partners.”  Fundtech said it’s aware of ACI’s acquisition offer and
that while it executed a definitive merger agreement with S1,
“there can be no assurances that the closing conditions will be
satisfied,” according to a Globe Newswire statement late
yesterday.  S1 said in a statement after the close of trading in  New
York  that it continues to be bound by the terms of the merger
agreement with Fundtech, and its board will review the terms of
the proposal submitted by ACI.  S1 Soars  Calls made to Joseph Levi, a partner at the law firm,
seeking further comment on the investigation weren’t returned.
Levi & Korsinsky, in a statement, said holders of S1 common
stock could join the action.  S1 shares surged 30 percent to $9.26 yesterday, the biggest
increase in 11 years.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York fell to the lowest level in three
weeks yesterday, dropping 0.5 percent to 99.67.  The U.S.-traded shares of Fundtech soared 17 percent on
June 14 after the company announced that a multinational
corporation had expressed interest in acquiring it. The stock
rose 59 percent over the past 12 months, the seventh best-
performer on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index.  The difference between the offer price for Fundtech and S1
shares in the original transaction widened to $7.38, the highest
level since the deal with S1 was announced on June 27. The
spread was at 33 cents on July 25.  Offer Premium  ACI proposed to acquire  S1 Corp. (SONE)  for $9.50 a share, or 33
percent above the stock’s closing price on July 25, according to
a Globe Newswire statement yesterday.  “We are confident S1 shareholders will share our strong
belief that ACI’s premium proposal is superior to and provides
S1 shareholders with significantly greater value than the
pending transaction with Fundtech,” Philip Heasley, the chief
executive officer of ACI, said in a statement yesterday.  Fundtech fell as much as 7.6 percent in New York trading
yesterday before recovering most of its losses.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 57 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Intel Grant  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Israel gave initial approval to a 1 billion-shekel ($295
million) grant to  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which is planning a $5 billion
investment in two facilities in the country, the  Finance
Ministry  said in e-mailed statement yesterday.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer left the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent on July 25 as inflation
expectations fell and debt crises in the country’s two main
export markets, the U.S. and  Europe , threatened economic growth.  The shekel weakened 0.5 percent to 3.4071 per  U.S. dollar .
The currency has increased 0.2 percent over the past three
months, the second-best performer among 10 emerging markets in
Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Radware Drops  Israel’s TA-25 Index dropped 0.6 percent. The measure has
lost 5.4 percent this year, or 1.6 percent in dollar terms, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index is
down 3.8 percent this year.  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , the Israeli company whose technology helps
Internet networks run more efficiently, led gains on the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index, rising 5.9 percent to $34.51. The
company reported second-quarter adjusted earnings of 32 cents
per share, above the 29 cents median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s worst-
performing health-care company this year, fell for a third day,
dropping 0.4 percent to $46.79. Tel Aviv-traded shares gained
0.6 percent to 160.70 shekels, or the equivalent of $47.15.
Second-quarter profit was little changed as higher European
sales after last year’s acquisition of Ratiopharm GmbH offset
declining revenue in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  