-- 
GE Plugs Boeing 787 Engines’ Fuel Vapor Leak, Preventing Further Delays

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-07-26T19:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ge-plugs-boeing-787-engines-fuel-vapor-leak-preventing-delays.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to
modify engines on  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s  787 Dreamliner  by the end of 2012
to stop fuel-vapor leaks, avoiding the possibility of further
delays to the new plane.  The package of enhancements will be retrofitted to all the
planes already built with GE’s  GEnx engines , in testing now on
the  composite-plastic Dreamliner  and the new 747-8 jumbo jet,
according to a statement by the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration .  “GE Aviation is working a minor hardware change to the
GEnx engine to eliminate the intermittent, limited fuel vapor
emissions” by the end of 2012 and plans to retrofit engines by
December 2014, Deborah Case, a GE spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. Boeing has also agreed to the enhancements, said Dan
Ivanis, a spokesman for the Chicago-based planemaker.  Emissions of as much as 5.5 ounces (156 grams) of fuel
vapors discovered after test flights are potential violations of
a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulation adopted in
1973, the FAA said. The rules were intended to prevent
intentional dumping of liquid fuel, which isn’t the case with
the more-efficient GEnx engines, the FAA said in a  decision 
filed with the Federal Register on July 25.  “The technological advances incorporated in these engines
allow them to more than exceed the separate regulatory
requirements for emissions that are the focus of current
environmental compliance efforts,” the FAA said.  The agency will re-examine the regulation’s language on
fuel venting and its application to “determine whether it needs
to be changed to address issues associated with newer
technologies,” the FAA said.  Boeing’s Dreamliner is running more than three years behind
and the jumbo jet is more than a year late.  Both are due to be certified by the FAA for entry into
service by September. The first Dreamliners will operate with
engines from Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc rather than the power
plant from Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  