-- 
German Consumer Confidence Will Fall on Crisis Concern, GfK Says

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-26T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/german-consumer-confidence-will-fall-on-crisis-concern-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will drop
for a fifth month in August as uncertainty about spillover
effects from  Greece ’s debt crisis to other euro-region economies
unsettles shoppers, GfK SE said.  The Nuremberg, Germany-based market research company today
forecast that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of
about 2,000 people, will decline to 5.4 next month from a
revised 5.5 in July. Economists predicted a decline to 5.6 from
the initial July estimate of 5.7, according to the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany ’s Bundesbank last month raised its 2011 growth
forecast for Europe’s largest economy to 3.1 percent from 2.5
percent as companies boosted hiring and output to meet export
demand. At the same time, the region’s fiscal crisis is clouding
 Europe ’s growth outlook, forcing leaders last week to pledge a
second bailout for Greek to restore confidence.  “The extensive discussions aimed at finding a solution to
Greece’s debt problems and the fear that other euro countries
could find themselves in a similar situation have damped the
considerable economic optimism of German consumers,” GfK said
in the statement. “However, Germans still expect the economy
will continue to record growth” at a weaker pace.  GfK’s measure of households’ economic expectations dropped
to 44.6 points in July from 50.3 in June. An index of consumers’
willingness to spend slipped to 34.1 from 35.1, while a gauge of
income expectations plunged to 34.6 from 44.6.  “Consumers fear an additional financial burden in case of
a Greek default or additional aid payments by the European
Union,” GfK said. “In addition, there’s the threat of a
further increase in energy prices, which would also have a
negative impact on the spending power of private households.”  Inflation probably held at 2.4 percent in July, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden will release the report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  