-- 
Mark Sanchez Is Willing to Help Jets Lower Payroll to Maintain NFL Roster

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-27T06:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/giants-may-cut-shaun-o-hara-rich-seubert-as-nfl-teams-start-making-moves.html
Quarterback  Mark Sanchez  is willing
to restructure his contract to give the  New York  Jets more
salary cap room as National Football League teams rebuild their
rosters.  Following the end of the 4 1/2-month labor shutdown, the
league’s 32 teams are focused on shaping squads for the season
that begins Sept. 8.  Sanchez, set to make $14.75 million in base salary this
season and another $3 million in bonuses, is looking at giving
the Jets room to maneuver under the $120 million salary cap.  “Whatever it takes to win,” Sanchez told reporters
yesterday. “It doesn’t matter. We need to win and we’ll get the
right players.”  The Jets yesterday extended an offer to free-agent wide
receiver  Santonio Holmes , according to the Star-Ledger of
 Newark , New Jersey. Sanchez wants to see Holmes and  Braylon Edwards  re-signed.  “It was such a luxury to have both of them last year,”
Sanchez said. “It’s almost unrealistic to have that kind of a
receiving corps again.”  The  Seattle Seahawks  agreed to deals with quarterbacks
Tarvaris Jackson and Matt Leinart after free agent Matt Hasselbeck said he won’t return to the team,  ESPN reported .  Burress Back  New York Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  plans to have a meeting
today with free-agent wide receiver Plaxico Burress, who has
been trying to get back on a team since leaving prison in June
after serving 20 months for accidentally shooting himself in the
leg at a Manhattan nightclub.  “It’s going to be crazy,” Burress told the Star-Ledger,
referring to the meeting with Coughlin.  The Giants may release offensive linemen Rich Seubert and
Shaun O’Hara, while the  Dallas Cowboys  may part ways with
running back Marion Barber, receiver Roy Williams and Pro Bowl
guard Leonard Davis.  Although players can’t officially be cut until tomorrow,
 ESPN reported  that New York plans to release both Seubert and
O’Hara, who have spent a combined 16 years on the Giants’ line.
The moves would clear salary cap space for the Giants, who are
$6.1 million over the NFL’s payroll limit, ESPN said. O’Hara is
the team’s player representative.  Cowboys’ Cuts  ESPN, citing a league official it didn’t identify, also
said the Cowboys would cut Barber, Williams, Davis and kicker
Kris Brown. Releasing Barber and Davis would free $10.75 million
in salary cap space this season,  ESPN said . The Walt Disney Co.
unit cited unidentified people for its information on both the
Giants and Cowboys.  “If something happens then I totally understand, no hard
feeling or anything like that,” Davis told the Cowboys’ website
after reporting to the team’s training facility. “You just
don’t ever know until a decision is made.”  The NFL’s teams were permitted yesterday to begin signing
drafted and undrafted rookies, negotiating with free agents and
making trades.  Former Boston College linebacker and bone cancer survivor
Mark Herzlich said he signed a contract with the Giants after
going undrafted. Ex-University of Delaware quarterback Pat Devlin reached an agreement with the  Miami Dolphins , ESPN said.  Under rules accompanying this week’s agreement on a 10-year
contract, players can’t be cut until tomorrow and veteran free
agents can’t be signed until the next day. Teams won’t comment
on reported deals until at least those deadlines pass.  ‘Different Options’  Among the most notable names on the trading block is
Philadelphia Eagles backup quarterback  Kevin Kolb , who has been
linked to several teams, including the  Arizona Cardinals . Kolb
said last week in a national radio interview that he envisioned
himself with the Cardinals.  “There’s nothing really I can say about that,” Cardinals
coach Ken Whisenhunt said yesterday during a news conference.
“We’re looking at a lot of different options. It’s not
something that just happens immediately. There’s a lot of things
that you have to go through, and I’m not talking about one
specific player.”  One player who probably won’t be traded is Cincinnati
quarterback  Carson Palmer , who has said he’d retire rather than
return to the Bengals. Team owner  Mike Brown  said Palmer, whose
contract runs through 2014, won’t be dealt and considers him
retired.  Carson’s Commitment  “Carson signed a contract, he made a commitment,” Brown
said at a news conference. “If he’s going to walk away from his
commitment, we’re not going to reward him for doing it.”  While NFL teams can negotiate with free agents, they’re not
permitted to start signing them until July 29, when they can
also renegotiate contracts within their current roster. Of the
NFL’s approximately 1,900 players, 545 are on the free-agent
list that was released by the league yesterday.  Oakland Raiders cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha  may be the top
player available in this year’s free-agent class. Holmes and
Edwards are among the other top free agents, along with Giants
running back  Ahmad Bradshaw  and Green Bay Packers defensive end
Cullen Jenkins.  “With the NFL and the way that it is, things are going to
change, guys are going to move on,” Jets center Nick Mangold
said yesterday at the team’s facility in Florham Park,  New
Jersey . “There are going to be guys leaving, guys coming in and
that’s just what everybody deals with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  