-- 
German Stocks Decline, Led by Merck KGaA, Loewe; SAP Advances

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-27T16:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/gildemeister-sap-tag-immobilien-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks retreated, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  halting its longest winning streak in almost
three months, led by declines in  Merck KGaA (MRK)  after the drugmaker
unexpectedly reported a second-quarter loss.  Merck slumped the most in 10 months after also cutting its
forecast for full-year operating profit.  Loewe AG (LOE)  sank to its
lowest price since 2004 after posting a loss.  SAP AG (SAP)  climbed 1.2
percent after saying that operating profit will reach the top
end of its forecast range.  The DAX dropped 1.3 percent to 7,252.68 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, its first decline in seven days. The gauge
has retreated 3.7 percent since this year’s high on May 2 amid
concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will derail the economic
recovery and speculation that U.S. lawmakers will fail to agree
on increasing the nation’s debt ceiling by next week’s deadline.
The broader HDAX Index also slid 1.3 percent today.  “The macroeconomic situation shows signs of weakening and
the earnings season is more cloudy than previous ones,” said
 Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “The European Union
summit last week hasn’t given the market a real solution and I
wouldn’t be surprised if markets were testing policy makers in
the coming weeks on Italy’s and  Spain ’s issues.”  Italy, Spain Bonds  Italian and Spanish bonds slid, increasing the additional
yield that investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark bunds, on speculation Europe’s aid package may fail to
prevent contagion.  Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said the government is against a “blank check” for the euro-
area rescue fund to purchase bonds on the secondary market.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have said they may cut the U.S.’s top-level sovereign
rating if Republicans and Democrats fail to resolve the
stalemate on the $14.3 trillion borrowing ceiling.  Stocks extended losses after a report in the U.S. showed
orders for durable goods unexpectedly dropped in June and
inventories climbed at the slowest pace in a year, evidence that
companies lost confidence in the strength of the recovery as the
second quarter ended. Bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years fell 2.1 percent after a 1.9 percent gain the prior
month that was smaller than last reported, the Commerce
Department said.  Merck Drops  Merck slumped 4.8 percent to 73.76 euros, its largest
decline since September. The company posted a loss of 84 million
euros ($122 million) in the second quarter, compared with net
income of 187 million euros a year earlier, and said operating
profit will be about 1 billion euros this year due to one-off
adjustments.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s biggest
banks, declined 1.6 percent to 37.88 euros and 4.1 percent to
2.56 euros, respectively. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Peter Oppenheimer  cut the European bank industry to “neutral” from
“overweight,” following last week’s rally.  Loewe plummeted 7.6 percent to 4.25 euros, its lowest price
in almost seven years. The television maker said a target of
achieving “moderate” growth in sales and positive earnings
before interest and taxes for 2011 is “no longer realistic.”
The company posted an Ebit loss of 4.9 million euros in the
second quarter and sales fell.  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
climbed 1.2 percent to 44.02 euros, its highest price in three
months. Full-year operating profit, based on non-international
financial reporting standards, will be at the high end of a
previous forecast of 4.45 billion euros to 4.65 billion euros,
excluding currency swings, SAP said minutes before the close of
trading yesterday.  Kontron AG (KBC)  surged 6.2 percent to 7.56 euros after the maker
of miniature computers for  slot machines  and drone aircraft
increased its sales forecast for the year to more than 570
million euros from a previous estimate of 550 million euros
“due to the continued high level of the order book position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  