-- 
Glaxo Sales Drop on Lower Demand for Avandia Diabetes Drug, Flu Products

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-26T16:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/glaxo-revenue-declines-for-third-quarter-on-lower-avandia-valtrex-demand.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said it expects
greater cost savings than originally forecast from a cost-
reduction plan and a lower tax rate as the company adopts new
measures to improve efficiency.  The additional savings will total 300 million pounds ($435
million) with no increase in restructuring charges, bringing
expenses down by a total of 2.5 billion pounds by 2012, the
London-based company said today in a statement. The U.K.’s
largest drugmaker also said it identified measures that will
help reduce its tax rate by about two percentage points by 2014.  Glaxo today reported second-quarter earnings excluding
restructuring costs of 25 pence a share, the same as the average
of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s revenue
decline, the smallest in three quarters, also was in line with
analyst estimates, with lower sales of the Avandia diabetes
drug, the Valtrex antiviral and pandemic-flu products.  “GSK is demonstrating strong financial discipline in its
approach to building the business,” Navid Malik, a London-based
analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, said by e-mail. He
recommends buying Glaxo shares.  Glaxo shares rose 9.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 1,373 pence
at the close of London trading. Before today, the stock had
returned 21 percent in the past year including reinvested
dividends, compared with 20 percent for the Bloomberg  Europe 
Pharmaceutical Index.  Improved Outlook  “Overall, a solid set of numbers” with an “improved
medium-term outlook,” Alistair Campbell, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a note to clients today. The
announced cost savings and  tax rate  may add 5 percent to 6
percent to earnings in the medium term, Campbell said.  Earnings before reorganization costs were 1.27 billion
pounds, compared with 130 million pounds a year earlier, when
profit was hurt by a 1.57 billion-pound legal expense to settle
cases over Avandia and other products.  Glaxo stopped promoting Avandia worldwide in 2010 after
regulators withdrew it from the market in Europe and limited
sales in the U.S. because of an increased risk of heart attacks.
Valtrex has faced generic competition since November 2009, and
flu sales sank after the end of the pandemic last year. Revenue
growth will resume “as we move into 2012,” Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  said today.  Revenue from Avandia, Valtrex and flu products fell by a
combined 472 million pounds, Glaxo said. Excluding those three
items, Glaxo’s “underlying sales” climbed 5 percent.  Headwinds Weaken    “GSK is on track and delivering good progress on its
strategy,” Witty said during a conference call with reporters.
“The headwinds are clearly beginning to weaken.”  Pharmaceutical sales fell 1 percent at constant exchange
rates to 4.66 billion pounds, while consumer-health revenue
climbed 4 percent to 1.28 billion pounds. Vaccines declined 15
percent to 787 million pounds.  Since taking the helm of the company in 2008, Witty has
been reorganizing Glaxo’s research and development, building its
vaccines, emerging-market and consumer health-care businesses
and selling assets that aren’t related to its main operations.
He has avoided large acquisitions, focusing on smaller deals
such as the $2.9 billion purchase in 2009 of closely held U.S.
drugmaker Stiefel Laboratories Inc.  “The real catalyst for this improving outlook is the
rebalancing and reshaping of the group’s sales profile, a direct
result of the reinvestments and of the major restructuring that
have taken place over the last three years,” Witty said on the
call.  Product Approvals  Three Glaxo products have been cleared for sale this year,
including Benlysta, a therapy for the auto-immune disease lupus
that was approved by U.S. regulators in March. The U.K. company
expects final-stage results for about a dozen compounds before
the end of 2012, including data on Relovair, which Glaxo is
developing as a successor to the Advair asthma inhaler.  “We look forward to important late-stage pipeline news
later in 2011,” Brian White, an analyst at Shore Capital in
 London , wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The drugmaker is
“set to retain its global leadership position with the broadest
portfolio of therapies for the treatment” of smoker’s cough and
asthma.  Respiratory sales climbed 2 percent in the second quarter,
with Advair revenue also rising 2 percent, the company said
today. Advair sales “were ahead of our forecasts,” Berenberg
Bank’s Campbell wrote in today’s note.  Advair Competition  Glaxo doesn’t expect generic competition to Advair in the
U.S. and chances of a “pan-European” generic version of the
drug are low, even though some countries may approve one, Witty
told reporters today.  Advair will “remain a big product” for Glaxo in the years
to come, Witty said.  Glaxo in February announced its first share buyback since
2008 in a bid to reassure investors that expenses for
investigations and lawsuits are under control.  The drugmaker is seeking buyers for over-the-counter
products such as the Alli diet pill, Lactacyd soap, and the
Nytol sleep aid, seeking to focus its consumer-health unit on
faster-growing brands such as the pain reliever Panadol. Glaxo
expects to complete the sale in the fourth quarter and has seen
interest from private-equity firms, Witty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  