-- 
Goldman Sachs Is Said to Buy Bankrupt Lehman Claims at 35 Cents on Dollar

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-26T19:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/goldman-sachs-said-to-buy-lehman-claims-at-two-thirds-discount.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
bought $225 million of claims on bankrupt  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  from a French insurance company last week, may
have paid 35 cents on the dollar, or less, a trading executive
estimated.  The claims sold by CNP Assurances consisted of securities
issued by Lehman Brothers Treasury Co., a Lehman unit, according
to court filings this week. LBT claims are trading in the low
20s to the high 30s, while creditors of Lehman’s derivatives
unit are getting about 40 cents on the dollar and claims on its
commercial paper unit fetch 60 cents to 75 cents, said the
executive, who trades in the securities and declined to be named
because of company policy.  The difference in prices shows why the defunct firm’s
creditors fought with Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  to
improve their payout in a proposed $65 billion liquidation plan.
Marsal said July 1 that holders of more than $100 billion in
Lehman claims signed their support for his latest plan, which
allots more money to a group including Goldman Sachs, and less
to bondholders including Paulson & Co.  Big holders of LBT claims include Silver Point Capital LP
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  They combined with Goldman Sachs and other
large holders of claims on Lehman’s derivatives unit, Lehman
Brothers Special Financing, to promote a rival payout scheme to
Lehman’s and a second plan put forward by Paulson and the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers.
Marsal said his plan was a “fair economic compromise” between
the two.  Bigger Claim  CNP Assurance’s LBT securities bought by Goldman were part
of a bigger claim against Lehman of $687 million filed by the
seller, which also sold $101 million of LBT claims to Barclays
Plc, this week’s filings show.  Goldman Sachs spokesman Michael Duvally and CNP spokeswoman
Florence de Montmarin didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment. Barclays spokesman  Mark Lane  declined to
comment. Both banks are active traders of Lehman claims,
according to court filings.  Lehman aims to confirm its plan by year-end and start
distributing a “significant” amount of cash shortly after,
Lehman’s bankruptcy lawyer Lori Fife of Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP has said.  Marsal aims to raise a total of $65 billion from the firm’s
assets in the next few years, to pay claims of more than $300
billion he has said.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 with assets of $639
billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  