-- 
Google Lawyer Says Patents Are ‘Gumming Up’ Innovation

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-26T22:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/google-general-counsel-says-patents-are-gumming-up-innovation.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  General Counsel Kent Walker said the smartphone industry is in an arms race for
patents that is hurting consumers and leaving the company to
“sort through the mess” of litigation.  “It’s hard to find what’s the best path -- there’s so much
litigation,” Walker said in an interview late yesterday.
“We’re exploring a variety of different things.”  Google, whose Android mobile operating system has been
targeted in at least six legal complaints, is seeking to buy
intellectual property that could be used as a defense against
litigation. Google, the world’s largest Internet search company,
is also seeking to curb abuses of the system, calling on
Congress and the Federal Trade Commission to rein in lawsuits,
and asking the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to take closer
looks at patents being used in litigation, Walker said.  “The tech industry has a significant problem,” he said.
“Software patents are kind of gumming up the works of
innovation.”  Google’s competitors have said the  Mountain View ,
California-based company is critical of the patent system
because it has few patents of its own and entered a smartphone
market where companies had been researching and selling products
for years before Android phones went on sale in 2008.  Innovation, Competition  Google has been assigned 728 patents through today,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office database,
mostly for search engine technology. Apple has more than 4,000
U.S. patents, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  more than 18,000, according to
the database. Patents give their owners a right to exclude
others from using the invention for a set period of time.  “It is about innovation and competition,” said  Will Stofega , a program manager at researcher IDC Corp. “Doing basic
research to bring new products to market is something quite
distinct from their core capabilities.”  Google’s position is part of a larger debate over whether
certain software should be eligible for patent protection, said
Ron Laurie, managing director of Inflexion Point Strategy LLC,
which counsels companies on purchasing intellectual property.
Microsoft and Oracle Corp. had the same “cultural bias” more
than a decade ago, he said.  “Every software company would be happy if patents went
away,” Laurie said. “Patents are irrelevant to YouTube, face
it. Software is developed incrementally and patents get in the
way of incremental innovation.”  Google’s Weakness  The Android system is a free, open-source program that
relies on some nonproprietary features Google didn’t create and
allows outside developers to modify the code. That has left the
company vulnerable to claims that it built Android on the backs
of research done by other technology companies.  “A patent is a patent and you may not agree with it, but
it’s the law,” Stofega said. “It’s a weakness for Google and
everyone’s acknowledged it. The competition is so fierce and so
brutal, any perceived weakness is going to be found out and
you’re going to pay for it, in court or wherever.”  Google, which had $39.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of June, put in an initial $900 million offer in
April to buy the patents of bankrupt phone-equipment maker
Nortel Networks Corp. It was outbid by a group that includes
Apple, Microsoft, and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which all make
devices that compete with Android phones.  More Discipline  Walker wouldn’t say whether Google will bid on InterDigital
Inc. -- an owner of more than 1,300 patents that is exploring a
potential sale -- the digital-imaging patents of  Eastman Kodak
Co. (EK)  or any other portfolio of intellectual property. He said
it’s unclear if the $4.5 billion winning bid for the Nortel
patents is a sign future sales will command a similar premium.  “We want to be disciplined about how we approach all this
stuff,” Walker said. “We’re looking for a reasonable
alternative, but we want to make sure Google and the companies
Google partners with aren’t shut out of the opportunity to bring
great new products and features to consumers.”  Google rose $3.54 to $622.52 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 4.8 percent
this year.  Android is the most widely used mobile operating system for
smartphones, with 38.9 percent of the worldwide market, compared
with 18.2 percent for Apple’s iPhone, according to IDC.  Oracle, the world’s largest supplier of  database software ,
contends Android uses its Java programming language, in
violation of patents and copyrights, according to court filings.
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle sued, seeking as much as
$6.1 billion in damages, after Google balked at paying $100
million for a license to use the technology.  Roll the Dice  In ruling last week on what type of damages should be
considered, U.S. District Judge William Alsup said “Google may
have simply been brazen, preferring to roll the dice on possible
litigation rather than to pay a fair price.”  Alsup said $6.1 billion in damages was too high a price for
consideration based on facts of the case and set $100 million as
the starting point for discussion of damages. Walker said Google
maintains that the patents are invalid and not infringed.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has patent cases
before the U.S. International Trade Commission that target
Android phones made by Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. Each of those companies has
filed cases against Apple.  Microsoft and Motorola Mobility also have patent suits
against each other, and Microsoft has a pending ITC complaint
against Barnes & Noble Inc. over the Android-based Nook reader.  Google has few of its own patents, while Samsung and
Motorola Mobility have been able to use their patents to lodge
infringement claims against Apple and Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft.  ‘Mutually Assured Destruction’  Winston Yung, chief financial officer of Taoyuan, Taiwan-
based HTC, said in an interview today that the company is
willing to negotiate a settlement with Apple.  Walker said it’s “crazy” that both HTC and Apple phones
could be barred from the U.S. market if a deal isn’t reached.  “Each side can blow the other up on some level --everybody
can block the other’s products from coming to market,” Walker
said. “You create this mutually assured destruction scenario,
but it’s very expensive to get all those munitions.”  Google has been hesitant to use patents to file suits
against other companies, he said.  “Buying patents so you can hit the other guy, it’s not
good form,” Walker said. “You hate to unilaterally disarm
here, but we haven’t in our history.”  ‘We’ll be Fine’  Google has sued to challenge the validity of other
companies’ patents. The company filed a lawsuit today against
closely held SourceProse Inc., which claimed that phones made by
companies including HTC and Apple infringe its patent through
the Google Maps Mobile product.  Google is seeking a court order that would clear Google
Maps Mobile of infringement, or a finding that the SourceProse
patents are invalid. Google in March joined with Microsoft to
challenge the validity of mapping patents owned by GeoTag Inc.,
which had sued their customers.  Google is also providing support and technical help to
companies that make products for Android and are being sued,
either by rival companies such as Apple and Microsoft, or by
small patent owners that don’t make products.  “We’ll be fine,” Walker said. “We have the resources to
balance the scales here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  