-- 
Green Bay Packers Say Net Income Triples Through Super Bowl Win, Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-26T20:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/green-bay-packers-say-net-income-triples-through-super-bowl-win-lockout.html
The  Green Bay Packers ’ net income
more than tripled to $17.1 million in the fiscal year ending
March 31, as the National Football League team won a Super Bowl
title, club officials said.  Mark Murphy , chief executive of the NFL’s only publicly
traded franchise, said today in a conference call that
investment gains accounted for most of the increase from last
year’s $5.2 million, though the championship run increased
apparel sales and visits to the Wisconsin team’s Lambeau Field
and Hall of Fame.  The NFL’s four-month lockout, which ended yesterday, offset
some of the gains from the Super Bowl, which were limited
because the team played its postseason games on the road, Murphy
said.  “We think that winning the  Super Bowl  has had a bigger
impact on us in a positive way than the lockout has,” he told
reporters. “We saw a pretty big jump in our atrium business,
particularly our pro shop, where we saw significant increases in
apparel sales.”  The Packers beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 in the NFL’s
title game, attracting the largest television audience in U.S.
history, about five weeks before the league locked out players.  Operating revenue rose to $282.6 million from $258 million,
with local revenue increasing to $119.3 million from $100.4
million and national revenue rising to $163.3 million from
$157.6 million. Television money rose to $96.5 million from
$95.8 million.  The Packers’ operating expenses rose to $270.5 million from
$248.2 million. Murphy said player costs fell about $2 million,
mostly because the lockout eliminated at least one month in
which the team would have signed players.  Local Sponsorships  The lockout’s biggest impact was on local sponsorships,
Murphy said.  “We haven’t taken a big hit, but we lost some sponsors
simply because they couldn’t make the commitment to activate
special programs or sponsorships not knowing whether or not we’d
have a full season,” Murphy said.  Green Bay Packers Inc. has been a publicly owned non-profit
corporation since August 1932, according to the team’s website.
More than 110,000 people own about 4.8 million shares, without
receiving a dividend. Shares cannot be resold, except back to
the team for a fraction of the original price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 