-- 
Greece Says It’s Working With IMF, Hasn’t Requested for More Financial Aid

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-26T02:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/greece-says-it-s-working-with-imf-hasn-t-requested-for-more-financial-aid.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country is working with the  International
Monetary Fund  on “procedural issues” regarding financing,
while a debt official said the nation hasn’t made an additional
loan request to the international lender.  “Our goal is to return to positive growth and create
primary surpluses by 2012,” Venizelos said during a speech in
 Washington  yesterday. “Together we will succeed in rebuilding
our country, restoring its fiscal independence and achieving the
competitive position Greece deserves in the international
market.”  Greece’s credit rating was cut three steps by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the European Union’s rescue for
the debt-laden nation will cause substantial losses for
investors and amount to a default. EU leaders on July 21 reached
an agreement on a second rescue package for  Greece  worth 159
billion euros ($229 billion).  “The important point is the positive and constructive
position of the staff, and first of all, of Madame Lagarde,”
Venizelos said after the speech.  Christine Lagarde  is the
managing director of the Washington-based IMF.  Petros Christodoulou, head of the Athens-based Public Debt
Management Agency, appearing with Venizelos at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, said Greece hasn’t
requested additional financial help from the IMF.  “There has not been a request. And even had there been a
request you wouldn’t know it now anyhow,” Christodoulou told a
panel discussion after the finance minister’s speech.  Venizelos also met yesterday with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and said in a statement after the meeting
that the two had “very positive” talks.  “Secretary Geithner welcomed the progress Greece has
already made toward strengthening its public finances and
underscored the need for continued and full implementation of
the program,” Natalie Wyeth, a Treasury spokeswoman, said in a
statement sent by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  