-- 
Greenhill Resources Banker Phillips Leaves Australian Unit

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-26T22:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/greenhill-resources-banker-phillips-leaves-australian-division.html
Greenhill & Co., the investment bank
leading declines on the Standard & Poor’s Midcap Financials
Index this year, said resources banker Richard Phillips left its
Australian unit.  Phillips, a managing director at Greenhill, was hired by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to head its natural resources group in
 Australia , Reuters reported today, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the matter. He had joined Greenhill through last
year’s acquisition of Caliburn Partnership, where he worked
since 2005 and founded the Melbourne office, according to
Greenhill’s website, which until today listed him among its
bankers.  “His separation from the firm has been known for some time
and is fully reflected in management’s comments on its quarterly
conference call that year-to-date departures have had no impact
on the firm’s substantial pipeline of assignments,” said
Jeffrey Taufield, a Greenhill spokesman, in an e-mailed
statement. “Greenhill expects to announce, within the next few
days, the hiring of a new, very senior banker to further expand
its Australian business.”  Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok, 52, assured analysts on
the July 19 call that departures aren’t hurting the  New York- 
based firm’s ability to advise clients and may help reduce fixed
compensation costs this year.  Shares Fall  Greenhill fell 79 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $47.99 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
fallen 41 percent this year, compared with a 2.4 percent advance
in the 75-company S&P Midcap Financials Index, after employee
pay contributed to a first-quarter loss and three other managing
directors left since the start of June.  The company reported July 17 that second-quarter profit
rose 22 percent to $21.5 million. The firm, which dedicated 75
percent of revenue to compensate employees in the first three
months of the year, cut that ratio to 46 percent in the second
quarter, the same level as a year earlier, according to a
statement.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, had no immediate comment. A man who answered Phillips’
phone number at Greenhill declined to provide current contact
information for Phillips.  Phillips was previously an executive director at Sydney-
based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , where he was responsible for a
merger and acquisition group for Australian natural resources,
according to Greenhill’s website. Greenhill, founded by Robert Greenhill in 1996, acquired Caliburn in April 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 