-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Urges Quick Implementation of European Debt Plan

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-26T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/imf-s-lagarde-urges-quick-implementation-of-european-debt-plan.html
Christine Lagarde , the new head of
the  International Monetary Fund , urged Europeans to quickly
implement the measures they crafted last week as a firewall
against the region’s debt crisis to avoid another surge in
borrowing costs.  “Turbulence could easily resurface,” even though the
agreement by the 17-country euro region’s leaders “has been
welcomed by financial markets,” Lagarde said according to
remarks prepared for delivery in  New York  today. “For this
reason, it is essential that the summit’s commitments should be
implemented quickly.”  Speaking three weeks after starting as the IMF managing
director, Lagarde also urged U.S. leaders to take “bold fiscal
action” to reduce the country’s deficit and to agree on raising
the debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline. Any fiscal shock in
the U.S. “could have serious spillovers on the rest of the
world,” she said.  Sovereign debt is one of three major challenges to the
world economy cited by Lagarde, along with growth and social
instability. European policy makers last week agreed to new aid
for  Greece  and widened the scope and power of their bailout
fund, while in the U.S., Republicans and Democrats have been
unable to find a fiscal compromise to avert a possible default
next month.  While measures to narrow the deficit in general reduce
growth in the short run, credible measures would have a limited
effect on demand in the U.S., Lagarde said in her speech at the
 Council on Foreign Relations , a non-partisan research
organization and publisher.  At the same time, because the U.S. faces the risk of a
“another jobless recovery,” the fiscal consolidation should
not happen too fast, Lagarde said. She recommended measures to
slow the rise in unemployment and aid the housing market.  Lagarde, 55, was named the first female head of IMF last
month to take on  Europe ’s debt crisis and balance the demands of
fast-growing emerging nations with the needs of a recovering
developed world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in New York at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  