-- 
Imperial Tobacco Volume Decline Accelerates

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-26T08:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/imperial-tobacco-volume-decline-accelerates-in-third-quarter-1-.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest tobacco company, indicated that a drop in volume
accelerated in the three months through June as Spanish
cigarette consumption declined.  The amount of cigarettes and fine cut tobacco sold in the
nine months through June was 2 percent lower than in the year-
earlier period, the Bristol, England-based company said today in
a statement. That compares with a 0.7 percent decline in tobacco
shipments during the first half of the fiscal year.  Imperial Tobacco said lower cigarette prices in  Spain  will
cut operating profit this year less than previously forecast.
The company is introducing new packs that flip open with one
hand and special filters to stoke demand as consumption slips.  “It’ll take time for Imperial’s innovation drive to show
up in numbers,” Erik Bloomquist, an analyst at Berenberg Bank,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s an okay set of results on
pricing, but quarterly volumes were down about 4 percent.”  The performance in the first three quarters was “in line”
with the board’s expectations, the company said.  Imperial Tobacco  fell as much as 38 pence, or 1.8 percent
to 2,114 pence. The stock traded about 0.8 percent lower at 9:13
a.m. in London trading.  The company’s Madrid-based Altadis unit said in May that it
cut the price of Fortuna, Nobel and Ducados cigarettes in Spain
to maintain competitiveness.  “Cigarette prices reduced in May and June as a result of
various brands being repositioned, significantly impacting
market profitability,” the company said.  Imperial Tobacco said today it expects its Spanish business
to trim adjusted operating profit by as much as 70 million
pounds, less than a previous forecast of 110 million pounds.  Total shipments of the company’s Davidoff, Gauloises
Blondes and West brands rose 2 percent during the first nine
months of the fiscal year, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in London at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  