-- 
India Winemakers Tap Growth as Duties Boost Imports’ Prices

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-07-27T09:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/india-s-winemakers-tap-growth-as-taxes-help-push-prices-higher-than-tokyo.html
Patrons at the Polo Bar in  India ’s
Hyatt Regency Delhi pay $147 for a bottle of 2010 Cloudy Bay
Sauvignon Blanc. That’s more than at the Grand Hyatt  Tokyo  in
the world’s most-expensive city.  Wine and spirits imported into India are subject to  duties 
of at least 150 percent and costs are further inflated by other
taxes. That benefits homegrown vintners including  Sula
Vineyards , India’s largest, as the industry is projected to
grow 40 percent in the two years through 2012.  “The demographics favor the growth of wine in every
single way,” said Sula Vineyards Chief Executive Officer
Rajeev Samant. “Young, urban professional women are starting
to drink socially, which never happened a generation ago, and a
lot of them are preferring wine.”  Wine consumption in India increased 16 percent to 15.9
million liters in 2010 and may grow about 19 percent this year
and 18 percent next year, according to London-based Euromonitor
International. Sula, which sells a 750-milliliter bottle of its
Dia wine for as little as 240 rupees ($5.43), will probably
ship 20 percent more this year, Samant said in an interview.  Salaries in the world’s second-most populous nation may
grow this year by an average of 13 percent, the fastest in  Asia ,
according to a March survey by Aon Hewitt LLC, with the
government forecasting economic growth of 8.5 percent.  Wine Culture  Sakshi Manchanda, 24, said she gave up tequila and vodka
after visiting  France  two years ago.  “After having my first glass of wine, I realized this is
the only form of alcohol I could enjoy,” said Manchanda, who
works at her family’s real-estate and construction business.  “It’s one of the most sophisticated forms of alcohol. I’m
trying to get my friends hooked on to wine, too, to keep me
company.”  She regularly visits New Delhi’s  Olive Bar & Kitchen ,
which on a recent Saturday night was full of diners choosing
from a list of almost 60 wines to pair with their Mediterranean
food.  “In the last seven years, wine culture has really
evolved,” said Anshuman Vyas, Olive Bar’s manager. “We used
to sell three to four bottles at that time. Now, we sell 14 to
15 bottles a day.”  Whiskey Consumption  Wine still trails whiskey in popularity with India’s
drinkers. Whiskey accounted for 31 percent of the alcohol
consumed in India last year, with a volume of 1.2 billion
liters, according to Euromonitor’s data.  Yet the growth in whiskey consumption may slow to 12
percent next year, compared with 15 percent in 2008.  “An increasing number of young people like to have wine,
because wine is seen as up-market, sophisticated,” said Alok
Chandra, a wine consultant with  Gryphon Brands Inc.  in
Bangalore. “There are two or three levels of consumers. One is
the 50-year-old guy who says ‘wine is good for health, let me
change to wine.’  “The second is women. Spirits are something they don’t
want.”  Mumbai-based Sula’s 1,500 acres of vineyards are in Nashik,
the country’s largest wine-producing region. India, which
produces as much as 11 million liters of wine yearly, grows
wine grapes on about 6,000 acres, according to estimates by
Indian Wine Academy, a New Delhi-based consulting company.  Faster Than  China   Overseas companies including Pernod Ricard SA, maker of
Chivas Regal whiskey and Absolut vodka, have a combined share
of India’s alcoholic-beverage market, at less than 23 percent,
Euromonitor data show.  “There is a case for liberalization,” Peter Wilkinson,
director of international affairs at the  Scotch Whisky
Association , said in a phone interview from Edinburgh yesterday.
“Consumers in India don’t have access to the same products as
their counterparts in China,  Brazil ,  South Africa ,  Russia  at
anything like affordable prices.”  The top-selling imported wine in India is Pernod’s Jacob’s
Creek, with a 1.5 percent market share, according to the data.
Pernod CEO Pierre Pringuet in February forecast India will be
among its top three markets in five years.  While the South Asian nation outpaces the expansion in
Chinese wine consumption, the size of India’s wine market by
volume is less than 1 percent that of China, which had 13
percent growth last year to 3.48 billion liters, according to
data from Euromonitor. Wine consumption in  Japan  may fall 2
percent to 885 million liters in 2012, from 903 million liters
in 2010, the data show.  ‘Excessive’ Taxes  Sales for the Indian wine industry will probably grow
between 15 to 20 percent every year for the next decade, and
Sula’s growth may outpace the industry, Samant said. The
company’s revenue grew by about 40 percent last financial year,
and Samant expects the same rate of growth this year, he said.  “We really dominate, at this point, India people’s
preference for good Indian wine,” Samant said. “For every one
bottle all the other wineries sell, we sell two.”  Yet even Sula’s cheapest wine is out of reach for most
people in India, where 828 million live on less than $2 a day,
according to World Bank estimates.  The  World Trade Organization  in 2008 called India’s taxes
“excessive” after the U.S. and European Union filed
complaints.  28 Different Countries  Besides the 150 percent import duty, local governments
impose excise duties. New Delhi collects as much as 65 percent
of an importer’s declared wholesale price. The  Customs Tariff
Act  imposes another 4 percent duty.  “The market here is fragmented, it’s like operating in 28
different countries,” Chandra said.  A bottle of 2010 Cloudy Bay Sauvignon Blanc sells for $114
at the Amber restaurant in  Hong Kong ’s Mandarin Oriental Hotel,
or 22 percent less than the price at the Hyatt Regency in New
Delhi.  In Tokyo, it sells for 10,500 yen ($135) at the Grand
Hyatt and 10,000 yen at the  Ritz-Carlton . Cloudy Bay Vineyards
Ltd. is owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   Tokyo is the world’s most-expensive city, according to
data compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London .
It’s the second most-expensive city for expatriates, with New
Delhi ranking 85th, according to Mercer’s 2011 Worldwide Cost
of Living Survey.  Japan levies a maximum tax of 201.6 yen, or less than $3,
a liter for wine, according to the  Japan External Trade
Organization . Hong Kong doesn’t tax wine imports.  The EU is in discussions with India about reducing  import
duties , according to the  European Spirits Organization .  “At the same price level, Indian wines are superior” to
imported wines, Chandra said. “At 800-900 rupees, Sula’s
Dindori Reserve is an outstanding wine. Good grapes and good
wine are good grapes and good wine anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  