-- 
India Raises Interest Rates More Than Estimates, Spurring Slide in Stocks

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-26T14:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/india-raises-key-rate-more-than-expected.html
India ’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  more than forecast to quell the fastest
inflation among major economies, spurring a slide in stocks and
gain in the rupee.  The Reserve Bank of India increased the repurchase rate to
8 percent from 7.5 percent, it said in a statement in Mumbai
today. None of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted today’s decision. Twenty estimated a quarter-point
rise, while the remainder expected no change.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao acted as the central bank
elevated its inflation forecast for the year through March by 1
percentage point, to 7 percent. With rising rural wages and a
lack of corporate investment growth straining capacity, India’s
price pressures mean it lacks the leeway in setting monetary
policy afforded to counterparts in  South Korea , Malaysia and
Indonesia, which kept borrowing costs unchanged this month.  “Today’s statement makes it clear that the RBI intends to
take more monetary measures to get a handle over headline
inflation,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , who boosted her forecast for
the repurchase rate to 8.5 percent for the end of December from
8 percent before today. “Inflation isn’t going to ease anytime
soon to allow the central bank to take its eyes off a huge
problem.”  Worst in  Asia   The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid
1.9 percent, the day’s worst performance in Asia and the biggest
drop in five weeks, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The rupee
advanced 0.5 percent to 44.18 per dollar and the yield on the
7.8 percent government bonds due April 2021 climbed 15 basis
points to 8.44 percent, an eight-week high.  “Today’s policy action will reinforce the point that in
the absence of complementary policy responses on both demand and
supply sides, stronger monetary policy actions are required,”
Subbarao said at a press conference in Mumbai today. “A change
in stance will be motivated by signs of a sustainable downturn
in inflation.”  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation, which
quickened to 9.44 percent in June, may remain near 10 percent
until November, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Yes Bank Ltd.
By comparison, consumer prices rose 6.7 percent in  Brazil , 9.4
percent in  Russia , 6.4 percent in  China  and 5 percent in  South
Africa .  ‘Strong Signal’  The  Reserve Bank ’s action is a “strong signal” to check
prices, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in a statement in
New Delhi today.  Policy makers have now increased rates 11 times since the
start of last year, and today’s was the second half-point move
in three meetings.  By contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its target
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
the  Bank of England  this month left its benchmark unchanged at
0.5 percent. The  European Central Bank  on July 7 raised
borrowing costs for the second time in 2011.  Today’s decision could be the last for Subbarao, 61, whose
term concludes before the next scheduled rate announcement on
Sept. 16. A former top bureaucrat in the Ministry of Finance,
Subbarao took office in September 2008. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government hasn’t publicly indicated whether it intends
to reappoint him.  Fuel Costs  Subbarao made today’s announcement after the government
last month boosted diesel prices for the first time in a year to
cut subsidies and reduce losses at state-owned refiners
including Indian Oil Corp., efforts that have contributed to
higher living costs. The RBI yesterday also cited a high share
of production capacity in use, risk of a “wage-price spiral”
and “stickiness” in food prices contributing to inflation
pressures.  While growth has shown signs of moderation, “there is no
evidence of a sharp or broad-based slowdown as yet,” according
to the statement. Even so, industrial production grew 5.6
percent in May, the least in nine months. Gross domestic product
in the South Asian nation will rise 8.2 percent this year and
7.8 percent in 2012 compared with more than 9 percent each year
in China, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Car Sales  Sales growth at carmakers including  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. (MSIL)  slowed to two-year low in June, the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  said July 11. Commercial loans given by
banks such as ICICI Bank Ltd. rose 19.61 percent as of June 24,
the least since September 2010, according to the central bank.  “If the domestic signs of a consumption slowdown gain
further traction, the RBI might prefer to pause from here on,”
Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd.,
said before the report. “The euro zone debt crisis and growth
in the U.S. will be looked at closely by the RBI.”  Subbarao blamed the government for contributing to
inflation, which erodes the purchasing power of a population
where more than three-quarters of the people live on less than
$2 a day. A “large fiscal deficit” is stoking price pressures,
the central bank said.  ‘Fiscal Consolidation’  “Fiscal consolidation is, therefore, critical to managing
inflation,” the statement showed. “In the absence of
appropriate actions for addressing supply bottlenecks,
especially in food and infrastructure, questions about the
ability of the economy to sustain the current growth rate
without significant inflationary pressures come to the fore.”  The central bank maintained its economic growth forecast of
8 percent for the current fiscal year, even after citing dangers
from  Europe ’s debt crisis to the outlook for exports.  With global growth prospects moderating, the Bank of  Korea 
and Bank Indonesia kept rates unchanged this month. Malaysia’s
central bank unexpectedly refrained from raising rates, choosing
instead to order lenders to set aside more cash. By contrast,
 Thailand  raised borrowing costs and China boosted rates for the
third time this year.  “Going forward, the monetary policy stance will depend on
the evolving inflation trajectory, which in turn, will be
determined by trends in domestic growth and global commodity
prices,” India’s central bank said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  