-- 
India Signals Tougher Inflation Resolve to Avert ‘Hard Landing’ of Economy

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-27T05:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/india-signals-tougher-inflation-resolve-to-avert-hard-landing-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of India signaled
it’s prepared to accept a slower expansion to pull down an
inflation rate that risks causing a crash in the pace of growth
in  Asia ’s third-largest economy if left unchecked.  The RBI yesterday surprised all 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News with a half-point boost in the repurchase rate to
8 percent. The bank said in a statement that stronger action was
needed in the absence of government steps to damp demand or
efforts to address the nation’s supply bottlenecks.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao was forced to escalate what was
already the steepest increase in borrowing costs among major
Asian economies, after household expectations for inflation
exceeded 12 percent, above the 9.44 percent current pace. The
bank will add another half point to the benchmark rate by the
end of 2011, the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
yesterday showed.  “Policy makers now have accepted that demand is the
underlying driver of inflation and needs to be brought down to
cool inflation and avoid a hard landing,” said Jahangir Aziz,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who previously worked at
 India ’s finance ministry and the  International Monetary Fund .
“Capacity constraints are much tighter and demand pressures
much higher than they had thought.”  Stocks, Bonds  The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid
1.9 percent in Mumbai yesterday, the day’s worst performance in
Asia and the biggest drop in five weeks. It was unchanged as of
10:36 a.m. local time. The rupee advanced 0.6 percent to 43.92
per dollar and the yield on the 7.8 percent government bonds due
April 2021 rose 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
8.47 percent. It reached 8.48 percent earlier, the highest since
September 2008.  While keeping its growth forecast for the fiscal year
through March at 8 percent, the RBI said that “in the absence
of appropriate actions for addressing supply bottlenecks,
especially in food and infrastructure, questions about the
ability of the economy to sustain the current growth rate
without significant inflationary pressures come to the fore.”  Subbarao, 61, acted as the central bank elevated its
inflation forecast for the year through March by 1 percentage
point, to 7 percent.  After what could be Subbarao’s final rate decision, the
central bank blamed the government for contributing to inflation,
with its “large fiscal deficit” stoking price pressures. The
RBI July 25 also cited a high share of production capacity in
use, risk of a “wage-price spiral” and “stickiness” in food
costs fanning price gains.  Subbarao’s Term  The Bank of  Thailand , which also raised  interest rates  this
month, said rising food and fuel prices remain the “key risk”
to economic growth, according to the minutes of its July 13
meeting released today.  Subbarao’s term concludes before the next scheduled rate
announcement on Sept. 16. A former top bureaucrat in the
Ministry of Finance, Subbarao took office in September 2008.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government hasn’t publicly
indicated whether it intends to reappoint him.  While growth has shown signs of moderation, “there is no
evidence of a sharp or broad-based slowdown as yet,” the
central bank said in its policy statement yesterday.  Industry Concern  An increase in borrowing costs alone may not help in
containing inflation because it is driven by higher global
commodity prices, B. Muthuraman, president of the Confederation
of Indian Industry, said in a statement dated yesterday. The
emphasis should be on easing bottlenecks, speeding up reforms
and increasing investments in the economy, he said.  “The 50 basis-point hike in policy rates will seriously
slow down the growth rate of industry, which is already
suffering from an increase in the cost of funds,” said
Muthuraman, who is also vice chairman of Tata Steel Ltd.,
India’s biggest producer of the alloy. “While it is important
to control the threat caused by persistently high inflation, we
cannot risk a collapse in growth which will affect employment
creation.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of almost half the cars
sold in India, yesterday reported first-quarter profit increase
of 18 percent that beat analyst estimates because of higher
sales and a jump in unspecified other income.  “The challenge for the government and the RBI is to ensure
demand is constrained in the short term,” Subbarao said at a
press conference yesterday. He said “fiscal consolidation” is
critical to managing inflation.  Tax Cuts  Singh’s government last month cut the customs duty and
excise levy on fuels to curb prices, undermining efforts to
narrow the budget shortfall. It was forced to raise diesel costs
for the first time in a year to reduce losses at state-owned
refiners such as Indian Oil Corp. The tax cuts will cost the
government 490 billion rupees ($11 billion), Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy estimated.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee aims to trim the budget
gap to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product
in the year ending March 31.  Prices are also climbing as a lack of investment by
companies curb capacities. Corporate investment in the second
half of the fiscal year ended March 31 dropped 43 percent
compared with the first six months of the year, the RBI said in
a report on July 25.  Investment Prospects  “There are no signs of improvement in investment during
2011-12 as yet,” according to the report.  Manufactured-products inflation quickened to 7.43 percent
in June, according to calculations by Bloomberg News based on
data from the commerce ministry.  Retailers such as Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., Paris-based Carrefour SA and Cheshunt, England-
based Tesco Plc have been lobbying for a chance to sell food
products to India’s 1.2 billion people, arguing they will lower
prices and provide the scale that can improve local food
networks.  Food inflation has averaged 12.6 percent in the past year
as about 40 percent of India’s fruit and vegetables rot before
they can be sold because of a lack of cold-storage facilities
and poor transport infrastructure.  A panel of Indian bureaucrats this month recommended
allowing foreign companies to own up to 51 percent in multi-
brand retail stores, according to a finance ministry official
with direct knowledge of the matter.  “The economy’s ability to grow rapidly for any length of
time without provoking inflation is dependent on implementing
policies, with corresponding resource allocations, which will
allow the supply of various products and services to keep pace
with demand,” the central bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  