-- 
Innisfree’s Miller, Top Adviser on Proxy Votes, Dies at 62

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-07-26T17:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/innisfree-s-miller-top-adviser-on-shareholder-votes-dies-at-62.html
Alan Miller, co-chairman of
 Innisfree M&A Inc.  and one of the top advisers on shareholder
votes in hostile takeover battles, died yesterday at 62.  Miller had suffered from lymphoma, Innisfree said in a
statement today. As a proxy solicitor, Miller helped public
companies predict the outcome of votes and tender offers and
conveyed their messages to investors, including arbitrageurs who
bet on the outcome of takeovers.  Miller helped  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  win a 2002 shareholder
vote permitting the $18.9 billion acquisition of Compaq Computer
Corp. over the objections of the founding Hewlett family. Last
year, he advised  Airgas Inc. (ARG)  as it fended off a $5.9 billion
hostile bid from Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  “There was nobody better,” said Scott Barshay, a mergers
and acquisitions partner at Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP, in an e-
mailed message. “If he told you that a shareholder vote was
going to pass, you could take that to the bank.”  Miller worked on more than 400 proxy contests and was
“involved in most of the significant contested transactions of
the past thirty years,” according to Miller’s profile on the
 website  of the  Harvard Law School ’s Program on Corporate
Governance, where he participated in an event this year.  “When it comes to the pitched battle situations, you
really need a specialized set of skills,” said Peter Atkins, a
partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP. “Alan was a
guy who was almost instinctively reached for.”  Miller grew up on Manhattan’s Lower East Side and attended
 Syracuse University , Innisfree said in the statement. He worked
for proxy solicitors Carter Organization and Georgeson & Co.
before co-founding Innisfree in 1997, along with Co-Chairman
Arthur Crozier, Jennifer Shotwell and Meredith Cole.  “For more than 30 years, Alan advocated fiercely on behalf
of his clients around the world,” Crozier said in the
statement. “We are deeply saddened by his loss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 