-- 
Tiny Signs of Breast Cancer in Lymph Nodes Don’t Signal Death

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-07-26T20:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/tiny-signs-of-breast-cancer-in-lymph-nodes-don-t-signal-death.html
Microscopic signs of  breast cancer 
in the lymph nodes of women with early-stage disease don’t
signal an increased risk of dying, according to a study that
suggests testing for the tiny traces may be a needless expense.  The survival rate for women with no sign of cancer in the
lymph nodes was 95 percent over five years, using a standard
test, the researchers said. It remains the same even when more
sensitive tests found minute signs of potential malignancy,
according to a report in tomorrow’s  Journal of the American
Medical Association .  Doctors have long thought the existence of these so-called
micro-metastases might raise the risk of death, the researchers
said. Overturning that idea will likely change medical practice,
said lead researcher Armando Giuliano, co-director of the  breast
center  at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los Angeles .  “If the lymph node is negative, the standard practice in
this country is to do more intense stains,” or tests, to look
more closely for disease, Giuliano said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not helpful and there is greater expense.”  Researchers tracked the medical history of 3,904 women who
had no easily identifiable cancer in their lymph nodes after
being diagnosed with  early stage breast cancer . All the women
had a lumpectomy, surgery in which a tumor and some surrounding
tissue is removed, and many received chemotherapy and radiation.
The women and their doctors weren’t told the results of the more
sensitive tests, so their treatment regimens didn’t differ.  “What I really want is for people not to be overtreated,”
Giuliano said. “If you see these things and think they are bad,
you tend to do more aggressive treatment. It will take effort to
get people to change, but I think they will.”  The study, funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health, was originally presented at the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago  in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  