-- 
Is Obama Wall Street’s Best Friend or Its Mortal Foe?: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-07-26T00:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/is-obama-wall-street-s-best-friend-or-its-mortal-foe-ron-klain.html
Differences of opinion are the
essence of politics; differences in factual analysis are usually
less sharp. Yet one of the most interesting divides in public
discourse now concerns not a policy dispute, but different
perceptions of a “factual” question: How has the
administration treated the financial sector:  Wall Street , the
banks and their executives?  This divide was on display last week, when Politico
reporter Mike Allen recounted a  private meeting  of Wall Street
executives in which many “said they were severely disappointed
in the president,” and accused him of waging class warfare
against them. “They said they didn’t understand what they had
done to deserve that,” adding that “a president shouldn’t
attack his constituents -- he’s not the president of some people,
he’s president of all the people.”  And yet, just two days before,  Paul Krugman ’s New York
Times column contained a scathing critique of the
administration’s economic policies, alleging that it had gone
soft on the financial sector. “Five words sum up the central
principle of United States financial policy: go easy on the
bankers,” the Nobel-winning economist wrote.  The divide was also on display when the president decided
not to nominate the front-runner  Elizabeth Warren  -- despised by
the financial industry -- to head the new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, picking instead the bureau’s current director
of enforcement, Rich Cordray. (Disclosure: Both Warren and
Cordray are longtime friends of mine.)  Stick in Eye  Some progressives saw the decision to pass on Warren as the
latest administration cave to the bankers; industry types saw
the selection of the strongly pro-consumer Cordray as another
stick in the eye.  That the bankers and their critics should disagree on the
proper direction for U.S. economic policy is no surprise. But
how do we account for the stark difference in their perceptions
of the administration’s attitude toward the financial sector?
Why do some believe that the president has brutalized Wall
Street, while others think he has babied it? Three factors
contribute to this difference in perception.  The first is the inevitable instability that comes when a
temporary, atypical political alliance dissolves, and parties
seek a new way of interacting. For 100 years before  Bill Clinton 
became president, relations between Democrats and Wall Street
were frosty.  ‘Cross of Gold’  William Jennings Bryan  undertook a national crusade that
defined the  Democratic Party  around a monetary policy directly
opposed to “the bankers.”  Franklin Roosevelt  -- even when he
was seeking better relations with the business sector generally
-- never wavered in his  harsh criticism  of the “high-finance-
minded,” that “handful of men,” who “took their toll from
the greater part of all other business and industry.”  So the past 15 years of camaraderie between Democrats and
Wall Street -- which started with close ties to key personnel in
the Clinton administration, and blossomed during boom times for
the stock market under that president -- isn’t the norm, but an
anomaly. The aberrant period was extended by the mishandling of
the financial crisis by the campaign of the Republican
presidential nominee,  John McCain , in 2008 and by Wall Street’s
sense of shared educational background and cultural outlook with
the Democratic candidate, Barack Obama, and his advisers.  But these factors were ephemeral. Sooner or later,
relations were going to return toward the historical norm, and
that’s what we’re seeing now. The disparate perspectives on the
administration’s posture toward the financial industry these
past two years, then, are a product of the confusion that comes
when an odd coupling starts to uncouple -- leaving the parties
themselves, and everyone watching them, confused about where the
relationship stands.  Second, the difference reflects the tension between notions
of collective accountability and individual responsibility in
our country, given the blend of communitarian and individualist
streaks in our national character. From the collective
perspective -- in the eyes of many policy makers and observers -
- the public sector bailed out Wall Street through TARP and
other programs. As a result, this line of thinking goes, the
financial industry should have a posture of gratitude for the
help, and a repentant mindset for having gotten us in this mess
in the first place. In this view, the industry’s return to large
compensation packages, reluctance to invest in or lend to Main
Street businesses, and sense of irritation at criticism seems
outrageous.  But from the industry’s perspective, an individualistic
analysis dominates: “If I didn’t, personally, do anything wrong,
why is everyone mad at me? Why should I forgo personal gain, or
accept personal blame, for the actions of others?”  Communitarian Mindset  The natural divide between communitarian and
individualistic perspectives, always present in our country, is
exacerbated because policy makers tend to belong to the class of
people with a communitarian mindset, and Wall Street tends to
attract individualistic types.  Finally, there is the difference in the sort of economic
recovery that the political/pundit class (mostly upper-middle
class), and the financial class have personally experienced in
the past two years. Of course, investment bankers on Wall Street
are wealthier than policy makers and pundits in  Washington , but
the difference isn’t just in how much they own, it’s in what
they own. Generally, the richer someone is, the more that wealth
is likely to be concentrated in equities; but for most upper-
middle-class people, their major asset is their residence.  Tale of Assets  For most of the past 20 years, these two asset classes
performed similarly; but in the past two years, the two tracks
have diverged sharply, with underappreciated political
consequences.  To illustrate this point, imagine an investment banker who
invested $1 million in the stock market on Election Day 2004,
and an upper-middle-class policy maker who, on the same day, put
$100,000 as a down payment on a $700,000 home. If the investment
banker’s gains tracked the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , and the
homeowner’s tracked the Case-Shiller Index, then in mid-2007,
before the first signs of trouble, the investment banker would
have been up $350,000 on his portfolio, and the policy maker
would have about $200,000 in equity in his home; both have done
well. Likewise, at the depth of the crash, on Inauguration Day
2009, both the investment banker and the upper-middle-class
homeowner would have seen all their gains wiped out, and the
value of their holdings lower than when they started. The crash
caused both groups to lose all their gains over a five-year
period, and both had their nest eggs cracked. Bottom line: Up
until early 2009, the two groups rode the curve up together, and
rode it back down together.  Lost Nest Egg  But now look at what has happened since early 2009. The
investment banker’s portfolio is back, not just to where it was
in 2004, but almost to its 2007 peak: He now has all of his
original $1 million restored, plus more than $200,000 in gains.
To him, the recession of 2007-2008 is in the past, and continued
anger about it seems absurd. But what about the policy maker?
His house remains underwater, his nest egg totally wiped out,
and he is left with no equity to pay for a child’s college
education or his retirement. Is it any wonder that upper-middle-
class homeowners (a class to which many pundits, journalists and
political leaders belong) are enraged at the financial class?
Although the latter group has come out of the past decade very
much ahead, the former group has come out very much behind.  So has the president castigated the bankers or coddled them?
As cliched as it sounds, it depends in part on your perspective.
The relationship is unquestionably more distant than it was
under the last Democratic administration or during the 2008
campaign -- a return in the direction of the historical norm.
The divide over accountability isn’t going away, and will color
both sides’ sense of the relationship for years to come. And as
long as the well-being of the financial class grows increasingly
independent of the well-being of the upper middle class -- let
alone of those less well off in our country -- the divide will
only widen.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 