-- 
Hispanic Boom Puts Futbol Under Texas Lights

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/hispanic-youth-boom-puts-futbol-under-texas-friday-night-lights.html
Homecoming at Houston’s Lee High
School is a social highlight of the year -- much like everywhere
else in football-crazed  Texas . Except here, the sport is soccer,
both boys’ and girls’ teams play, and it’s held in February
instead of the fall.  The school, which had few Hispanic students when it opened
in 1962 as Robert E. Lee High School, halted football in 2000
because of waning interest, said Steve Amstutz, Lee’s principal
for 10 years before leaving last year. Lee restarted a team in
2010, though soccer -- futbol in Spanish -- is the dominant
sport among a  student body  of 2,000 that’s now about 75 percent
Hispanic, he said.  “Lee is truly a reflection of U.S. immigration policy,”
said Amstutz, who now leads a nonprofit that sends low-income
students to elite summer camps and programs.  While open immigration stances have drawn fire in Texas and
other states, the transformation of the school reflects a
national shift that’s likely to redefine the way Americans view
Hispanics, whose importance as workers and consumers will grow
as the society ages, said  Jose Legaspi , whose Legaspi Co. in
Montebello,  California , owns nine shopping centers.  “The business community has realized for a long time that
Hispanics are a young demographic force that is a positive for
the U.S.,” said Legaspi, who has developed Hispanic-oriented
properties for 32 years. “That’s the reality. We deal with it,
and we move on.”  Disappearing White Children  The nationwide population of Hispanics under age 18 grew by
4.79 million between 2000 and 2010, while non-Hispanic white
children declined by 4.3 million, according to figures from the
2010 U.S. Census Bureau that are being released this year.  In Harris County alone, which includes Houston, the number
of Hispanics under 18 rose by 185,330 -- about 10 percent of the
entire gain among all Americans in that age category. The
county’s white child population fell by 60,170.  The gap between business and political interests over this
new demographic order was evident in Texas last month when
supermarket chain owner Charles Butt of  San Antonio  and Houston
homebuilder Bob Perry convinced legislators to block a bill
backed by Governor  Rick Perry  that would have given the police
broader power to enforce immigration laws.  ‘Economic Hard Times’  Anger over immigration issues will dissipate as the  U.S.
economy  recovers and its population becomes more diverse, said
San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro.  “This spike in sentiment against immigrants is related to
our economic hard times,” Castro said in a telephone interview.
“We need to welcome people to America who are willing to work
hard and build up the country.”  Texas’s economy, with an 8.2 percent unemployment rate
that’s below the national average of 9.2 percent, benefits from
the migration of Hispanics, said Sam Dawson, chairman of the
Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce and chief executive
officer of a civil engineering company.  “While the business community is very supportive of
stronger border security and making sure people have proper
documentation, this state can’t afford to send its workforce
back to  Mexico ,” Dawson said.  U.S. authorities deported almost 393,000 people in the year
ended Sept. 30, according to Gillian Christensen, a spokeswoman
for the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. Half
the deportations involved people considered criminals, up from
30 percent in 2008, Christensen said.  Broad Implications  The surge of young Hispanics in the U.S. brings widespread
implications for society, from schools and shopping malls to
churches and maternity wards.  Melrose Stores , a 100-store
apparel chain, is adding a dozen sites over the next year
exclusively targeted at Hispanics, said Koyt Everhart Jr.,
director of real estate of the San Antonio-based company.  Melrose doubled its average store size in recent years to
10,000 square feet to provide more room for young children
joining their parents. “Shopping is a family experience” for
them, Everhart said. “Hispanic families are just very tight-
knit.”  Among Legaspi’s success stories is  Fort Worth ’s Hispanic-
themed La Gran Plaza mall, now 95 percent occupied, up from 10
percent when he bought the property in 2004, he said.  “People didn’t think of Fort Worth as having enough
Hispanics, but we got support from all sides,” he said.  Hispanic children make up 49 percent of Texas’s 4.85
million public school students, and the state will have a
majority Hispanic population by 2035, up from 38 percent in
2010, said Steve Murdock, a sociology professor at Rice
University in Houston and a former census director.  90% of Babies  In Houston, 90 percent of the almost 70,000 babies born
since 2005 at the city’s two public hospitals were Hispanic,
according to Harris County Hospital District statistics.  In Austin, about 100 Hispanic children ages 4 to 9
regularly walk to the altar for children’s liturgy at St.
Ignatius Martyr Catholic Church’s 1 p.m. Spanish language mass,
said Reverend Bill Wack, the pastor. Its English masses earlier
on Sundays typically attract 10 or 20 kids, he said.  “We have a lot of crying babies during the 1 p.m. service,
which frustrates some, but I tell folks that’s our future,”
said Wack, who came to St. Ignatius two years ago. The church
serves about 3,000 families, with about 80 percent of its
congregants having Spanish surnames, he said.  More children means added pressure on health care and
schools, a challenge Texas isn’t meeting because its political
leaders won’t raise taxes to boost public spending, said Eileen
Garcia, chief executive officer of Texans Care for Children, a
nonprofit lobbying group.  Child Poverty  Texas ranked 34th among states in child well-being,
according to a  July 2010 study  by the Annie E. Casey Foundation
that considered teen birthrates, health-insurance coverage and
other categories. Its child-poverty rate ranks among the highest
in the U.S., even though median  household income  is 3.6 percent
to 29 percent above other high-poverty states, Garcia said.  Texas’s legislature reduced grade-school funding during the
next two years by $4 billion from previously mandated levels
while cutting overall spending by $15 billion to balance the
state budget. With about 80,000 new students annually, Texas’
schools will receive about $300 less per child, the  Equity
Center , an Austin-based advocacy group that represents more than
600 school districts, estimated in June.  About 3 million children participate in Texas’ Medicaid or
Children’s Health Insurance Program, 46 percent more than five
years earlier, the health department said on its website.  Gaining Power  “The groups that are growing in Texas are also the ones
with lower education-achievement levels,” said Castro, San
Antonio’s mayor. “We need many more minority students to
graduate from high school and college.”  Hispanics are likely to gain greater political power in the
future to address some of these issues, although some Democrats
and Hispanic-affiliated interest groups say the Republican
establishment is resisting that.  Adding 4.3 million new residents between 2000 and 2010 gave
Texas 36 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, up from 32,
the largest gain of any state, starting with the 2012
congressional election cycle. The population grew by 20.6
percent to 25.1 million last year from 2000, more than twice the
9.7 percent national rate of increase. Hispanics comprised about
58 percent of the growth, said Murdock of  Rice University .  Republicans, who have dominated the statehouse since 2002,
approved new congressional districts that political consultants
said will probably result in one additional minority member. The
proposed map, under review by the U.S. Justice Department,
prompted lawsuits by groups including the League of United Latin
American Citizens for not reflecting Hispanic growth.  The nation’s ability to resolve the economic and political
issues facing Hispanics will shape its future, Murdock said.  “Whether we like it or not, how well the minority
population does is how well Texas and the country will do,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 