-- 
Itau Slides as Credit Suisse Says Defaults Hurting Brazilian Bank Profits

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-26T20:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/itau-slides-as-credit-suisse-says-defaults-hurting-brazilian-bank-profits.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest bank by market value, led declines for lenders
in Sao Paulo after Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on
concern higher costs for bad loans will crimp profits.  Itau, which was lowered to “neutral” from “outperform”
by Credit Suisse, fell 1.8 percent to 31.58 reais at 4:15 p.m.
New York time, adding to a 19 percent drop this year through
yesterday. Credit Suisse cut its earnings forecasts for
Brazilian banks by an average of 4 percent this year and 5
percent in 2012, according to a note sent to clients today.  Brazil ’s banks have tumbled this year, with MSCI Inc.’s
gauge of the nation’s financial shares posting the second-
largest drop of 10 industries, after the central bank boosted
 interest rates ,  reserve requirements  and taxes on consumer loans
to slow credit growth. The fastest inflation in six years and
higher delinquency rates will likely push the industry to set
aside more cash for defaults, hurting margins,  Marcelo Telles ,
an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in the note to clients.  “Short-term asset quality indicators will be key drivers
due to the perception the Brazilian consumer is overleveraged
and that Brazil is on the verge of an asset quality bust,”
Telles wrote.  Default Rate  Brazil’s consumer default rate rose to 6.4 percent in May
from 6.1 percent in April, while the default rate on company
loans rose to 3.9 percent from 3.7 percent, the central bank
said June 28. Total outstanding credit rose 1.6 percent in May,
the fastest pace this year, to 1.804 trillion reais ($1.1
trillion).  “I’m more cautious on small and medium banks, where we
could really see problems,” said Otavio Vieira, who helps
manage 1.3 billion reais at Safdie Private Banking in Sao Paulo.
“If inflation rises again, that eats up wages. You could see
higher delinquencies among individuals.”  Banco Pine SA, a bank with a market value about 150 times
smaller than Itau’s, has declined 29 percent this year through
yesterday. The stock rose 1.7 percent to 10.83 reais today.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and state-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) 
were reiterated “outperform” at Credit Suisse because their
lower exposure to credit-card and individual loans should
insulate them from rising delinquencies, according to the note.  Bradesco dropped 0.1 percent to 29.19 reais while Banco do
Brasil lost 2 percent to 25.94 reais. The stocks have declined
10 percent and 16 percent, respectively, this year through
yesterday.  ‘Less Orthodox’  “The adoption of a less orthodox monetary policy to curb
inflation, concerns about Basel III and deterioration in short-
term asset quality indicators fueled the sector’s de-rating,”
Telles wrote, referring to global liquidity rules laid out last
year by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . “But
despite the significant underperformance, Brazilian banks also
do not look cheaper versus banks globally.”  While Itau is trading at a 15 percent discount to its
historical average of 10.4 times the 12-month profit estimate
from Credit Suisse, the bank’s discount to global peers is in
line with the average of about 0.8 percent, according to the
note. The Sao Paulo-based lender’s second-quarter earnings are
likely to present “weaker margins and higher provisions, which
should trigger downward earnings revision by the street,”
Telles said.  MSCI’s index of Brazilian financial shares is down 11
percent this year, a decline only surpassed by its measure of
consumer-discretionary companies, which includes homebuilders
and retailers and is down 12 percent.  “Overall we still see generally positive operating
environment, though less favorable at the margin,” Telles said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  