-- 
J&J, South African Breweries, Disney: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-26T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/j-j-pronova-iv-south-african-breweries-disney-intellectual-property.html
Synthes Inc. (SYST) , being bought by
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  for $21.3 billion, sued a competing maker of
spinal-repair products, Globus Medical Inc., alleging
infringement of three U.S. patents.  Synthes, a Swiss company based in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , contends Globus’s Independence, Coalition and
InterContinental Plate-spacer systems are using the protected
technology.  The company “has suffered and will continue to suffer
damages and irreparable injuries” unless a court stops the
Globus infringement, Synthes lawyers said in papers filed July
22 in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware . Globus is
based in Audubon, Pennsylvania.  Johnson & Johnson agreed in April to buy Synthes in the
biggest purchase of the company’s 125-year history, to become
the leader in the $5.5 billion market for devices that treat
trauma victims.  Synthes has 50 percent of the market for sales of screws,
plates, bone grafts and other products to treat skeletal damage,
according to Navid Malik, an analyst with Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP.  Edward Joyce, a spokesman for Globus, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Synthes USA v. Globus Medical Inc., 11-cv-652,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Pronova, Teva Agree to Dismiss Patent Litigation in U.S.  Pronova BioPharma ASA and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
agreed to dismiss patent litigation in the U.S. District Court
in Delaware, according to a Pronova statement. Terms of the
agreement weren’t disclosed  The suit, filed in September 2010, is related to three of
Pronova’s U.S. patents pertaining oil purification. In dispute
were patents 7,732,488, 7,678,930 and 7,718,698.  Lysaker, Norway-based Pronova said it still has another
patent-infringement dispute with Teva. That one is related to 
Lovaza , its fish oil-based drug used to reduce triglycerides in
the blood. A ruling in that case is expected in the last quarter
of 2011, Pronova said in the statement.  The newly settled case against Teva is Pronova BioPharma
Norge AS v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 1:10-cv-00800-SLR-
MPT, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  IV Objects to Characterization of ‘Patent Troll on Steroids’  Intellectual Ventures , the company founded by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s former Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold ,
objected its portrayal last week on the National Public Radio
program “This American Life.”  The episode, titled “ When Patents Attack ,” looked at
patent litigation brought by patent-owning companies. At one
point Intellectual Ventures was characterized as a “patent
troll on steroids.”  In an e-mailed statement from Intellectual Ventures
spokeswoman Kasey Halmagyi, the Bellevue, Washington-based
company said it disagreed with what it said was the program’s
premise that patents have a negative effect on innovation. That
notion “flies in the face of centuries of evidence,” Halmagyi
said in the statement.  At one point in the report, non-practicing entities --
companies that have patents, but do not produce products based
on those patents -- are characterized as being Mafia-like. IV
said in the statement that the program “uses some colorful and
dramatic devices” and that “some of the characterizations in
the piece are frankly absurd.”  Among the people interviewed on the show were  Peter N.
Detkin , who ran the IP litigation at  Intel Corp . before he
became one of IV’s founders and vice chairman;  John M. Demaris ,
a former partner at  Chicago ’s Kirkland and Ellis and now the
owner of 4,000 patents he bought from Micron Technology Inc.;
and  Michael C. Smith , a partner in  Siebman, Burg, Phillips &
Smith LLP , who has litigated patent cases in Marshall,  Texas  on
behalf of both plaintiffs and defendants.  Smith took “This American Life” reporters on a tour of an
office building near the courthouse in Marshall, Texas, that
houses many of the plaintiffs in cases tried in that court. He
called the building “ground zero” for companies that file
infringement suits and don’t make the products covered by their
patents.  He said the building was filled with empty offices that had
only a name plate on the door.  Intellectual Ventures said in its statement that rather
than being a so-called troll, it provides “an efficient way for
patent holders to get paid for the inventions they own, and in
turn, for technology companies to gain easy access to the
invention rights they need now or may need as they enter new
markets.”  Intellectual Ventures completed a licensing agreement with
 Chunghwa Picture Tubes (CGHD)  Ltd., it said in a  statement  yesterday.
In addition to having access to 35,000 patents, the agreement
admits the Taoyan County, Taiwan-based company to what IV calls
its “IP for Defense” program, according to the statement.  The program provides customers accused of patent
infringement “the ability to obtain patents from IV’s portfolio
to support counter-assertions, enabling more efficient
negotiations in order to reduce liabilities and achieve
favorable licensing terms,” according to the statement.  Myhrvold is a columnist for Bloomberg View, which is owned
by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Ogam Sues More than 40 Defendants in Texas Infringement Case  Ogam LLC, a company with a Longview, Texas address that
doesn’t appear to make any products, sued more than 40
defendants for infringing a patent for an image-display system.  According to the complaint filed July 21 in federal court
in Marshall, Texas, the defendants are accused of infringing
patent 5,825,427. The patent, which was issued in October 1998,
relates to the changed aspect ratio used in high-definition
television screens and other devices.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s online database of
patent assignments indicates that inventor Kenneth MacLeod of
Laguna Nigel,  California , transferred the patent to Medici
Portfolio Acquisitions LLC in February 2011.  Medici transferred the patent to Ogam the same day,
according to the database. Medici and Ogam share the same
address.  The complaint lists the model numbers of the various
television sets, digital picture frames, projectors and laptops
that allegedly infringe the patent. Among the manufacturers and
that were sued are 3M Co.,  Sony Corp. (6758) , LG Electronics Inc., and
Toshiba Corp.  Ogam asked the court for money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. The company did not, as is often the case, ask
for a court order barring the manufacture or sale of the
allegedly infringing items.  According to Bloomberg data, Ogma has filed 22 patent-
infringement cases in the same court since Feb. 3, 2011.  Ogma is represented by  Andrew W. Spangler  of  Spangler Law
PC  of Longview, Texas, and  James C. Otteson ,  David A. Caine ,
 Thomas T. Carmack  and  Xian Long  of  Agility IP Law  of East  Palo
Alto , California. All four lawyers from Agility previously
practiced at Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati of Palo Alto.  The case is Ogma LLC v.  3M Co (MMM) , 2:11-cv-00328-TJW, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  South African Brewery in Copyright Dispute With Games Company  South African Breweries Ltd. is accused of copyright
infringement by a company that operates a system for interactive
team sports,  South Africa ’s Business Day  reported .  Boost Sports Africa claims the brewery’s “Be the Coach
Event” infringed its “Fan Challenge Sport,” which it said it
presented to the brewery on a confidential basis, according to
Business Day.  The sports group is seeking a licensing fee of 15 percent
of the revenue necessary to conduct the event, Business Day
reported.  The brewery said the concept underlying its event was
disclosed much earlier in a patent that predated the
presentation by Boost Sports Arica, according to Business Day.  ABC Sports Claims Pawlenty Campaign Ad Infringes Copyright  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC Sports is claiming a television ad
promoting  the presidential candidacy  of former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty  infringes its copyrights, the Boston Globe
Reported.  The ad uses footage from the 1980 Olympics “Miracle on
Ice” hockey broadcast, according to the Globe.  Louise Argianas, director of rights and clearances for ABC
sports said the campaign would be receiving a cease-and-desist
letter, according to the Globe.  Pawlenty spokesman Alex Conant told the Globe that its
lawyers had checked the ad for compliance with copyright law and
that it “‘fully complies with the fair-use doctrine.”  Sections of WHO Drug Guide Copied, Australian Publisher Claims  Parts of a guide to pediatric drugs published by the  World
Health Organization  appear to have been copied from an
independently published guide for Australian doctors, The
Australian reported.  The publishers of the Australian Medicines Handbook sent a
letter to the WHO, a United Nations Agency, claiming that at
least 50 passages in the “WHO Model Formulary for Children”
are identical to those in the Australian book, according to the
Australian.  Clinical editors of the WHO publication told the Australian
there were “limited ways” in which the drug information could
be presented without deviating from the source material.  The U.N. health agency has told the Australian publishers
it will conduct a forensic comparison of the two publications,
according to The Australian.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Brand Owners Can Buy XXX Web Addresses to Avoid Public Use  Companies that would be too embarrassed with the new
“xxx” top level Internet domain names can buy their addresses
for between $200 and $300, the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper
 reported  yesterday.  A “sunrise” period in which brand owners can buy these
addresses before bidding is open to the public has been
extended, the Telegraph reported.  ICM, the domain registry service selling the new “xxx”
domain names --  which are intended for adult-oriented content -
- told the Telegraph it has received about 900,000 inquiries
from those interested in acquiring an address with that domain
name.  Although the creation of the XXX registry was originally
blocked by the Bush administration at the behest of conservative
Christian groups, ICM successfully appealed that decision and is
going ahead with the potential sales, according to the
Telegraph.  ‘White Rose’ Infringer Will Send Profits to Military Charity  A trademark dispute between two rival breweries should have
been settled out of court and was the result of “Yorkshire
Pride,” a U.K. High Court judge said, and the  BBC  reported.  The  Samuel Smith Old Brewery  in Tadcaster, North Yorkshire,
sued the  Cropton Brewery  of North Yorkshire, complaining about
the use of a white rose design on the label for its Yorkshire
Warrior beer, according to the BBC.  The white rose, a symbol of Yorkshire and registered by
Samuel Smith as a logo in the 1960s, was infringed by the
Cropton label, the high court ruled, and the BBC reported.  Even though the court didn’t order damages, Cropton will
give its profits from the sale of Yorkshire Warrior to Samuel
Smith, which will donate the funds to a military charity, the
BBC reported.  LOCOG Trademark Policy Challenged by Plant-Display Company  InstaPlant , a U.K. company that uses computer technology to
create intricate plant displays, is challenging the  London
Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games  over
its trademark policies, Horticulture Week  reported .  The company will offer two bedding displays featuring the
Olympic rings to anyone who can persuade the committee to back
down on its trademark rules, according to the publication.  A spokesman for the committee told Horticulture Week that
it needed to make 2 billion English pounds ($3.26 billion) in
order to finance the games, and that InstaPlant was welcome to
try to become an official partner.  Chris Harnett, InstaPlant’s manager, said if the committee
doesn’t give someone permission to use the display, they “will
be left here to rot and that would be a shame,” according to
Horticulture Week.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Trade Secrets Law Invoked Over Medical-Device Price Comparison  None of the public hospitals in  Florida ’s Broward County
would reveal the prices they paid manufacturers for pacemakers
and defibrillators, the Miami Herald  reported .  The hospitals claimed that Florida trade secrets laws
barred the release of that information, which was sought by the
Herald.  Professor Annemarie Bridy of the University of  Idaho , who
has written on the secrecy of cardiac-device prices, told the
Herald that hospitals’ inability to compare prices “is driving
up the cost of healthcare for everyone.”  David Nexon, a spokesman for the Advanced Medical
Technology Association, said keeping the prices secret allows
manufacturers to offer discounts selectively in a “highly
competitive” marketplace, according to the Herald.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 