-- 
Japanese Scientists Push for More Radiation Tests to Assess Seafood Risks

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-26T05:31:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/japanese-scientists-push-for-more-radiation-tests-to-assess-seafood-risks.html
Japan’s government has to release
more data from ocean radiation tests to accurately assess the
contamination threat to seafood, according to a statement by the
 Oceanographic Society of Japan .  The government should release radiation readings in sea
water that are below its minimum measurement level, because even
at those low quantities the radioactive elements may pose a
danger when concentrated in seafood, the group, which counts
1,860 marine scientists as its members, said yesterday.  “Depending on the species, fish have been known to
accumulate as much as 100 times the amount of pollutants in the
environment,” Jota Kanda, a professor at  Tokyo University of
Marine Science and Technology  specializing in marine
environment, said by phone yesterday.  Radiation threats to Japan’s food chain are multiplying as
cesium emissions from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant spread. Aeon Co.,  Japan ’s biggest supermarket chain,
said yesterday 4,108 kilograms (9,056 pounds) of beef suspected
of being contaminated by radiation was inadvertently put on sale
at 174 stores across the country.  The government on July 19 banned cattle shipments from
Fukushima prefecture, though not before some had been
slaughtered and shipped. A ban on shiitake mushrooms was
extended to another area of Fukushima on July 23 because of high
cesium levels, the health ministry said.  Testing of seafood off the coast of Fukushima uncovered 68
cases of fish and marine life with radiation readings exceeding
the government’s safety limit, according to a  report  by the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.  Radiated Fish  Fukushima prefecture tested 505 seafood items to discover
excessive radiation levels in 15 cases of sweetfish, seven cases
of salmon, seven cases of greenling and six cases of sand lance,
according the report. Ibaraki prefecture, south of Fukushima,
reported 5 cases of excessive radiation levels after testing 265
samples.  Seafood tests by 15 other prefectures found no other cases
of contamination, according to the report.  Miyagi prefecture ,
north of Fukushima tested 44 samples, while Iwate, further
north, tested two samples.  “The scope of testing needs to increase, especially in the
neighboring prefectures of Miyagi and Iwate,” Kanda said. “In
Chernobyl’s case, it took about six months to a year for cesium
concentrations in fish to peak.”  That said, the concentrated release of radioactive material
into Fukushima’s coastal waters is “unprecedented,” Kanda
said.  Food Chain  Japan has no centralized system to check for radiation
contamination of food. Prefectural authorities and local farmers
run voluntary tests. Products including spinach, mushrooms,
bamboo shoots, tea, milk, plums and fish have been found
contaminated with cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers
from Dai-Ichi.  Contaminated beef entered the food chain after eating hay
contaminated with as much as 690,000 becquerels of radiation a
kilogram, compared with a government safety standard of 300
becquerels.  Radiation in food is measured in becquerel, a gauge of the
strength of radioactivity in materials such as Iodine-131 and
Cesium-137. A becquerel represents one radioactive decay per
second, which involves the release of atomic energy that can
damage human cells and DNA, with prolonged exposure causing
leukemia and other forms of cancer, according to the  World
Nuclear Association .  Higher Animals  Levels of cesium-134 in seawater near the Fukushima plant’s
No. 3 reactor rose to levels 30 times the allowed safety
standards last week, according to tests performed by Tokyo
Electric Power Co, national broadcaster NHK reported.  “The concern is that the contaminants will travel up the
food chain reaching greater concentration in higher animals,”
Eiji Tanaka, a professor at Tokyo University of Marine Science
and Technology specializing in marine bioresources, said in an
email yesterday. “The pollutants may spread to bluefin tuna and
minke whales.”  Tests of sea water further off the coast of Fukushima,
Miyagi and Ibaraki prefectures showed no traces of radioactive
elements, according to a  July 22 report  by Japan’s Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.  The minimum detection limit is defined as 4 becquerels per
liter for Iodine-131, 6 bq/l for Cesium-134 and 9 bq/l for
Cesium-137, the report said.  “Which means that at 5 becquerels per liter the ministry
will proclaim the water safe, but concentration in fish may
exceed the 500 becquerel limit” per kilogram set by the
government, Kanda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in  Tokyo  at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at   plangan@bloomberg.net  