-- 
Japan Aims to Finish Reconstruction in 10 Years

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 
2011-07-26T03:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/japan-aims-to-complete-reconstruction-efforts-within-10-years.html
Japan’s government aims to complete
earthquake reconstruction in the next 10 years to help the
nation recover from March’s record temblor.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press conference
in Tokyo today that most of the rebuilding will be completed in
five years. The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($243
billion) over that period, according to a draft government
proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  Kan’s efforts to rebuild the northern region have been
complicated by growing calls for him to resign and a falling
approval rating. The spending blueprint that Noda said will be
released by the end of the month may not win lawmaker support,
given that they are focused on pushing Kan out of office,
according to analyst Takeshi Minami.  “Kan’s lack of support sets a high hurdle,” said Minami,
chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in  Tokyo .
“Policies tend to change under new leadership so we don’t know
how much weight these proposals hold.”  The spending pledged includes the 6 trillion yen Kan has
already drafted in two supplementary budgets. The government
will need to raise 10.3 trillion yen through tax increases and
reduce spending on programs including childcare handouts by 2.4
trillion yen, according to the proposal.  Raising Taxes  A panel charged with making recommendations for rebuilding
has suggested raising taxes temporarily to help pay for damages
the government estimates are around 16.9 trillion yen. The group
also called for setting up special disaster relief zones where
preferential rules and financial assistance will be provided to
help the nation recover from a temblor that has left more than
20,000 dead or missing.  Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest construction
machinery maker, said Japanese orders increased more than 30
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, spurred by
reconstruction demand, Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said.  Political infighting has hampered reconstruction efforts,
with the government’s response lagging previous efforts to
rebuild the nation after the Tokyo earthquake of 1923 and Kobe’s
1995 disaster, Makoto Iokibe, head of the government rebuilding
panel, said in an interview this month.  Kan yesterday won parliamentary approval for his second
extra budget, the first in three legislative goals he says must
be achieved before fulfilling his pledge to resign. He is also
trying to pass laws for renewable energy and deficit-covering
bonds needed for this year’s budget.  Approval Rating  The prime minister’s approval rating fell to 17.1 percent
from 23.2 in June, according to a Kyodo News survey published
yesterday. Kan’s disapproval rating was at 70.6 percent,
according to the report. Kyodo gave no margin of error for the
poll.  Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said yesterday the
government may sell some of its stake in Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp. and  Japan  Tobacco Inc, adding that any equity
sales wouldn’t be significant. The government’s ability to pay
for damages has been limited by its growing public debt burden.  The boost the economy will get from reconstruction demand
may be hampered by the yen’s gains against the dollar. Japan’s
currency has surged more than 4 percent in the past three months.
It traded at 78.09 against the dollar as of 12:23 p.m. in Tokyo.
The  Bank of Japan  has said power shortages caused by the nuclear
accident in Fukushima that led to subsequent closing of other
plans in the country may hamper growth in the longer term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  