-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Decline on U.S., European Debt Concerns

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-26T23:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-on-u-s-european-debt-concerns.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  dropped as wrangling between U.S. lawmakers over plans
to raise the federal debt limit, forecasts for American
companies that disappointed investors and falling demand for
European debt increased concerns the global recovery may stall.  American depositary receipts of Kyocera Corp., a Japanese
electronic components maker that earns about a third of its
revenue from the U.S. and Europe, lost 1.1 percent from the
closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Nissan Motor Co., a
carmaker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
sank 1.1 percent after the dollar weakened against the yen,
cutting the earnings outlook for the exporter. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, fell 1
percent even after prices for crude and metals advanced.  Futures on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 10,055 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
10,110 in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at
10,070 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index slid 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “Uncertainly about debt issues in the U.S. and Europe is
looming over the market, and the yen is strengthening slightly
against the dollar, which may drag down exporters,” said
Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index retreated 0.4 percent yesterday in  New
York , whipsawed by negotiations over the nation’s debt limit.  Veto Threat  Republicans and Democrats are sparring over separate plans
to raise the federal debt limit ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline to
avoid a government default. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
yesterday his plan can pass both chambers of Congress. President
Barack Obama’s administration threatened a presidential veto of
the two-step proposal to raise the ceiling and cut $3 trillion
in  government spending .  The dollar fell against all of its most-traded counterparts
as politicians failed to agree on raising the U.S. debt ceiling
and reducing its deficit. The greenback slid below 78 yen for
the first time since March on concern America may default and
face a reduction in its  credit rating .  The S&P Index also declined as earnings outlooks
disappointed investors.  3M Co. (MMM) , an electronics maker, reported
lower-than-expected profit margins and sales because of falling
demand for products used in LCD televisions. United Parcel
Service Inc., the world’s largest package-delivery company, said
demand in the third quarter will be “fairly slow” before
picking up in the last three months of 2011.  European Debt  In  Europe , demand for Spanish and Italian debt declined and
borrowing costs rose at their first auctions since European
leaders agreed on a new rescue for Greece.  Crude oil for September delivery rose 0.4 percent to settle
at $99.59 a barrel in New York yesterday after reaching $100.62,
the highest intraday price since June 10. The London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six metals including copper and
aluminum gained 1.6 percent, the highest level since April 21.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 