-- 
Alabama’s Jefferson County Hires Bankruptcy Lawyer Kenneth Klee and Firm

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-26T19:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/jefferson-county-ala-hires-bankruptcy-lawyer.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which may
vote in two days to file a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy,
hired attorneys who represented Orange County, California, when
it sought protection from creditors in 1994.  County commissioners voted 5-0 today to retain Kenneth Klee
and his Los Angeles firm Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP.
The commissioners have scheduled a July 28 meeting in which they
may decide to seek  bankruptcy protection , extend negotiations
with creditors on restructuring more than $3 billion of sewer
bonds or approve a settlement.  Creditors including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and bond insurer
Syncora Guarantee Inc. haven’t responded to a county proposal to
reduce its debt obligation to about $2 billion, while raising
sewer rates by 8 percent for the next three years, commissioners
said. The county will likely enter bankruptcy if creditors don’t
respond this week, they said.  “My constituents are saying pull the trigger,”
Commissioner Sandra Little Brown said at a meeting.  The county, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been under fiscal stress for more than three
years after a sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during the credit
crisis. Its woes intensified when the Legislature refused to act
after a court struck down a local occupational tax in March. The
tax generated about a quarter of Jefferson’s general-fund
revenue, and losing it forced officials to put more than 500
employees on unpaid leave.  Standstill Period  The July 28 meeting will come a day before the end of a 30-
day standstill period in which the county and creditors agreed
to pursue a settlement. A court-appointed receiver who is
managing the sewer system has also agreed not to try to seize a
portion of a $75 million settlement from JPMorgan for securities
violations related to county sewer bond and derivative sales.  A move by the receiver, John Young, to claim part of that
money may also trigger a flight to court protection, said
commissioner Jimmie Stephens. Chapter 9 of the  bankruptcy code 
would guard the county from collection actions.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the situation today. Michael Corbally, a Syncora spokesman, and
Young didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls seeking
comment.  Refinancing Proposal  Previously, debt holders and companies that insure the
bonds proposed refinancing as much as $2.4 billion and raising
sewer fees more than 25 percent for at least three years.  Commissioners have said they will reject any proposal that
requires them to raise sewer revenue by 10 percent or more.  The county will pay Klee a $50,000 retainer and $500,000 if
it moves forward with bankruptcy. Commission President David Carrington said bankruptcy would cost the county $1 million a
month. He declined to discuss legal strategy.  Chapter 9 wouldn’t erase the debt. Instead it would provide
a judicial forum for adjustments, which may take years.  The San Francisco Bay city of Vallejo,  California , entered
bankruptcy in May 2008, as the recession eroded tax revenue and
unions rejected wage cuts. After spending more than $10 million,
Vallejo remains under court protection.  Jefferson Commissioner Joe Knight said the cost may be
worth it to settle the county’s debt crisis.  “We can afford $1 million to close this convoluted saga,”
Knight said.  The commissioners’ options narrowed when the state Senate
failed to act on a bill to give the county more authority to
raise local taxes. Jefferson needed revenue to replace the wage
and business-license tax that generated about $73 million a
year, or a quarter of the county’s general fund budget, before
the court struck it down in March.  Forced Cuts  The revenue loss forced job cuts, closed satellite
courthouses and pared spending on public safety and road work.  Jefferson’s fiscal difficulties are tied to a sewer-debt
refinancing that unraveled in 2008, when investors dumped the
county’s floating-rate bonds after companies that insured them
lost their top credit ratings. Banks providing backstop
guarantees that allowed investors to sell their bonds demanded
accelerated payments on $800 million of debt that the county
couldn’t make.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama, at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  