-- 
Kenyan Central Bank Likely to Raise Benchmark Interet Rate, Survey Shows

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T06:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/kenyan-central-bank-likely-to-raise-benchmark-interet-rate-survey-shows.html
The Central Bank of  Kenya  may raise
its key lending rate by as much as half a percentage point
tomorrow after inflation accelerated to almost triple the
targeted pace.  Three of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the Monetary Policy Committee would increase the rate by a
quarter point to 6.5 percent; three estimated a half-point
increase and one said it would be unchanged. The decision will
be announced in the afternoon.  “High global commodity prices continue to add pressure on
domestic prices to rise, while strong domestic demand for
foodstuffs is increasing food prices,” said Angus Downie, fixed
income and currency strategist at Ecobank Capital in  London .
“Recent shilling depreciation adds weight” to calls for higher
rates, he said, forecasting a 50 basis point increase.  Inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy surged for the
eighth consecutive month in June, reaching 14.5 percent,
reflecting rising food and fuel costs. Aiming to bring price-
growth back to the government’s 5 percent target, the  central
bank  increased the benchmark  interest rate  twice this year, each
time by a quarter point, from a record low in January. It also
raised mandatory commercial bank reserves by the same margin.  Accelerating inflation has led the shilling to weaken 11
percent so far this year. The currency is the world’s fourth-
worst performer, after the Maldives rufiyaa, Suriname’s dollar
and the shilling of neighboring  Uganda . It traded at 90.33 late
yesterday, its weakest level since July 12.  Commercial Loan Rates  The MPC’s decision comes two weeks after the bank lowered
the rate it charges lenders for overnight loans by 1.75
percentage points, bringing it back into line with the main
policy rate. That suggests the central bank won’t announce
anything more aggressive than a 25-basis point increase
tomorrow, said Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based economist
with  Renaissance Capital .  “The committee’s big concern is what the commercial banks
are doing -- raising rates as it tightens,” damping economic
growth, Mhango said in a phone interview on July 22.  Tighter policy led at least four Kenyan lenders to raise
their base lending rates over the past month, even as Central
Bank of Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u and President Mwai Kibaki
appealed to them to lower borrowing costs to stoke economic
growth.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, and others including NIC Bank Ltd. this month raised
their base lending rates by 1.5 percentage points to 15 percent
and 16 percent, respectively.  Economic growth on a seasonally adjusted basis slowed in
the first quarter to 0.5 percent, compared with 2.2 percent the
three months earlier, as dry weather reduced farm output, the
Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said on June 30. The
government of Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea,
projects economic expansion will slow to 5.3 percent this year,
from 5.6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 