-- 
MKP Loses 4.8% as Lippmann’s LibreMax Joins Mortgage Slump

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-07-26T19:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/mkp-capital-loses-4-8-as-lippmann-s-libremax-joins-mortgage-bond-decline.html
MKP Capital Management LLC’s $2.8
billion hedge fund, profitable every year since it was started
more than a decade ago, lost 4.8 percent in the first half of
2011 as bonds tied to U.S. real-estate loans fell.  The credit fund dropped 1.03 percent in June, losing the
most in commercial-mortgage-backed securities, according to a
letter sent to investors by New York-based MKP and obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The hedge fund industry gained 4.4 percent
through June, including a 0.2 percent decline last month,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  LibreMax Capital LLC, CQS U.K. LLP and Seer Capital
Management LP, which avoided losses from January through May,
also fell last month as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepened
and as the  Federal Reserve  auctioned home-loan bonds. Hedge
funds entered this year facing lower yields on mortgage
investments after a jump in prices.  “We may get banged around a bit more, but pretty shortly
fundamentals will prevail,” Philip Weingord, the former
Deutsche Bank AG executive who started New York-based Seer
Capital in 2008, said in a telephone interview. “We believe now
is a decent entry point.”  Subprime-mortgage securities declined about 15 percent to
20 percent this year and there’s “little reason for weaker
credits to rally,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  John Sim  in  New York  wrote in a July 22 report. The debt averaged
gains of about 40 percent from mid-2009 through last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Annual Returns  MKP Capital, which oversees $4.5 billion, was co-founded in
1995 by ex-Salomon Brothers colleagues including Patrick McMahon
and Maurice Perkins. Its credit fund has posted average annual
returns of 11.7 percent since inception, ranging from 23.9
percent in 2007, when it profited from bets against mortgage
debt as foreclosures soared, to 0.22 percent in 2008, according
to the investor report.  Jason Weinzimer, a spokesman, declined to comment.  The fund helped push down mortgage-bond prices in March by
dumping more than $2 billion of residential and commercial debt
as the earthquake in  Japan  and conflict in the  Middle East 
roiled debt markets, people familiar with the matter said at the
time.  Greg Lippmann, the former  Deutsche Bank (DB)  trader who bet
against subprime bonds before housing collapsed, posted a 2.6
percent loss in June for his $700 million LibreMax fund, a
person familiar with the returns said. The fund, which gained
0.6 percent in March while MKP’s lost 6 percent, is now up 3.2
percent this year.  ABX Derivatives  Lippmann used contracts tied to derivative indexes to
overcome declines in his mortgage-bond holdings in May, an
investor letter said. The fund returned 10.3 percent from its
inception in October through May. He declined to comment.  ABX derivative indexes tied to subprime loans are more
expensive than the securities to which they’re tied after
rallying in late June, the JPMorgan analysts wrote.  The indexes, which typically decline as the perceived value
of the underlying debt drops, fell faster than the bonds earlier
last quarter as dealers sought to hedge risk. They then outpaced
the debt after Bank of America Corp. offered $8.5 billion for
faulty loans and the Fed said June 30 it would suspend sales of
bonds assumed in the rescue of American International Group Inc.  The performance of mortgage derivatives contributed to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s plunge in fixed-income revenue last
quarter. The firm was “disappointed in the performance of
certain businesses,” as earnings were dragged down by its
mortgage-bond hedges, Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar
said on a July 19 conference call.  ‘Mindful’ of Crisis  London-based CQS’s $1.6 billion asset-backed securities
fund dropped 1 percent in June, as both U.S. and previously
steady securitized European debt hurt returns, trimming 2011
gains to 3.55 percent, an investor letter shows. Alistair Lumsden, its chief investment officer for the debt, declined to
comment.  The fund, which gained 19.2 percent last year and 72.8
percent in 2007 as it joined Lippmann in bets against subprime
debt, said in the letter it ended last month “mindful” of
 Europe ’s sovereign crisis and concerned a restructuring of
 Greece ’s debt could roil markets. That tempered its optimism
about the increase in its “overall opportunities,” Lumsden
said in the letter.  Tricadia Losses  Seer’s hedge fund declined 1.42 percent in June, paring
gains this year to 8.4 percent, according to an investor letter.
The fund returned 24.9 percent in 2010. The firm, which oversees
$428 million, was founded in 2008 by former Deutsche Bank
executives including Weingord, the Frankfurt-based bank’s former
head of global markets in the Americas.  Residential- and commercial-mortgage bonds helped drag
Tricadia Capital Management LLC’s $2.2 billion Mariner-Tricadia
Credit Strategies Fund to its second straight monthly loss in
June, when it fell an estimated 0.33 percent, an investor report
showed. The fund has gained 5.7 percent this year. Michael Barnes, a co-founder, didn’t return a telephone message seeking
comment.  Some variation in performances reported by hedge funds
invested in securitized debt may stem from differences in how
they value their often illiquid or rarely traded holdings,
according to  Gene Phillips , a director at PF2 Securities
Evaluations Inc., a consulting firm in New York.  “In our world, you can have major, major differences,
depending on the pricing provider or method used,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  