-- 
KPN Second-Quarter Profit Falls 11% on Lower Call Revenue, Misses Estimate

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-07-26T09:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/kpn-reports-quarterly-earnings-before-taxes-depreciation-of-1-9-billion.html
Royal KPN NV, the largest Dutch
phone company, said second-quarter profit dropped 11 percent
because of price cuts and as increasing use of mobile and social
media applications such as Skype cut into voice revenue.  Net income decreased to 414 million euros ($600 million)
from 464 million euros a year earlier, the company, based in  The
Hague ,  said  today. Profit missed the 439 million-euro average
estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell by
about 2 percent to 3.3 billion euros.  Sales declines were mitigated by growth in KPN’s mobile-
phone operations abroad, including Germany and  Belgium . The
company stuck to a forecast that full-year earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will exceed 5.3
billion euros in 2011. Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok had
scaled back the Ebitda outlook in April.  “Confirming the outlook beat widespread expectations of
another profit warning,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. In Germany, KPN has been
helped by the “relatively poor marketing skills” of competitor
O2 and by an “overall benign pricing environment,” she said in
a report to clients.  Shares Rise  KPN rose as much as 2.3 percent to 10.07 euros, the highest
price since June 27, and was up 1.9 percent as of 11:51 a.m. in
Amsterdam. That pared the stock’s decline this year to 8.2
percent, valuing the company at 15.3 billion euros.  The company’s German E-Plus wireless unit added 558,000
customers in the second quarter for a total of 21.5 million
users, the division said in a separate statement. The unit’s
market share in service revenue climbed to 15.8 percent last
quarter from 15.7 percent a year earlier.  “ Germany  is a very important market for KPN and we see
opportunities to grow further,” Blok said on a conference call.  In France and  Spain , the company will focus on its Ortel
brand, and a sale of the other businesses, under the Simyo
brand, is being considered, the CEO said.  KPN gets almost 70 percent of its revenue from its home
market of the Netherlands. That compares with Bonn-based
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Europe ’s largest phone company, which
generates about 40 percent of revenue from Germany.  Job Cuts  Blok, who took the helm in April, said at the time that he
plans to eliminate 4,000 to 5,000 jobs in the Netherlands
through 2015. Almost half of the  workforce reduction  will take
place at Getronics, a computer-services provider KPN acquired in
2007, KPN said today.  “With continued deterioration in the domestic market, cost
cuts are very necessary” said  Tom Muller , an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers, who has a “buy” rating
on KPN shares.  Consumers’ use of Internet applications such as Skype and
WhatsApp on mobile phones is increasing, Blok said on the
conference call. The CEO said he’s “convinced” KPN can
mitigate those effects with new pricing packages. The Dutch
company said on July 19 that it will start charging more for
using the Internet on mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  