-- 
Kuwait Bank Lending Subdued on Spending: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-31T10:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/kuwait-bank-lending-subdued-on-government-spending-bad-loans-arab-credit.html
(Corrects to say Global Investment House restructured debt
in 2009 in sixth paragraph in story first published July 27.)  The pace of Kuwaiti bank lending is
slowing this year as delays on government projects and loan
defaults by local investment companies hamper demand for debt in
OPEC’s fifth-biggest oil producer.  Loans to the private sector and banks’ investments in bonds
in  Kuwait  grew 0.3 percent in the first six months of 2011,
after a 1.9 percent increase in 2010, according to data on the
 website  of the nation’s central bank. Lending grew faster in
neighboring Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy, and in the
 United Arab Emirates  and Qatar, as the region recovers from the
impact of the global credit crunch.  Lawmakers in the Persian Gulf nation have sought to
question Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabeh over
delays in the implementation of a 30.8 billion dinar ($113
billion), four-year plan approved in February last year aimed at
modernizing and restructuring Kuwait’s oil-based economy. Some
of the country’s nearly 100 investment companies defaulted amid
the credit crisis after the value of their assets collapsed and
frozen debt markets prevented them from raising new loans.  “The oil sector doesn’t need much external funding and
without any aggressive non-oil expansion the demand just isn’t
there,”  Khalid Howladar , a senior credit officer at Moody’s
Investors Service in Dubai, said in an e-mail yesterday. The
problem with bad loans at Kuwait’s investment companies “are
still being worked through and this overhang is still a source
of uncertainty for the banks there,” Howladar said.  Muted Growth  Kuwait’s government was forced to guarantee local  bank
deposits  in 2008 as the global financial turmoil affected
Kuwaiti banks and investment firms.  Investment bank Global Investment House KSCC restructured
$1.73 billion of debt in 2009, while Investment Dar Co., the
owner of half of Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., has altered the
terms on $5 billion of loans after defaulting in 2009. Finance
company International Investment Group KSCC missed periodic
payments on a $200 million Islamic bond in 2010, while Aayan
Leasing & Investment Co. signed an agreement with nine creditors
to reorganize $741 million of debt in May.  The three-month interbank interest rate in Kuwait has been
at 0.8125 percent for most of the past three months, close to
the lowest on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Only Saudi Arabia’s interbank rate has been lower in the region,
at 0.6 percent. The rate was 1.49625 percent in the U.A.E.,
0.981 percent in Qatar and 1.225 percent in Bahrain.  Government Spending   “Loan growth in Kuwait remains muted with delays in the
implementation of development projects,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analyst Waleed Mohsin, said in a report on Commercial Bank
of Kuwait SAK on July 25. “We expect government spending to
drive credit demand in Kuwait” amid speculation half of the
country’s four-year development plan will be financed by banks,
Mohsin said in a research report May 25.  Kuwait’s government is budgeted to increase spending by 11
percent in the fiscal year through March 2012, partly to cover
projects in the plan. Spending in the budget is forecast at
19.44 billion dinars, the highest in Kuwait’s history. The
country had a preliminary budget surplus of 8.6 billion dinars
in the 2010 to 2011 fiscal year, its 12th consecutive surplus,
as oil revenue was more than double the government’s forecast.  Kuwait produced 2.49 million barrels of crude oil a day on
average in June, 8.5 percent of OPEC’s overall output, according
to Bloomberg estimates. Crude oil for September delivery slid as
much as 54 cents to $99.05 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  today.  Outlook  “Without urgent and rapid capital spending on various
state projects, there will not be good growth,” Salem AbdulAziz Al-Sabah, governor of Kuwait’s central bank, told CNBC Arabia
Television in a July 19 interview. “Without providing good
investment opportunities to the private sector to enable it to
expand its local financial activities, the future outlook will
be limited.”  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  S.A.K., the country’s biggest
lender, reported a 4.5 percent decline in second-quarter profit
amid a “weak operating environment,” the bank said on July 12.
Its non-performing loans to gross loans ratio declined to 1.61
percent at the end of June from 1.81 percent a year earlier, the
bank said. Kuwait Finance House, the country’s largest Islamic
bank, reported a 43 percent drop in second-quarter profit.  Development Plan  Lending will not accelerate “unless the development plan
starts to kick-in and in my view, this won’t happen for several
more months,” Michel Accad, the chief executive officer at  Gulf
Bank KSC (GBK) , said in an e-mail. “Companies and investors have also
been reluctant to borrow and invest in their normal course of
business, due to the economic uncertainties.”  The premium investors demand to hold Middle East Islamic
and non-Shariah compliant bonds over U.S. government treasuries
has widened 9 basis points this month to 253, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Sukuk/Bond Index. The premium to
hold emerging market sovereign bonds widened 11 basis points
over the same period, according to the JPMorgan Emerging Market
Bond Index.  Spending by other governments in the region and a rebound
in  oil prices  is helping Gulf economies recover from the global
economic slump even amid political unrest. Popular uprisings
have toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt , and unrest has
spread to Yemen, Syria, Bahrain and Oman.  Saudi Arabia ’s King
Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud in February and March announced a
$130 billion spending plan to counter the protests.  Economy  Kuwait’s economy, the third-biggest in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council after Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., will
expand 5.3 percent this year after growing an estimated 3.3
percent in 2010, according to forecasts from the Washington-
based  International Monetary Fund .  The average yield on bonds in the GCC has declined 49 basis
points, or 0.49 percentage point, this year to 4.80 percent, the
lowest in more than eight months, according to HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
GCC Conventional Bond Indexes.  Bank lending increased 8.1 percent in Saudi Arabia and
Qatar in the six months through June. It rose 1.7 percent in the
U.A.E. and declined 4.2 percent in Bahrain in the first five
months. In Oman, lending rose 2.7 percent January to April.  Lending in Kuwait will “remain reasonably subdued for the
rest of 2011,” Howladar at Moody’s said.  Kuwait’s investment companies accounted for about 11
percent of lending at the end of 2010, Moody’s analysts led by
Howladar said in a July 6 report.  “Banks are reluctant to lend since the real-estate and
investment sectors were major borrowers and these are just too
risky to lend to now,” Naveed Ahmed, a banking analyst at
Kuwait City-based  Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL) , said in an e-
mail yesterday. “Good opportunities no longer present
themselves and the risk appetite of banks has decreased.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  