-- 
New York State Attorney General Challenges U.S. Defense of Marriage Act

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-26T19:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/n-y-attorney-general-challenges-defense-of-marriage-act-in-court-papers.html
New York  Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman filed court papers challenging as unconstitutional
the U.S. Defense of Marriage Act that bars federal recognition
of  same-sex marriages .  Schneiderman said the federal act violates the right to
equal protection under the law for gay couples. He filed the
friend-of-the-court brief today in federal court in  Manhattan ,
two days after New York began allowing gays to wed.  The 1996 Defense of Marriage Act interferes with New York’s
exercise of its authority to define marriage and to eliminate
discrimination based on sexual orientation, Schneiderman said in
the filing. The law, known as DOMA, is also an “intrusion”
into an area at the heart of state sovereign power, he argued.  “By discriminating among married couples based on sexual
orientation and sex, DOMA deprives New York of the ability to
extend true equality to all marriages valid in the state,”
according to the filing.  Schneiderman submitted the papers in support of a summary
judgment motion in Windsor v.  United States . The case was filed
by Edith Windsor, who married her partner, Thea Spyer, in
Toronto in 2007. After Spyer died two years later, the federal
government didn’t acknowledge their marriage and taxed Windsor’s
inheritance. Her suit challenges DOMA and seeks a refund of the
estate taxes.  Federal Benefits  In addition to federal estate-tax exemptions, federal
benefits for married couples include gift-tax exemptions, social
security benefits, veteran’s benefits and the option to file
joint bankruptcy petitions. Should the law be changed, federal
recognition of gay marriage may also affect eligibility for
Medicaid and incur the so-called federal income tax marriage
penalty.  New York’s gay marriage law took effect July 24. With
19.4 million residents, the state is the sixth and most populous
U.S. state to grant same-sex couples the right to wed, a move
approved by the Legislature in  Albany  on June 24. The victory
for gay-rights advocates more than doubled the number of
Americans living in states allowing same-sex marriage to 35
million.  Debate began at a U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee meeting
on July 20 on the proposed Respect for Marriage Act, which would
end DOMA and let the federal government extend benefits such as
Social Security and health-insurance coverage to same-sex
married couples. The proposal wouldn’t require states to
legalize same-sex marriages.  In February, the Obama administration said it would no
longer oppose court challenges to DOMA.  The case is Windsor v. United States, 10-cv-08435, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  