-- 
Netflix Tumbles After Price Increase Reduces New Customer Growth, Outlook

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-26T20:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/netflix-falls-after-price-increase-reduces-new-customer-growth.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
online film-rental service, tumbled after its third-quarter
sales and profit forecast missed analysts’ estimates and the
company said a price increase was crimping new-user signups.  Netflix fell $14.62, or 5.2 percent, to $266.91 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
retreated 12 percent from the high of $304.79 set two weeks ago.  Because of the price change,  Los Gatos , California-based
Netflix expects to sign 401,000 new domestic subscribers this
quarter, a fraction of the 1.8 million added in the period just
ended. The company said in a statement yesterday it finished the
second quarter with 24.6 million domestic customers.  “Netflix has seen an acceleration in churn for the last
two quarters and that trend is only going to get worse with the
price increase and the rise in competition,” said  Tony Wible , a
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC analyst who has a “sell” rating on
the stock. He noted a jump in accounts payable to $533 million.  Profit this quarter will be 72 cents to $1.07 a share,
Netflix said in the statement. Sales will be as much as $828.5
million. Analysts were projecting profit of $1.11 a share on
sales of $842.9 million.  ‘Miscalculated’  The company split its mail-order and streaming services
into two plans, effectively raising prices by 60 percent to
$15.98 a month for people who want DVDs and online access.  “Netflix miscalculated on this one, and are basically
saying all our growth is going to be absorbed by people who
quit,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities
in  Los Angeles  who has an “underperform” rating on the stock.
“It’s not clear how successful they’re going to be at
attracting and retaining people with these new pricing plans.”  Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said on a conference
call he “feels bad” some customers are upset. Users of the
online service will enjoy “the amazing new content we will be
able to license” with money from the increase, he said.  The majority of Netflix’s U.S. customers now purchase the
streaming and mail-order plan that Hastings has been trying for
the past few months to wean them away from, he said.  “We’re convinced we can thrive on streaming only,”
Hastings said.  Profit Rises  Second-quarter net income rose 55 percent to $68 million,
or $1.26 a share, from $43.5 million, or 80 cents, a year
earlier, Netflix said. Analysts predicted $1.12 a share, the
average of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales gained 52 percent to $789 million in the period,
compared with analysts’ projections of $790.5 million.  The company signed up 1.96 million new users globally,
boosting the total to 25.6 million worldwide, according to the
statement.  Netflix is expanding its online business to  Latin America 
and the Caribbean this year. Mexico City-based TV Azteca SAB
yesterday announced a three-year agreement to supply 1,000 to
1,500 hours of Spanish-language programming annually starting in
September.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. is in talks to offer Netflix
exclusive streaming rights, replacing a pay-TV accord with  HBO ,
a person with knowledge of the situation said on July 23.
Hastings declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  