-- 
Netflix to Distribute Televisa Programs in Latin America

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T21:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/netflix-agrees-to-distribute-televisa-programs-in-latin-american-service.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
online film-rental service, agreed to carry programs by Grupo
Televisa SA, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
as it expands into  Latin America .  The multiyear deal calls for providing 3,000 hours of
programming a year, including the soap operas known as
telenovelas, Televisa said today in a statement to the Mexican
stock exchange. Netflix plans to start the service by the end of
the year, the Mexico City-based company said.  The Televisa agreement and a three-year accord with TV
Azteca SAB give Netflix programs from Mexico’s two dominant
broadcasters, which represent almost all of the nation’s over-
the-air TV audience. Netflix is entering Latin America to add
sources of revenue and funds to acquire more film rights.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , fell $14.62, or
5.2 percent, to $266.91 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading after its third-quarter profit forecast trailed
analysts’ estimates. Televisa dropped 21 centavos to 51.85 pesos
in Mexico City.  TV Azteca is providing 1,000 to 1,500 hours of telenovelas
and dramatic series to Netflix starting in September, an
executive for that Mexico City-based broadcaster said yesterday.
The executive can’t be named under company policy.  Neither broadcaster disclosed financial terms of their
agreements. Televisa said its programs being provided to Netflix
will be available a year after they’ve been aired on the
broadcast network. The agreement covers Latin America, including
 Brazil , and the Caribbean, Televisa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  