-- 
NFL Free-Agent Frenzy to Start With Asomugha, Jets’ Holmes Atop Wish List

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/nfl-free-agent-frenzy-to-start-with-asomugha-jets-holmes-atop-wish-lists.html
The end of the 4 1/2-month
National Football League lockout leaves almost 29 percent
of returning players rushing to find roster spots among the
32 teams.  Of the NFL’s about 1,900 players from last season,
there are 545 on the free-agent list the NFL released
yesterday after a 10-year contract was approved by leaders
of the  NFL Players Association . Among the unrestricted free
agents are Oakland Raiders cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha , New
York Jets wide receiver Santonio Holmes and New York Giants
running back  Ahmad Bradshaw .  A provision of the previous labor agreement kept both
fourth- and fifth-year players restricted last season as
the two sides negotiated a new deal, leaving less time and
more players to find jobs with the first preseason games
just more than two weeks away.  “Now you have a lot of players in free agency, which
is going to be to the detriment of players because there’s
so many,” said Andrew Brandt, an NFL analyst for ESPN who
was a vice president with the  Green Bay Packers  from 1999
to 2008. “It may be more like musical chairs with everyone
trying to jump in and get their share before the music
stops.”  Beginning today, locker rooms will be open for
voluntary training and clubs will be able to make trades.
At 10 a.m.  New York  time, teams can begin signing drafted
and undrafted rookies, and negotiate with free agents.  At 4:01 p.m. on July 28, teams may waive their own
players and on July 29 at 6 p.m. they can sign free agents
and renegotiate contracts within their current rosters.  Training Camps  Teams can open training camp 15 days before their
first preseason game. Following the cancellation of the
Hall of Fame Game on Aug. 7 between the Chicago Bears and
St. Louis Rams, the first preseason contest will be the
 Seattle Seahawks  at the  San Diego Chargers  on Aug. 11.  “Any time there’s a deadline in negotiations, it’s a
good thing,” Bill Polian, president of the  Indianapolis
Colts , said in an interview. “It means people negotiate
faster and posture less. It’s more hectic, but probably
more real.”  If not in a contract year, free agency would have
begun March 12, leaving four months for player agents to
negotiate before the preseason begins. This year, that date
marked the beginning of the work stoppage.  Mark Bartelstein, whose agency represents about 90 NFL
players, said the increased availability of players will
create more competition for roster spots.  ‘Very Hectic’  “It’s a lot of work, which is why I can’t spend too
much time on the phone with you right now,” Bartelstein
said, laughing. “It’s going to be very hectic, with a lot
to get done in a short period of time. There’s a lot of
moving pieces and you’ve got to get your guys in the right
places.”  Asomugha, the 30-year-old cornerback who’s spent his
eight-year NFL career with the Raiders, is considered to be
among the top prizes in the free-agent market. Though
Asomugha has only three interceptions since getting eight
in 2006, he’s had just 52 passes completed against him over
the past three seasons, according to ESPN.  Other coveted free agents, according to Brandt,
include the Jets’ Holmes, 27, who had 52 catches for 746
yards and six touchdowns in 12 games last season, and
Packers defensive end Cullen Jenkins, who had seven sacks.  “It will be like every year, where the top guys go
off the board with what people call stupid money,” Brandt
said in a telephone interview.  Quarterbacks on Market  Unrestricted free-agent quarterbacks include  Seattle ’s
Matt Hasselbeck, whom Brandt formerly represented as an
agent, as well as Chris Simms of the Tennessee Titans,
Patrick Ramsey of the  Minnesota Vikings , Alex Smith of the
 San Francisco 49ers  and Rex Grossman of the  Washington
Redskins .  “There’s going to be an active market in proposed
and/or consummated trades, with  Kevin Kolb  the most notable
but other guys in play as well, like  Donovan McNabb , Kyle Orton and  Vince Young ,” Brandt said.  Kolb started five games and played seven last season
for the  Philadelphia Eagles , throwing seven touchdown
passes and seven interceptions.  Running backs available include Bradshaw, Julius Jones, DeAngelo Williams, Joseph Addai, Cedric Benson,
Ronnie Brown, Ricky Williams, Laurence Maroney, Darren Sproles, Carnell Williams, Brian Westbrook and Fred Taylor.  Holmes is among unrestricted receivers, a list that
also includes Braylon Edwards, his teammate last season
with the Jets; Sidney Rice; T.J. Houshmandzadeh; Randy Moss, and Terrell Owens.  Draft Picks  All 254 players  drafted  in April are unsigned by their
new clubs, including No. 1 pick Cam Newton, the Auburn
University quarterback who went to the  Carolina Panthers ,
and Cheta Izougwu, a defensive lineman out of  Rice
University  who was taken with the final draft pick by the
 Houston Texans .  Many undrafted free agents also will be looking for
work on NFL clubs or practice squads.  “We’ve worked our plans, but it’s like the old adage,
after the first shot is fired the battle plan goes out the
window,” Polian said. “We have our needs, we know exactly
what we’re going to do, how we’re going to do it, and then
you have to adjust on the fly when things get going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  