-- 
Nickel Stockpiles Should Rebound as Market Shifts to Surplus

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-26T12:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/nickel-stockpiles-should-rebound-as-market-shifts-to-surplus.html
Declining nickel stockpiles
monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange will rebound as the
market for the metal shifts to surplus this year, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd., an Australian investment bank.  Nickel is the only base metal traded on the LME to record a
decline in its inventories this year. Refined nickel usage
exceeded output by 24,000 metric tons in the first half,
according to estimates by  Barclays Capital .  “The market is going to move into surplus and that’s when
you’re going to see LME stocks stop declining,”  Jim Lennon ,
head of commodities research at Macquarie in London, said by
phone yesterday.  Nickel stockpiles tracked by the LME advanced for a second
day, rising 780 tons to 102,486 tons, exchange data showed
today. Consumption was 124,000 tons in May, lagging behind
refined metal output of 125,700 tons, the first monthly surplus
since December, the International Nickel Study Group said in a
report July 19.  Nickel for delivery in three months rose $402, or 1.7
percent, to $24,202 a ton by 1:06 p.m. on the LME. The prices
should fall below $20,000 a ton in the longer term as production
increases and in the absence of “sustained consumption
increases,” Steve Hardcastle, head of client services for
industrial commodities at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said
in a quarterly report sent July 20.  Less metal is consumed as the stainless steel market, which
accounts for more than 60 percent of nickel demand, slows
throughout the July-September period, according to Lennon.  Demand for nickel may drop in  China  as the country
accelerates production of nickel pig iron, a cheaper alternative
to refined metal, Lennon said. Shipments of refined nickel and
alloys into China fell 26 percent to 13,892 tons in June from
May, according to Bloomberg data.  Nickel Inventories  Nickel production should increase in the second half of the
year as producers such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vale SA (VALE3)  ramp up
production following disruptions earlier this year, Lennon said.  Inventories monitored by the LME fell to 101,418 tons on
July 22, the lowest level in more than two years. They are down
24 percent this year.  “You just had a lot of existing producers fall well short
of their production plans and they’ve had to go into the market
to take the material off the LME to meet their customer delivery
requirements,” Lennon said. “That should start to turn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  