-- 
Nigerian Central Bank Increases Benchmark Rate to 8.75% to Curb Inflation

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-26T16:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/nigerian-central-bank-increases-benchmark-rate-to-8-75-to-curb-inflation.html
Nigeria ’s central bank increased its
benchmark interest rate for the fourth time this year as rising
wages and higher energy costs threaten to boost inflation.  The monetary policy rate increased by three quarters of a
percentage point to 8.75 percent, Governor Lamido Sanusi told
reporters in the capital, Abuja, today. The key borrowing and
lending rates climbed by the same amount to 6.75 percent and
10.75 percent respectively.  The government will more than double the minimum wage to
18,000 naira ($118.15) next month, adding to price pressures in
 Africa ’s biggest oil producer. While inflation slowed in June to
10.2 percent from 12.4 percent in the previous month, the  core
inflation  rate, which excludes food, is expected to accelerate
in the second half, Sanusi said.  “With core inflation set to rise and the growth outlook
still robust, the  Central Bank of Nigeria  has laid down clearly
its price stability credentials,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in
an e-mail.  The naira was at 152.35 against the dollar as of 3:33 p.m.
in Lagos, compared with 152.25 before Sanusi’s speech. The naira
has strengthened 2.7 percent against the dollar since June 1. To
ease pressure on prices, the central bank is selling more
dollars to keep the naira within a range of 3 percent above or
below 150 per dollar at twice-weekly auctions.  Inflation Outlook ‘Uncertain’  “The inflation outlook appears uncertain owing to the
expected implementation of the new national minimum wage policy
and the imminent deregulation of petroleum products,” Sanusi
said. The central bank needed to “proactively address the
impact of huge injections of liquidity in the third quarter, to
correct the negative  interest rate  situation in the market and
attract foreign capital inflows to build up reserves.”  Driven by higher oil prices and output, external reserves
rose to $33.73 billion by July 21, an increase of $1.84 billion,
or 5.77 percent, over the level reached on June 30, Sanusi said.  There is “the need for pursuing policies to foster macro-
economic stability, economic diversification as well as
encouraging foreign capital inflows” given that the current oil
price level may not be sustained in the event of a slowdown in
global economic recovery, Sanusi said.  Higher interest rates were also required to draw savers
back into the banking system from the parallel market, Khan
said.  Nigeria’s economy, the third biggest on the continent after
 South Africa  and  Egypt , grew 6.6 percent in the first quarter of
2011, from 7.4 percent during the same period last year, Sanusi
said. The economy will grow about 7.8 percent this year, driven
by the non-oil sector, which expanded 8.65 percent in the first
quarter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  