-- 
Obama Warns U.S. Debt Threatens ‘Serious’ Damage

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T02:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/obama-urges-compromise-as-debt-may-cause-serious-damage-to-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  warned that
the nation’s burgeoning deficit threatens to do “serious”
damage to the economy and pressured Congress to reach a
compromise on a deal to raise the debt ceiling and address
future shortfalls.  With a week left before the Treasury Department says the
U.S. won’t be able to pay all its obligations unless the $14.3
trillion debt limit is increased, Obama urged lawmakers to put
aside politics and implored Americans “to make your voice
heard.”  ‘It’s a dangerous game we’ve never played before, and we
can’t afford to play it now,” Obama said in a prime-time
address from the White House. “We can’t allow the American
people to become collateral damage to  Washington ’s political
warfare.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said Republicans have no
intention of handing Obama a “blank check.”  “The president has often said we need a ‘balanced’
approach -- which in Washington means: We spend more, and you
pay more,” Boehner said in his televised response. “The sad
truth is that the president wanted a blank check six months ago,
and he wants a blank check today. This is just not going to
happen.”  As the stalemate in Washington continued, U.S. stocks and
Treasuries declined. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.6
percent to 1,337.43 in New York after losing as much as 1
percent. The 30-year Treasury yield rose six basis points to
4.32 percent. In  Tokyo , S&P futures lost 0.3 percent.  The cost of insuring  U.S. debt  rose, sending credit-default
swaps on Treasuries up three basis points to 56.15, approaching
the highest in 17 months, according to CMA Analytics.  Competing Proposals  Boehner and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  unveiled
their own proposals earlier today.  The short-term extension of the debt limit proposed by
Boehner might not be enough to avoid a downgrade of U.S. credit,
Obama said. That likely would trigger a jump in interest rates
on credit cards, mortgages and consumer loans, “which amount to
a huge tax hike on the American people,” he said.  “We would risk sparking a deep economic crisis - one
caused almost entirely by Washington,” Obama said.  Tied to the debt ceiling increase is a plan to shrink the
nation’s long-term deficit.  “Democrats and Republicans agree on the amount of deficit
reduction we need,” Obama said. “The debate is about how it
should be done.”  Two-Step Plan  Boehner’s two-step plan would raise the U.S. borrowing
limit by up to $1 trillion and later by $1.6 trillion while
requiring $1.2 trillion in spending cuts in the first phase and
up to $1.8 trillion in the second step.  The measure would tie the second installment of borrowing
authority to enactment of a deficit-cutting package that slashed
up to $1.8 trillion from the debt.  Obama and Senate Democrats say they will oppose a short-
term increase in the limit because it would force another debt
standoff next year.  By contrast, Reid’s proposal would cut $2.7 trillion in
spending and give Obama the full $2.4 trillion in additional
borrowing authority he seeks, enough to get through the 2012
elections.  Reid’s 10-year plan, which Boehner called “full of
gimmicks,” includes $1.2 trillion in cuts to defense and non-
defense discretionary spending -- programs whose budgets are set
in Congress’s appropriations process.  War Savings  The plan would include $1 trillion in savings from winding
down the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . It would include $100
billion in mandatory program savings, including $30 billion in
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac changes, $40 billion in savings from
eliminating waste and fraud, $15 billion from spectrum auction
sales and telephone universal service changes and $10 billion to
$15 billion in cuts in agriculture subsidies.  Neither plan would raise taxes.  Obama endorsed Reid’s plan and said tonight that Boehner’s
measure is simply “kicking the can further down the road.”  Obama invoked Republican President  Ronald Reagan , quoting
him as saying in an earlier budget fight: “Would you rather
reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue from those
who are not now paying their fair share, or would you rather
accept larger budget deficits, higher  interest rates  and higher
unemployment?”  House Roadblocks  Obama blamed a group of  House Republicans  for forcing the
standoff by insisting on trimming the deficit through spending
cuts alone. Obama said he wanted a “balanced” approach that
would “ask the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to
give up some of their tax breaks and special deductions.”  While criticizing the Boehner plan, he didn’t threaten to
veto it.  Boehner said he made a “sincere effort” to work with
Obama on a plan to raise the debt limit, and he said the
president created the “crisis atmosphere” surrounding the
issue.  “There is no stalemate in Congress,” Boehner said. “The
House has passed a bill to raise the debt limit with bipartisan
support.  And this week, while the Senate is struggling to pass
a bill filled with phony accounting and Washington gimmicks, we
will pass another bill - one that was developed with the support
of the bipartisan leadership of the  U.S. Senate .”  -- With assistance from Kate Andersen Brower, James Rowley and
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington, Candice Zachariahs in
Sydney and Nikolaj Gammeltoft and Jeff Kearns in  New York .
Editors: Joe Sobczyk, Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 