-- 
Obama Threatens to Veto Boehner’s Debt Plan

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-07-27T00:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/obama-urges-u-s-debt-ceiling-deal-with-warning-of-deep-economic-crisis.html
A House vote on Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-step plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling was
postponed amid growing Republican opposition to the measure that
the Obama administration has  threatened  to veto.  The plan, which would cut $3 trillion in  government
spending , was faced with new questions about its impact. House
Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier, a California Republican,
said he adjourned his panel tonight “to ensure the product we
have is in full compliance” with the pledge Boehner has made to
cut spending more than the increase in borrowing authority.  The latest development cast new doubt on whether lawmakers
and Obama could agree on a plan raising the nation’s debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline when the U.S. could default on some of
its obligations. The House vote had been scheduled for tomorrow
and was called off late today.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said the plan would be voted on July 28.  President  Barack Obama ’s Office of Management and Budget
said it “strongly opposes” the measure and would recommend a
veto if it were passed by Congress.  The Congressional Budget Office earlier today estimated
that it would save less than advertised. Boehner’s plan is
intended to make $1.2 trillion in spending cuts in a first phase
and up to $1.8 trillion in a second step, with those cuts to be
proposed by a special congressional committee. CBO said today
the first phase would save about $850 billion and couldn’t score
the second.  Republican Opposition  Boehner, facing opposition within his own party, is trying
to round up votes to pass the measure in the Republican-run
House with one week left to avert a potential default. The plan
could lead to another debt-limit standoff next year.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, is seeking
support for an alternative $2.7 trillion plan providing the
debt-limit increase that Obama seeks to get through the 2012
elections. The Obama administration voiced confidence that
lawmakers will reach an agreement in the remaining days.  Treasuries remained higher as speculation that lawmakers
will agree to raise the debt limit in time to avoid a default
boosted investor demand at today’s auction of $35 billion in
two-year notes.  White House Chief of Staff  William Daley , a former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. executive, said on Bloomberg Television that a rise
in U.S. Treasuries is a “good sign” that markets aren’t
overreacting to the political impasse over raising the federal
debt ceiling.  Reid Proposal  Daley also said Boehner’s plan won’t pass Congress and he
expects Reid will win enough support to get Senate passage of
his proposal. Obama won’t seek to use his executive authority to
unilaterally the raise debt ceiling, Daley said.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said today his plan can pass
both chambers of Congress.  “We are going to have some work to do to get it passed,
but I think we can,” Boehner told reporters after a meeting of
House Republicans. The House plans to vote in two days on a
constitutional amendment to require a balanced federal budget.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
told House Republicans at the closed-door meeting that if they
fail to hang together to push through Boehner’s measure, they
would be left with something much weaker, with no guarantee of
spending cuts or deficit controls, said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican.  Kingston said Cantor told members that a defeat of
Boehner’s plan would likely lead to passage of a proposal by
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and Reid of
 Nevada  to hand Obama $2.4 trillion in borrowing authority
without requiring that any cuts be made.  ‘Dead on Arrival’  Reid said Boehner’s plan “is dead on arrival in the
Senate” because the two-step process wouldn’t give financial
markets needed assurances. He said credit-rating services have
said his proposal for a longer-term increase of the debt limit
wouldn’t lead them to lower the government’s credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s  issued a statement saying it hasn’t
commented on any of the proposals and “any statement to the
contrary is inaccurate.”  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, said House
passage of Boehner’s plan would “send a dramatic, stupid
message of incompetence to the world and drag the  United States 
of America down with it.”  The CBO’s estimate of Boehner’s plan savings of $850
billion over the next 10 years includes $695 billion in
discretionary cuts -- programs whose budgets are set in
Congress’s appropriations process -- and $20 billion in
mandatory savings.  Interest Payments  The remainder would come from the reduced cost of making
interest payments on the debt. The agency didn’t give
Republicans credit for savings that may come a special panel
they propose creating that would be charged with finding another
$1.8 trillion in cuts. That’s because CBO can’t predict whether
the panel would ultimately be able to agree on any cuts.  Boehner spokesman  Michael Steel  said in a statement that
congressional staff are “looking at options to rewrite the
legislation to meet our pledge.”  Jack Lew, director of the White House Office of Management
and Budget, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television that he
doesn’t think Boehner’s plan can pass Congress. That will force
leaders to negotiate a compromise in the next few days, Lew
said. “This is a crisis that can be avoided, and it’s a crisis
that  Washington  would create,” Lew said.  Pew Poll  A poll by the Pew Research Center for the People & the
Press showed the American people also want a compromise and most
think a deal will be reached before the deadline.  Almost 7 in 10 respondents say that lawmakers who share
their views on the issue should compromise, even if it means an
outcome they disagree with, according to Pew Research Center
President Andy Kohut. The poll was conducted July 20-24.  Obama has pressed for a “balanced” solution to the debt-
ceiling debate, including both new revenue and cuts in spending.
 House Republicans  say they won’t accept taxes. The co-chairmen
of the bipartisan deficit commission that Obama appointed last
year recommended a mix of revenue and spending cuts as the only
meaningful way to address the long-term problem of budget
deficits.  The percentage of taxes as a percentage of the nation’s
gross domestic product, at 15 percent, is at its lowest point
since 1950.  Bipartisan Group  A $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan by a bipartisan group
of Senators known as the “Gang of Six,” also called for
spending cuts combined with a tax overhaul that would raise $1
trillion.  Reduced government spending could subtract 1.5 percentage
points to 2 percentage points from growth in 2012, a drag that
will make it difficult to reduce 9.2 percent unemployment, say
economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank AG.  One fiscally conservative group, Grover Norquist’s
Americans for  Tax Reform , supports the Boehner proposal while
another, the Club for Growth, urged lawmakers to reject it. The
Club for Growth issued a statement “strongly” opposing the
Boehner plan because it “doesn’t fix our fiscal mess.”  The group favors a proposal passed by the House last week
that would condition a debt increase on passage of a
constitutional amendment to balance the budget. The plan was
rejected in the Senate.  Chamber Endorsement  Meanwhile, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
biggest business lobbying group, endorsed Boehner’s approach.
“A default on the obligations of the United States would most
assuredly cause severe, immediate and pervasive economic harm”
to the nation, the chamber said in an e-mailed statement.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
administration still believes Congress will act to raise the
debt limit before the Aug. 2 deadline.  “We are pushing this to the last minute, and that should
not be the case,” Carney told reporters.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner “has exercised all the
wiggle room available to him, and that runs out on Aug. 2,”
Carney said. “That’s not a guess. It’s not a political opinion.
It is the judgment of career analysts at the Treasury
Department.”  Boehner and Reid’s latest plans narrowed some of the
differences in the approaches by the two parties.  Reid dropped Democrats’ insistence on tax increases. His
and Boehner’s proposals take as their starting points $1.2
trillion in discretionary spending cuts over 10 years and both
establish bipartisan committees to recommend future savings,
with a guaranteed vote in Congress.  Televised Address  In a televised address from the White House, Obama last
night urged Americans to contact their lawmakers to support his
plan for a “balanced” approach.  House members and operators were “deluged” with calls and
e-mails today, said Kyle Anderson, a Democratic spokesman for
the House Administration Committee. Dan Weiser, communications
director for the House chief administrative officer, said in an
interview that calls to House offices peaked at 40,000 an hour,
above normal hourly volume of 20,000.  Failure to increase the debt limit quickly would act as a
new tax on the economy, Alice Rivlin, a White House budget
director under President  Bill Clinton , said today.  “It would throw the economy into a deep recession,” she
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Investors “really
believe we’re going to solve this problem.”  Republican Demand  The two sides are divided over a Republican demand for a
second debt-limit vote tied to another $1.8 trillion in budget
cuts that likely would come early next year, just as 2012
election campaigns are gearing up. Democrats would extend the
debt ceiling until 2013 while making $2.7 trillion in spending
cuts, which includes $1 trillion from winding down the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars, a savings Republicans criticized as a gimmick.  Obama endorsed Reid’s proposal as “a much better path,”
though it doesn’t include the tax revenue increase that the
president said is needed to address the deficit. He criticized
Boehner’s plan as “kicking the can further down the road.”  He
said the two sides need to arrive at “a fair compromise.”  Thirty-year bond yields dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.28 percent at 4:33 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yields rose
earlier to 4.34 percent, approaching the highest level since
July 8. The 4.375 percent securities due in May 2041 gained
21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 19/32.  Two-Year Note  The current two-year note yield declined two basis points
to 0.39 percent. Ten-year yields fell five basis points to 2.95
percent after earlier rising to 3.04 percent.  U.S. stocks declined. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.4 percent to
1,331.94 at 4:33 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  lost 91.50 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,501.30. The S&P
500 fell 0.6 percent yesterday.  Reid and Boehner confront challenges in their own chambers.
Reid needs at least some Republican support to get the 60 votes
necessary to overcome a filibuster. Boehner’s Republican
majority in the House is undercut by members of the party who
oppose any debt increase or want deeper spending cuts.  “There is a significant number that have real problems
with this bill,” said Ohio Representative Jim Jordan, chairman
of the fiscally conservative Republican Study Committee. He said
as of today there isn’t enough Republican support for passage
without some Democratic votes.  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, said he
was leaning against the Boehner proposal. He said he was
concerned that it sets spending levels for this year higher than
those in the House-passed budget. “It’s pretty slim on the
cuts,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  