-- 
Greek Debt Holders, Finra Warning, Erste: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-26T12:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/lobbying-greek-debt-holders-finra-warning-erste-group-bank-compliance.html
The  Institute of International
Finance , which lobbies on behalf of banks, is pressing members
that hold Greek government debt to support a rescue package amid
concern it may not reach its 90 percent participation target.  European lenders including Deutsche Bank AG and  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA pledged to back the plan brokered by the Washington-based
lobby group. Together, banks that own a total of 61 billion
euros ($88 billion) of Greek debt have signed up, according to
figures from the European stress tests this month. Banks holding
a further 37 billion euros have yet to state their intentions.  Banks pledged on July 22 to participate in a bond exchange
and debt buyback program as European leaders sought to halt the
spread of the sovereign debt crisis. The IIF said in a statement
it had secured support from 18 European banks for the proposal,
by which bondholders will swap holdings for new securities with
lower  interest rates  and longer maturities. The IIF said it
wanted owners of 90 percent of Greek debt to back the plan.  Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Cyprus’s Marfin Popular Bank
Pcl, Portugal’s  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and France’s Groupe
BPCE are yet to decide whether to sign up to the project,
according to four people with knowledge of the situation who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
four own about 5.7 billion euros of Greek debt, according to the
EBA data. Officials at the banks declined to comment.  Agricultural Bank of Greece, the third largest holder of
Greek bonds with 7.9 billion euros, is also yet to pledge its
support, as is Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which holds 1.2
billion euros. A spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS declined to
comment, while  Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  didn’t return calls.  Greece’s financing package will consist of 109 billion
euros from the euro region nations and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Compliance Policy  Finra Issues Investor Warning on Structured Notes, Junk Bonds  Investors should be aware of the risks in buying structured
notes, high-yield bonds, and loan funds as the  Federal Reserve 
keeps interest rates at record low levels, according to the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Investors may be tempted to “chase” returns by investing
in “riskier and sometimes complex” notes as yields on many
fixed-income investments are at historically low levels, the
industry-backed regulator said yesterday in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  Compliance Action  Erste May Lose Right to Use Savings Banks’ Capital in EU Plan  Erste Group Bank AG may have to abandon using affiliated
savings banks to bolster its reserves under the European Union’s
proposed implementation of global capital rules.  The EU’s proposals don’t give Erste the leeway it would
need for the capital to be recognized, spokesman Michael Mauritz
said on the telephone from Vienna. Austria’s biggest lender will
seek to lobby lawmakers at the  European Parliament  for an
exemption for Erste, he said.  Erste in 2002 reached a deal with 51 regional savings banks
to guarantee each other’s deposits. While Erste has little or no
stake in the savings banks, the system gives the Vienna-based
lender powers over them. Erste is counting the assets and the
capital of the banks toward its reserves.  The EU plans are based on a global accord among members of
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel deal would
lead to Erste’s capital ratio dropping about 1.3 percentage
points, the lender said last year.  The bank will seek to avoid the capital reduction by making
tweaks to the guarantee system if it can’t convince the EU to
change its proposals, Mauritz said.  Erste is scheduled to report second-quarter results on July
29.  RBC, TD Have Traits of ‘Important’ Banks, Moody’s Says  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the two
largest Canadian lenders, have traits that may make them
“systemically important” because of their large capital
markets businesses, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s included Royal Bank, the largest Canadian lender,
and Toronto-Dominion, the No. 2 bank, on a list of 28 “global
systemically important banks” based on three criteria,
according to a report yesterday. Royal Bank ranks 22nd and
Toronto-Dominion ranks 27th on the list, which includes banks
with “significant” capital markets investments.  “We are not suggesting these are the banks that are
included in the Basel Committee list,” said Carlos Suarez
Duarte, assistant vice president and analyst for Moody’s, said
in a telephone interview.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision disclosed July
19 how authorities will apply levies for the world’s most
systemically important banks, guiding investors in calculating
extra funds that the lenders must raise.  Canada’s banks, ranked the soundest in the world by the
World Economic Forum, aren’t on a list of 28 lenders that could
face capital surcharges if too-big-to-fail rules were applied
today, Canada’s Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions said July 19.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and BNP Paribas
SA top the Moody’s list.  U.K. Banks Have $1.35 Billion of Greek, Irish Bond Holdings  The 77 U.K. banks and building societies too small to have
been included in the European Union stress tests have about 939
million pounds ($1.35 billion) of Greek, Irish, Italian,
Portuguese and Spanish sovereign and financial institution debt.  The lenders also have about 62 million pounds of government
bonds from those countries, the U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority  said in a statement posted on its website yesterday.
In addition, the 77 have about 3.5 billion pounds of investments
in the  European Economic Area , which includes the 27 EU
countries plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, the FSA said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  held about 22.8 billion
euros of government securities in troubled euro-member states,
the lenders disclosed as part of the European Banking
Authority’s stress tests earlier this month.  BRFkredit Eyes S&P After Moody’s Raises Capital Demand  Danish mortgage lender BRFkredit A/S hopes a Standard &
Poor’s rating may lead to lowered funding costs because it
disagrees with Moody’s Investors Service’s demand that it commit
more money to insure its capital centers.  Lenders including Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Europe’s biggest
issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages, are dealing with an
onslaught of hurdles from raters and regulators. Moody’s on June
10 cut the timely payment indicator and raised refinancing
margins on some bonds, arguing a surge in adjustable-rate debt
has added risk.  Denmark’s second-biggest issuer, Danske Bank A/S unit
Realkredit Danmark, said last month it will no longer use
Moody’s to grade its covered bonds after the rating company
warned a downgrade would follow unless the lender found an extra
$6.3 billion in capital to offset the perceived rise in risk.
Realkredit Danmark, which is already graded by S&P, said it may
also contact Fitch Ratings.  UBS Gets Antitrust Immunity From DOJ in Probe of Libor, Tibor  UBS AG (UBSN)  said it was granted conditional immunity by some
agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice, that are
investigating whether the London Interbank Offered Rate, or
Libor, was manipulated.  The Swiss bank said it was recently told it has immunity
from the Justice Department’s antitrust division regarding
submissions for Yen Libor and Euroyen Tokyo Interbank Offered
Rate, or Tibor, because it is cooperating with the probe, UBS
said in a regulatory filing today.  The leniency agreement doesn’t bar other government
agencies from prosecuting or suing them, UBS said. The Zurich-
based bank is also eligible for a limit on its liability to
actual, rather than triple, damages if the U.S. files a civil
antitrust lawsuit.  Libor is the rate of interest at which banks borrow funds
from other banks in the London market. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Justice Department and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority are investigating how the British Bankers’
Association sets Libor rates and whether there were “improper
attempts” to manipulate them, UBS said. The bank has also
received demands for information from Japan’s Financial
Supervisory Agency.  European Union antitrust regulators are also examining
Libor rates, according to two people familiar with the probe.
Several class-action, or group, lawsuits have been filed in the
U.S. alleging banks manipulated the rate and prices of U.S.
dollar Libor-based derivatives, UBS said.  Conflict-of-Interest Rules May Be Eased in 2012, Hamburg Says  Conflict-of-interest rules restricting scientists with
financial ties to drug and device-makers from advising U.S.
regulators may loosen next year, Food and Drug Administration
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said.  A 2008 policy limiting researchers who were paid by
manufacturers from serving on advisory panels may be curtailing
feedback the FDA receives, Hamburg told the advocacy group
 Public Citizen  in Washington yesterday. Changes may come through
a renewal of the law letting the agency receive fees from
companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for product reviews.  “We have to be sure that FDA has subject-matter experts
that we need for our important decision-making,” Hamburg said,
adding that the agency also must “prevent inappropriate
influence or distortion of information” that may compromise
reviews. Patient-advocacy groups and academic researchers have
expressed “valid concerns” about the conflict-of-interest
policy, prompting an agency rules review, she said.  Republicans in Congress and manufacturers have criticized
the pace of FDA reviews as too slow, blaming unanticipated
requests for safety information from FDA staff and advisers.  Congressional action on product-review fees has created a
“renewed sense of interest” and will provide critics of the
policy with an opportunity to petition for fewer restrictions on
participation on FDA advisory committees, Hamburg said.  Hamburg’s remarks were criticized by Robert Weissman,
president of Public Citizen, who said “we need stronger
protection rather than less.”  Courts  U.S. Securities Suits Fall Even as Chinese Company Cases Grow  Securities-fraud class-action lawsuits dropped the first
six months of this year from the latter half of 2010, even with
a boost from a wave of new cases targeting Chinese reverse
mergers, according to a study.  The number of firms sued in securities-fraud suits fell to
94 from 104 in the previous six months, according to the study,
released today by  Stanford Law School’s Securities Class Action
Clearinghouse  and  Cornerstone Research .  The tally was bolstered by suits involving mergers and
acquisitions and claims against Chinese companies that acquired
U.S. shell companies for the purpose of trading on U.S. stock
exchanges. Together, those complaints accounted for almost half
the filings, the study said.  Fraud claim based on false financial statements and
accounting make up the majority of securities-fraud suits filed
since the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
according to data collected by the Stanford clearinghouse.  Securities-fraud claims against big companies, as a share
of the total, also declined, according to the study. The
percentage of complaints filed against companies in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell to 8.5 percent of the total, down from
15.4 percent the previous six months, it said.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Default by U.S. Can Be Avoided Until September, Silvia Says  The U.S. government can avoid a default for at least a
month after the Aug. 2 deadline to lift the debt ceiling set by
the Treasury Department, said  John Silvia , chief economist at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC.  “The Federal Reserve and the Treasury can work together to
generate enough cash probably for the next two or three months
to avoid any kind of automatic default on the Treasury debt,”
Silvia, who is based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty
Liu. “There’s a way of getting around this issue for at least
another month or two.”  Political party leaders are preparing dueling plans for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan
stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt by
Aug. 2. That is the date when the Treasury Department says its
borrowing authority will end.  For more, click here.  Irish Get More Scope for Home Loan Restructure, Regulator Says  Matthew Elderfield, the Irish central bank’s head of
 financial regulation , said the extra capital the country’s
lenders are raising gives them “more capacity” to restructure
home loans.  “There are a couple of caveats,” he said in a speech in
Donegal, in northwest Ireland. “At some point, when banking
conditions have settled down sufficiently, the taxpayer will
wish to recover some of that capital. Also, any approach to
restructuring needs to take account of the risk that it creates
incentives for borrowers to cease meeting their obligations.”  Moody’s Says EU Accord Likely ‘Neutral’ for Ireland, Portugal  The European Union’s agreement last week to solve the euro
zone’s debt crisis and provide Greece with a second bailout will
probably be “credit-neutral” for Ireland and Portugal, Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday.  “The support package sets a precedent for future
restructurings should the finances of another euro area
sovereign become as problematic as those of Greece,” Moody’s
said in a statement. “The impact of Thursday’s announcement for
creditors of Ireland and Portugal is therefore likely to be
credit-neutral,” the ratings company said, referring to a July
21 statement made by EU leaders.  For “creditors of other non-Aaa sovereigns with high debt
burdens or large budget deficits” the agreement’s “negatives
will outweigh the positives and weigh on ratings in future,”
Moody’s said.  The EU support package for Greece allows the country an
“orderly default” and buys time, according to Moody’s.  The package agreed at last week’s summit “incorporates the
participation of private sector holders of Greek debt, who are
now virtually certain to incur credit losses. If and when the
debt exchanges occur, Moody’s would define this as a default by
the Greek government on its public debt,” Moody’s said.  Comings and Goings  Soros Returns Client Money to End Hedge-Fund Career  George Soros, the billionaire best known for breaking the
 Bank of England , is returning money to outside investors in his
$25.5 billion firm, ending a career as hedge-fund manager that
spanned more than four decades.  Soros, who turns 81 next month, will hand back the money,
less than $1 billion, by the end of the year, according to two
people briefed on the matter. His firm will focus on managing
assets solely for Soros and his family, according to a letter to
investors. Keith Anderson, 51, chief investment officer since
February 2008, is leaving, said the letter, signed by Soros’s
sons Jonathan and Robert, who are co-deputy chairmen.  The move completes Soros’s transformation from a
speculator, who in 1992 made $1 billion betting that the Bank of
England would be forced to devalue the pound, to philanthropist
statesman, a role he first imagined for himself as a Hungarian
émigré studying at the  London School of Economics  after World
War II, according to Soros’s writings. In the past 30 years, he
has given away more than $8 billion to promote democracy and
philanthropic causes, he said in a recent essay.  Soros’s sons said the decision was taken because new
financial regulations would have made it necessary for the firm
to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission by March
if it continued to manage money for outsiders.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 