-- 
Occidental Falls on California Crude-Oil Production Outlook

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/occidental-petroleum-falls-on-flat-california-crude-production.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the
fourth-largest U.S.  oil company , fell after reporting it isn’t
increasing the number of drilling rigs in California, where
analysts said production was “a disappointment.”  Occidental expects to keep its California rig count at 29
through the end of the year, the Los Angeles-based company said
in a second-quarter  earnings presentation  posted today. The
shares declined $2.54, or 2.4 percent, to $104.83 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  “California’s been a disappointment over the last year or
so,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis , said in a telephone interview today. “Overall volumes
were lighter than I would have liked, but the other segments are
operating very well and they’re benefiting from higher  oil
prices  right now.”  Second-quarter net income rose 71 percent to $1.82 billion,
or $2.23 a share, from $1.06 billion, or $1.31, a year earlier,
Occidental said in a statement today. It was the company’s
biggest quarterly profit since 2008 as increased production in
 Texas  and  North Dakota  helped replace output disrupted by Middle
East unrest. Occidental was expected to earn $2.12 a share,
based on the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Occidental is the first U.S. integrated oil company to
report its second-quarter earnings. Exxon Mobil Corp., the
largest U.S. oil company, is scheduled to report on July 28.
Chevron Corp. on July 29 and ConocoPhillips reports tomorrow.  Kern County Discovery  Occidental’s 2009 discovery in Kern County,  California , may
hold as much as 10 billion barrels of oil, Doug Leggate, an
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Houston, said in an
April 29 note to clients.  Chief Executive Officer Steven I. Chazen said in an April
28 conference call that he expected California to speed up the
permitting process.  Occidental said in the presentation today it has enough
permits to continue its pace of drilling in California until the
end of the year. “There remains some uncertainty around future
permits, particularly related to injection wells,” the company
said.  Chazen told analysts today that he can’t forecast how many
more operating rigs the company would have in California past
the end of the year.  ‘Non-Transparent Process’  “We’re engaged with the state,” he said. He called the
state’s permitting program a “non-transparent process.”  Occidental’s North American output is expected to grow the
equivalent of between 3,000 to 4,000 barrels of oil a day
through the end of 2011, Chazen said.  The company’s oil production in California rose to 78,000
barrels a day in the second quarter from 75,000 a year earlier.
Output of natural gas and gas liquids fell in California.  The lack of production growth in the state is
“disappointing,”  Paul Sankey , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in
New York, said in a note to clients today.  The company boosted total oil and gas production to the
equivalent of 715,000 barrels of crude a day in the second
quarter, a 2 percent gain from the prior year. Occidental said
the increase came in part from recent acquisitions in Texas and
North Dakota that contributed to an 11 percent gain in U.S.
output, to 424,000 barrels a day.  Sales Rise  Chazen said Occidental’s profit gains stemmed from higher
commodity prices. The average price of crude futures on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  during the quarter rose 31 percent to
$102.34 from a year earlier.  Sales rose 34 percent to $6.17 billion. The company sold
oil for $103.12 a barrel in the quarter, more than the average
price on Nymex, compared with $74.39 for the year-earlier
period. It sold gas for $4.27 per thousand cubic feet, up from
$4.19 in the second quarter of 2010, according to the statement.  Occidental reported no output from  Libya  in the quarter,
down from 14,000 barrels a day in the same period last year.
Production in  Yemen  also fell. Civil war in Libya has cut the
country’s production and unrest in Yemen has led to attacks on
oil pipelines in the Middle Eastern nation.  Occidental shares, which have 16 “buy” and eight “hold”
ratings from analysts, have gained 7.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  