-- 
Hoenig Says Fed’s Low Interest-Rate Policy Subsidizes Wall Street Banks

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-26T21:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/hoenig-says-fed-s-low-interest-rate-policy-subsidizes-wall-street-banks.html
The U.S. central bank’s policy of
holding interest rates near zero is a subsidy for large banks
and redistributes wealth from savers to debtors, said  Thomas Hoenig , president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Kansas City.  Banks can borrow at 0.25 percent and buy Treasury bonds
that yield 3 percent, keeping the difference. “It provides them
a means to generate earnings and restore capital, but it also
reflects a subsidy to their operations,” he said to the House
Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy and Technology today in
 Washington .  “It is not the Federal Reserve’s job to pave the yield
curve with guaranteed returns for any sector of the economy, and
we should not be guaranteeing a return for Wall Street or any
special interest group,” he said.  Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, has
repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten  monetary policy  to
limit inflation and avert the emergence of asset price bubbles.
He voted eight straight times in 2010 against record stimulus
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single year.  He repeated those arguments today in his appearance before
the subcommittee chaired by Texas Representative Ron Paul, the
Republican who wrote the book “End the Fed.”  The Fed’s policy also “increases the risk of misallocating
real resources, creating a new set of imbalances or possibly a
new set of bubbles,” Hoenig said.  Subsidies for Borrowers  The central bank’s policy of holding rates near zero also
“redistributes wealth in this country from the saver to debtor
by pushing  interest rates  on deposits and other types of assets
below what they would otherwise be,” he said. The effect
“requires savers and those on fixed incomes to subsidize
borrowers.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted on June 22 to
conclude its $600 billion bond-buying program as scheduled and
maintain its balance sheet near record levels. The FOMC also
affirmed its pledge to keep its target interest rate near zero
for an “extended period.” The rate has been in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Hoenig said the debate in Congress on the U.S. debt ceiling
is distracting lawmakers from issues such as how to boost
manufacturing jobs.  “By not being able to pay attention to that in the
Congress and elsewhere, I think we are handicapping ourselves in
an international, global competitive market,” he said.  Debt Downgrade  He also said that a downgrade of the  U.S. government debt 
by ratings companies could reduce the value of the central
bank’s holdings of Treasury debt.  “If it’s downgraded and it doesn’t affect the market
pricing on those securities, because they have confidence that
the Congress of the  United States  will come to a correct
solution on that, I don’t think it will have much effect at all
on our solvency,” Hoenig said. “If the Congress fails to act,
then it will have a more lasting effect.”  In response to questions from Congress, Hoenig said that
the central bank adopted communications guidelines at its last
meeting in part to stem leaks to news media over prospective
monetary-policy decisions.  “I raised objections to those kind of leaks and asked that
they’d be vigorously pursued,” Hoenig said, identifying the
 Wall Street  Journal. “I don’t think any of the members should
disclose confidential information or leak to the media in
advance.”  Fed Meeting  Hoenig mentioned the newspaper in an Aug. 13, 2010 speech,
three days after an FOMC meeting in which the committee
announced it would reinvest the proceeds of maturing mortgage
debt by purchasing  Treasury securities .  Hoenig said at the time that “before this week’s FOMC
meeting, The Wall Street Journal wrote that the Fed would add
more stimulus into the economy -- including the purchase of
long-term treasuries. It turns out that reporter was remarkably
prescient.”  Earlier this year, Hoenig, the central bank’s longest-
serving policy maker, announced plans to retire on Oct. 1 after
a 20-year career as leader of the  Kansas City  Fed. He is
required under internal Fed rules to retire at age 65, an age he
will reach in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  