-- 
FTC Said to Prepare Oil Company Subpoenas in Pricing Probe

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/oil-company-subpoenas-said-to-be-readied-by-fda-in-gasoline-price-probe.html
Subpoenas to  oil companies  and
refiners are being prepared by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
as it probes rising gasoline prices, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The FTC called oil companies and refiners in the past three
to four weeks to alert them to stand by for the subpoenas, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the calls were
confidential.  President  Barack Obama  announced in April an interagency
task force to investigate potential fraud in oil markets as a
possible cause for the run-up in fuel costs. Five Democratic
senators sent a letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz on May 17
asking the agency to look into gasoline-price increases, saying
reports at the time indicated U.S. refiners were restricting
production to boost prices.  The FTC will “take action whenever we find wrongdoing,”
Leibowitz said at the time. FTC spokesman Mitch Katz declined to
comment today on whether the agency is preparing subpoenas.  The average price for a gallon of regular gasoline is $3.69
compared with $2.74 a year ago, according to AAA’s daily fuel
report.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest gasoline producer,
hasn’t been notified it will receive a subpoena by the FTC, said
Alan Jeffers, a spokesman for the Irving, Texas-based company,
in an e-mailed message.  John Roper , a spokesman for Houston-
based  ConocoPhillips (COP) , said in an e-mail that “as a matter of
policy, ConocoPhillips won’t comment on rumors or speculation.”  Valero, Marathon  Bill Day , a spokesman for San Antonio-based  Valero Energy
Corp (VLO) , the largest independent U.S. crude refiner, said he was
unaware of any contact the FTC has had with the company about a
potential investigation. He said Valero wouldn’t comment unless
a subpoena had actually been issued.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. hasn’t received “any request or
subpoena,” said Angelia Graves, a spokeswoman for the Findlay,
Ohio-based refiner. She wouldn’t comment on whether the company
had been notified of an investigation.  Lloyd Avram, a spokesman for  San Ramon , California-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , declined to comment on whether the second-largest
U.S. oil company had been contacted by the FTC. Kim Blomley, a
London-based spokeswoman for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, declined to comment.  Robert Wine , a London-
based spokesman for  BP Plc (BP/) , also declined to comment.  The FTC’s Bureau of Economics regularly scrutinizes price
movements in about 20 wholesale regions and almost 400 retail
points across the country, according to the agency’s website.
FTC attorneys and economists respond to suspect pricing episodes
as they arise, the agency says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 