-- 
Holidaybreak Rises After Confirming Talks With Cox & Kings

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-26T15:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/holidaybreak-rises-after-confirming-talks-with-cox-kings-1-.html
Holidaybreak Plc (HBR) , which sells
Eurocamp and Keycap vacations, rose for a second day after
confirming it’s in talks about a possible 432.1 pence per share
takeover offer from Cox & Kings (India) Ltd.  The U.K. company’s shares gained 12 percent. Yesterday the
stock rose 15 percent after Holidaybreak said it was in talks
with a third party it didn’t identify.  “There can be no certainty that any offer will ultimately
be made,” Holidaybreak said in a statement on the Regulatory
News Service today.  Mumbai-based tour operator Cox & Kings, which is partly
owned by a unit of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , made an initial public
offering in December 2009, to fund acquisitions and tap the
rising numbers of Indians who are traveling abroad.  Holidaybreak, based in Northwich,  England , sold its West
End Theatre Bookings Ltd. unit for 10.9 million pounds ($17.9
million) in June to focus on educational trips, which it says
are less affected by dips in discretionary spending.  The company’s shares rose 44.5 pence to 411.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The shares have risen 20 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 291 million pounds.  Yesterday’s announcement that Holidaybreak was in talks
came as no surprise, because “the valuation remains modest,”
Greg Feehely, an analyst with Altium Securities, wrote
yesterday. He has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Sky News said yesterday that an agreed all-cash transaction
with Cox & Kings worth about 450 million pounds including debt
might be announced within days.  The 253 year-old Cox & Kings began as a transport service
for British troops. Holidaybreak is being advised by a unit of
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  