-- 
Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Fell 4.5% in Year

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-26T13:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-fell-4-5-in-year-to-may-case-shiller-says.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
dropped in the year ended May by the most in 18 months, adding
to evidence the housing market is struggling.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.5 percent from May 2010, the group said today in  New
York . The decline matched the median forecast of 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A pipeline of foreclosures and uneven demand will keep
prices from rising this year, discouraging new-home construction
and delaying a rebound in housing. Shrinking  home equity  and an
 unemployment rate  at 9.2 percent are weighing on  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “Home prices have yet to find a bottom,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global
Markets LLC in  Boston . “Buyers are incredibly cautious. They
are concerned about the unemployment rate. There is uncertainty
about the economic outlook.”  Stock-index futures erased earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
September was down less than 0.1 percent at 1,333.3 at 9:19 a.m.
in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed.  Estimates ranged from declines of 5.2 percent to 3.5
percent. Year-over-year records began in 2001.  April Revision  The home-price index was revised to show a 4.2 percent drop
in the year ended in April from the previously reported 4
percent decrease, according to today’s report.  Prices were little changed in May from the prior month
after adjusting for seasonal variations, following an April
increase of 0.4 percent. Unadjusted prices climbed 1 percent
from the prior month, a second consecutive increase.  “The concern is that much of the monthly gains are only
seasonal,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the index committee at
S&P, said in a statement. “Sustained increases in home prices
over several months and better annual results need to be seen
before we can confirm real estate market recovery.”  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl
Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the May data was influenced by transactions in
April and March.  Nineteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 12 percent plunge in  Minneapolis .
Washington showed the only increase, up 1.3 percent from May
2010.  Eleven cities saw a worsening in their year-over-year price
changes.  Housing Headwinds  Other reports signal the housing market is held back by
rising unemployment and foreclosures. Sales of previously owned
homes declined in June to a seven-month low, according to data
from the National Association of Realtors. Inventories rose,
more contracts were canceled and 30 percent of transactions last
month were of distressed dwellings, the group said.  The Commerce Department may report today that sales of new
homes ran at a 320,000 annual pace in June, little changed from
319,000 in May, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Corroborating Evidence  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  reported last week that
home prices fell 6.3 percent in May from a year earlier. The
FHFA report is based on repeat-sales data that compares prices
of the same properties over time. The regulatory agency measures
sales of homes with mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac .  As house values decline, owners feel less wealthy and the
home equity they can borrow against shrinks.  The lack of a housing rebound is hurting companies that
sell related products.  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , the largest U.S.
paint retailer, last week reported an unexpected drop in second-
quarter profit. The Cleveland-based company cut its full-year
profit forecast because of rising raw material costs, and said
uncertainty in housing is affecting demand for repainting.  “We’re still in a market that is clearly bouncing along
the bottom on housing and new construction,” Chief Executive
Officer Christopher Connor said during a conference call with
analysts on July 21. “There is still quite a bit of uncertainty
in this market.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  