-- 
Tomsik Says Czech Rate Raise May Be Delayed by Euro Debt Crisis

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-07-26T22:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/tomsik-says-czech-rate-raise-may-be-delayed-by-euro-debt-crisis.html
The Czech central bank may be able
to delay an increase in its  interest rates  as the euro-area’s
debt crisis may keep the region’s borrowing costs lower for
longer, Vice-Governor Vladimir Tomsik said.  Tomsik spoke in a July 25 interview on developments in the
Czech economy and commented on proposed changes to the
regulatory framework of the financial industry.  On growth and inflation:  “It’s evident that since the latest forecast from May,
demand from Germany for Czech exports has been surprising on the
positive side. Germany is growing more than Consensus Forecast
initially predicted, therefore, the Czech GDP growth forecast
for this year can be expected to be revised upwards.  ‘‘The previous GDP forecast was for about 1.5 percent this
year, based on an assumption, taken from Consensus Forecast,
that the German economy will expand by about 2.5 percent. At
present, Consensus Forecast shows  Germany  should grow almost by
3.5 percent this year.  ‘‘Germany accounts for about half of Czech exports to the
effective euro-area, which describes the main Czech trading
partners in the euro zone.  ‘‘As Germany is now forecast to grow one percentage point
faster, that means the Czech economy should grow about a half-
percentage point faster.  ‘‘The question I’m asking is whether this higher growth is
pro-inflationary or not. If it was pro-inflationary, then we
would need to react. But it seems to me that up to now the main
driver of GDP growth are net exports, which is supporting koruna
appreciation and thus taming inflationary pressures. I don’t see
domestic demand-driven inflationary pressure so far.  ‘‘Wage growth in the Czech economy is under control and it
corresponds to increasing  labor productivity . The fact that wage
growth is currently tamed is not that surprising because the
crisis has diminished the cushion for the corporate sector and
it doesn’t have financial resources for more significant salary
increases.  ‘‘So even when the GDP forecast is raised to about 2
percent for this year, I’m convinced that such growth would be
below the potential output of the Czech economy. That’s why GDP
growth isn’t creating inflationary pressures.  ‘‘I personally expect that the inflation outlook, adjusted
for the impact of the prepared changes to the value-added tax,
will show price growth should be near to our inflation target.  ‘‘Commodity prices are a shock reflected in the headline
inflation rate, but  core inflation  still remains negative. The
energy-price shock is beginning to gradually fade away, and food
prices are also beginning to decrease.  ‘‘If I see signals that the headline inflation rate, after
the impact of the VAT increase, is influencing inflation
expectations, then we would need to act immediately. But history
has shown that previous VAT increases had very limited impact on
inflation expectations. Our current surveys show that inflation
expectations are so far very well anchored.  ‘‘A VAT increase is primarily reflected in headline
inflation, but it also reduces disposable income of households,
and thus becomes and an anti-inflationary factor too.’’  On monetary policy and risk scenarios:  ‘‘The most delicate task is to detect the turning point for
monetary policy. At the moment, the turning point we are
approaching is probably for higher interest rates, and now the
debate is centered on finding this turning point.  ‘‘Interest-rate differential is a very strong channel we
include in our forecasts. The more important factor is that the
differential between the market rates in the  Czech Republic  and
the euro zone is much narrower than the spread between the
policy rates.  ‘‘Market rates are more important for the real economy, and
euro-area rates are now significantly influenced by the current
debt crisis. The Euribor is low, while there is still a  risk
premium  in the Czech money market, so the differential between
the market rates is not that wide as between the policy rates.  ‘‘If the euro-area debt problems escalate and the outlook
for market interest rates shows slower upwards dynamics than
what would be natural for an economic recovery, then the
resulting narrower interest-rate differential may be supporting
for the koruna and tame inflation pressures in the Czech
Republic.  ‘‘On the other hand, an eventual weakening of the euro-
area’s demand for Czech products would negatively affect our net
exports, leading to  currency depreciation  and pro-inflationary
pressures.  ‘‘Uncertainties are great and the questions is which of
these two channels of external risks will prevail.  ‘‘Right now, I personally see weak domestic-demand
pressures, GDP driven by exports and the lower path of euro-area
market interest rates as key starting points for our forecast.
The forecast for euro-area market interest rates moved downward
already in the previous monetary policy meeting in June and the
outlook has since moved even further downward. At present, it
seems that the first channel, with the lower path of  euro zone 
market interest rates, is materializing.  ‘‘Growth in Germany is accelerating, but the market rates
are affected by the debt problems in some euro countries and
this has pushed the Euribor outlook down.  ‘‘This may be one of the reasons for some delay in raising
interest rates in the Czech Republic.  ‘‘Until now, we have said the turning point may come in the
third or the fourth quarter. The previous forecast showed the
average market interest rates rising from the fourth quarter,
which didn’t rule out raising the policy rate already in August.
But in the current situation, when I consider the effect of the
lower outlook for euro-area market rates, the turning point may
be pushed back.  ‘‘I can’t rule out the turning point will come this year.
Nor can I rule out that it will come next year. With the degree
of uncertainty we’re facing at the moment, nothing can be ruled
out.  ‘‘Investors appear to be noticing the developments with
market rates in the euro area and market expectations of higher
Czech interest rates have also moved downward to reflect that.
The Czech forward rate agreements are now even below our
previous forecast from May.’’  On financial regulation:  ‘‘The key issue for us is that in a situation when the home
and host regulators don’t agree on something, the power to
decide isn’t given to the European Banking Authority.  ‘‘Banks incorporated in the Czech Republic hold assets
against liabilities formed by deposits of Czech depositors that
are insured by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and effectively
guaranteed by the Czech Finance Ministry.  ‘‘It’s not possible for a supranational institution such as
EBA to decide that, when needed, these assets, this liquidity,
may be transferred outside without a proper compensation. We
insist that this can only happen when both the home and host
supervisors agree on such transfer. We need to see that the
assets coming here are adequate and liquid, because if there is
a problem, it will be the Czech state paying the bill for assets
that may become worthless.  ‘‘The main principle that must be respected is that the one
who pays, must also have the decisive supervisory powers.  ‘‘When you allow a split of the supervisory powers from the
individual competent supervisor responsibility, you might not
stop or eliminate the economic crisis, but paradoxically you may
end up spreading the crisis further to other countries through
the banking channel.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  