-- 
London Already Olympic Winner at ’12 Games as City Outperforms Prior Hosts

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-27T11:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/london-already-olympics-winner-as-u-k-capital-outperforms-previous-hosts.html
Budget overruns, last-minute
building work and a legacy of obsolete stadiums are as
synonymous with the  Olympic Games  as the colored rings in its
logo. London is poised to break that chain.  Preparations for next year’s Summer Games are on time and
under budget, with 88 percent of construction completed a year
ahead of the opening ceremony. Development costs may drop 16
million pounds ($26 million) to 7.25 billion pounds, the U.K.
Department for Culture, Media and Sport said on July 19.  The government more than tripled its original budget after
failing to get companies to finance and develop the site. Led by
double Olympic gold medalist Sebastian Coe, London beat bids
from Paris,  New York  and Moscow in July 2005 after telling the
 International Olympic Committee  that the 30th Olympiad would
regenerate east  London . Six years later, disused railways,
wasteland and local companies have made way for new sports
complexes, homes and Europe’s largest urban shopping mall.  “London has in some ways raised the bar and set some
really good precedents and future markers for bidders of the
Games,”  Alan Seymour , a professor of sports marketing at the
U.K.’s University of Northampton, said in an interview. “It’s
definitely a first” for an Olympics site to be almost ready
with 12 months to go, he said.  Spending Less  Along with the cost of the Paralympics, London will spend
about 9.3 billion pounds on the Games, which start July 27,
2012.  China  spent $70 billion on the 2008 Olympics in Beijing
and the 2004  Athens  Games cost more than 11 billion euros ($16
billion).  The last two  Summer Olympics  left the host cities with
underutilized facilities. In China, officials are turning the
iconic Bird’s Nest stadium into an entertainment and shopping
center. Athens has leased out just six of the 22 venues used in
the Games, according to former Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou .  “It is a tragedy to go to a city that has hosted the Games
and find facilities that are sitting there and not being used,”
Keith Mills, deputy chairman on the London organizing Committee,
or LOCOG, said in an interview. “When we went and learned the
lessons from Sydney, and Athens in particular, we were
determined that we wouldn’t make the same mistakes here in
London.”  ‘No White Elephants’  It’s important to show to “your government and population
that they’re getting a good return on their investment and that
means only spending money where you need to spend it and not
leaving behind white elephants that the taxpayer has to fund for
many years to come,” Mills said.  To save money, London is building  temporary facilities  or
re-using arenas, such as Horse Guards’ Parade for the beach
volleyball, Greenwich Park for equestrian sports and Wembley
stadium for soccer.  London will be ready half a year before Sydney was for its
Olympics and that gives the city “every prospect” of
surpassing the event held 11 years ago, said John Coates,
president of the Australian Olympic Committee.  “Many people say that Sydney remains the benchmark, but
from where I’ve been sitting, London has been six months to a
year ahead of us in their preparations all the way through,”
Coates said today at a function in Sydney to mark the one-year
countdown to the next Games.  Olympic Stadium  The use of existing facilities has allowed London to
concentrate on the post-Games future for the buildings.  London received competitive offers for the 80,000-seat
Olympic Stadium, which was awarded to soccer club West Ham
United along with Newham borough. Their bid, which beat one from
Premier League soccer team Tottenham Hotspur, promised to retain
the running track, allowing the stadium to host athletics
events.  Tottenham asked the U.K. High Court in April for permission
to bring a claim over a loan that will help West Ham take over
as occupant of the 537 million-pound stadium. The venue will be
reduced in size before being used for soccer as well as track-
and-field events.  “People need to give us credit for the fact that a year
before the Games, we have an anchor tenant in the stadium and we
have a plan to transfer it,” Margaret Ford, chairwoman of the
Olympic Park Legacy Company, said in an interview.  Deprived Newham  The Games will be held in Newham, the sixth-most deprived
district in  England  out of more than 350 assessed by the
government. The development didn’t always have the support of
neighbors.  Lance Forman had the best seat in the house before the 106-
year old H. Forman & Son salmon-smoking company was knocked down
to accommodate the site of the opening ceremony.  “We were in the middle of the Olympic Stadium,” said
Forman, proprietor of the  four-generation  family-run business,
in an interview. “We couldn’t understand why the athletes
couldn’t run around us, but the javelins were always going to be
a problem.”  The average residential real estate price in Stratford,
home of the Olympic Stadium and part of Newham borough, fell 3.9
percent to 226,008 pounds in year through July, according to
Zoopla.co.uk.  The London organizing committee has been criticized by U.K.
consumer groups for the way it’s selling the 8.8 million Olympic
tickets. Only 700,000 people were successful in a first-round
public ballot, with 1.2 million sports fans missing out. Another
sale allowed some of those who missed out on the first round to
gain entry to events.  Ticket Sales  “This has been an Olympic ticketing system that has been
left on the starting blocks for many consumers,” Matt Bath,
technology editor at London-based consumer group  Which?,  said in
an interview. “A lot of people are incredibly frustrated with
the whole process. It was absolutely unclear and lacked
transparency.”  After the second round of sales, more than 3.5 million
tickets have been sold and about 850,000 successful applications
have been made for tickets, the organizers said. Only soccer,
volleyball and wrestling tickets remain.  “We now have at least 150,000 more successful applicants,
and they and their friends and families are now going to the
Games,” LOCOG Commercial Director Chris Townsend said in a
statement. “Our goal is to get as many members of the British
public to the Games as possible, and we have sold over 750,000
tickets to people who were unsuccessful in the first round.”  560-Acre Park  The Olympic Park Legacy Company, or OPLC, is in charge of
seeking operators for all aspects of the 560-acre (227-hectare)
Olympic Park to make sure east London benefits after the Games.
The space will host the swimming, cycling, handball and
basketball, and also house the press and broadcast centers as
well as the Olympic stadium, where the opening and closing
ceremonies and the athletics events will be held.  The deepest government spending cuts caused by the worst
U.K. economy since World War II have failed to block efforts to
adapt the new arenas for different uses after the Games, said
Ford of OPLC.  “It might seem counterintuitive, but a lot of the work we
are doing hasn’t been altered by the financial crisis,” she
said. “The investment wasn’t just for six weeks of Games, it
was for the next 30 years of east London. For every pound spent
on the Olympic park, 75 pence stays there in legacy. So all of
the infrastructure, the transport upgrades, the remediation of
the land, the venues, all of those things remain in the park.”  Visa Estimates  Britain also will benefit from 750 million pounds of
 consumer spending  during the seven weeks of London’s Olympic and
Paralympic Games next year, Visa  Europe  said earlier this month.  Not only retailers stand to profit from the Games. The
Olympic Delivery Authority, which oversees construction of the
venues, said last week it had awarded more than 1,500 contracts
valued at more than 6 billion pounds, 98 percent of which went
to U.K.-based companies.  The building of the Olympic facilities involved extending
contracts to more than 240 U.K. businesses, including the
country’s largest construction companies such as Balfour Beatty
Group Ltd. and Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd., as well as smaller
operations like Adlington Welding.  “The work we did for the London 2012 Games definitely
helped to safeguard jobs,” Adlington director Nigel Turner
said. “We have been able to retain our full complement of
staff, despite the tough conditions.”  River Lea  Forman, whose business had to be moved from what is now the
Olympic Park, has relocated his fish-smoking factory to the
banks of the river Lea, a stone’s throw from the Olympic
stadium. Besides smoking salmon for clients including Fortnum &
Mason and  Buckingham Palace , Forman’s Fish Island expects to
benefit from the Games with a newly built corporate event and
party venue that overlooks the stadium.  “For an Olympic sponsor, there will be aerial shots of the
Olympic Park and they cannot physically miss our roof space,”
the 48-year-old said. “It would be a brilliant space for them
to stick their logo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 