-- 
Money Funds’ Risk Rises Over Debt Cap Debate, Moody’s Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-26T18:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/money-funds-risk-rises-over-debt-cap-debate.html
The impasse in  Washington  over
raising the federal debt ceiling has exposed U.S. money-market
mutual fund clients to increased danger, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “Direct risks include the potential for a missed interest
or principal payment on  government bonds  for a short period of
time, as well as incremental weakening of the overall credit
quality of money-market fund portfolios that have U.S.
government exposure,” the New York-based ratings company said
today in a statement.  U.S. money-market funds held about $760 billion in
Treasuries, government-agency debt and repurchase agreements in
April, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Moody’s has placed the
Aaa rating of  U.S. debt  on review for possible downgrade as the
country approaches Aug. 2, the day the Treasury Department says
the government will reach its legal borrowing limit and default
on some obligations if the ceiling isn’t increased.  The White House and Congressional Republicans have failed
to agree on a deficit-reduction package. Republicans say they
won’t approve an increase of the debt ceiling without first
striking such an accord.  Money-market funds rated Aaa by Moody’s are “largely
resilient to the direct impacts” of a downgrade of the U.S.
rating to Aa1, the company said. A debt downgrade to Aa2 or
worse “could negatively impact the ratings of a large number of
funds,” according to Moody’s.  Adding Treasuries  Vanguard Group Inc. hasn’t made any major changes because
of the debt-ceiling debate, said David Glocke, who oversees
about $163 billion in money-fund assets at the  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based firm.  “We’ve been adding to Treasury holdings because, as
concerns over  Europe  have evolved, we’ve reallocated out of
Europe and into other sectors of the market,” Glocke said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Glocke said that while he didn’t believe a downgrade would
significantly affect the pricing of Treasuries, the U.S.
government’s failure to repay bondholders or make interest
payments would be disruptive.  “Congress, the White House, Bernanke and Geithner have
made it very clear it’s not their intention to do that,” Glocke
said, referring to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . “I’m confident the
Treasury won’t default on its debt.”  No Obligation  Money funds have no obligation to sell or stop buying U.S.
treasuries if the debt is downgraded, said Deborah Cunningham,
head of taxable money funds at Federated Investors Inc. in
Pittsburgh.  Federated is the third-largest manager of U.S. money funds
with $230 billion under management, according to research firm
Crane Data LLC in Westboro,  Massachusetts .  Fidelity Investments 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are the biggest managers.  A greater danger to the industry is posed by the potential
for rapid investor withdrawals that could force several funds to
begin selling Treasuries and cause prices to fall, said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data.  “Redemptions are always the risk,” Crane said. “A
downgrade from the money-fund perspective is a non-event. You’re
mainly dealing with a headline risk.”  Tony Carfang, a partner at Treasury Strategies, a Chicago-
based firm that advises corporate treasurers, said he doesn’t
see any sign that institutional investors will withdraw.  “If there was going to be movement out of funds, we would
be seeing it already,” Carfang said. “No one is going to wait
to be the last one to take their money out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 