-- 
Monroe, Brando Ooze Hollywood Glamour in London Exhibit: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-07-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/monroe-brando-ooze-hollywood-glamour-in-london-exhibition-martin-gayford.html
A great collector discerns quality
before anyone else notices it.  John Kobal (1940-1991) was in  Los Angeles  in the 1960s at a
time when the Hollywood studios were clearing out their
libraries of still photographs. Kobal often was invited to take
his pick, according to his friend the critic John Russell
Taylor. At other times, he was tipped off when the images were
being dumped so he would follow and fill his car.  Some of those gleanings can be seen in “Glamour of the
Gods: Photographs From the John Kobal Foundation” at the
 National Portrait Gallery  (through Oct. 23) in  London . Here are
glittering divas and handsome movie heroes from Gloria Swanson
to  Marilyn Monroe . By Monroe’s era, Kobal’s enthusiasm was
running out. He was a star-struck romantic, and in his view the
“gods” and “titans” of Hollywood belonged to the ‘20s and
the ‘30s.  Those publicity shots he rescued are partly performance
art. Joan Crawford told Kobal, “I photographed better than I
looked so it was easy for me… I let myself go before the
camera.” The result, in an MGM still from 1933 by Clarence
Sinclair Bull, was a blend of regal beauty and emotional
intimacy.  Crawford and the others were doing what they did best,
acting to camera. The studio photographers were deploying, often
brilliantly, all the arts of traditional portraiture: lighting,
composition, costume and flattery. The latter took the form of
extensive retouching.  Worry Lines  There’s a telling comparison between shots of Crawford by
George Hurrell in 1930, before and after this treatment. Au
naturel, she has worry lines and freckles -- still beautiful,
yet vulnerably human. No goddess. This brings out a truth: The
histories of painting and photography have always been closely
intertwined (all the more so today thanks to Photoshop). These
photographs are altered by hand-painting; conversely, of course,
painters often use photography as a tool.  “Eyewitness: Hungarian Photography in the 20th Century,”
an outstanding exhibition at the  Royal Academy  (until Oct. 2),
demonstrates the same point in a different way. Robert Capa, one
of the major photographers included, once remarked, “It’s not
enough to have talent, you also have to be Hungarian.” That was
a backhanded way of emphasizing how many masters of the camera
emerged from  Hungary  between 1920 and 1940.  Just why that Central European nation was so
photographically fertile is hard to say. What the major figures
-- Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, Brassai, Martin Munkacsi and Andre Kertesz -- had in common was modernism. They use the same tight
geometrical structure and pared-down forms as a painter such as
Mondrian, whose studio apartment was the subject of a marvelous
photograph by Kertesz.  Line and Energy  Moholy-Nagy actually was an abstract artist as well as a
photographer. Munkacsi’s “Four Boys at Lake Tanganyika” (1930)
has the fluent line and bounding energy of a Matisse, found in
the real world and recorded in a split second (this image
inspired Cartier-Bresson’s whole career). A few years later,
Munkacsi went to the U.S. and began the modern tradition of
fashion photography, an artificial art if ever there was one.  If the actual scene didn’t quite have the correct
arrangement of lines and surfaces, these photographers might
adjust it. Kertesz moved Mondrian’s vase to create the right
curve, while Capa may have staged his celebrated and endlessly
controversial “Death of a Loyalist Militiaman” (1936).  That possibility only bothers those who confuse photography
and truth. Like the still of Crawford sans freckles, Capa’s
image of a falling Spanish Republican isn’t raw reality. It’s
art.  “Glamour of the Gods: Photographs From the John Kobal
Foundation” is at the  National Portrait Gallery , London,
through Oct. 23. Information:  http://www.npg.org.uk .  “Eyewitness: Hungarian Photography in the 20th Century”
is at the  Royal Academy  until Oct. 2, see
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk . For more on the foundation:
 http://www.johnkobal.org .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 