-- 
OppenheimerFunds to Settle Colorado Mismanagement Suits for $100 Million

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-07-26T17:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/oppenheimerfunds-to-settle-colorado-mismanagement-suits-for-100-million.html
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Co.’s OppenheimerFunds Inc. agreed to pay $100 million to settle
allegations of mismanagement brought by mutual fund investors,
according to federal court documents filed in Denver.  A hearing to approve the settlement with holders of
Oppenheimer Champion and Core Bond Fund shares was scheduled for
Sept. 30 before U.S. District Judge John L. Kane, the court
announced in a statement today.  Fund officials settled the cases “to eliminate the burden,
expense, uncertainty and risk of further litigation,” and deny
any wrongdoing, their lawyers said in court documents.  The funds were sued in 2009 by participants who believed
they were holding low-risk, conservative investments, and lost
money.  “Defendants portrayed the Fund as a diversified, higher-
yielding Fund that may be appropriate as part of a retirement
plan portfolio,” plaintiffs’ lawyers in the Champion case said.
“However, the Fund was substantially more risky than
represented because it took huge gambles on mortgage-backed
securities and illiquid derivatives that caused the Fund to
crash.”  Settlement Amounts  Champion investors will receive $52.5 million, and Core
Bond investors will share $47.5 million, minus legal fees,
according to settlement papers. The plaintiffs’ lawyers will ask
Kane to give them 25 percent of the settlement amount, court
documents show.  “OppenheimerFunds entered into these proposed settlement
agreements to avoid a lengthy and expensive legal process,”
Samuel Wang, a spokesman for OppenheimerFunds in  New York , said
in an e-mail. “In doing so, the company has not admitted any
wrongdoing in the matters raised in the lawsuits.”  OppenheimerFunds isn’t affiliated with Oppenheimer & Co. or
Oppenheimer Capital.  “We believe that the proposed settlements are in the best
interests of shareholders of the Funds and we are pleased that
we are moving toward a resolution of these matters” Wang said.
“The settlements have also been approved by the Boards of
Trustees of the two funds,”.  The cases are In Re Oppenheimer Champion Securities Fraud
Class Actions, 09CV386 and In Re Core Bond Fund, 09CV1186, U.S.
District Court, District of  Colorado  (Denver).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 