-- 
More Ambitious Housing Plan Could Unlock the U.S. Economy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-26T13:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/more-ambitious-housing-plan-could-unlock-the-u-s-economy-view.html
The U.S. housing market “hasn’t
bottomed out as quickly as we expected,” President  Barack Obama 
pronounced earlier this month. What he really meant was that
housing has been like an anchor dragging down the economy.  Normally at this stage of a recovery, home sales and new
construction are engines of economic growth and  job creation .
Obama has resisted more ambitious programs in the belief that
housing would recover once the overall economy did. Now it
appears he must do the reverse: Lift housing in order to boost
the economy.  It’s not possible to save everyone at risk of losing a
home. Instead, the goal should be to clear out the oversupply,
which the U.S. Treasury Department estimates at about 3.9
million homes, so the market will bottom out -- and then begin
its long climb back. The administration should also help
borrowers reduce the principal on their mortgages. This would be
aimed at the 11 million households, more than 20 percent of the
U.S. total, whose mortgages are greater than the value of their
homes, or “underwater.” If they default, they will overwhelm an
already dysfunctional foreclosure system, drag down prices of
neighboring houses, and set back a fragile recovery.  Home prices  are not rebounding. Today’s S&P/Case-Shiller
index shows that prices fell 4.5 percent from May 2010, the most
in 18 months. They have declined 33 percent since their July
2006 peak in the 20 largest U.S. cities. Such a slump is on the
scale of the Great Depression. The number of foreclosures is
down, but that’s probably a false lull brought on by the robo-
signing scandal, in which banks used faulty paperwork to hasten
repossessions. Now in the midst of settlement negotiations with
state attorneys general, banks are being careful not to make
waves, putting defaulted borrowers in limbo.  For more than three years, housing has failed to respond to
Obama’s modest revival efforts. The Treasury’s  Home Affordable
Modification Program  has permanently modified about  730,000
mortgages , far short of the goal of at least 3 million. Many
borrowers don’t qualify because their total debt relative to
income would still be too high even after monthly mortgage
payments are reduced. A first-time homebuyer tax credit produced
an uptick in demand, but that disappeared as soon as the credit
expired. A pilot federal program to lower mortgage principal has
run into resistance from banks and loan servicers; so far it has
helped about 5,000 homeowners. More recently, Obama has directed
the  Federal Housing Administration , which finances home loans
for lower-income Americans, to let unemployed borrowers skip as
many as 12 monthly payments.  The administration has had solid reasons not to be more
interventionist. Helping every distressed homeowner would be
prohibitively expensive. Aiding borrowers who knowingly took on
more debt than they could afford would set a bad example for
those who have been more prudent. About one in five homeowners
default on their loans even after payments are reduced. And the
securities into which most mortgages have been bundled have
legal clauses that make principal write downs difficult.  These are high hurdles. But the administration could take
steps now, including using  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
taxpayer-owned mortgage-finance companies, to greater effect.
They have received $130 billion in taxpayer support, after all,
and together they hold or guarantee about 90 percent of all
mortgages. Treasury could direct them to help underwater
borrowers who are paying their mortgage and would probably stay
current if the principal were reduced. In return, homeowners who
benefit from a principal write-down and later sell should give
up a portion of any profits, an approach called shared
appreciation.  The settlement negotiations between large banks and the
states could also help, especially if the result is a speedier,
and legal, foreclosure process with a well-endowed settlement
fund that states could tap to write down principal amounts for
at-risk borrowers.  The administration should urge Fannie and Freddie to
recognize losses on the millions of troubled and defaulted loans
sitting on their balance sheets. One approach would be to sell
foreclosed properties to institutional investors. The two
companies would then rent some of those foreclosed homes, both
to ease the property oversupply and keep a lid on rental prices.
(Rents are rising because of higher demand for rental units, now
that many families don’t qualify for a mortgage or don’t want
one.)  The mortgage-finance companies’ regulator, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , would have to approve most of these
changes, and Congress may need to get involved. The FHFA now
forbids principal reductions on mortgages that Fannie and
Freddie own, not wanting to condone anything that would reduce
the value of their assets. But that’s like saving a burning
building while letting its contents go up in smoke.  By using Fannie and Freddie to help fix the housing market,
the administration could strengthen the companies, too. In the
long run, it may cost taxpayers less, and it would take a big
weight off the recovery.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 