-- 
Osborne Hails ‘Haven’ U.K. as He Vows No Compromise on Deficit Reduction

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-26T16:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/osborne-hails-haven-u-k-as-he-vows-no-compromise-on-deficit-reduction.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said his deficit-reduction program will remain in
place after growth stumbled in the second quarter, keeping up
pressure on the  Bank of England  to maintain emergency stimulus.  His plan to eliminate the structural  budget deficit  by 2015
is making the U.K. the “safe haven in the storm” that is
battering other European economies, Osborne said after figures
today showed the economy grew 0.2 percent in the three months
through June.  The expansion was half the 0.4 percent predicted by the
 Office for Budget Responsibility  in March and raised fresh
questions about whether the government can achieve its forecast
of 1.7 percent growth in 2011. Gross domestic product remains
almost 4 percent below its pre-recession peak in early 2008,
ahead of only Japan and Italy among Group of Seven countries.  “If we continued with this weakness in the second half of
the year then you could give greater weight to the argument for
more stimulus” from the Bank of England, said  Stewart Robertson , chief European economist at Aviva Investors in
 London .  Osborne so far has refrained from expressing a view on
whether the Bank of England should seek his permission to expand
its 200 billion-pound ($320 billion) program to inject money
into the economy by buying government debt.  Business Secretary Vince Cable called on the central bank
this week to expand  money supply  if demand continues to falter.
His comments came after Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club, which
uses the same forecasting model as the Treasury, cut its 2011
growth forecast to 1.4 percent from an April projection of 1.8
percent.  Bank Independence  Asked whether he agreed with Cable, Osborne told BBC
television today that “we shouldn’t be trying to second guess”
the decisions of the independent central bank.  Economic output in the second quarter was barely higher
than it was between July and September last year. Office for
National Statistics Chief Economist Joe Grice today agreed with
reporters when asked whether the economy had flat-lined in the
last nine months.  “In terms of the actual figures, that’s probably right,”
he said, even though one-time effects related to the royal
wedding, the Japanese earthquake and a warm month in April may
have shaved off as much as 0.5 percentage point off output.  More Weakness  The weakness is likely to persist, said  Stephen Lewis ,
chief economist at Monument Securities in London. Osborne won’t
ditch his plans and calls for more asset purchases are unlikely
to garner enough support among Bank of England policy makers.  Jonathan Portes, director of the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research in London, said the government
should tax less and spend more to stimulate demand.  “The correct thing for the government to do is to ease
fiscal policy -- it’s too tight,” he said. “Monetary policy
operates with long and variable lags so it’s no substitute for
the short-term boost that’s needed.”  The opposition  Labour Party  says Osborne is undermining the
recovery by trying to cut the deficit too fast, with January’s
increase in  sales tax  and the prospect of years of austerity
sapping  consumer confidence  at a time when inflation is imposing
the biggest squeeze on  living standards  since the 1970s.  “These figures show that last year’s recovery has been
recklessly choked off by  George Osborne ,” said  Ed Balls , the
Labour lawmaker who speaks on Treasury affairs. “The economy
has effectively flat-lined for nine months.”  Osborne rejects the argument, saying that his commitment to
tackling a deficit that reached 11 percent of GDP in the
aftermath of the recession is keeping market interest rates in
Britain low.  “Our economy is stable at this time because this
government has taken the difficult decisions to get to grips
with Britain’s debts,” Osborne said today. “Abandoning that
now, as some argue we should, would only risk British jobs and
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  