-- 
Motorola Loses Dismissal Bid in Lawsuit Over 3G System

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-26T20:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/motorola-loses-bid-for-dismissal-of-securities-suit-over-3g-system-delays.html
Motorola Inc. lost a bid for
dismissal of an investor securities lawsuit over allegedly
overly optimistic earnings forecasts and delays in delivering
third-generation handsets in 2006.  Motorola Solutions Inc., created when Motorola Inc. was
divided, inherited the liability for the lawsuit, Nick Sweers, a
spokesman for Motorola Solutions, said today in a phone
interview. The ruling means the case will continue to move
toward a trial.  U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in  Chicago  yesterday
denied a company motion to decide in its favor without a trial.
There are disputed factual issues that must be decided, she
wrote.  “The alleged misrepresentations do more than simply state
that Motorola’s 3G phones would reach the market” in the fourth
quarter of 2006, she wrote. Challenged statements include an
assertion that product launches “are on track” and that
“we’re bringing five new products into the Christmas selling
season,” the judge wrote.  “A reasonable jury could construe them as misleading
investors into believing that Motorola would be ready to
introduce its 3G phones en masse,” St. Eve said.  The plaintiffs asked for unspecified damages, interest,
attorneys’ fees and costs in a class-action suit to include
everyone who acquired Motorola Inc. shares from July 19, 2006,
to Jan. 4, 2007.  After the lawsuit was filed in August 2007, Motorola split
into Motorola Solutions, based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , a maker
of products including mobile devices, and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., based in Libertyville, Illinois, a phone and home
networking products business.  The case is Silverman v. Motorola Inc., 07-cv-04507, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 