-- 
Toyota Seeks U.S. Court Order Approving Use of Hybrid Technology

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-07-26T04:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/toyota-seeks-u-s-court-order-approving-use-of-hybrid-technology.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  sought a court
order in the U.S. approving its use of technology in hybrid
electric vehicles, including the Prius and Lexus RX 400h, after
an auto-parts company claimed its patents were infringed.
      Efficient Drivetrains Inc. , based in  Palo Alto ,  California ,
has an exclusive license from the University of California for
use of the technology, including the way electricity is drawn
from a battery to power an electric motor and an internal
combustion engine, according to a July 20 federal court
complaint filed by Toyota in  San Jose , California.  “EDI has contended that the Toyota Hybrids infringe each
of the asserted patents and has indicated it intends to
enforce” them, according to the complaint filed by the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker. “Toyota denies that.”  Toyota, the world’s biggest maker of gasoline-electric
hybrid cars, sought a court ruling declaring it didn’t infringe
the patents and that the patents are invalid. Such a ruling
would preempt a potential patent infringement lawsuit by EDI and
the  University of California .  The five patents at issue also include technology, invented
by EDI co-founder Andy Frank, on ways to control the power
output of an internal combustion engine and a method to draw
electricity to operate the electric motor and the internal
combustion engine, together or separately depending on driving
conditions, according to the court documents.  The case is Toyota Motor Corp. v. Efficient Drivetrains Inc.
File No. 11-cv-03570. U.S. District Court Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  