-- 
Palermo Wants Chelsea to Pay More for Javier Pastore: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-26T08:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/palermo-wants-chelsea-to-pay-more-for-javier-pastore-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Pastore Bidding  Palermo is trying to drive up the price that Chelsea might
pay for Javier Pastore by claiming Paris St. Germain may bid for
the player,  the Daily Mirror said .  PSG, recently purchased by the Qatari Investment Authority,
may be willing to pay the 44 million pounds ($72 million) that
Palermo wants, the newspaper said.  The midfielder is also getting interest from Spanish clubs,
the newspaper reported.  United Finished Buying?  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  doesn’t anticipate
making any more signings before the season starts, the  Guardian
said .  The English Premier League champions failed to bring in
Luka Modric, Samir Nasri and  Wesley Sneijder , three candidates
to replace the retiring  Paul Scholes , the newspaper said.  United takes on Manchester City next month in the Community
Shield match to start the season. United signed midfielder
Ashley Young, defender Phil Jones and goalkeeper David de Gea in
the offseason.  Bye Eboue?  Arsenal may sell defender Emmanuel Eboue to Galatasaray for
4 million pounds as manager Arsene Wenger raises funds to buy a
replacement for captain Cesc Fabregas,  the Guardian said .  The manager is willing to sell Eboue after several poor
performances last season, including giving up a late penalty
against Liverpool that cost the Gunners two points, the
newspaper said.  Jay-Emmanuel Thomas may move to Ipswich, and fellow striker
Nicklas Bendtner has had talks with  Borussia Dortmund , the
Guardian said. Goalkeeper Manuel Almunia is drawing interest
from Atletico Madrid, Malaga and Fenerbahce, the newspaper said.  Lucas Leaver?  Liverpool’s player of the year, Lucas Leiva, wants to leave
the club,  the Sun said.   He wants to quit after Liverpool paid 49 million pounds to
bring in Stewart Downing,  Jordan Henderson  and Charlie Adam, the
newspaper said.  The trio join Lucas,  Steven Gerrard , Joe Cole and at least
seven other midfielders, and the 24-year-old Brazilian isn’t
willing to sit on the bench, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 