-- 
Palestinians Say Time Is Right for Statehood

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-26T20:03:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/palestinians-say-time-is-right-for-move-at-un-toward-statehood.html
Palestinians have made a “final
decision” to pursue the first formal step toward recognition of
statehood and  United Nations  membership in September, the
 Palestinian Authority ’s envoy to the world body said today.  Ambassador Riyad Mansour announced a “march to
legislation” at the UN, saying his government “can’t wait any
longer for the government of Israel to negotiate with us in good
faith.”  The initial move will come at the opening of the UN General
Assembly in  New York  in late September, he said.  The Palestinian decision defies pressure from the Obama
administration, which has said the move will undercut efforts to
restart direct Israeli-Palestinian talks, and jeopardizes U.S.
aid to the Palestinian Authority. The Senate on June 28 passed
by unanimous consent a resolution with 89 co-sponsors that calls
for President  Barack Obama  to consider “restrictions on aid”
if the Palestinians proceed at the UN.  Mansour didn’t say what the first step would be. The
Palestinian Authority might begin with a bid for UN membership,
which would require approval by the  Security Council . The Obama
administration has said it would use its veto to block the
measure.  The alternative would be for the Palestinians to seek
recognition by the General Assembly, requiring two-thirds
support of the 193 members in a vote not subject to a veto. That
move could be challenged procedurally, and passage would be
binding only within the UN system.  ‘Appropriate Actions’  “This is the time for  Palestine  and Israel to live side by
side in peace and security, and this is the time for a new
 Middle East ,” Mansour told the  Security Council . “We believe
the international community is ready for that, and we trust that
the appropriate actions will be undertaken soon to make this a
reality.”  Mansour said the Palestinian Authority has met the terms of
its “contract’ to use international aid to prepare for
statehood. The government in Ramallah has ‘‘reached a level of
institutional performance sufficient for a functioning state,’’
the UN’s Middle East envoy Robert Serry told the Security
Council.  The  peace process  is in ‘‘profound and persistent
deadlock,’’ Serry said.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalled in September after
 Israel ’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month construction freeze in West Bank settlements and
Palestinians said they wouldn’t resume talks without a full
building halt.  ‘False Idol’  The U.S. and Israel rejected any strategy at the UN that
would circumvent pursuit of a peace accord with Israel.  Israel’s Ambassador Ron Prosor called possible UN action a
‘‘false idol” that would “distract from the true path to
peace.”  Rosemary DiCarlo, the deputy U.S. ambassador, said only
negotiations with Israel would produce Palestinian statehood
accompanied by “viable and sustainable” peace with Israel.  “Let there be no doubt: symbolic actions to isolate Israel
at the  United Nations  in September will not create an
independent Palestinian state,” DiCarlo said. “The  United
States  will not support unilateral campaigns at the United
Nations in September or any other time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  