-- 
Pao de Acucar Profit Rises 64% as Late Easter Boosts Sales

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-07-26T21:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/pao-de-acucar-second-quarter-profit-rises-64-as-late-easter-boosts-sales.html
Cia Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar (PCAR5) ,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer, said second-quarter
profit rose 64 percent after a later Easter holiday boosted
sales of seasonal items such as chocolate eggs.  Net income increased to 91 million reais ($59 million) in
the quarter, from 55.5 million reais a year earlier, the Sao
Paulo-based company said late yesterday in a regulatory filing.
The average estimate for profit excluding some items was 109.3
million reais in a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  An Easter Sunday in April, combined with Mother’s Day in
May and Valentine’s Day in June, helped boost Pao de Acucar’s
net sales 62 percent to 11.3 billion reais in the period. The
company also began adding the sales of Casa Bahia Comercial
Ltda., which it bought in December. Easter fell twenty days
earlier in 2010.  The “Easter effect” helped boost gross same-store sales
by 9.1 percent, Bradesco Bradesco SA analysts including Ricardo Boiati wrote in a note today. “Synergies in the integration of
Casas Bahia and Ponto Frio continued to be delivered at a strong
pace.”  Pao de Acucar fell 1.8 percent to 65.10 reais at the market
close in  Sao Paulo  today.  The margin on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, a measure of profitability, increased to 5.7
percent in the quarter, from 5.5 percent in the same period last
year.  Shareholder Dispute  Pao de Acucar dropped 4.3 percent to 66.30 reais since the
start of the year, after rising to as much as 73.25 on June 28
amid a dispute over the retailer’s control. A proposal backed by
 Carrefour SA (CA)  to merge its Brazilian assets with Pao de Acucar
fell through on July 12 after the South American country’s
government withdrew financial support for the deal.  BNDES, as the state development bank is known, took back a
plan to help fund the transaction by buying a 2 billion-euro
($2.9 billion) stake in the proposed new company because it
required all parties to agree.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) ,
which shares control of Pao de Acucar with Brazil’s Diniz
family, opposed the deal.  Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian investment bank founded
by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is in talks to rekindle the merger
plans, Carlos Fonseca, head of the bank’s private-equity
division, said on July 13. Under the June 28 proposal, BTG
Pactual investment fund Gama would buy all Pao de Acucar shares
and Carrefour’s Brazilian assets and list shares in Sao Paulo
and New York.  “Until the whole issue is resolved, company fundamentals
will not be the main driver of share price performance,”
 Daniela Bretthauer , head of consumer research for  Latin America 
at Raymond James, wrote in a July 12 note to clients.  The board of Wilkes, the joint venture through which Pao de
Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz and Casino control the Brazilian
retailer, is scheduled to meet on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  