-- 
Pentagon Budget Cuts Deepening for Fiscal 2012, Levin Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-26T16:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/pentagon-budget-cuts-deepening-for-fiscal-2012-levin-says-1-.html
The Senate Armed Services Committee
chairman said he expects that a Pentagon budget review will mean
cuts well beyond the reductions already pending in Congress for
the 2012 fiscal year.  It’s likely the final budget for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1 “will include significant additional suggested
reductions in the 2012 budget request, cuts that are even more
than the $6 billion reduction to the department’s request that
this committee recently reported,” said Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat.  Levin’s committee previously cut $6 billion from its
version of the fiscal 2012 defense policy bill.  The House-passed version of the fiscal 2012 defense
appropriations bill cut a net of about $9 billion from President
Barack Obama’s request for $539 billion for the military, not
counting the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  or military
construction. The Senate has not yet acted on its version of the
appropriations bill.  Separately, Obama’s nominee to become chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Army General Martin Dempsey, told the committee
today that military planners are assessing a potential $80
billion cut to the fiscal 2013 budget, which the Pentagon will
draft over the next few months. That cut would help meet Obama’s
target to reduce $400 billion over 12 years. Deeper cuts are
possible, depending on the outcome of debt reduction talks under
way in  Washington .  Absorbing Cuts  The Pentagon comptroller in February projected the fiscal
2013 budget to be about $571 billion.  Dempsey said he didn’t know how the military might absorb a
$400 billion reduction. The Pentagon’s ongoing comprehensive
review of roles, missions and strategy is intended to answer
that question, he said. The review is scheduled to be completed
by late September, he said.  “We’ve announced a target and we are trying to determine
what the impact would be to make that target,” Dempsey said.  In written answers to committee questions provided prior to
the hearing, Dempsey said that weapons spending may be squeezed.
“My sense is that the current investment budget for major
systems is not affordable in this fiscal and operational
environment,” he said.  “It is my judgment that we can achieve the level of
proposed savings in a way that strengthens the joint force over
time,” he said.  ‘Extraordinarily Difficult’  Asked at the hearing what the effect on U.S. military
readiness might be from a potential $800 billion cut, if that
were the result of deficit talks, Dempsey said: “Based on the
difficulty of achieving the $400 billion cut, I believe 800
would be extraordinarily difficult and very high-risk.”  In his written policy answers, Dempsey said that although
there is “unquestionably a relationship between U.S. security
and the debt” and the national debt is a “grave concern,” he
“wouldn’t describe our economic condition as the single biggest
threat to national security.”  “There are a lot of clear and present threats in the
current environment,” Dempsey said. “National security didn’t
cause the debt crisis nor will it solve it.”  The current Joint Chiefs chairman, Admiral Mike Mullen, has
said repeatedly in the last year -- most recently this month --
that “the single-biggest threat to our national security is our
debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  