-- 
Pfizer’s Zyvox and Antidepressants May Be Fatal Combination

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/pfizer-s-zyvox-can-cause-toxicity-with-antidepressants-fda-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Zyvox antibiotic can
cause potentially fatal central nervous system reactions in
patients who also take antidepressants that increase levels of
the brain chemical serotonin, U.S. regulators said.  Pfizer’s Zoloft and Pristiq,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cymbalta and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Paxil and Wellbutrin are among 29
psychiatric drugs that patients may need to stop taking
temporarily when they require treatment with Zyvox, the  Food and
Drug Administration  said today in a  drug safety  communication.  Zyvox, used to treat some types of drug-resistant bacteria
including MSRA or methicillin-related Staphylococcus aureus,
skin infections and nosocomial pneumonia, can interact with the
antidepressants to cause a toxic reaction known as serotonin
syndrome in which excess amounts of the chemical build up in the
brain, according to the FDA.  Some deaths among patients who suffered such a reaction
were reported to the FDA’s adverse-event database, the agency
said. Pfizer, based in  New York , reported $1.18 billion in
revenue from Zyvox last year.  Excess Serotonin  Confusion, memory issues, hyperactivity, excessive sweating
and muscle twitching are among the symptoms of excess serotonin
levels. Patients taking psychiatric drugs shouldn’t stop using
them without first consulting a health-care professional, the
FDA said.  The current U.S. package insert for Zyvox “already
includes prominent information regarding the potential for
serotonergic interactions, the risk of serotonin syndrome and
the need for careful observation of patients prescribed Zyvox
who are on such agents,” Kristen Neese, a Pfizer spokeswoman,
said today in an e-mail. The company hasn’t identified any new
safety signals related to those drug interactions, she said.  “In an ongoing commitment to ensure patient safety, Pfizer
continually monitors all relevant safety information including
information pertaining to the concomitant use of Zyvox and
serotonergic antidepressant medications,” Neese said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  