-- 
Philippine Peso Climbs to a Three-Year High on Obama Warning

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-07-26T03:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/philippine-peso-climbs-to-a-three-year-high-on-obama-warning.html
The Philippine peso rose to a three-
year high as investors sold the dollar amid a warning from
President  Barack Obama  that spiraling debt in the U.S. threatens
to do “serious” damage to the world’s largest economy.  The Dollar Index traded on ICE Futures in  New York 
dropped for a second day as Obama urged Congress to address
future deficits while lawmakers struggle to reach an accord to
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by an Aug. 2
deadline.  Philippines ’ 20-year government bonds fell for a
second day after central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
yesterday that inflation may accelerate this month.  “The market is taking stock of global uncertainties and
watching developments on the U.S debt discussions,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Manila-based Chinatrust
Philippines Commercial Bank Corp.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 42.31 per dollar as of 10.56
a.m. in  Manila , its strongest level since May 2008, according to
data from Tullett Prebon Plc.  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due July 2031 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.00 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  Inflation this month may range from 4.3 percent to 5.2
percent, Tetangco said. Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent in June
from a year earlier, the most in 26 months.  The central bank ordered lenders last month to set aside
more money as reserves by raising the reserve-requirement ratio
to 20 percent from 19 percent, while keeping its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 4.5 percent. Policy makers meet next
on July 28.  “While there’s a consensus that the central bank will
probably raise the reserve requirement, it remains a wait-and-
see,” Bernardo-Recto said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 