-- 
Philippines May Raise Reserve Requirement

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-07-26T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/philippines-may-raise-reserve-requirement.html
The  Philippines  may refrain from
increasing interest rates and instead ask lenders to set aside
more reserves as the debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S. threaten
Asian growth while spurring capital flows to the region.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will maintain the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits at 4.5 percent, according to 15
of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a decision
tomorrow. Three say policy makers will lift the benchmark to
4.75 percent, and 12 out of 16 expect a reserve requirement rise.  Asia ’s central banks are juggling the need to shield their
economies against weaker exports while containing inflation,
which accelerated to a 26-month high in the Philippines in June.
 Malaysia , Indonesia and South Korea kept rates unchanged this
month as Thailand and  China  boosted borrowing costs amid rising
commodity prices and capital inflows, while  India  tightened by a
more-than-expected half a percentage point yesterday.  “Central banks are now diverging on monetary policy,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “They’re
playing on their domestic inflation drivers, avoiding tightening
more than required.”  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index surged to a record
close last week. The peso reached a three-year high this week
and has gained more than 9 percent in the past year as Asia’s
rising borrowing costs and faster growth lured funds away from
developed markets. Bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  and
concerns the U.S. may lose its AAA credit rating have prompted
investors to seek alternatives to the  U.S. dollar  and the euro.  Reserve Requirement  Bangko Sentral ordered lenders to set aside more money as
reserves last month while keeping its benchmark rate unchanged
after increasing it twice earlier this year. Governor Amando Tetangco boosted the reserve requirement to 20 percent from 19
percent effective June 24.  “The reserve requirement is a more directed approach to
the problem of liquidity,” said Rao.  Policy makers are ready to act to prevent asset-price
bubbles from forming as the central bank expects overseas funds
to continue flowing to emerging markets amid U.S. and European
debt woes, Tetangco said this week.  “Bangko Sentral is watching foreign-exchange flows to check
if any resulting domestic liquidity would be in excess and
translate to upward pressure in real and financial assets,”
Tetangco said July 25. “We don’t yet see any bubble-like
buildups, but we are ready to put on prudential measures to curb
such from forming.”  Risk to Earnings  Consumer prices increased 5.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since April 2009, according to data
from the  National Statistics Office  using 2006 as a base year.
Inflation was 4.6 percent using 2000 as a base year. The central
bank targets an average annual inflation rate of 3 percent to 5
percent this year and next, using the 2000 series.  Inflation pose a risk to  consumer spending  and company
earnings, threatening President Benigno Aquino’s growth target
of as much as 8 percent annually from 2011 to cut poverty.  Manila Electric Co., the Philippines’ biggest power
retailer, said it would charge customers higher prices last
month after power generation costs increased. Jollibee Foods
Corp., the nation’s largest restaurant operator, said in April
profit growth in the first half of 2011 may be restrained by
higher raw-material prices and operating costs.  Exports, which account for about 30 percent of the $161
billion economy, declined in May from a year earlier. Gross
domestic product expanded 4.9 percent in the first quarter, the
smallest gain since 2009.  Aquino, in his annual state of the nation address before
lawmakers this week, said his efforts to end corruption are
helping attract investments that will create jobs and boost
growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  