-- 
Politics Feeds Despair in Nation World Can Envy: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-07-26T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/politics-feeds-despair-in-nation-world-can-envy-william-pesek.html
A curious thing is afoot in
 Australia : pessimism that’s wildly at odds with the facts.  Looked at from almost any angle, the nation of 22 million
is on a tear. Unemployment is 4.9 percent, wages are rising
about 4 percent a year, consumer prices are advancing about 3
percent and interest rates have been steady all year. Policy
makers in  Europe , Japan and the U.S. would kill for those
numbers.  Yet  consumer confidence  is dismal, retail sales are down
and a big majority of voters want to kick out the government.
Economists, businesspeople and average Sydneysiders seem no
happier with their lot than New Yorkers, Parisians or Tokyoites.  What gives? The gloomy global scene gets some of the blame.
Noxious politics may provide a better explanation -- one that’s
found beyond Australia in  Japan , the U.S. and elsewhere.  The politics of pessimism is a tried-and-true formula.
Blame those in power for every conceivable ill, employing plenty
of hyperbole and lots of volume. It’s a sure way to dominate the
news cycle.  As 2011 unfolds, though, something feels different, more
apocalyptic. Politicians, radio shock jocks, TV pundits and
editorialists are tripping over themselves to call  Julia Gillard 
the worst prime minister Australia has ever seen, today’s
economic climate the most dismal and tomorrow’s outlook the most
disheartening in history.  Good Problems  Sure, Australia has its share of challenges. It must invest
more in infrastructure and education, and figure out what to do
with the spoils from the epic resources boom that has pitted
 Western Australia  against the rest of the nation, which faces
slower growth.  These are good problems to have at a time when Europe is on
course for default. Since the 2008 financial crisis, U.S. and
European policy makers have done little to fix the underlying
problems that caused the meltdown. Rather than adopting the
monumental reforms needed to restore economic growth, those in
power act as if the most arduous changes have already been made.
Opposition leaders, meanwhile, talk down their economies as
never before and stifle further attempts to keep the banking
industry from running off the rails again.  The global financial system is in desperate need of
leadership, big thinking and shared sacrifice. Leaders must
forget the next election, never mind the next news cycle, and
tell their voters what is at stake and what needs to be done to
prepare for a future in which China and other upstarts will
change everything.  Turning Point   Yet we seem to have reached a turning point in this
globalized, real-time, 24/7-news-cycle and jittery world of
ours. Although negativity always sells, these days it also seems
to take on a life of its own.  In the U.S., for example, the feverish Tea Party has many
Americans convinced that President  Barack Obama  is a socialist
bent on ruining the nation, when in fact it’s the congressional
stalemate on raising the debt ceiling that may inflict true and
lasting harm. In Japan, leaders of the opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  that put corporate interests and an out-of-
control nuclear industry in the driver’s seat claim that any
change will precipitate Armageddon.  Australia’s obstacles, by contrast, are far less dire,
though you wouldn’t know it from the tone of public discourse.
The country needs an honest and transparent debate about
harnessing the mining boom, but it’s getting a petty brawl
between Gillard and opposition leader  Tony Abbott . Anything
Gillard proposes, Abbott derides as economic suicide. Although
his views resonate with a nervous public, he isn’t offering
alternatives. It often seems he’s running a Tea Party-inspired
Party of No that’s intent on blocking every attempt at change.  Toxic Politics  The toxic tenor of politics has a surprising number of
Australians thinking the mining boom is somehow bad.  China ’s
demand for coal and iron ore is soaring, and that’s a plus. The
question is how this bounty is managed. The last thing Australia
needs is a case of “Dutch disease,” whereby the benefits of
exporting natural resources lead to the neglect and atrophy of
other sectors.  Gillard’s predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , tried to answer it with
a tax on mining profits that were deemed excessive. When
companies dig stuff out of the ground and ship it to China,
 India  and  Indonesia , they forget that those commodities belong
to the Australian people, too, Rudd argued, not just to mining
company shareholders. Rudd was defeated after a huge industry-
financed advertising campaign. The airwaves were ablaze with
tales of how the tax would kill the economy.  Savoring that victory, Australia’s business community now
figures it can dump Gillard. Her sin is making an effort to
lead. She is pushing something that’s inevitable globally as
temperatures and sea levels rise: a tax on  carbon emissions .  The knives are out and the punditocracy is telling
Australians they will be homeless if Gillard gets her way. It
would be silly if it weren’t so pernicious.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Sydney at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 