-- 
Polish Retail Sales Slowed in June, Signaling Weaker Economy

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-26T08:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/polish-retail-sales-slowed-in-june-signaling-weaker-economy-1-.html
Polish retail-sales growth slowed
for a second month in June, signaling a weaker economy and
easing pressure on the central bank to raise  interest rates .  Sales rose 10.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with
13.8 percent in May, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw
said today. The median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 11.8 percent. Sales rose 1.4 percent from May.  “Weaker food sales could well have been caused by fears
following the E. coli outbreak,” Piotr Bujak, an economist at
Bank Zachodni WBK, said by phone. “But today’s data does
generally confirm that we’ll be seeing slower economic growth.
The figures won’t look as impressive as they did at the
beginning of the year.”  Sales of food, drink and tobacco rose 3.1 percent in June
from the year-earlier period, compared with 5.9 percent in May
and as much as 11.6 percent in April.  The central bank left its main interest rate at 4.5 percent
this month, after four increases since January, as inflation
accelerated to the fastest in almost a decade. Rising prices and
high unemployment are hurting  consumer spending ,  Marcin Mrowiec ,
chief economist at Bank Pekao SA, said before the release.  Poland’s index for  consumer confidence  over the next year
worsened to minus 28.6 in June from minus 27.7 in May, the
Statistical Office said June 22.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 11.8 percent in June from
12.2 percent the previous month, the agency said today in a
separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  