-- 
U.S. Postal Service Says It May Shutter 3,700 Post Offices

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-26T20:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/postal-service-may-shut-about-3-700-mostly-rural-u-s-offices-to-cut-loss.html
The U.S. Postal Service, which may
run out of money in September, said it may close as many as
3,700, or 12 percent, of its post offices as customers buy more
services online and through locations such as grocery stores.  Post offices in every state but  Delaware  may close,
according to  a list  provided by the USPS today. More than half
are in rural locations, said Sue Brennan, a spokeswoman for the
service. In communities without a post office, the USPS plans to
sell stamps and offer services through local retailers.  The postal service, which reported a loss of $2.6 billion
for the quarter ended March 31, is seeking to cut costs as it
approaches its $15 billion borrowing limit. The closings may
save $200 million a year by saving costs for labor and for
operating the facilities, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe
said at a news conference in  Washington .  “A lot of the decisions we make around our operations are
based on the revenues that come into the operation,” Donahoe
said. The USPS has almost 32,000 post offices.  The post office in Yellow Pine,  Idaho , which has a
population of 32, according to the 2010 census, is on the list
for potential closing. So are stations in Avon, Montana,
population 111; Craig,  Nebraska , population 199; and
Bradfordsville,  Kentucky , population 294.  Eighty-four percent of the locations on the list take in
less than $27,500 in annual revenue and have less than two hours
of work a day, said Dean Granholm, delivery and post-office
operations vice president.  Bygone Era  The post-office network was built for a bygone era and
customers today need retail locations that are convenient for
where they live and work, Granholm said.  “We are wholly dependent on the sale of postage for
revenue,” he said. “Most businesses don’t operate locations
that operate at a loss.”  Bigger cities are also on the list.  New York City  may lose
34 stations under the proposal. Manhattan’s 26 Federal Plaza
office and the  Port Authority  are among its six potential
closings, while 17 could close in the Bronx, and  Brooklyn  may
lose five. Queens could lose five offices and Staten Island one
under the plan.  Post offices in  Newark ,  New Jersey  and Hoboken  among those 
being considered.  In Washington, 19 stations may be shut, including one in
the U.S. Capitol and four in House of Representatives office
buildings. The Agriculture, Labor, and State departments may
lose offices as well. The post office at Walter Reed Army
Medical Center, scheduled to close in September, is also listed.  Issa’s District  The potential closings also include one in Vista,
 California , represented by Republican Darrell Issa, chairman of
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
oversees the USPS. He has criticized the postal service for the
size of its workforce and facility network.  The postal service is seeking permission from Congress to
delay a required payment for future retiree health-care costs
and to end Saturday mail delivery as it seeks to cut costs.  Donahoe said closings will be easier than previous attempts
because of the plan to move services in areas with no nearby
post offices to retailers.  Today’s list is the third grouping of postal retail
facilities for possible closing since 2009. In January, the
postal service listed about 1,400 post offices and has shuttered
280 of them, Brennan said. From the 2009 list of about 3,600,
140 closed.  The USPS taking the right steps to stem losses, said Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for Postal Commerce.
The Arlington, Virginia-based group represents postal customers
including L.L. Bean Inc.,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)   “They have no other choice but to reduce redundant postal
facilities,” Del Polito said in an interview. “I think they’re
really serious this time. I get the sense that this is for
real.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  