-- 
Pramerica Adds India Telecom, Pharma as Rate Increases Near End

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-26T06:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/pramerica-adds-india-telecom-pharma-as-rate-increases-near-end.html
Ravi Gopalakrishnan, head of
equities at Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt., comments on the
 Reserve Bank  of  India ’s monetary policy. He spoke today in a
phone interview.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  by a
more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point to tackle the highest
inflation rate among major Asian economies. None of the 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted today’s decision, 20
estimated a quarter-point rise, while the remainder expected no
change.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
1.4 percent to 18,603.24 as of 11:51 a.m. Mumbai time, set for
the biggest decline in two weeks. The measure is the biggest
loser in  Asia  today.  On central-bank policy  “We sense RBI will continue to focus on inflation and
controlling inflationary expectation. This is definitely not
what the market expected, but we expect the steps will pay off
and inflation will be tempered in the second half, when RBI may
take its foot off the pedal. This will be comforting for stocks.  ‘‘The market is seeing a sort of knee-jerk reaction but the
downside seems to have been contained as investors realize that
the rate hikes will not continue forever.’’  On sector recommendations:  ‘‘We are increasing our weightage on capital goods,
pharmaceutical, telecom and road-construction sectors. We expect
the RBI to pause after inflation normalizes in September. We
expect rate-sensitive sectors to benefit from the end of rate-
tightening cycle. The stocks decline is an opportunity for
investors to buy with a one-year horizon.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  