-- 
Radiation Driving Japan Corn Cargo to Quarter-Century Low: Freight Markets

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-07-26T06:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/radiation-driving-japan-corn-cargo-to-quarter-century-low-freight-markets.html
Japan , the world’s biggest corn
importer, may buy the fewest cargoes in a quarter century as
concern about radiation-tainted meat curbs livestock production.  Corn shipments may drop 5 percent to 15.4 million metric
tons this year, according to Nobuyuki Chino, the president of
Tokyo-based Continental Rice Corp. Beef imports rose 11 percent
in the first five months and may maintain that pace for the rest
of the year, said Tetsuro Shimizu, chief researcher at
Norinchukin Research Institute Co.  Japanese farmers are contending with their biggest crisis
since an outbreak of mad-cow disease in 2001 after stores sold
meat from cattle fed with hay contaminated by the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. The surge in beef imports is
an opportunity for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc., the biggest U.S. providers to Japan, and the
shipping lines hauling supplies across the Pacific.  “I feel I had better avoid buying food from the stricken
area for our children,” said Emiko Hirano, a 50-year-old mother
of four living in the Chiba Prefecture east of Tokyo. “I am
very angry that the government has not taken appropriate
measures to ensure  food safety .”  The drop in Japanese corn demand may have little impact
globally, with the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecasting a
5.3 percent gain in export trade to 94.9 million tons in the
2011-2012 marketing year. China may buy as much as 5 million
tons this year to replenish stockpiles, said  Shawn McCambridge ,
a senior grain analyst at Jefferies Bache LLC in Chicago. It
imported 1.6 million tons last year, customs data show.  Feed Corn  Japan’s corn purchases in the first five months of the year
fell 4.5 percent to 6.47 million tons, according to government
data. Cargoes of feed corn slumped 8.2 percent to 4.05 million
tons. Archer Daniels Midland Co., based in Decatur,  Illinois ,
and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  of  White Plains ,  New York , are among companies
shipping to Japan, according to Chino.  Corn prices as much as doubled in the past 12 months as
global inventories declined. Farmers will fail to produce enough
again this harvest, driving world stockpiles to the lowest since
2006-2007, the USDA predicts. Japan’s projected imports would be
the lowest since the 1985-1986 marketing year, USDA data show.  The impact of the decline in Japanese corn demand on
commodity shipping will be limited. The 800,000-ton slide
forecast by Continental Rice Corp.’s Chino compares with the
3.43 billion tons of bulk commodities that Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker, expects
to be shipped this year.  Coarse Grain  Global cargoes of wheat and coarse grain, the category that
includes corn, will rise 2 percent to 252 million tons, Clarkson
estimates. Grain is usually hauled to Japan on supramax vessels
that can also carry coal and iron ore, said Derek Langston, a
London-based analyst at Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., a unit of
the world’s second-largest shipbroker.  The cost of hiring a supramax for a single voyage fell 28
percent in the past 12 months to $13,282 a day, according to the
London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes rates for more
than 50 maritime routes. The global fleet of supramaxes expanded
31 percent in a year, with orders for new vessels equal to 48
percent of existing capacity, data from Redhill, England-based
IHS Fairplay show.  U.S. beef exports to Japan will probably rise 33 percent to
140,000 tons this year, Philip Seng, chief executive officer of
the U.S. Meat Export Federation, said in May. Shares of Osaka-
based  Nippon Meat Packers Inc. (2282) , Japan’s biggest meat processor,
slumped 4.2 percent on July 19, when authorities banned cattle
shipments from Fukushima.  Four Decades  The U.S. is expected to ship the most beef ever this year,
according to Centennial, Colorado-based CattleFax, which has
researched the industry for four decades. The surge will help
generate record income of $94.7 billion this year for American
farmers, the government estimates.  The cargoes, typically carried in refrigerated steel boxes,
are also bolstering demand for shipping. An index for six types
of container rates from the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association
climbed 14 percent this year, extending a 132 percent advance in
2010. About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according
to the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Cattle futures traded on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange
increased 23 percent in the past 12 months. They reached a
record $1.21625 a pound on April 4 after the disaster in Japan
spurred speculation exports would accelerate.  Supermarket Chain  Japanese authorities found 2,906 cattle fed with hay
tainted by radioactive cesium and shipped to market, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said today. The
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was damaged by the magnitude-9
earthquake and 23-foot tsunami that hit Japan on March 11.  Aeon Co., the country’s biggest supermarket chain, said
yesterday that beef now suspected of being contaminated was
inadvertently put on sale at 174 stores across Japan.  Orders for domestic beef have declined this month, said
Kohei Akiyama, a spokesman for Nippon Meat Packers. He declined
to estimate the scale of the drop.  “Supermarkets are adding shelf-space for foreign beef and
reducing displays of local meat as the radioactive contamination
is widening,” said Susumu Harada, a senior director at the U.S.
Meat Export Federation in  Tokyo .  U.S. beef exports to Japan jumped 53 percent in the first
five months of the year and that expansion will probably
continue, said Takamichi Tawara, who runs Tyson’s Tokyo office.
Japan represented 10 percent of the Springdale, Arkansas-based
company’s $4.4 billion in international sales in the 2010 fiscal
year, according to a report on its website.  Net Income  Tyson will report a 4.4 percent drop in net income to
$745.9 million in its fiscal year ending in September, according
to the mean of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Shares of the company gained 5.3 percent this year, compared
with a 6.6 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “It’s the single most important thing for the
profitability of a protein company right now, growing exports,
because that means that margins expand,” said Timothy S. Ramey,
a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co., who
has a “buy” rating on Tyson. “We are the best supplier of
protein to the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  