-- 
RadioShack Increases After Saying It Will Offer Verizon Wireless Services

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-07-26T20:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/radioshack-rises-after-saying-it-will-carry-verizon-products.html
RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , the consumer-
electronics retailer, advanced the most in almost three-and-a-
half years after saying it will offer Verizon Wireless products
and services.  RadioShack rose $2.60, or 20 percent, to $15.69 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain since Feb. 26, 2008. The shares have declined 15 percent
this year.  Beginning Sept. 15, RadioShack will carry Verizon Wireless
services and products, including handsets, at its 4,300 company-
operated stores, according to a statement today. The retailer,
based in  Fort Worth , Texas, said it will end sales of T-Mobile
USA Inc. products.  “This trades the weak for the strong,”  David Strasser , an
analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said today in a
research note. Strasser, based in  New York , recommends buying
the shares.  RadioShack’s second-quarter net income dropped 53 percent
to $24.9 million, or 24 cents a share, from $53 million, or 41
cents, a year earlier, according to a separate statement today.
Profit excluding items totaled 31 cents a share, missing the 37-
cent average estimate of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  T-Mobile, based in Bellevue,  Washington , previously decided
to pull out of RadioShack in September “to increase the
effectiveness of our retail network,” according to a  statement 
on the company’s website.  “We are currently focused on higher-return national
retailer opportunities and we expect to announce new channel
growth in the coming weeks, which will more than double the
number of RadioShack doors currently offering T-Mobile products
and services,” T-Mobile said.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone
company, rose 6 cents to $36.28 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Shares of the New York-based company
have gained 1.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  