-- 
Barrel of Kentucky Bourbon Boosts Nonprofits With $1,000 Bottle

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rare-barrel-of-kentucky-bourbon-lifts-nonprofit-spirits-with-1-000-bottle.html
Where bison roamed in Frankfort,
 Kentucky , pioneers began brewing spirits back in the late 18th
century. Operating on the site and steeped in that tradition,
 Buffalo Trace Distillery  wants to give a piece of history to
charities.  It’s offering nonprofits 174 bottles of Kentucky straight
bourbon aged for 11 years in its  Millennium Barrel  and bottled
on Dec. 31, 1999.  “We knew we had a special barrel, and we didn’t know
exactly what we would do with it at first,” Kris Comstock,
Buffalo Trace’s brand manager, said in a phone interview from
his office in Frankfort. “Then we thought that it could go to a
much better use.”  Nonprofits have until midnight New York time tonight to
request a bottle of Millennium bourbon. If chosen, organizations
must auction it off for charity by Dec. 31. More than 150
charities have signed up, and Comstock said the bottles could
fetch bids of $1,000 each or more.  “We get requests daily for donations from people who are
behind amazing causes, and there’s no way we can know about all
the causes across the country,” he said. “We thought it would
be so much better for them to come to us and let us know what
their needs are.”  Rare wines and spirits often are prized items auctioned off
by charities and nonprofits to boost their annual fundraising
drives. Buffalo Trace regularly donates time and money to local
charities, Comstock said. The Millennium Barrel donation is the
first time in recent memory the distillery offered the contents
of a special barrel to charity.  Pappy Van Winkle  Prices for Buffalo Trace range from $20 for the straight
bourbon to more than $200 for its  Pappy Van Winkle  bourbon,
which  won the Best Whiskey Award  last year at the Los Angeles
International Wine & Spirits competition.  Comstock declined to name the charities that have applied
for the free bottles. The names of those chosen will be released
in early August on the Buffalo Trace website, he said.  “This way, if there’s a collector out there who wants it,
they could get a bottle from one of the charities,” he said.  Buffalo Trace aged the bourbon in a charred barrel stored
in a tiny, windowless, brick warehouse. The wood and fluctuating
temperatures over the seasons allow the bourbon “to interact
with the oak barrel” and “soak in flavors from the wood,”
Comstock said.  “It has a dryer and a more rich, oaky flavor,” Comstock
said about the Millennium. “There are 174 bottles of it, and
there will always be only 174 bottles that were ever produced.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 