-- 
Rating Downgrade for U.S. Is Now ‘Base Case’ Amid Budget Impasse, ISI Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-07-26T16:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rating-downgrade-for-u-s-is-now-base-case-amid-budget-impasse-isi-says.html
The odds of the U.S. failing to
reach a budget deal by Aug. 2 are about 40 percent, and a
reduction of the nation’s credit rating “now seems the base
case,” according to Andrew Laperriere, a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment in Washington.  Laperriere said in a note to clients today that there are
“strong policy and political incentives” for President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  to reach a deal. “That’s
still possible, but a deal that would alter the trajectory” of
the ratio of federal debt to gross domestic product “now
appears unlikely,” he wrote.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there is a 50 percent chance it
would be cut in the next 90 days even if an agreement is reached
by Aug. 2.  “We may lower the long-term rating on the U.S. by one or
more notches into the ‘AA’ category in the next three months, if
we conclude that Congress and the administration have not
achieved a credible solution to the rising U.S. government debt
burden and are not likely to achieve one in the foreseeable
future,” S&P said.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell three basis points to 2.97
percent at 12:21 p.m. after earlier reaching 3.04 percent, the
highest since July 11.  “I don’t think any holder of  U.S. debt  is really worried
about not getting paid back, regardless of what a rating agency
would say,” Joshua Feinman, chief economist at Deutsche Asset
Management in  New York , said in a conference call with
reporters.  Obama Warning  U.S. political leaders continued to debate how to resolve
the debt limit yesterday, with Obama warning of a “deep
economic crisis” without a compromise to avert default in a
prime-time television address. Boehner, a Republican from  Ohio ,
responded from the U.S. Capitol that the president wants a
“blank check.”  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review by
Moody’s Investors Service on July 13 for the first time since
1996 on concern the debt threshold won’t be raised in time to
prevent a missed interest or principal payment on outstanding
bonds and notes, even though the risk remains low, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; 