-- 
RBA’s Stevens Sees End to ‘Gloomy’ Consumer Confidence on Trade-Led Growth

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-26T04:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rba-s-stevens-sees-end-to-gloomy-consumer-on-australian-trade-led-growth.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the nation’s subdued household spending will
likely rebound “at some point” as consumers gain confidence in
the sustainability of mining-led growth.  “As a better sense of the degree of persistence is gained,
people will probably be more confident to spend than perhaps
they are just now,” he said today in Sydney. “It is entirely
possible that, were some of the current raft of uncertainties to
lessen, the mood could lift noticeably, so I don’t think we need
to be totally gloomy.”  Australian households are saving more as assets including
stocks and houses decline in value. A 21 percent rise in the
local dollar in the past year, spurred by a surge in mining
investment to meet demand from  India  and  China , is hurting the
manufacturing and tourism industries.  While Stevens didn’t comment on the future of  interest
rates  today in his prepared remarks, he said “intense
speculation about how they might change are said to have had an
impact on confidence -- even after a period of more than a year
in which the cash rate has changed only once, the most stable
outcome for five years.”  Tomorrow’s government report on the  consumer price index 
will help determine the trajectory of interest rates, the RBA
said last week in minutes of its July 5 policy meeting. The
Australian currency was little changed after Stevens’s comments.
It earlier rose to within a cent of its highest level since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Rate Outlook  Responding to audience questions after the speech, Stevens
declined to comment about the outlook for inflation or monetary
policy.  In his speech, Stevens said the rise in the nation’s terms
of trade, a measure of income from exports, has probably ended
and  any future increase in consumption is likely to be
“moderate.” That raises the need for policy makers to boost
worker productivity to ensure income gains.  “That sort of an environment would be one in which the
cautious consumer might feel inclined towards well-based
optimism, and re-open the purse strings,” he said.  He said the shift to slower consumption growth is a “point
of optimism” because it strengthens household finances. Income
from the resources boom benefits the rest of the economy through
several channels, including a “quite high”  exchange rate  that
boosts purchasing power, Stevens said in response to questions.  Mining Shift  Australia  is undergoing what Stevens and other economists
call a structural change -- a shift in productive capacity to
the mining and construction industries while the stronger
currency hurts exporters, education, tourism and manufacturing.
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government estimates that mining
investment will reach A$76 billion ($83 billion) this fiscal
year.  “It is not unreasonable for a nation to save a good deal
of a sudden rise in national income conferred via a jump in the
terms of trade, until it becomes clearer how persistent that new
level of income is,” Stevens said.  “The saving rate, debt burdens and wealth will at some
stage reach levels at which people are more comfortable,” he
said. “We could then reasonably expect to see consumption
record more growth than it has in the past few years.” Since
the RBA’s July 5 meeting, private reports have shown weaker
business and  consumer confidence .  Falling Sentiment  Consumer sentiment this month plunged by the most since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, a survey from
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute showed. Business
confidence dropped to a six-month low, according to a  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more than 400 companies from June
24 to June 30.  Stevens has kept borrowing costs unchanged since his last
increase in November as the economy recovered from the country’s
costliest floods and the labor market lost 5,400 jobs in the
April-June period, the weakest quarter since 2001. At 4.75
percent, the nation’s benchmark interest rate is the highest
among the world’s developed economies.  Westpac Banking Corp. on July 15 became the first of
Australia’s four largest banks to predict that the RBA’s next
move will be a rate cut in December. The Sydney-based bank’s
prediction was an outlier in a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists, in which the median estimate was for a quarter-point
increase in November.  Westpac, with A$279 billion in home loans outstanding, said
in a July 15 statement that “interest rates are too high in
Australia given the state of the non-mining sectors of the
domestic economy.”  Unemployment Rate   Also this month,  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , the second-biggest
department store chain, cut its profit forecast on what it
called an “unprecedented” decline in demand.  The stronger dollar, by reducing import costs, has helped
contain inflation while the unemployment rate declined to 4.9
percent in June from 5.8 percent two years earlier. Mining and
energy companies are hiring workers to help meet demand from
China and India for Australia’s coal and iron ore.  The so-called Aussie climbed to as high as $1.0918 and
bought $1.0907 as of 2:26 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0845 yesterday
in  New York .  “Structural change is something people rarely find
comfortable in the short term, even though a capacity to adapt
is a characteristic displayed by the most successful
economies,” Stevens said today. Retailers are in “very tough”
shape, he said.  Europe , U.S.  Leaders of European Union nations on July 21 reached an
agreement on a second rescue package for  Greece  worth 159
billion euros ($229 billion) and strengthened the region’s
bailout mechanism to offer protection to other euro-region
nations in a bid to stamp out contagion from the debt crisis.  The plan for Greece includes 50 billion euros in
contributions from private investors through bond exchanges and
buybacks to cut Europe’s biggest debt, a move the rating
companies said constitutes a technical default.  “European policy makers continue to face a very delicate
task in preserving the combination of fiscal sustainability and
the single currency,” Stevens said. “Concerns about the U.S.
fiscal position have also increased, though this has not been
reflected, at this point, in market prices for  U.S. debt .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  