-- 
RBA’s Stevens Speaks on ‘The Cautious Consumer’ (Full Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 
2011-07-26T03:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rba-s-stevens-speaks-on-the-cautious-consumer-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
speech today by  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens ,
excluding two charts and footnotes moved to the end, as part of
his presentation to a group of business economists and
executives in Sydney.  The Cautious Consumer  Thank you for coming out once again in support of the Anika
Foundation.(1) I want also to thank in particular  Macquarie Bank 
and the Australian Business Economists for their continuing
support of this annual series.  In last year’s Anika Foundation address, I talked about the
fiscal difficulties being faced by governments of some of the
world’s largest countries in the wake of the financial crisis. A
theme of that talk was that a number of major advanced economies
had been facing for a while the need to address long-term
structural issues in their fiscal accounts. In large part these
stemmed from the inevitable collision of long-run trends in
demographics and entitlements. A deep recession and the prospect
of a slow recovery have brought forward the pressure to face
these issues.  Over the past year, we have seen the focus on fiscal
sustainability continue to increase. The problems have been most
acute in  Greece , though unfortunately not confined to it. Greece
is a small country that has nonetheless assumed considerable
significance. The citizens of Greece are now experiencing an
austerity regime of historic proportions, which is a pre-
condition for access to the foreign official funding that will
allow them to meet their near-term obligations. But the longer-
term solution surely will involve the taxpayers of  Europe 
accepting part of the costs of restoring Greece to
sustainability. The recent agreement appears to be a further
step in that direction, with risk being shifted from the private
sector onto the European public sector. I would view this as a
step on the road to an eventual solution, though European
policymakers continue to face a very delicate task in preserving
the combination of fiscal sustainability and the single currency.  Concerns about the US fiscal position have also increased,
though this has not been reflected, at this point, in market
prices for US debt. The immediate need is for the US authorities
to lift the debt ceiling, then for them to work towards longer-
term sustainability.  In both the US and European cases, the process of allowing
things to go right to the brink of a very disruptive event
before an agreement is reached on the way forward has been a
source of great uncertainty and anxiety around the world.  That anxiety has extended to  Australia , even though, as I am
sure people are sick of hearing me say, Australia is in the
midst of a once-in-a-century event in our terms of trade. I
won’t recite the facts yet again. Suffice to say that this is,
at least potentially, the biggest gift the global economy has
handed Australia since the gold rush of the 1850s.  Yet it seems we are, at the moment, mostly unhappy. Measures of
confidence are down and there is an evident sense of caution
among households and firms. It seems to have intensified over
the past few months.  There are a number of potential factors to which we can appeal
for an explanation of these recent trends. The natural disasters
in the summer clearly had an effect on confidence, for example.
 Interest rates , or intense speculation about how they might
change, are said to have had an impact on confidence - even
after a period of more than a year in which the cash rate has
changed only once, the most stable outcome for five years.
Increasingly bitter political debates over various issues are
said by some to have played a role as well. The global outlook
does seem more clouded due to the events in Europe and the
 United States . We could note, on the other hand, that the
Chinese slowdown we have all been anticipating seems to be
relatively mild so far - that country has continued to expand at
a pretty solid pace as measured by the most recent data. But
these days, mention of the Chinese expansion reminds people that
the emergence of  China  is changing the shape of the global
economy and of the Australian economy. And structural change is
something people rarely find comfortable in the short term, even
though a capacity to adapt is a characteristic displayed by the
most successful economies.  So the description of consumers as ‘cautious’ has become
commonplace. It is not one I disagree with. Indeed the RBA has
made such references on numerous occasions over the past couple
of years.  Nor do I wish to dismiss any of the concerns that people have.
People want to make sense of the disparate information that is
coming at them.  I want to suggest that to do that - to make sense of it all - it
is worth trying to develop a longer-run perspective,
particularly in the area of  household income , spending, and
saving. That is my task today.  I have two charts that I think help us to understand the story.  These figures are from the quarterly national accounts (Graph 1).
The top panel shows the level of household disposable income,
and household consumption spending. Income as shown here takes
account of taxes, transfers and household interest payments.
Both series are measured in real per capita terms, and shown on
a log scale. In the lower panel is the gross household saving
ratio, which is of course the difference between the other two
lines expressed as a share of income. (2)  Also shown is a trend line for each of the income and
consumption series, estimated using ordinary least squares, over
the period 1995-2005. The trend is then extrapolated for the 21
quarters since the end of 2005.  Notice that the trend growth for real per capita household
income over the period 1995 to 2005 was 2.0 per cent per annum.
That’s a pretty respectable rate of growth for an advanced
country. It was more than double the growth rate seen in the
preceding two decades from 1975 to 1995. Growth at that pace
means that the average real income doubles about every 35 years.  Notice also that the trend line for consumption was steeper than
that for income over the same period. These two lines were on
their way to meeting. Real per capita consumption growth
averaged 2.8 per cent per annum. This was a full percentage
point higher than in the preceding ten-year period, and similar
to the sorts of per capita growth rates for consumption seen in
the late 1960s and early 1970s.  For ten years up to 2005, then, consumption growth outpaced
income growth, which was itself pretty solid, by three-quarters
of a percentage point, on average, every year. In fact this
convergence of income and consumption was the continuation of a
trend that had already been in place for about a decade. As the
bottom panel shows, the flow of saving fell as a share of income.  As you can see, things began to change after that. From about
2006, real per capita income began to grow faster. Over the five
years to the end of 2010, it rose by 2.9 per cent per annum. It
may not be entirely coincidental that that period is when the
terms of trade really began to rise in earnest.  Yet from about the end of 2007, even as income was speeding up,
household consumption spending slowed down. In per capita terms,
real consumption today is no higher than three years ago. It’s
no wonder that people are talking about consumer caution, and no
wonder that retailers are finding things very tough indeed.
Coming after a period in which real consumption had risen by 2.8
per cent a year for a decade, and had outpaced income growth for
two decades, no net growth in consumption for three years is
quite a big change.  But these figures suggest that lack of income growth is not the
reason for lack of consumption growth. It’s not that the income
is not there, it’s that people are choosing, for whatever reason,
not to spend it in the same way as they might have a few years
ago.  Why is that? To find an answer we need to look to the financial
accounts of the household sector. It is now time to introduce
the second chart (Graph 2). It shows gross household assets,
also measured per capita, in real terms (i.e. deflated by the
consumption deflator). The two components are financial assets
(including superannuation assets) and non-financial assets, the
bulk of which is dwellings. These data say that gross assets
across Australian households presently average about $800,000
per household, or about $300,000 per capita.  Between 1995 and 2005, assets rose at an average annual pace of
6.7 per cent in real, per capita terms. Completely comparable
figures for earlier periods are hard to come by. But it’s pretty
clear that this increase stood out.  Using the Treasury’s series for private wealth, from 1960 to
1995 the annual average per capita rate of increase in total
wealth, in real terms, was 2.6 per cent. That is, it was broadly
similar to the per capita growth rate of real GDP, which is what
one would expect. So the growth from 1995 to 2005 was at a pace
well over double the average of the preceding three or four
decades. A large part of the additional growth was in the value
of dwellings. The extent of leverage against the dwelling stock
also tended to increase, with the ratio of debt to total assets
rising from 11 per cent at the start of 1995 to around 17½ per
cent by the end of 2005. It has tended to rise a little further
since then.  Had we really found a powerful, hitherto unknown route to
genuine wealth? Or was this period unusual?  Looking back, it appears the latter was the case. In 2008, the
trend changed. Real assets per person declined for a period
during the financial crisis. Given the nature of that event and
the potential risks it presented, that is not surprising. Real
asset prices have since risen again but, so far, have not
resumed the earlier trend rate of increase, and at this stage
they show no signs of doing so. They look very much like they
are on a much flatter trend.  This adjustment has been considerably less abrupt than those
seen in some other places. Nonetheless, it is a very substantial
change in trend. If people had been banking on a continuation of
the earlier trend, they would be feeling rather disappointed now.
Of course if that earlier trend in gross wealth owed something
to a tendency to borrow to hold assets, then a continuation
would have exposed households to increased risk over time.  Casual observation suggests that this change of trend in the
growth of assets, or ‘wealth’, roughly coincided with the
slowing in consumption spending relative to its earlier very
strong trend. It seems fairly clear that these financial trends
and the real consumption and saving behaviour of households were
closely connected.  I would argue that the broad story was as follows. The period
from the early 1990s to the mid 2000s was characterised by a
drawn-out, but one-time, adjustment to a set of powerful forces.
Households started the period with relatively little leverage,
in large part a legacy of the effect of very high nominal
interest rates in the long period of high inflation. But then,
inflation and interest rates came down to generational lows.
Financial liberalisation and innovation increased the
availability of credit. And reasonably stable economic
conditions - part of the so-called ‘great moderation’
internationally - made a certain higher degree of leverage seem
safe. The result was a lengthy period of rising household
leverage, rising housing prices, high levels of confidence, a
strong sense of generally rising prosperity, declining saving
from current income and strong growth in consumption.  I was not one of those who felt that this was bound to end in
tears. But it was bound to end. Even if one holds a benign view
of higher levels of  household debt , at a certain point, people
will have increased their leverage to its new equilibrium level
(or, if you are a pessimist, beyond that point). At that stage,
debt growth will slow to be more in line with income, the rate
of saving from current income will rise to be more like
historical norms, and the financial source of upward pressure on
housing values will abate. (There may be other non-financial
forces at work of course.)  It is never possible to predict with confidence just when this
change will begin to occur, or what events might potentially
trigger it. But an international financial crisis that envelops
several major countries, which has excessive borrowing by
households at its heart, and which is coupled with a major
change in the global availability of credit, is an event that
would be likely to prompt, if nothing else did, a reassessment
by Australian households of the earlier trends. It would also
prompt a re-evaluation by financial institutions of lending
criteria. This is precisely what has occurred over recent years.
(3)  What are the implications of these changes?  An important one is that, as I said at a previous Anika
Foundation lunch two years ago, the role of the household sector
in driving demand forward in the future won’t be the same as in
the preceding period.(4) The current economic expansion is, as
we all know, characterised by a very large build-up in
investment in the resources sector and expansionary flow-on
effects of that to some, but not all, other sectors of the
economy. It is certainly not characterised by very strong growth
in areas like household consumption that had featured
prominently in the preceding period.  That is partly because the change in the terms of trade, being a
relative price shift, will itself occasion structural change in
the economy: some sectors will grow and others will, relatively
speaking, get smaller. That is particularly the case if the
economy’s starting point is one that is not characterised by
large-scale spare capacity.  But those pressures for structural change are also coinciding
with changes in household behaviour that are associated with the
longer-run financial cycles I have just talked about. Just as
some sectors are having to cope with the effects of changes in
relative prices - manifest to most of us in the form of a large
rise in the  exchange rate  - some sectors are also seeing the
impacts of a shift in household behaviour towards more
conservatism after a long period of very confident behaviour.  It would be perfectly reasonable to argue that it is very
difficult for everyone to cope with both these sets of changes
together - not to mention other challenges that are in focus at
the same time. However, if we were to think about how things
might have otherwise unfolded - if households had been
undergoing these shifts in saving and spending decisions without
the big rise in income that is occurring, to which the terms of
trade have contributed - it is very likely that we would have
had a considerably more difficult period of adjustment.  What then about the future? Can we look forward to a time when
these adjustments to household saving and balance sheets have
been completed? We can. To return to the first of my two charts,
the current divergent trends between income and consumption
spending are no more sustainable than the previous trends
ultimately were. At some point, the two lines are likely to stop
moving apart. That is, the saving rate, debt burdens and wealth
will at some stage reach levels at which people are more
comfortable, and consumption (and probably debt) will grow in
line with income, with a relatively steady saving rate. We could
then reasonably expect to see consumption record more growth
than it has in the past few years. After all, it is very unusual
for real consumption per person not to grow.  We cannot really know, of course, when that might happen.
Doubtless it will depend on what else is occurring. We can note
that the rise in the saving rate over the past five years has
been much faster than its fall was in the preceding decade. In
fact it is, at least as measured, the biggest adjustment of its
kind we have had in the history of quarterly national accounts
data. So the adjustment in behaviour to what should be a more
sustainable relationship between spending and income has in fact
proceeded pretty quickly (which is presumably why it has become
such a prominent topic of discussion). That in turn means that
the time when more ‘normal’ patterns of consumption growth recur
is closer than it would have been with a more drawn-out
adjustment. Viewed in long-run perspective, it is not
unreasonable for a nation to save a good deal of a sudden rise
in national income conferred via a jump in the terms of trade,
until it becomes clearer how persistent that new level of income
is. As a better sense of the degree of persistence is gained,
people will probably be more confident to spend than perhaps
they are just now. It is entirely possible that, were some of
the current raft of uncertainties to lessen, the mood could lift
noticeably, so I don’t think we need to be totally gloomy.  But what is ‘normal’? Will the ‘good old days’ for consumption
growth of the 1995-2005 period be seen again?  I don’t think they can be, at least not if the growth depends on
spending growth outpacing growth in income and leverage
increasing over a lengthy period. A rapidly rising saving rate
isn’t normal, but nor is a continually falling one. While the
rise in the saving rate has been unusually rapid, the level of
the saving rate we have seen recently looks a lot more ‘normal’,
in historical perspective, than the much lower one we saw in the
middle of last decade.  A return to those earlier sorts of growth rates for consumption
would instead require, and could only really be sustainably
based on, a continuation of the faster pace of income growth we
have seen since about 2006. To the extent that that income
growth has been a result of the increase in the terms of trade,
however, it probably won’t be sustained at the same pace. The
level of income will probably stay quite high - above the level
implied by the earlier trend - unless the terms of trade
collapse. But the rise in the terms of trade has probably now
come to an end. So the rate of growth of per capita income could
be expected, all other things equal, to moderate from its recent
unusually strong performance.
If we want to sustain the rate of growth of incomes, and hence
lay the basis for a return in due course to the sorts of growth
of spending seen in the golden period of 1995-2005, we will have
to look elsewhere. As everyone in this room would know, there is
only one source of ongoing higher rates of growth of real per
capita incomes, and that is higher rates of growth of
productivity. Everyone here also knows that it is now just about
impossible to avoid the conclusion that productivity growth
performance has been quite poor since at least the mid 2000s.  So everything comes back to productivity. It always does. It has
been observed before that past periods of apparently easy
affluence, conferred by favourable international conditions,
probably lessened the sharpness of our focus on productivity.
Conversely, the will to reform was probably most powerful when
the terms of trade reached a long-term low in the mid 1980s.
Those reforms ushered in a period of strong productivity growth.  The thing that Australia has perhaps rarely done, but that would,
if we could manage it, really capitalise on our recent good
fortune, would be to lift productivity performance while the
terms of trade are high. The income results of that would, over
time, provide the most secure base for strong increases in
 living standards . That sort of an environment would be one in
which the cautious consumer might feel inclined towards well-
based optimism, and re-open the purse strings.  Footnotes:  1) The Anika Foundation supports research into adolescent
depression and suicide. See: << http://www.anikafoundation.com/ >>.  2) The measure here differs from the commonly cited net saving
rate, which deducts an estimate of depreciation of the stock of
fixed assets (such as dwellings) owned by households.  3) I am conscious that this explanation has not made explicit
reference to demographics - in particular the decisions of ‘ baby
boomers ’ in the years leading up to their planned retirements.
No doubt these factors also played a role. But there is enough
complexity to grapple with here already for today’s purposes. I
have spoken before about population ageing and finance. See:
<< http://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2005/sp-dg-161105.html >>.  4) ‘… the prominence of household demand in driving the
expansion from the mid 1990s to the mid 2000s should not be
expected to recur in the next upswing. The rise in household
leverage, the much lower rate of saving out of current income,
and the rise in asset values we saw since the mid 1990s, are far
more likely to have been features of a one-time adjustment,
albeit a fairly drawn-out one, than of a permanent trend.
Moreover the risks associated with those trends going too far
are apparent from events in other countries. These risks have
been reasonably contained so far in Australia - but it would be
prudent not to push our luck here.’ See:
<< http://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2009/sp-gov-280709.html >>.
 