-- 
RBC Targets Money-Management Takeovers of Up to C$1 Billion

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-26T21:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rbc-seeks-to-spend-as-much-as-c-1-billion-on-asset-management-takeovers.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  may spend as
much as C$1 billion ($1.06 billion) to buy asset managers
outside Canada as the country’s largest lender seeks to triple
profit from wealth management in the next four years.  “We would be interested in small and medium-sized
acquisitions that could bolster our U.K., European and  Asia 
equity capabilities,” said  George Lewis , group head of wealth
management, in a July 22 interview in Toronto.  Royal Bank set an annual profit goal of C$2 billion from
wealth management by 2015, or three times more than the C$669
million it earned from the business in the fiscal year ended
Oct. 31, Lewis said.  About 30 percent of that growth is based on financial
markets delivering a 6 percent average annual return over the
period and “normalized”  interest rates , Lewis, 51, said.  “To the extent that the market environment is not as
favorable in the near term, perhaps that will provide some
acquisition opportunities to bolster our growth,” Lewis said.  Royal Bank has been expanding its wealth-management unit
through acquisitions in the past four years, including its
C$1.52 billion takeover of London-based BlueBay Asset Management
Plc in December. The purchase of BlueBay, a  money manager  that
specializes in fixed-income funds, added $40 billion in assets
under management to Royal Bank’s business.  The BlueBay acquisition, along with Royal Bank’s C$1.33
billion takeover of Vancouver-based Phillips, Hager & North
Investment Management Ltd. in 2008, is expected to drive
“significant growth” toward the five-year goal, Lewis said.  Consumer Lending  Canadian banks have been building up their wealth-
management operations to help counter an expected slowdown in
consumer lending in  Canada , as debt-laden borrowers curb
spending amid concerns that interest rates will rise.  Royal Bank reorganized its wealth-management business in
November, moving from three geographic areas to four -- Canada,
the U.S., U.K. and emerging markets -- to serve wealthy clients
in international markets.  “We do view wealth management as a segment of financial
services that will grow at a faster rate than the average
financial-services business,” Lewis said.  Wealth management will outpace other banking operations due
to increased demands from an aging population and as more people
build wealth, particularly in emerging economies, according to
Lewis.  Affluent Clients  Royal Bank serves affluent individuals in Canada, the U.S.,
 Latin America ,  Europe ,  Middle East ,  Africa  and Asia, and
provides asset-management products and services to institutional
and individual clients through its RBC Global Asset Management
business. Royal Bank’s wealth-management unit has more than
C$535 billion of assets under administration and more than C$300
billion under management.  In Canada, Royal Bank is looking to boost its market share
of serving wealthy clients to 20 percent in the next five years,
from 16 percent now, Lewis said.  Royal Bank also aims to improve its U.S. wealth business,
where it seeks to increase revenue per adviser to levels in
Canada, Lewis said. Royal Bank’s Canadian advisers bring in
revenue of about C$1 million a year, compared with $600,000 in
the U.S., he said.  The bank is also adding more products to appeal to wealthy
clients and institutional investors, including  hedge funds  and
exchange-traded funds.  Exchange-Traded Funds  “We have a fund-of-funds capability that is U.S.-based
that we’re looking to bring to Canada,” Lewis said. “We’re
constantly looking for additional offerings.”  RBC Global Asset Management filed papers with regulators
earlier this month for eight corporate bond exchange-traded
funds.  “Given that we’re the largest user of ETFs from an adviser
and a client perspective, we’re interested in providing as much
as we can” in this growing market, Lewis said.  RBC Wealth Management was recognized this month as one of
the world’s 10 largest money managers in an annual survey of the
global wealth industry by Scorpio Partnership, a consulting
firm.  Royal Bank fell 76 cents, or 1.4 percent, to C$52.06 at 4
p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen
0.5 percent this year, compared with the 1.5 percent increase of
the 10-company S&P/TSX Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  