-- 
Treasury 10-Year Note Yields Rise to Two-Week High on U.S. Debt Deadlock

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-26T12:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/treasuries-pare-gains-after-obama-boehner-speak-on-debt-ceiling-talks.html
Treasury 10-year note yields touched
a two-week high after speeches by President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  showed they still disagree on how to
raise the borrowing limit.  Yields on two-year notes fluctuated after matching a two-
week high before today’s $35 billion auction of the securities.
The difference between yields on 10-year notes and inflation-
linked debt reached to the widest since May on concern the U.S.
credit rating may be lowered. The dollar fell to a record
against the Swiss franc.  “Treasuries are grinding higher in accommodation for the
supply, as well as the pricing in of the risk of a payment
disruption and downgrade of the U.S. credit rating,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We’re optimistic on the auction, given
the broader support for Treasuries.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.01 percent at 8:50 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 30/32.  The 10-year note yields touched 3.04 percent, the highest
level since July 11. Two-year notes yielded 0.40 percent after
touching 0.42 percent, matching the highest level since July 8.  ‘Deep Economic Crisis’  Obama warned in a televised speech yesterday in Washington
of a “deep economic crisis” unless Republicans and Democrats
can agree on how to raise the $14.3 trillion federal borrowing
limit and find accord on reining in future spending. Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, who spoke afterwards from the U.S. Capitol,
said Obama was asking for a “blank check.”  Earlier in the day, Boehner and the Democratic leader in
the Senate,  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , announced competing plans to
raise the debt ceiling. Reid dropped Democrats’ insistence on
tax increases, a move favored by Obama.  Treasuries with the longest maturities will have the
biggest declines if the U.S. loses its top-level debt rating,
said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who manages
the world’s biggest bond fund, in a Twitter posting.  “Investors wonder what it will be in 2041!” wrote Gross,
co-chief investment officer at Pimco, which is based in  Newport
Beach ,  California .  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2 unless
the borrowing limit is increased. The impasse in  Washington  has
increased the probability  Standard & Poor’s  will cut the U.S.
credit rating from AAA within three months to 50 percent, the
company reiterated July 21.  Default Swaps  It cost more to insure U.S. Treasuries for one year than
for five years for the first time, as investors anticipated that
a failure to raise the debt ceiling will prompt rating companies
to declare the nation in default.  One-year credit-default swaps spiked to a record 80 basis
points today, according to BNP Paribas SA, up from 46 basis
points on July 22. The contracts now exceed five-year swaps by
23 basis points. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The dollar fell to a record low against the Swiss franc and
approached its postwar low versus the yen as Obama and Boehner
dueled over the budget limit. Spot gold climbed to a record high
$1,624.07 an ounce yesterday.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, widened to as much as 2.49 percentage points,
the highest level in more than two months.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.425 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.395 percent at the prior
sale June 27. Investors bid for 3.08 times the amount of debt
available last month, less than the average of 3.39 for the past
10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 22 percent of the notes at the
June sale, the least since February 2008.  The Treasury is also scheduled to sell $35 billion of five-
year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on
July 28.  The central bank is scheduled to buy $2.75 billion to $3.5
billion of Treasuries due from August 2018 to May 2021 today,
according to the  New York  Fed’s  website . The Fed is investing
the principal payments from its debt holdings in Treasuries as
part of its efforts to spur the economy.  Purchases of new U.S. homes probably stagnated in June,
economists said before a report today. Sales grew 320,000 last
month from a year ago, little changed from the 319,000 annual
rate of the previous month, according to the median forecast of
71 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s Commerce
Department report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  