-- 
Regions Posts Second-Quarter Profit on Lower Provision

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-26T21:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/regions-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-lower-credit-provisions.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph to delete reference to federal
judge.)  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-
largest U.S. bank by deposits, reported its third-consecutive
profit as loan-loss provisions declined.  Second-quarter net income was $109 million, or 8 cents per
share, compared with a net loss of $277 million, or 23 cents, a
year earlier, the Birmingham, Alabama-based bank said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a loss of less than 1 cent per share, or net
income of $29.2 million, according to 17 analysts. Second-
quarter results excluded $54 million, or 4 cents per share, in
preferred dividends. In the year-earlier period, preferred
dividends totaled $58 million, or 5 cents per share.  Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall, 54, is attempting to
return the bank to sustainable profitability after posting six
consecutive losses starting in 2009 as developers, house
builders and mortgage borrowers in the U.S. Southeast struggled
to repay debts. Regions hasn’t paid back $3.5 billion in
government bailout money.  “Our results this quarter further demonstrate that our
strategy for sustainable profitability is working,” Hall said
in the statement.  Regions set aside $398 million for bad loans in the
quarter, a 39 percent decrease from the year-earlier period. Net
charge-offs totaled $548 million, down from $651 million in the
second quarter last year.  Loans decreased 5.5 percent to $81.2 billion at the end of
the second quarter from the same time last year, as investor
real estate loans fell 29 percent to $13.4 billion. Hall is
pushing to add consumer loans to the bank’s portfolio to balance
business lending.  Bank Gets Subpoenas  Total revenue increased 2 percent to $1.65 billion from
$1.61 billion a year earlier. Net interest income in the second
quarter rose to $864 million from $856 million last year. The
Tier 1 common capital ratio widened to 7.9 percent from 7.7
percent a year earlier. The net interest margin, the difference
between what a bank pays in deposits and charges for loans,
widened to 3.05 percent from 2.87 percent last year.  Regions has received inquiries and subpoenas from
government officials regarding accounting matters that have also
been the subject of pending civil litigation against the
company, Hall said today on a conference call after earnings
were announced. “These inquiries relate to 2009 and earlier
periods and do not have any bearing on our present financial
statements,” Hall said.  Non-interest expense fell 3 percent in the second quarter
to $1.2 billion, and Chief Financial Officer David Turner said
the bank will consolidate about 40 branches later this year.  Interchange Revenue  Swipe-fee regulations will cut $170 million from annual
debit-card interchange revenue, Regions said in the statement.
In June, the  Federal Reserve  set a 21-cent cap on debit-card
transactions. Regions will mitigate the impact through “revenue
enhancements and expense management,” the bank said.  The bank’s Morgan Keegan unit reported net income of $60
million, compared with a net loss of $180 million in the same
period last year. Regions said last month it hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to evaluate options for part of  Memphis , Tennessee-
based Morgan Keegan after paying $200 million to settle
regulators’ claims over subprime mortgage-backed securities.  “It’s a very valuable business,” Hall said on the call.
“Our preference is to sort of maintain some type of strategic
alliance.”  Regions rose 15 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $6.36 at 1:03
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had fallen 11 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 