-- 
Republican Leaders Voted for Debt Drivers They Blame on Obama

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/republican-leaders-voted-for-drivers-of-u-s-debt-they-now-blame-on-obama.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  often
attacks the spendthrift ways of Washington.  “In Washington, more spending and more debt is business as
usual,” the Republican leader from  Ohio  said in a televised
address yesterday amid debate over the  U.S. debt . “I’ve got
news for Washington - those days are over.”  Yet the speaker, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , House
Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  all voted for major drivers of the nation’s debt
during the past decade: Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the 2001
and 2003 Bush tax cuts and Medicare prescription drug benefits.
They also voted for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP,
that rescued financial institutions and the  auto industry .  Together, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News,
these initiatives added $3.4 trillion to the nation’s accumulated
debt and to its current annual  budget deficit  of $1.5 trillion.  As Congress nears votes to raise the $14.3-trillion debt
ceiling to avert a default on U.S. obligations when borrowing
authority expires on Aug. 2, both parties are attempting to
claim a mantle of fiscal responsibility. They both bear some of
the blame: Many Democrats contributed to the expenses that are
forcing lawmakers to boost the nation’s debt limit, as have
Republican leaders at odds over how much borrowing authority to
hand President  Barack Obama  and when.  “There’s plenty of blame to go around,” for the debt,
said  Robert Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition,
an Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for balanced
budgets. “If there had been no Barack Obama, we would still be
bumping up against the debt limit.’”  Debt Has Doubled  Since 2001, the debt has grown from $5.8 trillion.  Republicans say the long-term growth of entitlement
programs such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, along
with depressed tax revenues due to the worst recession since the
Great Depression, drive the current debt level.  “Blaming Bush for the structural deficits we’ve known
would come since the early 1990s is beyond irresponsible.” said
 Brad Dayspring , a spokesman for Cantor.  In his address yesterday, Boehner accused Obama of going on
the “largest spending binge in American history.”  Obama’s 2011 annual budget, Republicans note, drove federal
spending to a record $3.8 trillion. Non-defense discretionary
spending also grew by 24 percent during the first two years of
the Obama administration, they say, adding $734 billion in
spending over the next 10 years.  Recession Worsened Deficit  The recession, Obama said in a televised address from the
White House yesterday, lowered revenue and required his
administration to “spend even more” on tax cuts, unemployment
insurance and state and local aide. “These emergency steps also
added to the deficit,” he said.  Some Democrats also supported the Bush administration
programs. In the Senate, Obama voted to finance the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq  and TARP. He signed legislation extending
the Bush-era tax cuts for two years in December.  “Both sides are claiming they’re fiscally responsible,”
said Rudolph Penner, director of the  Congressional Budget Office 
under President  Ronald Reagan . “But I don’t see much difference
in that regard.”  Bush Tax Cuts  The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, which lowered tax rates on
income, dividends and  capital gains , increased the federal
budget deficit by $1.7 trillion over a decade, according to the
Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a non-partisan left-of-
center group in Washington that studies fiscal policy.  The two-year extension of those tax cuts that Obama signed
will cost $857.8 billion, according to the Congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation.  Boehner has defended the tax cuts, arguing that they didn’t
lead to the deficit.  “The revenue problem we have today is a result of what
happened in the economic collapse some 18 months ago,” he told
reporters on June 10,  according  to The Hill newspaper.  The wars in  Afghanistan  and Iraq have cost almost $1.3
trillion since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001,
according to a March 29 analysis by the  Congressional Research
Service . Operations in Iraq have cost $806 billion, and in
Afghanistan $444 billion. The analysis shows the government has
spent an additional $29 billion for enhanced security on militia
bases and $6 billion remains unallocated.  Medicare Drug Benefit  The 2003 Medicare prescription program approved by
President  George W. Bush  and a Republican-dominated Congress has
cost $369 billion over a 10-year time frame, less than initially
projected by Medicare actuaries.  Nine Senate Republicans, including Nebraska’s Chuck Hagel,
along with 25 Republicans in the House, voted against the bill.
Hagel argued that it failed to control costs and would add
trillions in debt for future generations.  “Republicans used to believe in fiscal responsibility,”
Hagel wrote in a 2003 editorial in the Omaha World Herald. “We
have lost our way.”  TARP, the $700-billion bailout of banks, insurance and auto
companies, has cost less than expected. McConnell, Boehner,
Cantor and Ryan all voted in October 2008 for the program, which
stoked the rise of the Tea Party movement.  Many institutions have repaid the government. The latest
estimated lifetime cost of the program is $49.33 billion,
according to a June 2011  report  by the Treasury Department. That
figure includes the $45.61 billion cost of a housing program
which the administration never expected to recoup.  Rank-and-file Republicans are eager to pin the blame on
Democrats, frequently pointing to the economic stimulus signed
by Obama in 2009. The total cost of the stimulus will be $830
billion by 2019, according to a May 2011 Congressional Budget
Office report.  That’s half the cost of the Bush tax cuts and less than
two-thirds of what has been spent on the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  