-- 
Rice Husks Follow Solar to Power Indian Towns Off Utility Grid

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-26T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rice-husks-follow-solar-to-power-indian-towns-off-utility-grid.html
Rice husks and solar energy funded
by Draper Fisher Jurvetson and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are replacing
kerosene and diesel as the fuel to power India’s rural villages.  The venture capital fund and computer systems provider are
backing companies including Husk Power Systems Pvt. Ltd. and
D.Light Design, which are helping India boost clean energy use.
Renewables now account for less than 1 percent of India’s supply
against 93 percent for fossil fuels.  The market may be worth “billions of dollars” as nations
led by India and  China  boost energy supplies for their poorest
residents, said Vandana Gombar, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. These small-scale projects, which cost $40,000
for a power plant and as little as $12 for a solar lamp, can be
easier to set up than alternatives using fossil fuels.  “When you’re talking about the number of people in India
who are purely off grid or on unreliable power, it’s north of a
half-billion people,” Mohanjit Jolly, managing director of
Draper Fisher’s operation in India, said in an interview. “That
is a significant market.”  At least 1.5 billion people accounting for almost a fifth
of the world’s population live without access to energy,
according to the  United Nations . India and China are encouraging
clean energy projects as they seek to cut carbon emissions from
burning coal, which is blamed for damaging the atmosphere.  China increased funding for clean energy 28 percent to $49
billion and India by 25 percent to $3.8 billion in 2010,
according to a UN Environment Program report. Draper Fisher is
considering whether to back Husk Power’s next round of funding,
and it’s also invested in D.Light Design, a maker of solar-
powered lanterns, Jolly said.  ‘Fortune Waiting’  “There is a fortune waiting to be made at the bottom of
the power pyramid, and these are companies which have been able
to spot, and tap, the opportunity,” said Gombar of New Energy
Finance. “Once the wider investment community sees the
opportunity, you’re going to see more private equity funding.”  In  India , which last month increased diesel prices for the
first time in a year, the UN estimates that 100 million families
rely on kerosene to light their homes.  Selco Solar Pvt. Ltd. is making solar lighting systems for
those communities. Managing Director Harish Hande said an
average family burns about three liters (0.6 gallons) of
kerosene a month for light. Each liter of kerosene produces 2.5
kilograms (5.5 pounds) of carbon dioxide, according to the
Carbon Trust, a British environmental charity.  Kerosene Emissions  By that estimate, kerosene-powered lighting in India is
responsible for emitting 9 million tons of carbon every year.
While that’s a fraction of India’s total emissions of 1,602
million tons a year, it’s about as much as the world’s most-
polluting coal plants emit in six months.  Husk Power is helping by providing clean electricity to
about 40,000 households in rural India using discarded rice
husks, the hard outer-shell that protects the grain.  An average 40-kilowatt plant costs just under $40,000 to
install and can light as many as 500 households, Husk Power
said. One plant can save about 3,500 liters of kerosene and
1,500 liters of diesel a month, according to its website. That
means a single site can cut more than 150 tons of  carbon
emissions  every year.  Investors in the alternative power technology employed by
Husk Power in such Indian states as Bihar include Cisco, the
largest network-equipment company, and the venture capital firm
Draper Fisher Jurvetson, which  contributed  $250,000 in funding
two years ago.  Power for Homes  Today, Sheikhpura-based Husk Power operates about 80
biomass plants in India. It plans to increase that to as many as
150 by March and more than 2,000 by 2015, enough to power 1
million homes, said Manoj Sinha, its co-founder.  Husk Power hopes to raise as much as $15 million in the
next six months to expand in India and elsewhere, Sinha said. It
plans to export its technology to Bangladesh, Tanzania or  Uganda 
by the end of the year, he said.  “We’ve seen a tremendous shift in investor expectations
and understanding,” he said in a phone interview from  New York .
“People are more willing to invest in social enterprises now.”  Investment opportunities to develop small-scale, off-grid
renewable projects in developing economies are on the rise, E
and Co. Inc. Chief Executive Officer Christine Eibs Singer said.  The Bloomfield, N.J.-based company, which provides business
development and capital support to clean-energy entrepreneurs in
 Africa ,  Latin America  and  Asia  including Selco, said it has seen
an increase in demand as countries tackle energy needs.  Solar Lighting  Selco said leasing its solar lighting to low-income
households is a cheaper alternative than buying kerosene or
purchasing the system outright, which can cost up to $350.  The Bangalore-based company has installed at least 120,000
lighting kits in homes throughout the southwest state of
Karnataka, costing households 200 rupees to 350 rupees a month
($5 to $8), Selco’s Hande said in a telephone interview.  Hande said the company is seeking to raise as much as $10
million in the next two years to increase its reach in an
additional 200,000 homes, mostly through equity. The company
plans to introduce financing models that would enable those
living on less than $50 a month to access its services.  “There is a leapfrogging taking place in India as we
speak,” Gombar said by phone from  New Delhi . “This is an area
that is going to grow and grow. In rural regions, where many
people use kerosene to light homes, the economic argument for
providing an off-grid renewable solution is compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  