-- 
Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for July (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-07-26T14:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-july-text-.html
The following is the text from the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey
for July.  Regional Surveys of Business Activity  Overview Service sector activity picked up in July, according to
the latest survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.
Retail sales rose sharply, despite lagging big-ticket sales and
weaker shopper traffic. Retail inventories dropped. Non-retail
services firms also reported stronger revenues this month.
Looking ahead, survey participants expected stronger demand for
goods and services through the end of the 2011 holiday season.  Hiring in the broad service sector was flat, as retailers added
employees at a faster pace, while hiring slackened at non-retail
services providing firms. Growth in average wages prevailed
across the board.  Price changes in the broad service sector slowed compared to a
month ago, with most of the change coming from slower retail
price increases. For the six months ahead, survey respondents
expected prices to accelerate from the July pace.  Overall Service Sector Conditions  Service sector revenue growth broadened in July, with the index
rising to 7 from June’s reading of -4. Employment in the sector
was flat, at an index of 0, while average wage growth gained
momentum, pushing that index to 12. The indexes for June were -2
and 2, respectively. Looking ahead, survey participants expected
customer demand to further improve, with the index rising to 23
from the June’s 12.  Retail  Retail sales rose sharply this month, climbing back into
positive territory to an index of 11. June’s index reading was -
21. Shopper traffic weakened in July; the index stood at -11,
ten points lower than a month ago. Big-ticket sales were also
softer. Although the index gained sixteen points from the June
reading, it remained negative at a reading of -25. Merchants
anticipated a better business climate for the six months ahead -
- the index for expected demand rose twenty-three points from
the previous month to settle at 3.  Retailers anticipated price growth of 1.20 percent through the
end of the year, while non-retail services providers expected a
1.40 percent pace. A month ago, their expectations were for 2.03
percent and 1.08 percent.  Retailers began to hire again in July, bringing that index to 6
from -16. In addition, average retail wages rose, with the index
jumping thirty-five points to 17 this month.  Services-Providing Firms  Revenues also gained ground at non-retail services firms in July.
The index tacked on six points, finishing the survey period at 6.
However, services providers cut their payrolls, pulling the
employment index to -4 from June’s reading of 2. Average wages
advanced more quickly at services firms this month, with the
index up three points to 12.  Looking ahead six months, services providers had a brighter
outlook than they held in June. The index for expected demand
climbed nine points to 27.  Prices  In July, service sector price change accelerated mildly to an
annualized 0.79 percent overall, compared to June’s 0.66 percent.
Within the sector, retail price change slowed to a 0.75 percent
rate following June’s 1.70 percent pace. In the non-retail
service sector, prices increased at a 0.86 percent clip in July;
a month earlier, that pace was 0.44 percent. For the six months
ahead, survey respondents looked for price growth at an overall
1.34 percent pace, following their June expectation for a 1.22
percent rate of increase.  Retailers anticipated price growth of 1.20 percent through the
end of the year, while non-retail services providers expected a
1.40 percent pace. A month ago, their expectations were for 2.03
percent and 1.08 percent.  (Note: Seasonal adjustment factors were recalculated this month
and applied to historical data to better reflect current
economic trends. Comparisons to last month’s indexes are made to
the revised June indexes. New factors will be calculated
annually.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  