-- 
Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for July (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-07-26T14:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-july-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector
activity survey for July.  Regional Surveys of Business Activity
Overview
Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region stalled in
July after firming somewhat in June, according to the Richmond
Fed’s latest survey. The index of overall activity was pushed
lower as growth in new orders and shipments edged into negative
territory. Employment, however, continued to grow but at a pace
below June’s rate. Other indicators also suggested softer
activity. District contacts reported that backlogs and capacity
utilization fell further, but noted that delivery times and raw
material goods inventories grew at a somewhat quicker pace.  Looking forward, manufacturers were generally sanguine in July,
though their optimism was somewhat less rosy than last month.
Survey contacts at an increasing number of firms anticipated
that their shipments, new orders, and  capital expenditures  would
grow more slowly in coming months. In contrast, they expected
backlogs of orders to grow more quickly.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that current
prices of both raw materials and finished goods grew at a slower
rate in July than a month ago. However, respondents indicated
that during the next six months they expected prices for both
raw materials and finished goods to grow more quickly than what
they had anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In July, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity--our broadest measure of manufacturing--
declined four points to -1 from June’s reading of 3. Among the
index’s components, shipments was unchanged at -1, while new
orders dropped five points to finish at -5, and the jobs index
moved down ten points to 4.  Other indicators were also mostly weak. The index for capacity
utilization lost four points to -6 and the backlogs of orders
edged down seven points to end at -18. In contrast, the delivery
times index picked up four points to 8, while our gauges for
inventories were mixed in July. The finished goods inventory
index trimmed six points in July to end at 17, while the raw
materials inventories index added two points to finish at 18.  Employment
Hiring activity at District plants was mixed in July. The
manufacturing employment index dropped ten points to 4, while
the average workweek index added one point to 0. Moreover, wage
growth edged higher, gaining one point to finish at 10.  Expectations
Respondents in the current survey were slightly less optimistic
about their business prospects over the next six months. The
index of expected shipments decreased eight points to end at 35,
and the volume of new orders index fell four points to 40. The
capacity utilization and vendor lead time indicators each edged
down one point to 30 and 6, respectively. Readings for planned
capital expenditures lost six points to finish at 16, while
backlogs picked up six points to end at 25.  District manufacturers’ intentions to expand hiring weakened
somewhat in July. The expected manufacturing employment index
declined eight points to end at 14, and the average workweek
indicator slipped two points to 13. Moreover, the index of
expected wages held steady at 30.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 3.41 percent in July--
down somewhat from their 4.53 forecast in June. Finished goods
prices rose at a 1.18 percent pace--somewhat below June’s
reading of 1.94 percent.  Looking ahead, respondents expected that the prices they pay
will advance at a 4.35 percent pace, somewhat higher than June’s
reading of 3.41 percent. Additionally, contacts looked for
finished goods prices to increase at a 2.97 percent annual rate,
slightly above last month’s expected rate of 1.93 percent.  (Note: Seasonal adjustment factors were recalculated this month
and applied to historical data to better reflect current
economic trends. Comparisons to last month’s indexes are made to
the revised June indexes. New factors will be calculated
annually.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  