-- 
Roubini Sees Reduced Threat of Euro Breakup, Deflation in Advanced Nations

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T06:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/risk-of-eurozone-breakup-is-lower-than-a-year-ago-nouriel-roubini-says.html
The risk of a breakup in the euro
area is lower than a year ago,  Nouriel Roubini , the economist
who predicted the global financial crisis, said.  The risk of deflation in advanced economies has also fallen,
Roubini, the co-founder and chairman of New York-based Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said at a conference in  Shanghai  today.  European Union leaders reached agreement on July 21 on a
second rescue package for  Greece  worth 159 billion euros ($230
billion) and strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to
offer protection to other euro-region nations in a bid to stamp
out contagion from the sovereign debt crisis. Spanish Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said yesterday the accord
is “solid and detailed.”  Roubini’s comments at a forum in the Chinese city today
echoed a speech he gave in Bucharest on May 26 when he said
risks to financial markets, including the breakup of the euro
area, have lessened in the last year as growth has shifted from
recovery to “expansion.”  The London-based Centre for Economics and Business research
said in a report last month that the euro area is on course to
break up as member nations’ willingness to continue bailouts for
the region’s indebted countries dissipates.  Roubini, Professor of Economics at New York University’s
Stern School of Business, said today that the recovery in
advanced economies will be “anemic” and U-shaped rather than
V-shaped.  ‘Painful’ Process  This recession is not a “traditional” recession, as it
was caused by the financial crisis, he said. Spending needs to
be reduced and savings raised for years, a “painful” process
of deleveraging.  Roubini is among analysts who predicted the global
financial crisis of 2007-2009 that was triggered by a collapse
in the value of U.S. mortgage securities.  Roubini in July 2006 predicted a “catastrophic” global
financial meltdown that central bankers would be unable to
prevent. The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
sparked turmoil that led to the worst financial crisis since the
1930s.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  