-- 
Rivlin Says Investors Believe Washington Will Settle Debt Debate

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-07-26T15:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/rivlin-says-investors-believe-washington-will-settle-debt-debate.html
Alice Rivlin , a former Federal
Reserve vice chairman, said investor confidence in the  U.S.
economy  will help stave off the damaging effects of a potential
downgrade by  credit rating  companies.  While a prolonged failure to pay debts would throw the
economy into a “deep recession,” the U.S. may be able to
weather a short default because global investors believe the
country will solve the problem, Rivlin said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty
Liu.  “Investors around the world think that we will not
default,” said Rivlin, a member of President Barack Obama’s
deficit-reduction commission. “Even if we get a downgrade, they
will go on thinking that because we are the strongest economy in
the world.”  Both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have
warned the U.S. government risks losing its top credit rating if
it fails to increase the debt limit, leading to a default. The
Treasury Department has said the U.S. will exhaust measures to
avoid breaching its $14.3 trillion debt threshold on Aug. 2.  Rivlin, who served as White House budget director under
President  Bill Clinton , said a default is unlikely because
“cooler heads will prevail in the Congress” and “some sort of
compromise will be worked out that will avoid default.”  “We all need to solve the problem, and it’s going to take
some give on both sides,” Rivlin said. “Democrats have got to
give on entitlement reform, and that means reductions in future
benefits, and Republicans have to yield on  tax reform , which can
give us a better tax system but also more revenue.”  Long-Range, Balanced  The plan has to be long-range and balanced, Rivlin said,
citing Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s proposal as a
“reasonable compromise” to get the U.S. past default and allow
time for a rational solution. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has said
his plan would extend the debt ceiling through the end of 2012
and would not include tax increases.  “Where we are, there isn’t really time to legislate a
long-range plan,” she said. House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
proposal, which calls for a reduction in two stages, would
create a debate in 2012 that “can only be worse.”  Rivlin, and former Senator Pete Domenici, a New Mexico
Republican, are co-leaders of the Washington-based Bipartisan 
Policy Center’s Debt Reduction Task Force, which has been 
cautioning Republicans about the potential hazards of breaching
the U.S. debt ceiling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  