-- 
Roma Health in France Worsened Since Crackdown, Group Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-07-26T15:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/roma-health-in-france-worsened-since-crackdown-group-says-1-.html
The health of Roma migrants in
France has deteriorated in the past year as repeated
destructions of their camps has made access to medical care more
difficult, a French charity group said.  A year after President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called for illegal
gypsy camps to be dismantled, about 2.5 percent of people living
in Roma camps have tuberculosis, Francois Corty, head of French
operations at  Medecins du Monde , said in an interview. A few
years ago the figure was close to the overall French average of
0.03 percent of the population with TB, he said.  Thirty-eight percent of Roma living in camps in France have
a vaccination card, and only 8 percent are fully up to date with
all their required vaccinations, Medecins du Monde said in a
study released today.  Sarkozy, after a riot last July by itinerant workers who
were not Roma, called for police to dismantle at least half of
the illegal nomad camps in  France . According to the Interior
Ministry, three-quarters of the 741 illegal camps existing a
year ago have been dismantled.  In the Lyon region, 43 camps with 900 people were
demolished last year, Corty said. Some families in the
vaccination study in the Paris region had to move nine times
last year because of police raids, he said.  ‘Deliberate Policy’  “There has been a deliberate policy of discouraging people
from staying in France by destroying their lodgings,” Olivier
Bernard, president of Medecins du Monde, said at a press
conference in Paris today. “These repeated expulsions break any
ability of local associations to ensure health care and
schooling.”  The Interior Ministry denied it tries to disrupt access to
social services. “We seek to apply the law in a humane way that
shows respect to the dignity of people living in difficult
situations,” spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet said in a telephone
interview.  About 15,000 Roma live in France and just fewer than 10,000
are expelled each year back to their place of birth, generally
Romania or  Bulgaria . While those figures have been steady for 10
years, the number of camp destructions has “exploded” this
past year, Bernard said.  Seventy percent of Roma in France under the age of two have
received the DPT vaccine against diphtheria, whooping cough and
tetanus, which is obligatory in both France and Romania and is
generally administered at two months. While 90 percent of the
French are vaccinated against measles, only 22 percent of Roma
children younger than two are, the study said.  On May 19, police dismantled a camp near Paris a day before
a vaccination campaign planned by local authorities and Medecins
du Monde, Corty said. Four inhabitants of the camp had TB, he
said.  While  Romania  and Bulgaria joined the European Union in
2007, their citizens need permits to work in France until 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  