-- 
Ron Paul Rides on Private Jet as Money Flows Into 2012 Campaign

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ron-paul-rides-in-private-jet-in-iowa-as-money-flows-into-his-12-campaign.html
It’s a two-hour drive between Ames
and  Cedar Rapids , two key Iowa cities for Republican
presidential candidates competing in the state that will host
the first balloting next year. Ron Paul flew by private jet.  The hop between campaign appearances yesterday by the Texas
congressman and Federal Reserve opponent aboard a  Westwind  jet
is symbolic of the heightened resources and support he enjoys,
compared with his quixotic bid four years ago.  Now in his third White House try, Paul is given little
chance by political analysts of emerging as President Barack Obama’s 2012 challenger. Yet in Iowa, where the Feb. 6 caucuses
start the nomination process, he has a committed and well-funded
network that some say may be capable of an upset at the Aug. 13
 Iowa  Straw Poll, a party fundraising event meant to test the
popularity and organizational ability of presidential
candidates.  “They are far more organized and are running a formidable
campaign,” said  Craig Robinson , editor of the Iowa Republican
website and a former state party political director. “They are
easily a spoiler for someone. I think the question is whether
Ron Paul finishes first or second.”  A top-two finish for Paul, 75, could hurt other candidates
seeking to show momentum. The stakes are probably the highest
for former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , 50, who has placed
his greatest emphasis on Iowa since he began pursuing the
presidency. He plans to campaign almost exclusively there ahead
of the poll.  Nine Rivals  On July 23, the  Republican Party of Iowa  decided nine
candidates will have their names on the straw-poll ballot, which
will also offer a write-in option for the first time.  Candidates who rented space at  Iowa State University  in
Ames for the event were guaranteed a ballot spot. Besides Paul
and Pawlenty, they include Representative  Michele Bachmann , 55,
of Minnesota, former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania ,
former pizza chain executive  Herman Cain  and Representative
Thaddeus McCotter of  Michigan . In addition to those who rented
space, the ballot will also include former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.  Using so-called “money bombs” and other online
fundraising techniques, Paul raised almost  twice as much  in the
second quarter of 2011 as he did in the same quarter four years
earlier.  ‘We’re on TV’  “It sure makes it a lot easier,” Paul said in a brief
interview in Cedar Rapids. “We’re on TV. We didn’t do that last
time. And the other thing is, it shows momentum and the numbers
of people that are involved, so it’s a lot easier to get our
volunteers and that’s why we expect to do very well.”  They will have to overcome an advantage by Romney and
Bachmann, who were in a 23-22 statistical tie for the lead, with
Paul well behind at 7 percent, in an  Iowa Poll  last month of
likely Republican caucus participants sponsored by the  Des
Moines Register .  A band of volunteers helped Paul finish fifth in the straw
poll four years ago. Expectations will be higher this year as
Republicans gather for the carnival-like event. Paul’s campaign
 paid  $31,000 to rent the most coveted spot for its straw poll
headquarters, ground held four years ago by Republican
frontrunner Romney, 64.  Media Spending  Paul -- known for his calls for limited government and
drive to eliminate the  Federal Reserve  -- has also spent about
$400,000 on  television advertising  nationwide this year, said
Jesse Benton, his campaign chairman. That represents less than a
tenth of the $4.5 million Paul raised in the quarter that ended
June 30, a total that on the Republican side of the race was
only surpassed by Romney, who raised $18.3 million.  For a midday event yesterday inside a Marriott hotel
ballroom, Paul attracted about 100 supporters, a good showing by
Iowa standards for such gatherings. He and his supporters urged
the audience to bring as many friends as possible to the straw
poll.  “We have the opportunity to magnify this message and
elevate it and send America a message out of Ames,” David
Fischer, Paul’s Iowa vice chairman, told the crowd.  In his 28-minute speech, Paul highlighted some of his
campaign positions, which include a return to linking the dollar
to gold and a non-interventionist foreign policy, the basis for
his opposition to the U.S. involvement in Iraq, Afghanistan and
 Libya . He’s also critical of the mission that killed  Osama bin Laden , saying the U.S. should have worked with  Pakistan  and
shown more respect for the international rule of law.  ‘Consistent Record’  Phil Luetchford, 24, a systems engineer from Cedar Rapids,
said the added financial resources have meant that volunteers
such as himself have been “well supplied” with campaign
flyers, signs and other material. He said he is supporting Paul
over Bachmann because he is a proven commodity.  “He’s had a consistent record for 30 years,” Luetchford
said of Paul, who leans libertarian. “She doesn’t have the
record that  Ron Paul  has.”  Drew Ivers, Paul’s Iowa campaign chairman, called it
“wonderful” to have resources such as a private jet available
to help speed the delivery of the candidate’s message.  “There’s a lot of difference between now and four years
ago,” said Ivers, who also led the 2008 Iowa effort. “His name
identification is up, his message is up and his respect is up.”  In Iowa, the campaign has a headquarters and six paid staff
members, Ivers said, noting how an online fundraising effort
last week  raised  $600,000 specifically to help Paul compete in
the straw poll.  “We’re in much better shape now,” he said. “We can have
the luxury of some radio and TV and print ads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  