-- 
Troop Cuts Become Easy Cost Savings for Debt Reduction Plans

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/troop-cuts-become-easy-cost-savings-for-debt-reduction-plans.html
More than a third of Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid ’s new $2.7 trillion debt reduction plan comes
from $1 trillion in “savings” that are happening anyway -- the
reduction of U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Under Washington’s budget rules, the  Congressional Budget
Office  is required to assume that war spending will stay at
current levels of $159 billion a year, plus inflation, for the
next 10 years, at a cost of $1.8 trillion.  Based on that official “baseline” projection, Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, may count the already-begun reduction of U.S.
forces as a cut.  “It’s just one more thing that makes you cynical about
what’s going on in Washington,” said Rudolph Penner, a former
CBO director who is now a fellow at the  Urban Institute .  Analysts such as  Todd Harrison  of the Center for Strategic
and Budgetary Assessments in Washington agreed.  “Let’s not fool ourselves into thinking these are real
savings,” said Harrison. “This is money we were never going to
spend anyway.”  The U.S. plans to pull its remaining troops out of Iraq by
the end of this year and withdraw most forces from Afghanistan
by the end of 2014. The Obama administration says only a small
number of troops may be retained beyond those dates.  Even the CBO, the agency that created the budget figures
upon which the savings are based, acknowledges that its
assumption may be unlikely.  Legal Requirement  While required by law to issue a current-policy estimate as
its “baseline” projection, the CBO offered an alternative
analysis. It calculated it would save $1.1 trillion by reducing
forces to a combined 45,000 U.S. troops in  Afghanistan  and Iraq
by 2015, down about 100,000 from today -- roughly in line with
President Barack Obama’s announced plans.  Working off the legally mandated baseline is “an illusory
savings,” said Penner. “To the extent they blow smoke,
obviously the amount of fiscal discipline is less than
advertised.”  Chuck Schumer of  New York , a member of the Senate
Democratic leadership, defended the inclusion of $1 trillion in
avoided war costs as legitimate.  “These are real savings that CBO scores at about $1
trillion,” Schumer said at a press conference on Reid’s plan,
which outlined $2.7 trillion in spending reductions over the
decade. “The wars are the second biggest policy drivers of our
deficits, after the Bush-era tax cuts,” he said.  Reid and Schumer said  House Republicans  endorsed the idea
of counting war savings because they were included in a plan
sponsored by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
Wisconsin.  Ryan’s committee, in a press release yesterday, said that
wasn’t true. War savings weren’t part of its $6.2 trillion in
proposed cuts and were included in a budget table only “to be
comprehensive and transparent,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 