-- 
Russians Get Circus From Family That Gave Them Big Macs, Cola

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-07-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/russians-get-circus-from-family-that-gave-them-big-macs-cola.html
The father and son who boosted
Russian consumer freedom with global brands McDonald’s and Coca-
Cola are on a mission to do the same for cultural choice with
the Cirque du Soleil’s “Zarkana” show.  George Cohon battled communist bureaucrats for 14 years to
bring Big Macs to the  Soviet Union  in 1990 just before its
collapse. His son Craig started building  Russia ’s first Coca-
Cola plant after 18 months of talks. It took less than a year
for him to get Kremlin officials to agree that “Zarkana”
perform inside the country’s 500-year-old seat of power.  The acrobatic rock opera is described by its creators as a
cross between arcane and bizarre, with jugglers and a high-
flying spider woman. It debuted in June at the Radio City  Music
Hall  in New York and is due to feature at the Kremlin Palace
from February 2012 -- the first three-month stretch in its
history.  The palace, built in 1961, seats about 6,000 people and has
hosted Elton John, heavy metal band Scorpions and Michael Flatley’s show “Lord of the Dance.”  The Montreal-based circus, which has become a global
franchise with permanent shows in  Las Vegas  and elsewhere, may
be helped by its Russian links. Its co-founder Guy Laliberte, a
former fire-eater, paid Russia  $35 million  to shoot off to the
 International Space Station  in 2009 as a tourist.  Cirque has invested 1.2 billion rubles ($43 million) in
Russia since 2008, selling more than 500,000 tickets in two
years. It is spending $57 million on running the Zarkana show in
New York and Moscow. Cirque plans to invest $50 million more to
give it a permanent presence in Russia. The Cohons own 25
percent of the circus’s Russian venture.  ‘Saltimbanco’ Show  “We are not coming here to take on the Russian circus, we
are expanding the market of choice,” says Cohon, 48, sipping
tea in the  Cirque du Soleil  office in central Moscow, where 25
people coordinate business including this year’s “Saltimbanco”
show that will run in October and November in four cities.  Craig is in talks with the Moscow Mayor’s office to set up
a school and a regular venue for the show. Cirque du Soleil
started from a group of 20 street performers in 1984 and counts
more than 1,500 performing artists from about 50 different
countries. It is aiming to reach $1 billion in revenue this
year, according to founder and 80 percent owner Laliberte.  President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s office helped to get the Cirque
plan approved, Craig says.  “The leaders of this country are getting very clear on
what their local and international strategy is,” says Cohon.
“They realize they can’t be a BRIC country and only supply raw
materials to China.”  Technology, Sport  Looking to wean its economy from dependence on oil and gas,
the Russian government is developing technology, with its own
version of a “Silicon Valley” at Skolkovo outside Moscow. It
is pushing to revive sports by hosting the 2014 Winter Olympics,
ice hockey’s 2016 World Championship and soccer’s 2018  World
Cup , as well as an annual Formula 1 car race.  “The last pillar is culture,” Cohon says. “It is a whole
wealth of talent here that can get integrated into the rest of
the world that hasn’t necessarily been allowed to blossom.”  American-born Canadian George Cohon opened the first
McDonald’s on Moscow’s Pushkin Square -- with 30,000 people
lining up -- in January, 1990. He initially discussed the idea
with the Soviet delegation at the Montreal Olympics and lost
count of the number of approvals needed. McDonald’s now has 277
Russian restaurants and employs more than 26,000 people. The go-
ahead for the Moscow Coca-Cola plant needed 21 signatures, Cohon
says, and the Cirque du Soleil did it with just one.  Russian Believer  Cohon, who has also worked in India and  China , says he is a
great believer in Russia, even though President Medvedev says
its investment climate is “very bad.” Russia is rated the
world’s most corrupt major economy by Berlin-based  Transparency
International ’s 2010 perception index.  Cohon also says neither he nor his father have ever been
asked for a bribe to facilitate business in Russia, where
citizens pay bribes totaling $300 billion a year, according to
the National Anti-Corruption Committee.  Cultivating relationships helped Cohon become the first
non-Soviet to buy an apartment in 1990 and he said the law
needed to be rewritten for that.  “I stayed up till two in the morning with the Minister of
Finance’s team,” he says. “It led to investment of several
hundred million dollars to build a factory.”  For information on “Zarkana,” through Oct. 8, at  Radio
City Music Hall , 1260 Sixth Ave,  New York : +1-866-858-0008;
 http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/en/shows/zarkana/default.aspx ;
 http://www.ticketmaster.com ,  http://www.radiocity.com/   To contact the writer on the story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 