-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Stagnated in June as Industry Languished

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-stagnated-in-june-as-industry-languished.html
Purchases of new U.S. homes probably
stagnated in June, indicating housing is still languishing two
years into the economic recovery, economists said before a
report today.  Sales ran at a 320,000 annual pace last month after a
319,000 rate the prior month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast the Commerce Department will report. Home prices
declined from a year earlier and consumer confidence fell in
July to a nine-month low, other data may show.  Builders have little incentive to start projects as the
prospect of more distressed properties entering the foreclosure
pipeline depresses home values. The figures underscore Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments that demand for
homes has been held back by slow job growth and restrained
consumer optimism.  “Sales will remain weak, not only this year but well into
next year,”  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at  RBC Capital
Markets  Corp. in  New York , said before the report. “The outlook
for housing is rather bleak.”  The Commerce Department’s data are due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. The median estimate in the Bloomberg survey was
based on a poll of 71 economists. Forecasts ranged from 300,000
to 342,000. Sales last year totaled 323,000, the fewest since
record-keeping began.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the biggest 12-
month drop since November 2009, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey. Compared with a month earlier,
 home prices  may be little changed.  Previously Owned Homes  Competition from cheaper previously owned homes is hurting
sales of new dwellings. Distressed properties, which include
foreclosures and short-sales, have made up about 33 percent of
all existing-home sales since late 2008, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  The ailing housing market is taking a toll on shares. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilders Index is down 3
percent so far this year, compared with a 6.3 percent gain for
the  S&P 500 Index .  Limited job growth and unemployment above 9 percent for
three straight months are keeping housing depressed even with
 mortgage rates  close to record lows and lower prices. The
National Association of Realtors index of housing affordability
is close to a record high.  “Residential construction activity remains at an extremely
low level,” Bernanke said in July 13 testimony to Congress.
“The demand for homes has been depressed by many of the same
factors that have held down  consumer spending  more generally,
including the slowness of the recovery in jobs and income as
well as poor consumer sentiment.”  Consumer Confidence   The Conference Board’s consumer confidence index fell to 56
in July from 58.5 the prior month, according to the median
projection before the New York group’s 10 a.m. report.  National Association of Realtors figures on July 20 showed
sales of previously owned homes dropped in June to a seven-month
low. Existing-home inventories rose to 3.77 million, and it
would take 9.5 months, the longest since November, to sell those
properties at the current sales pace.  More homes could end up as part of a growing inventory. A
total of 6.35 million homeowners weren’t current on their loans
at the end of May, with 2.16 million in the process of
foreclosure, according to data from Lender Processing Services
Inc., a Jacksonville, Florida-based provider of mortgage-
processing services and data.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the largest homebuilder in  New
Jersey , posted a wider loss in the first quarter than a year
earlier and does not foresee a rapid pickup in the market, the
 Red Bank , New Jersey-based company said June 7.  “Our internal business plan assumes market conditions do
not improve until 2013, and even then, we only assume a modest
sales pace improvement and no home-price improvements,”  Ara
Hovnanian , chairman and chief executive officer of Hovnanian,
said on a June 8 conference call.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  