-- 
SAP to Meet Top End of Forecast as Sales Growth Beats Oracle

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-27T07:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sap-says-full-year-profit-revenue-to-be-at-upper-end-of-previous-forecast.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, said it will reach the top end of
its profit forecasts this year after winning market share last
quarter on demand for mobile and data-analysis offerings.  Second-quarter software license sales rose 26 percent,
beating analyst estimates and rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Full-year 
operating profit, based on non-international financial 
reporting standards, will be at the high end of a previous 
forecast range of 4.45 billion euros ($6.5 billion) to 4.65 
billion euros, excluding currency swings, SAP said yesterday.  “Oracle has been outgrowing SAP for some time,” said Ross MacMillan, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New York  who advises
holding SAP and buying Oracle. “The question is, do we have 
the start of some kind of market share change? It definitely 
looks like this quarter in particular they outgrew Oracle.”  Co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott , whose contracts were extended to 2017 this month, aim
to boost SAP’s annual revenue to 20 billion euros by 2015,
driven by mobile products, services and the real-time analytics
technology Hana. Oracle reported a 19 percent license sales gain
for its  fourth quarter  ended May 31.  Shares Surge  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , rose as much as 2.8
percent to 44.69 euros in  Frankfurt  today, adding to a 3.6
percent gain yesterday after releasing second-quarter results.
The stock was up 2.7 percent as of 9:33 a.m. The shares have
gained 17 percent this year, giving the software maker a market
value of 54.8 billion euros. Oracle slipped 0.2 percent to
$32.15 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday.  SAP predicts to sell more of its core enterprise software
products as a result of introducing new products.  “Mobility brings the software to all employees and to our
customers’ customers, which means a drive of users even in the
core products,” Snabe said on a conference call last night,
adding that many companies investing in Hana are also upgrading
their business suite software. “We are targeting at least 100
million euros in sales in these new categories” this year,
Snabe told Bloomberg Television today.  Non-IFRS software and software-related services revenue
growth will reach the top end of a range of 10 percent to 14
percent at constant currencies for 2011, SAP said. The measure
grew 20 percent in the second quarter. The company is taking
market share from its main competitors and the momentum from the
first half is continuing in the second half, Snabe said.  Pipeline  “The pipeline for Hana is the biggest in the history of
SAP,” McDermott said in an interview in New York yesterday.
According to Snabe, the Hana pipeline currently stands at 400
million euros. Abbreviated from High-Performance Analytic
Appliance, the in-memory computing product is designed to speed
up analysis of business data. It comes on servers from companies
such as Hewlett-Packard Co., International Business Machines
Corp.,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Cisco Systems Inc.  “Hana will prove to be a significant differentiator in the
sustainability space, where SAP is already a key player,”
 Adrian Bowles , an analyst for Constellation Research Group, said
in an e-mail. “As the market for energy and carbon management
solutions matures, customers will look to big data and analytics
to uncover additional savings and monetization opportunities.
This bodes well for SAP in the next three to five years.”  IPad Push  McDermott said SAP is also benefiting from the use of Apple
Inc.’s iPad tablet computer among executives who can have mobile
access to real-time business analytics.  “By 2014, 6.5 billion workers worldwide will be on mobile
devices,” he said.  “What you are seeing is a generational
change.”  SAP, which makes payroll management, business intelligence
tools and software that helps companies reduce their  carbon
emissions , also provides the software for the order fulfilment
behind Apple’s iTunes download system.  During the quarter, SAP won the U.S. National Hockey League
team San Jose Sharks as a user of its on-demand software
Business ByDesign, while  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Lenovo Group
Ltd started using the Hana in-memory technology.  Second-quarter net income rose 20 percent to 588 million
euros, compared with the 586 million-euro average estimate of 17
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Software license sales climbed
26 percent to 802 million euros, topping the 734 million-euro
average estimate.  ‘Let’s See’  “It is nice that SAP is so confident in outperforming
their 2011 target, but we should all keep in mind that they do a
major share of their business traditionally in the fourth
quarter, so let’s see,” said  Tobias Ortwein , senior vice
president of  Pierre Audoin Consultants  in Munich.  SAP’s net income trailed estimates for the past seven
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After
announcing its first-quarter earnings on April 28, the shares
fell 5.7 percent, the most in 1 1/2 years.  Global spending on software for companies may grow by 9.5
percent this year, according to  Gartner Inc , with a slowdown in
coming years. SAP needs to grow nearly 10 percent a year to
reach its 2015 target of 20 billion euros in sales. It reported
2010 revenue of 12.5 billion euros.  During the second quarter, SAP reached cooperation
agreements with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , Dell and Amazon.com
Inc. to sell mobile products, Hana, and software as a service,
respectively.  While Oracle has spent more than $42 billion on takeovers
since the beginning of 2005, SAP has made only two large
acquisitions in its 39-year history: Sybase Inc., which SAP
bought last year, and business-intelligence company Business
Objects SA acquired in 2007.  “Our key focus will be organic growth,” McDermott said.
“If it moves the company significantly forward into a new
category that is game changing we will look at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  