-- 
Scene Last Night: Ackman, Tilson, Susano, Sabat, Mudrick, Saeed

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-26T14:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/scene-last-night-ackman-tilson-susano-sabat-mudrick-britton-martone.html
Pershing Square Capital Management
LP founder  William Ackman  won his first hand in the Take ‘Em to
School Poker Tournament last night but he didn’t last long.  “I want to lose quickly so I can get home and see my
kid,” Ackman said.  Six hours later, Stephen Susano won the tournament and
selected his prize: a seat at the 2012 World Series of Poker.  “It’s easy to win when you get the cards,” said Susano,
who works in the alternative-investments business.  He was already thinking about his next big night out with
his peers in finance: a  New York Hedge Fund Roundtable  event on
Aug. 18.  The tournament at 583 Park Avenue benefited the nonprofit
 Reach , which offers cash payments to high-school students who
excel in AP exams. Participants included: Andrew Frankenberger,
a former trader who last month took home a bracelet at the 2011
 World Series  of Poker, outlasting 2,500 players; Omar Saeed of
Eton Park Capital Management LP; and  Whitney Tilson , a Reach co-
founder, and co-founder and managing director of T2 Partners
LLC, who stayed until the end to congratulate the winners.  Massage therapists offered back rubs to the players and
waiters brought them drinks and heaping plates of pasta. Many of
them took out their credit cards, or in the case of Steve Kuhn,
a partner at Pine River Capital Management LP, a wad of $100
bills, to stay in the game. Kuhn won a big hand against
Frankenberger, earning him a case of poker chips.  His Own Desk  Michael Sabat, who on Monday begins work at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in equity derivatives sales and trading,
organized the event, which required a $1,000 buy-in and brought
out almost twice as many guests as last year. Reach paid World
Poker Tour, which produces the television show, to run the
tournament.  “Mike was at our office so much, we gave him his own
desk,” said the executive director of Reach, Kathrine Mott.  Hedge-funders who bought tables included John Sabat
(Michael Sabat’s older brother), a portfolio manager at SAC
Capital Advisors LP; Jason Mudrick, president of Mudrick Capital
Management LP, who won the tournament last year; Paul Britton,
head of Capstone Investment Advisors; and Jacques Garibaldi,
managing partner at London Park Investments LLC.  Nine players went into the final round, one woman among
them: Stephanie Sieber, who is engaged to Mudrick. She most
recently worked at an eye bank.  Seven winners took home prizes. Craig Martone of  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  picked a three-night-stay on  St. Martin ; Paul Lisiak,
who works in private equity, chose the golf package offering two
foursomes at private clubs. Gregory Terrinoni, a junior trader
at Capstone selected a five-night stay at a private home on Lamu
Island,  Kenya .  Chris Brumbach, a portfolio manager at Pine River, picked a
lunch with Ackman, and Darius Sepassi, an associate at Highstar
Capital, is going to lunch with Seth Klarman, founder and
president of Baupost Group LLC, a private investment
partnership. Ed Vartughian, a trader, placed seventh, and ended
up with the chance to drive a 556-HP Cadillac CTS-V at the
Monticello Motor Club.  “See you next year,” said Michael Sabat as he stepped out
onto Park Avenue.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 