-- 
SEC Will Track Biggest Traders’ Activity

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sec-weighs-system-to-seek-abuses-among-market-s-biggest-traders.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will impose a system to monitor the behavior of high-
frequency trading firms and  hedge funds  under new reporting
standards for the most active market participants.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to adopt a tracking
system for firms that buy and sell at least 2 million shares a
day or meet other volume standards. The system, initially
proposed three weeks before the May 2010 crash that temporarily
erased $862 billion in U.S. share value, aims to help guard
against market abuse and manipulation.  “The collection of this information is particularly
important given the increasingly prominent role played by very
active market participants including high-frequency traders,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said before the vote.  The system, which would monitor firms that execute $20
million of equities a day or $200 million in a month, gives the
SEC access to non-public data maintained by the traders’ broker-
dealers, who would have to provide it upon request. After the
rule takes effect in about two months, about 400 large traders
would have to identify themselves within 60 days and broker-
dealers would have to begin maintaining transaction records
within seven months, according to the SEC.  Broker-dealers will be responsible for most of the costs of
tracking the data and reporting it to the SEC. The agency
estimates a $35 million up-front cost for the industry and about
$17 million a year to comply.  Audit Trail  The idea, which had been proposed and rejected twice
before, is a more limited reporting system than the SEC’s
ongoing project to set up a so-called consolidated audit trail.
That later system is expected to provide a complete, real-time
picture of what the market is doing.  The SEC’s rule should have been a “coordinated effort with
the development of the Consolidated Audit Trail,” Randy Snook,
executive vice president at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, said in a statement. The Wall
Street trade organization encourages regulators “to adopt rules
that create universal standards that are not duplicative,”
Snook said.  In a separate 5-0 vote, SEC commissioners voted to adopt a
rule cutting credit ratings from eligibility requirements for
firms seeking fast-track approval for securities offerings.  In the SEC’s first rule under a Dodd-Frank Act directive to
replace credit ratings with a different standard of
creditworthiness, the agency will allow so-called short-form
registrations by firms that have issued $1 billion of non-
convertible securities over the prior three years.  $750 Million Threshold  Unlike the initial proposal, the final rule added
eligibility criteria including whether a firm has $750 million
outstanding in non-convertible securities issued in primary
offerings, is a wholly owned subsidiary of a “well-known
seasoned issuer” or is a majority-owned operating partnership
of a real estate investment trust qualifying as well-known.  The SEC expects its new standards to include roughly the
same number of issuers eligible for shelf access in the old
system.  Commissioners also voted to re-propose an April 2010
measure aimed at expanding accountability and enhancing quality
related to asset-backed securities when issuers seek so-called
shelf registration to expedite offerings. Today’s vote reopens
that measure for a 60-day comment period.  The revisions are related to the Dodd-Frank prohibition on
credit ratings enacted after the original proposal, requiring
the SEC to cut out the rating criteria. The SEC is also seeking
more comments on the proposed disclosure of specific data about
individual loans in securities’ asset pools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  