-- 
Salesforce.com Leads Group Urging U.S. to Take Lead in Cloud

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-07-26T18:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/security-worries-shouldn-t-slow-u-s-cloud-adoption-group-says.html
Cloud computing must be adopted by
the U.S. quickly to drive job growth and preserve U.S.
technology leadership, a group of the largest hardware, software
and Internet companies told the Obama administration.  The group, led by Salesforce.com and VCE, sent a report
today to the Commerce Department and U.S. Chief Information
Officer Vivek Kundra that recommended ways to accelerate
government and commercial adoption of cloud technologies, shared
pools of computing resources including software and data-
storage.  Cloud computing will become as important as the Internet in
maintaining U.S. competitiveness, the group of 71 companies said
in the report, which was requested by the administration.
Decisions made in the next three years will determine whether
the U.S. or another country takes the helm of worldwide policy
and industry developments regarding the cloud, the report said.  “Without question, the U.S. is the world leader in cloud
computing,” Dan Reed, corporate vice president of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s technology policy group, said in an interview. “This is
our market in the world to lose.” The U.S. needs “to create an
environment in which U.S. companies can remain leaders in this
space,” he said.  The administration asked the TechAmerica Foundation, a non-
profit, non-partisan affiliate of the Washington-based
technology industry group  TechAmerica , to prepare the report to
explain how cloud technologies can “improve economic
performance,” said Dan Burton, senior vice president of the
global public sector at Salesforce.com, a seller of cloud-
computing services.  Earning Trust  VCE , which co-led the study, also is a cloud provider and
was founded by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and EMC Corp. with investments
from  VMware Inc. (VMW)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   U.S. leadership is dependent on “earning the trust of
current and potential cloud users,” according to the report.
Skepticism over cloud adoption by government technology managers
has played a part in slowing progress on federal use of the
cloud, a policy being pushed by Kundra.  While security “usually tops the list of government
concerns,” preventing cloud adoption in the public sector, the
report “points out that cloud services are not inherently more
or less secure” than agency networks, Burton said.  “Security for the cloud has to be assessed, just like it’s
got to be assessed for on-premise” information technology
systems, Burton said. Those issues can be addressed in cloud
contracts between providers and the government, he said.  ‘Important IT Policy’  Federal adoption of the cloud is “the single most
important IT policy issue right now,” Burton said. Challenges
including “cybersecurity, privacy, data breach” will be
“profoundly influenced by the shift to cloud computing,”
making government adoption essential, he said.  “The way the federal government acts given its purchasing
power and its position vis-à-vis the rest of the world, what it
does sets standards of behavior and expectations,” Microsoft’s
Reed said. “The decisions and processes that the U.S.
government take are a good housekeeping seal of approval for
certain kinds of actions.”  Other areas the report recommends the U.S. address include
international data flow issues, uncertainty over the quality of
different cloud services and transitioning the U.S. and private
sector smoothly to use cloud computing technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  