-- 
Sembcorp Marine Says Refused to Be ‘Blackmailed’ Over PPL Stake

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-26T13:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sembcorp-marine-says-refused-to-be-blackmailed-over-ppl-stake.html
Sembcorp Marine Ltd. said it refused
to be “blackmailed” into offering a higher price than earlier
agreed for the remaining 15 percent of PPL Shipyard it didn’t
already own, Sembcorp’s lawyer said at a trial in  Singapore .  “This is a tale of how the temptation of lucre was allowed
to erase a promise to engage in fair dealing,”  Davinder Singh ,
representing Sembcorp, said at the start of the proceedings at
the Singapore High Court today.  Sembcorp, the world’s second-biggest builder of oil rigs,
sued PPL Holdings Pte in May 2010 for refusing to accept a
S$59.4 million ($49 million) offer for the 15 percent stake.
Sembcorp claimed it had the right to buy the stake before
Chinese rival Yangzijiang Shipbuilding (Holdings) Ltd., which
agreed to acquire PPL Holdings.  Yangzijiang competes with Sembcorp in rig construction.  Oil
companies , including Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, plan to spend billions of dollars for floating
drilling units as they move into unchartered areas.  PPL Holdings had promised to sell its stake in PPL Shipyard
to Sembcorp at an agreed price but failed to do so, according to
the lawsuit. Instead, PPL Holdings went to a competitor and
passed on confidential information so they could secure a higher
price than what had been agreed with Sembcorp, Singh said.  Baker Technology Ltd. (BTL)  agreed to sell its unit PPL Holdings
to a group led by Yangzijiang, which operates yards in  China ’s
Jiangsu province, for $155 million in April 2010. The amount was
later cut to $116.3 million. The sale included the 15 percent
stake in PPL Shipyard.  PPL Holdings then went to Sembcorp for a matching offer,
Singh said. Singapore-based Sembcorp claimed a breach of
contract.  PPL’s Response  “This action chronicles Sembcorp Marine’s contrived and
unmeritorious attempts to unilaterally rewrite its rights and
obligations,” according to opening remarks by PPL Holdings’
lawyers Kenneth Tan and N. Sreenivasan. “Sembcorp Marine did
its utmost to scuttle” the sale, including trying to scare away
Yangzijiang, the lawyers said.  Baker, a Singapore-based maker of equipment for the oil
and gas industry, has called Sembcorp’s allegations of a breach
“baseless.”  The case is  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)  v PPL Holdings Pte
S351/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  