-- 
Simon Property Raises Forecast as FFO Gains 20% on Higher Mall Occupancies

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-26T20:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/simon-property-raises-forecast-as-ffo-gains-20-on-higher-mall-occupancies.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the
largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, raised its forecast for funds
from operations after second-quarter results beat analyst
estimates on higher rents and occupancies.  Funds from operations, which gauges a property company’s
ability to generate cash, climbed to $583 million, or $1.65 a
share, in the second quarter, from $487.7 million, or $1.38, a
year earlier, the Indianapolis-based real estate investment
trust said today in a statement. Analysts expected FFO of $1.58
a share, the average of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The company is among regional mall landlords increasing
rents as their tenants’ sales rise.  Consumer spending , excluding
automobiles, gas stations and restaurants, increased 5.5 percent
in June from a year earlier, the  National Retail Federation  said
on July 14. That was the 12th straight month of gains.  “The consumer, actually, I feel a little bit better
about,”  David Simon , Simon’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said today in a conference call with analysts.  The mall owner increased its FFO forecast for the year to
$6.65 to $6.73 a share. In April, it projected 2011 FFO of $6.55
to $6.65 a share.  Simon’s shares rose $1.92, or 1.6 percent, to $122.39, a
record, at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has advanced 23 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent increase in the Bloomberg REIT Index.  Outlet Centers  Occupancy at Simon’s U.S. regional and outlet malls rose to
93.5 percent in the second quarter from 93.1 percent a year
earlier. The average rent per square foot climbed to $39.70 from
$38.62.  Simon is benefiting from growth in its outlet-center
business as apparel companies and other retailers expand in that
part of industry, said Cedrik Lachance, managing director at
Green Street Advisors Inc., a REIT-research firm in  Newport
Beach ,  California .  The company last year bought Prime Outlets Acquisition Co.
for $2.3 billion to expand the business by 21 properties. It
sold Prime Outlets at Jeffersonville in June after the Federal
Trade Commission required Simon to dispose of one of its two
southwest Ohio centers as part of the Prime purchase.  “They’ve greatly benefited from having a quarter of their
portfolio in outlet centers,” Lachance said in a telephone
interview before the report.  No Outlet Overbuilding  Simon said he doesn’t expect there to be overbuilding of
outlet malls in the U.S.  “It’s going to be a challenge to build many of the new
outlet centers that are being bandied about,” Simon said. “The
retailers and manufacturers are very sensitive to their full-
price operations.”  Simon, the largest U.S. REIT by market value, owns or has
stakes in almost 400 properties in  North America ,  Europe  and
 Asia . The company is considering building outlet centers in
 China , David Simon said.  “The big frontier is whether or not we do something in
China on the outlet side,” he said on today’s conference call.
“We’re spending a lot of time on that front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  