-- 
Singapore A380 Safe After Rolls Engine Shutdown

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-26T08:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/singapore-a380-returns-after-rolls-engine-shutdown.html
A  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  Airbus
A380 flight to  Hong Kong  returned to its base after 20 minutes
in the air when one of the plane’s four Rolls-Royce Plc Trent
engines shut down, the carrier said.  The A380 with 368 passengers and 21 crew aboard landed
normally at 11:17 a.m. yesterday and no one was injured, Nick Ionides, a  Singapore  Airlines spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. The engine shut off “due to surge and high
vibrations.”  The incident comes almost nine months after a Trent engine
on an A380 operated by Qantas Airways Ltd. exploded. Australian
regulators said in May that Rolls-Royce had made an oil pipe too
thin, with the defect causing a fracture that let oil leak and
ignite, weakening a turbine disc which fractured and separated
from its shaft. Rolls-Royce has since addressed the problem by
replacing the defective part.  “It is very unlikely to be a common cause with the
problems Qantas had, because clearly all the engines that are
flying have had that issue resolved,”  Nick Cunningham , managing
partner at London-based research company Agency Partners, said
today. “In-flight shutdowns are rare but not so rare that one
should get overly concerned about it.”  Looking Into Incident  Rolls-Royce is “aware of the incident, and we work closely
with Singapore Airlines to provide appropriate support and
technical assistance,” Erin Atan, a spokeswoman in Singapore
for the London-based engine manufacturer, said today.  Airbus is looking into the incident together with Rolls-
Royce and the airline,’’ said Sean Lee, a spokesman for the
planemaker in Singapore.  The Qantas engine explosion on Nov. 4 was the most
significant safety issue an A380 had faced since the double-
decker aircraft began passenger flights in October 2007, and it
prompted scrutiny of Rolls-Royce engines.  Rolls-Royce fell as much as 1.4 percent to 643.5 pence and
was down 0.4 percent as of 9:16 a.m. in London trading. That
pared the stock’s gain this year to 6 percent.  The company is one of two providers of engines for the
A380.  Power plants  are also available from Engine Alliance, a
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and Pratt & Whitney venture, which supplies
A380 customers such as Emirates and Air France-KLM Group.  Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, is a unit of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  