-- 
Sinohydro Plans $2.7 Billion IPO, China’s Biggest in 11 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T04:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sinohydro-plans-2-7-billion-ipo-china-s-biggest-in-11-months.html
Sinohydro Group Ltd.,  China ’s
biggest builder of dams, applied to raise funds for 17.3 billion
yuan ($2.7 billion) of projects in an initial public offering in
 Shanghai  that would be the nation’s biggest in almost a year.  The company plans to sell as many as 3.5 billion shares in
the offering, according to a company statement  posted  to the
website of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The
commission will review the IPO application on July 29, the
regulator said.  Sinohydro is building hydroelectric stations and wind farms
in China as part of the government’s push to reduce the nation’s
reliance on coal to fuel the world’s second-largest economy. The
Beijing-based company has also expanded overseas, winning
construction contracts in  Asia ,  Africa  and  South America .  Proceeds from the company’s offering will help fund the
construction of projects including a hydropower dam in the
southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan and a wind farm in the
northern province of Gansu, according to Sinohydro’s statement.
Funds will also be used for a hydro dam in Cambodia, the company
said.  The initial offering would be the biggest since China
Everbright Bank Co. raised 18.9 billion yuan in August. The
exercise of Everbright Bank’s over-allotment option in September
increased the amount it raised to 21.1 billion yuan.  Sinohydro’s net income gained 27 percent last year to 2.91
billion yuan on increased demand for hydropower facilities,
according to the statement. The company had 261 projects under
construction in 55 countries at the end of 2010, with sales from
overseas projects accounting for 26 percent of the company’s
total revenue and 35 percent of gross profit, it said.  The Chinese dam builder signed a $2 billion framework
agreement with  Laos  to build seven dams along the 475-kilometer
(295-mile) Nam Ou river, a Mekong tributary, the Hong Kong-based
South China Morning Post reported in April.  Sinohydro in June of last year won a contract to help
 Ecuador  build a $1.68 billion hydropower plant in the country’s
Amazon region in what would be the Latin American country’s
biggest engineering project, Ecuador’s Strategic Sectors
Ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  