-- 
Sino-Forest Advances on Speculation Billionaire Chandler Will Seek Changes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-26T20:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sino-forest-advances-on-speculation-billionaire-chandler-will-seek-changes.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree-
farm operator targeted by short seller Carson Block, climbed to
the highest in almost eight weeks on speculation billionaire
investor Richard Chandler will push through positive changes at
the company.  Sino-Forest rose 76 cents, or 12 percent, to C$7.12 at 4:29
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares, which
plunged 83 percent last month, are at their highest since June
2, the day Block’s Muddy Waters LLC published a report alleging
Sino-Forest overstated its timber holdings in  China .  Chandler disclosed on July 20 that his Mandolin Fund Pte
increased its stake in Sino-Forest to 26.7 million shares. That
gave Chandler’s group an 11 percent stake, making it the third-
largest shareholder in Sino-Forest after Davis Selected Advisers
LP and Wellington Management Co., according to the most recent
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  “People who have done their homework on Chandler and his
track record are probably bidding up the stock,” Jim Huang, who
helps manage about C$100 million ($106 million) at Toronto-based
T.I.P Wealth Manager Inc. and owns Sino-Forest shares, said in a
telephone interview. “People are realizing that he knows what
he’s doing.”  Chandler became one of  New Zealand ’s richest men partly by
pushing for reforms at  South Korea ’s SK Group. Chandler helped
spearhead a two-year campaign against SK’s chairman on grounds
his fraud conviction made him unfit to run Korea’s largest oil
refiner. By the time Chandler and his brother sold their SK
stake in 2005, shares in his target had jumped fivefold.  Sino-Forest, based in  Hong Kong  and Mississauga, Ontario,
has denied the Muddy Waters allegations and commissioned an
independent investigation into the claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 