-- 
Sky Capital’s Mandell Convicted in $140 Million Fraud by New York Jury

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sky-capital-s-mandell-is-found-guilty-on-all-counts-in-140-million-fraud.html
Sky Capital Holdings Ltd. founder
Ross Mandell was convicted of operating what the U.S. said was
an eight-year long scheme that defrauded investors out of $140
million.  Mandell, 54, of  Boca Raton , Florida, was found guilty
yesterday by a federal jury in New York of all four counts he
was charged with, conspiracy,  securities fraud ,  wire fraud  and
mail fraud, after a trial before U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty
in  Manhattan .  Adam Harrington, 41, of Miami, a former broker at Sky
Capital who was tried with Mandell, was convicted of the same
four counts. The jury began its deliberations July 22.  Prosecutors said the evidence showed the defendants used
the funds for tens of thousands of dollars of personal
expenditures like private jets, luxury hotels and expensive
Swiss watches.  Jurors were shown bills for more than $162,400 in charges
between May 2001 and January 2006 made on Mandell’s corporate
American Express card that prosecutors said were for “adult
entertainment” that included visits to strip clubs like
Stringfellows in  London  as well as “hostesses.”  Excessive Commissions  Mandell, Harrington and others at Sky Capital also used the
money to pay themselves excessive commissions and pay off other
victims who’d lost money through prior purported investment
opportunities, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Pablo Quinones and
Katherine Goldstein argued during the trial.  Crotty declined to set a sentencing date or revoke bail for
Mandell and Harrington. The judge said he wouldn’t rule on
prosecutors’ request to jail both men before sentencing because
they pose a flight risk. He gave defense lawyers until Aug. 5 to
file legal papers before issuing a ruling.  “It’s unjust,” Harrington said about the verdict as he
sat outside the courtroom. “We will appeal.”  Most of the jurors declined to comment on their
deliberations. One who identified herself as Carmen said,
“there was enough evidence. It was a tough decision. We based
it on the judge’s charge.”  Mandell and Harrington were accused of manipulating shares
in two Sky Capital companies traded on the Alternative
Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. The U.S. said
the two solicited millions of dollars from victims for what they
claimed were restricted stock offerings or private placements
that promised large returns.  Issues For Appeal  Mandell’s lawyer, Jeffrey Hoffman, said after the verdict
that “there are very significant issues for appeal,” citing a
U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling last year in Morrison v. National
Australia Bank that U.S. securities laws don’t protect foreign
investors who buy stocks on overseas exchanges in a civil case.  “The judge has ruled that Morrison did not apply,”
Hoffman said. “We think ultimately that the Second Circuit
Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court will say that Morrison
applies equally to civil as well as criminal cases.”  Four other men were arrested and charged in the case and
have pleaded guilty. Two of them, Robert Grabowski and Michael Passaro, both former Sky Capital brokers, agreed to cooperate
with the U.S. and testified against Mandell and Harrington.  “There is a mountain of evidence that these men defrauded
investors of Sky Capital stock,” Goldstein told jurors in
closing arguments on July 20.  Urged to Lie  She said Mandell urged his brokers to repeatedly lie to
investors by offering investments in purported initial public
offerings in companies that in reality only had a handful of
employees.  Goldstein cited several recordings made by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  and played for the jury during the
trial, including one in which Mandell was heard telling brokers,
“You have to lie, you have to paint a rosy picture. That’s your
choice.”  In another conversation, cited by Goldstein, Mandell warned
his brokers they couldn’t tell the truth about their investment
schemes, saying, “If Sky goes belly up, we’re all going to be
embroiled in a big scandal,”  adding, “There will be no one,
no one that’s safe.”  Prosecutors argued during closing arguments that Mandell
and Harrington were motivated in the scheme by greed. Company
records indicate Mandell paid himself a salary of more than $7.3
million and charged more than $440,000 in personal expenses to
the company’s American Express card.  Interior Decorating  Mandell charged a family visit to  Walt Disney World  in
 Florida  to the company and tens of thousands of dollars on
interior decorating for his homes, lavish trips and travel on
private jets for himself and his family, Goldstein said.  After one investor, a jeweler, complained, Mandell
directed the investor to deliver two  Patek Philippe  watches to
his office which he purchased with Sky Capital funds for
$50,000. Mandell directed the transaction be recorded as
“consulting fee” paid to the investor, prosecutors said.  During a five-year period between June 2001 and October
2006, prosecutors said Mandell also racked up more than
$1.45 million in charges to the Dorchester Hotel in London
charged to the Sky Capital corporate account.  Mandell founded Sky Capital in or about January 2001 and
served as chief executive officer of both Sky Capital Holdings
and Sky Capital Enterprises, as well as serving on the board of
various units of the company, prosecutors said.  Harrington worked as a registered broker for Sky Capital
from August 2002 until about September 2005, the U.S. said.
Goldstein said Harrington was paid $3.1 million for his role in
the scheme.  Hoffman, Mandell’s lawyer, argued to jurors that his client
had complied with SEC regulations and didn’t defraud clients.  Misleading Evidence  “The evidence in this case is misleading and tortured,”
Hoffman told jurors July 21. “He did everything he could. He
did what the law required. He did what he thought was right.”  Michael Bachner, a lawyer for Harrington, argued during his
July 20 closing statement to jurors that some of the cooperating
witnesses were drug users who’d lied about their own drug use
and therefore weren’t credible.  He said the cooperators were also willing to implicate his
client because they wanted to avoid going to prison for their
own crimes.  “What you have is a case based on a flawed foundation,”
Bachner said. “They’ve been paid with something more
profitable, they’ve been promised their freedom. Keep in mind
their motivation here.”  Boiler Room  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed civil
charges in the case on the same day the six were arrested,
accusing the suspects of raising more than $61 million in a so-
called “boiler room” scheme that restricted investors from
selling their shares.  The SEC said Sky Capital raised the money from September
2002 to November 2006, implementing a “no net sales” policy
that prevented investors from selling their stocks in two Sky
companies. When trading in those stocks was suspended by the
London Stock Exchange in 2006, the investments were rendered
worthless.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mandell, 09-cr-00662, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  