-- 
SL Green Second-Quarter FFO Rises 14% as Revenue From Rents Increases

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-26T23:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sl-green-second-quarter-ffo-rises-14-as-revenue-from-rents-increases.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York’s
City’s biggest office landlord, said second-quarter funds from
operations rose 14 percent as rental revenue increased.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, was $92.9 million, or $1.08 a share, compared with $81.5
million, or $1.02, a year earlier, the New York-based real
estate investment trust said today in a statement. The company
was expected to have FFO of $1.03 a share, the average estimate
of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  SL Green has benefited from gains in leasing and property
values in  Manhattan , where most of its office buildings are
located. The borough’s vacancy rate fell to 9.4 percent at the
end of the second quarter from 10.8 percent a year earlier,
according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Green Street Advisors Inc.
reported that  New York  office prices climbed 27 percent for the
period.  “Given our view that the economic recovery endures, we
remain bullish on New York office,” Alex Goldfarb, an analyst
with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP with a “buy” rating on SL
Green, wrote in a July 13 report. SL Green’s management “is not
afraid to take risks when it senses opportunity, which is where
we want to be at this point in the cycle,” he wrote.  Rental revenue increased in the second quarter to $240.6
million from $193.3 million.  Second-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. SL Green fell 77 cents to $86.27 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading today. The stock gained 47
percent in the last 12 months, the best performer in the 18-
member Bloomberg REIT Office Property Index.  280 Park Ave.  During the quarter, SL Green and a competitor,  Vornado
Realty Trust (VNO) , agreed to share a majority stake in 280 Park Ave.,
a pair of connected office towers near Grand Central Terminal in
the middle of one of Manhattan’s most expensive submarkets. The
companies, which held subordinate debt on the property, created
a $150 million fund to find new tenants for offices that are
scheduled to become vacant next year.  Departures of Deutsche Bank AG and the  National Football
League  may leave the building about 45 percent empty, according
to a report by Green Street.  SL Green held stakes in 57 Manhattan commercial properties
totaling more than 32 million square feet (3 million square
meters) as of March 31. It also had interests in about 7.3
million square feet of real estate in New York’s outer boroughs
and suburbs.  FFO, used by REITs, doesn’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  