-- 
Chelsea Defender Ashley Cole Sues News Corp., Alleging Telephone Hacking

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T17:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/soccer-player-ashley-cole-sues-news-corp-over-phone-hacking.html
England soccer player Ashley Cole
sued  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit and the private investigator who was
jailed for hacking into celebrities’ voice mails to get scoops
for the News of the World tabloid.  Cole, 30, sued the New York-based company and Glenn Mulcaire yesterday in the High Court in London, joining more
than two dozen public figures who filed similar lawsuits,
including actor Sienna Miller and former U.K. Deputy Prime
Minister John Prescott.  “We were always suspicious about the extent to which
people were under surveillance” by the newspaper, Cole’s
lawyer, Graham Shear of Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP in London,
said today in a phone interview.  Evidence produced in the civil phone-hacking lawsuits
triggered the latest police investigation, opened in January.
Revelations that the paper deleted messages on the phone of
murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler led to News Corp. shuttering
the Sunday tabloid and abandoning its bid for all of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his son, James, gave
testimony to a parliamentary committee investigating phone
hacking at the newspaper and potential police bribery.  Shear, who has represented celebrities in defamation
lawsuits against newspapers for more than 20 years, sued News
Corp. in April over claims his phone was hacked to intercept
confidential client-attorney communications.  Cheryl Cole  The lawyer represented Cole in his divorce last year from
singer Cheryl Cole, who was briefly a judge alongside  Simon
Cowell  and  Paula Abdul  on the U.S. version of Britain’s “X-
Factor” talent show on News Corp.’s Fox network.  News Corp. faces a trial in January, when the court will
decide how much the company should pay in damages to five other
victims, including actor Jude Law. News International has agreed
to pay about 100,000 pounds ($164,000) to Miller and another
20,000 pounds to sports commentator Andy Gray.  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  didn’t return a
call for comment.  The case is:  Ashley Cole  v. Newsgroup Newspaper Ltd., No.
HC11C02525, High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  