-- 
Solar-Powered IPad Seen as MIT Advances Cells Printed on Paper

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/solar-powered-ipad-seen-as-mit-advances-cells-printed-on-paper.html
The next generation of solar cells
may be printed on ordinary paper.  Engineers  at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  have
created ultrathin paper cells that gather enough juice to power
an LCD clock and can be glued to a briefcase, stapled to a hat
or folded into a pocket. The research is a first step toward a
cheap and lightweight source of renewable energy that, within
two years, may be used for everything from charging an iPad to
warming up clothing, researchers said.  “Rather than confining solar power to rooftops or solar
farms, paper photovoltaics can be used virtually anywhere,
making energy ubiquitous,” said  Karen Gleason , associate dean
of engineering research at MIT in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and
leader of the team that produced the cells.  Paper cells would have the potential to create a new market
based on the popularity of low-power electronic devices that are
now mostly fed by batteries, such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads and
mobile phones, said Jeffrey Bencik, director of research at
Kaufman Bros. LP, a New York-based investment firm. That new
market may grow to as much as $470 million by 2020, according to
an April report by  Lux Research , a Boston-based advisory firm.  “It’s not competing with traditional solar panels out
there at all,” Bencik said in a telephone interview.  New Technique  The research, funded by  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil
company, was  described  by MIT  engineers  in a paper  published 
July 8 in the journal Advanced Materials.  Competitors racing to develop other low-cost, flexible
cells include  Solarmer  Energy Inc. in El Monte,  California , and
Lowell, Massachusetts-based  Konarka  Technologies Inc. Both
companies produce organic photovoltaics, but have yet to find
the combination of efficiency and production capabilities that
enable large-scale commercial use, said Jason Eckstein, a
researcher at Lux. Konarka’s cells are applied on plastic, a
material more expensive than paper.  Almost all solar cells now are made from silicon. They
generate power by converting energy from light into charged
current, a process called the  photovoltaic  effect.  While these devices provide power to both huge consumers,
such as satellites and homes, and small ones, such as hand-held
calculators, they’re expensive. Crystalline and thin-film solar
cells, the two most-common technologies available, rely on
cutting wafers from large blocks of silicon material or
depositing thin layers of rare earth materials like tellurium
and indium onto glass.  MIT’s ultrathin cells are made using a new technique that
avoids damaging high temperatures and corrosive liquids involved
in traditional methods, Gleason said in a telephone interview.  1,000 Times Cheaper  The bottom layer and the active layer, where combinations
of electrons and positively charged ions interact to create an
electrical current, are composed of abundant organic elements
like carbon, oxygen, and copper, Gleason said.  “Nothing that we’re using is potentially expensive,” she
said. Paper substrate is 1,000 times cheaper than glass, “which
takes up almost 40 percent of the cost of the typical module.”  Because of the low cost and the adaptability of the
materials, Umberto Vergine, vice president of research for Rome-
based Eni, envisions a wide array of markets.  “The flexibility of the cells and the versatility of sizes
and shapes can provide solutions for many outdoor products
including boating equipment, tents, sun-shields or even
clothing,” Vergine said in an e-mail. “There’s a wide choice
out there. The Eni and MIT teams are working now to pick the
right one to get to the market.”  Green Energy Alternative  The project also answers a need among energy companies,
such as Eni, that are being increasingly nudged by governments
to find green energy alternatives, said  Richard Griffith , an oil
and gas analyst at London-based Evolution Securities LTD.  “They’ll keep an investment interest in these things
because one of them may be the prize winner in the future,”
Griffith said in an interview.  The MIT research team that created the paper cells is
almost three years ahead of pace, according to Gleason.  The engineers produced the first working paper solar cells
in September 2010. A few months later, the prototype was able to
keep an LCD clock  working .  Gizmo World Opportunities  Cell efficiencies need to be improved before the devices
can reach consumers, and plans to boost efficiency are in place.
The print cells now operate at less than 2 percent efficiency,
and plans to reach 8 percent -- enough to power a mobile phone -
- within two years are in place, said  Vladimir Bulovic , director
of the  Solar Frontiers Center  at MIT.  Once that work is completed, “there is a great deal of
things this can do for the gizmo world,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Gleason, the project’s team leader said the results
announced this month are just the first step in a long process.  “I’m very optimistic that within a year we’ll see
substantially improved efficiency,” Gleason said. “No matter
what the commercialization pathway is, part of it would be
scaling up the process to where you could generate larger scale
prototypes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 