-- 
Soros to End Four-Decade Hedge-Fund Career

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-07-26T11:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/soros-to-end-four-decades-as-hedge-fund-leader-by-returning-investor-cash.html
George Soros , the billionaire best
known for breaking the Bank of England, is returning money to
outside investors in his $25.5 billion firm, ending a career as
hedge-fund manager that spanned more than four decades.  Soros, who turns 81 next month, will hand back the money,
less than $1 billion, by the end of the year, according to two
people briefed on the matter. His firm will focus on managing
assets solely for Soros and his family, according to a letter to
investors.  Keith Anderson , 51, chief investment officer since
February 2008, is leaving, said the letter, signed by Soros’s
sons Jonathan and Robert, who are co-deputy chairmen.  “We wish to express our gratitude to those who chose to
invest their capital with Soros Fund Management LLC over the
last nearly 40 years,” they said in the letter. “We trust that
you have felt well rewarded for your decision over time.”  The move completes Soros’s transformation from a
speculator, who in 1992 made $1 billion betting that the  Bank of
England  would be forced to devalue the pound, to philanthropist
statesman, a role he first imagined for himself as a Hungarian
émigré studying at the  London  School of Economics after World
War II, according to Soros’s writings. In the last 30 years,
he’s given away more than $8 billion to promote democracy,
foster free speech, improve education and fight poverty around
the world, he said in a recent essay.  Family Assets  Soros’s sons said they took the decision because new
financial regulations would have made it necessary for the firm
to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission by March
2012 if it continued to manage money for outsiders. Because the
firm has overseen mostly family assets since 2000, when outside
money accounted for about $4 billion, they decided it made more
sense to run it as a family office, according to the letter.  The rule calls for hedge funds with more than $150 million
in assets to report information about their investors and
employees, the assets they manage, potential conflicts of
interest and their activities outside of fund advising.
Registered funds will also be subject to periodic inspections by
the SEC.  “We have relied until now on other exemptions from
registration which allowed outside shareholders whose interests
aligned with those of the family investors to remain invested in
Quantum,” the executives said in the letter, referring to its
flagship Quantum Endowment Fund. “As those other exemptions are
no longer available under the new regulations, Soros Fund
Management will now complete the transition to a family office
that it began eleven years ago.”  Druckenmiller’s Move  Soros, who controls more than $24.5 billion for himself,
his family and his foundations, declined to comment on the
letter. Last year,  Stanley Druckenmiller , Soros’s chief
strategist from late 1988 until 2000, closed his money-
management firm, Duquesne Capital Management LLC, and created
his own family office.  While Quantum has returned about 20 percent a year, on
average, since 1969, when its predecessor was started, according
to a person familiar with the firm, the fund’s performance has
suffered in the last 18 months. In the first half of this year,
Quantum lost about 6 percent, the person said, following a gain
of 2.5 percent in 2010. Other macro funds have returned 5.6
percent in the last year-and-a-half, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Soros was born in Budapest in 1930, as Dzjchdzhe Shorash, 
according Robert Slater's book ``Soros: The World's Most
Influential Investor.'' When the Nazis invaded the city in 
1944, Soros’s father arranged for false papers for his family 
and friends that identified them as non-Jews. Most of the people 
his father helped survived the war, Soros said in the essay 
published in the  New York  Review of Books in late June.  ‘Evil Force’  “Instead of submitting to our fate we resisted an evil
force that was much stronger than we were -- yet we prevailed.
Not only did we survive, but we managed to help others,” he
wrote, adding the experience gave him an appetite for taking
risk. “This left a lasting mark on me, turning a disaster of
unthinkable proportions into an exhilarating adventure.”  After London, Soros came to New York at the age of 26 and
became a trader, initially buying and selling stocks for Wall
Street brokerage F.M. Mayer. He planned to work for five years,
enough time, he reckoned, to save $500,000 and return to  England 
where he would pursue his philosophical studies, according to an
interview he gave to Michael Kaufman, author of  “Soros: The
Life and Times of a Messianic Billionaire.”   Instead, he stayed in the world of finance, eventually
moved to Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder Advisors LLC, where he set
up the predecessor to the Quantum fund in 1969. He started his
own firm in 1973.  Conflicting Goals  Over the years, Soros had to deal with conflicting goals of
making good and doing good. While Soros’s fund made about $750
million betting on a decline in the  Thai baht  in 1997, the wager
increased economic woes in  Thailand  as the government spent
billions unsuccessfully defending its currency. In the wake of
the devaluation, Thailand was forced to cut public spending in
exchange for a $17.2 billion rescue package from the
 International Monetary Fund .  In 1997, his philanthropic tendencies drove him to buy
Russian assets. He took a $1 billion stake in RAO Svyazinvest,
 Russia ’s state-owned telecommunications company, and went on to
buy Russian stocks and bonds. He didn’t sell his positions even
after publishing a piece in the Financial Times advising the
government to devalue the ruble by 15 percent to 25 percent.
Four days later, Russia followed his advice.  “He felt that if he was a beacon of investment in Russia,
others would follow and the capital inflows would transform the
society and integrate them into the G7,”  Robert Johnson , a
former Soros managing director, told author  Sebastian Mallaby  in
his book ‘ More Money than God .’ “There’s a philanthropic side
of George that started to interfere with the speculative one.”  ‘Public Interest’  In his recent essay, Soros echoed the remarks of his former
colleague.  “I have made it a principle to pursue my self-interest in
my business, subject to legal and ethical limitations, and to be
guided by the public interest as a public intellectual and
philanthropist,” he wrote. “If the two are in conflict, the
public interest ought to prevail,” he said.  Soros opened his first foundation, the Open Society Fund,
in 1979, when his fund had reached about $100 million and his
personal wealth had climbed to about $25 million. His initial
focus was on promoting democracy and a market economy in Eastern
 Europe . Soros now funds a  network of foundations  that operate in
70 countries around the globe, everywhere from the U.S. to
Montenegro to  South Africa  and  Haiti .  In late 1988, he hired Druckenmiller to be his chief
strategist to take over the day-to-day trading of the firm’s
assets so he could concentrate on his charitable pursuits.  Breaking the BoE  While Druckenmiller was the architect of the $10 billion
British pound trade, which forced the currency out of the
European exchange-rate mechanism, Soros served as a coach to the
younger man, encouraging him to increase his bet.  Druckenmiller left in 2000, together with another star
manager, Nick Roditi, after losses when the technology bubble
burst. Just two years before, the firm had been the biggest
hedge fund in the world with $22 billion in assets, and Soros
said it was too much money to manage in such concentrated
positions.  After the departures, Soros decided to farm out more money
to portfolio managers both inside and outside  Soros Fund
Management . He said he would settle for a 15 percent annualized
return, about half of what the fund had posted since its start.  Stepping In  In 2007, as the subprime mortgage crisis was gaining speed,
Soros again stepped in. Quantum returned 32 percent that year
and posted an 8 percent gain in 2008, when funds on average
dropped about 19 percent. Overall, Quantum Endowment grew from
about $11 billion in June 2000 to today’s level.  The firm went through several chief investment officers,
including Soros’s son Robert, before hiring Anderson, who was a
co-founder at BlackRock Inc. and its global fixed-income chief.  The uncertainty about markets and Quantum’s 6 percent dive
caused Anderson to sell positions in mid-June and the firm is
now holding about 75 percent cash. It hasn’t been decided
whether Jonathan and Robert will hire a new CIO, or whether they
will add to their stable of external managers.  In the meantime, Soros continues to focus on his
philanthropy and on voicing his views on macroeconomic events,
such as the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.  “My success in the financial markets has given me a
greater degree of independence than most other people,” Soros
wrote in his recent essay. “This obliges me to take stands on
controversial issues when others cannot, and taking such
positions has itself been a source of satisfaction. In short, my
philanthropy has made me happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  