-- 
Sotheby’s Renews Funding of Tate Britain’s Sculpture Commission

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-26T09:37:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sotheby-s-renews-tate-britain-sculpture-commission-funding-for-three-years.html
Sotheby’s  said it is renewing its
sponsorship of  Tate Britain ’s contemporary-art commissions for
three years -- a program that in 2008 saw  Martin Creed  send
sprinters through the London gallery.  No figures were given for the sponsorship, which began in
2008. The yearly commission allows a sculpture to be created and
later shown in Tate Britain’s columned hall. It recalls Tate
Modern’s Turbine Hall installations, which Unilever backs to the
tune of 2.16 million pounds ($3.5 million) over five years.  “We are very proud to be supporting Tate for the fourth
year,”  Cheyenne Westphal , Sotheby’s head of contemporary art in
 Europe , said in an e-mail sent by the Sotheby’s press office. It
“will allow the work of a British contemporary artist to be
exhibited on this international and well-known stage.”  Tate Britain Director Penelope Curtis said the name of the
artist selected for 2012 -- year of the London  Olympic Games  --
will be announced later.  “I am delighted that  Sotheby’s (BID)  have chosen to continue
their sponsorship of the Tate Britain commission for a further
three years,” Curtis said in an e-mail sent by the Tate press
office.  The last sculptor commissioned to create a work for Tate
Britain’s 86-meter Duveen gallery was Fiona Banner, who showed
two disused fighter jets. Her display lasted from June 2010 to
January 2011.  No sculptor has been commissioned so far this year; the
next one will have work on display from March 2012. Tate said
the schedule had shifted because of building works and not
because the Sotheby’s sponsorship had run out momentarily.  In 2008, Creed sent a runner charging every 30 seconds
through the Duveen gallery. The project lasted four and a half
months. The sprinters were each paid 10 pounds an hour to make
15 runs per half-hour shift.  The 2007 artist was Mark Wallinger, who, in his “State
Britain,” recreated peace campaigner Brian Haw’s wall-length
anti-Iraq-war protest in  London ’s Parliament Square. The work
helped him win that year’s Turner Prize, the U.K.’s highest
contemporary-art distinction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 