-- 
South Africa’s Smaller Miners May Beat Rivals as Cost Increase, Oasis Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-26T13:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/south-africa-s-smaller-miners-may-beat-rivals-as-costs-rise-oasis-says.html
South Africa’s smaller mining stocks
including Palabora Mining Co. Ltd. may outperform larger rivals
as industry costs rise, according to Oasis Group Holdings Ltd.  Oasis, a Cape Town-based asset manager that controls about
30 billion rand ($4.4 billion), prefers Palabora and  Assore Ltd. (ASR) 
to  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company, whose deep-level mines are costlier to operate,
said Adam Ebrahim, Oasis’s founder and chief investment officer.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., which operates some of the
world’s deepest mines, said this week first-half costs climbed
13 percent from a year earlier as growth of prices for
electricity, diesel, explosives, steel and wages “materially”
exceeded consumer price inflation, currently 5 percent. Because
they don’t have to dig as deeply, open-pit mines are safer and
cheaper to operate, Ebrahim said.  Cash operating costs at Palabora declined 8.1 percent to 2
billion rand in the year ended Dec. 31, the company said in a
stock exchange statement on Feb 7.  “I’m bearish on deep-level mining in  South Africa ,”
Ebrahim said in a July 22 interview in Cape Town. “If you want
to be in mining in South Africa you want to be in shallow, open-
pit mining, in manganese, iron ore and coal.”  ‘Incredibly Cheap’  Palabora, an open-cast copper and magnetite producer in
South Africa’s Mpumalanga province, trades at 4.4 times
estimated earnings and Assore at 8.5 times. That compares with
an estimated price-earnings ratio of 8.6 for Anglo American and
9.3 for  BHP Billiton .  “These alternative commodity plays are incredibly cheap,”
Ebrahim said.  South African miners including Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. built new mines and expanded production capabilities to
take advantage of a rally that took metal prices to a record
high in 2008. The rand has advanced 41 percent since the start
of 2009 to 6.69 today, reducing local-currency costs of imported
machinery and equipment.  Assore spent 2 billion rand on machinery and equipment in
its  iron ore  and manganese mines in the half year through Dec.
31, the company said on Feb. 16. The company is upgrading
furnaces to boost ferromanganese production, it said June 30.
Palabora’s capital expenditure rose 67 percent to 222 million
rand in the year ended Dec. 31.  Islamic Fund  “All the companies we’re investing in are expanding
production at a time when the rand is at 6.50 or 7” per dollar,
Ebrahim said. “Compare that with companies that put in
equipment when the rand was at 9 or 10” per dollar two years
ago, he said.  Palabora shares dropped as much as 1.3 percent today to
139.49 rand in Johannesburg, paring their gain so far this year
to 22 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent loss for Anglo
American. Assore has advanced 21 percent in 2011.  Palabora’s market value is 6.73 billion rand and Assore’s
is 31.9 billion, compared with 447 billion rand for Anglo
American and 1.6 trillion rand for BHP, according to data
compiled by Bloombert.  Oasis’ Crescent Global Equity Fund was the best-performing
Islamic-finance global equity fund in 2010, according to a
survey by Dubai-based  Failaka Advisers , which advises clients on
Shariah-compliant investments. The fund returned an average of
8.2 percent over the past 10 years, compared with the 0.3
percent average annual return of its peers, according to the
Failaka survey.  Islamic investments prohibit the payment and receipt of
interest and bans investment in businesses such as pornography,
tobacco, alcohol and gambling. Oasis also runs non-Islamic asset
funds, including property and bond funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  