-- 
South Korean Growth Slows as Stronger Won, Europe Crisis Drags on Exports

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-07-27T02:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/south-korea-s-gdp-expands-0-8-from-previous-quarter-meeting-expectations.html
South Korea ’s economy expanded at a
slower pace in the second quarter as a stronger won and  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis weighed on exports.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent from the previous
quarter, when it advanced 1.3 percent, the  Bank of Korea  said in
Seoul today. That matched the median estimate of 10 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The economy grew 3.4 percent from a
year earlier, slower than estimates of a 3.5 percent expansion.  Heightened global uncertainty driven by fiscal woes in the
U.S. and Europe hasn’t deterred South Korean policy makers from
fighting inflation. Bank of  Korea  Deputy Governor Kim Jae Chun
said on July 25 that price gains remain the central bank’s
biggest concern and that the economy will rebound in the second
half of the year.  “The growth figures are a bit disappointing but the
economy will regain momentum in the third quarter, with a boost
from back-to-school overseas demand for electronic goods,” said
Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul .  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government cut its growth
forecast to 4.5 percent from 5 percent for this year while the
central bank projected a 4.3 percent increase, lower than an
earlier 4.5 percent prediction. Policy makers said yesterday
they are committed to containing inflation at 4 percent this
year as price gains have exceeded the central bank’s target
limit each month since January.  The won rose 0.15 percent to 1,050.40 per dollar as of
10:52 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi share index fell 0.1 percent, led by Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest handset maker.  Export Growth Slows  Export growth slowed to 1.8 percent in the second quarter
from the first, when shipments increased 3.3 percent, today’s
report showed.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported last week that
second-quarter profit declined 34 percent on falling chip prices.  Overseas shipments rose more slowly because of moderating
global demand for semiconductors and liquid-crystal displays,
Kim Young Bae, director-general of the central bank’s economic
statistics division, told reporters in Seoul today.  “We can’t say exports are sluggish as the second-quarter
slowdown follows a very strong growth in the first quarter,”
Kim said. “The economy will grow faster in the third quarter
than in the second.”  Economic Rebound  The economy will rebound later this year as job growth and
wage increases bolster domestic demand and global demand for
cars, petrochemicals and electronic goods supports exports, said
Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co.
in Seoul. Private consumption increased 1 percent from the
previous quarter, when it advanced 0.4 percent, today’s report
showed.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in July from a year
earlier, exceeding the central bank’s 4 percent target limit
every month since January, according to a median of four
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report is due Aug. 1.
Both the central bank and  Finance Ministry  project 4 percent
inflation this year.  “Rate hikes alone will not be enough to limit consumer
inflation,” Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc, said before the release.  Korean policymakers struggling with inflation will have to
allow additional appreciation of the won, while the Korean
government needs to continue its food subsidies and encourage
more competition among service providers, Kwon said.  Price Fixing  To tame price gains, South Korea’s government will increase
imports of food in short supply such as pork and bananas, and
inspect large restaurants and franchises for any irregular price
fixing moves, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  The won has gained about 7 percent against the dollar so
far this year, the most of Asian currencies, aiding the
government’s efforts to tame inflation by cutting the cost of
imports. A report on Aug. 1 will probably show exports jumped
19.2 percent in July after a 13.6 percent gain in June,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Posco (005490)  posted a 22 percent gain in second-quarter profit,
aided by higher prices and earnings from its units. The world’s
third-biggest steelmaker, which raised the prices of benchmark
hot-rolled steel plates by about 18 percent in April, expects
global demand for steel products to recover after declining in
the third quarter.  The central bank boosted the benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate every two or three months this year, most recently in June
to 3.25 percent. Its board reviews the rate on Aug. 11.  The Bank of Korea will probably next raise interest rates
in September, Taurus Investment & Securities’ Kong said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  