-- 
Sovereign Ratings Should Be Free of Politics, S&P President Sharma Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sovereign-ratings-should-be-free-of-politics-s-p-s-sharma-says.html
Credit-rating firms, which have
weighed in on the debate over the U.S. debt ceiling, should be
free from political pressure when they assess sovereign debt,
Deven Sharma, the president of  Standard & Poor’s , will tell
lawmakers and regulators at a congressional hearing.  “In a global economy where we rate more than 120 sovereign
governments, it is particularly important that rating
methodologies not become subject to influence by one or more
countries seeking to benefit its own rating, which would
undermine the independence, comparability and value of ratings
to all,” Sharma said in testimony prepared for a House
Financial Services subcommittee hearing today.  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are
considering a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating unless
President  Barack Obama  and Congress reach an agreement to rein
in the federal debt.  At the House panel hearing, Sharma and Michael Rowan, a
managing director at Moody’s, will lay out the changes their
firms have made after lawmakers criticized them for contributing
to the 2008 economic collapse, according to a copies of their
testimony obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The debt ceiling negotiations and the long-term fiscal
health of the U.S. have brought a renewed focus on the  credit
rating agencies ,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas
Republican and chairman of the subcommittee, said yesterday in a
statement.  Regulators  Members of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations
will also hear from banking regulators, who are required by last
year’s Dodd-Frank Act to replace references to credit ratings in
existing statutes with an “appropriate” standard for measuring
creditworthiness.  The agencies are finding the new rules about credit ratings
“exceptionally challenging” to implement,  David Wilson , the
senior U.S. deputy comptroller for bank supervision policy, said
in prepared testimony.  Credit-raters, including Moody’s and McGraw-Hill Cos.’
Standard & Poor’s unit, were targeted by lawmakers after they
issued top rankings to mortgage-backed securities whose collapse
helped spark the financial crisis. Reports from the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission and Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations cited the failures of the credit-rating firms as
a reason for the financial crisis.  SEC Duties  Sharma and Rowan will say their companies support the
removal of the ratings from statute, according to their prepared
testimony.  The Securities and Exchange Commission was given most of
the Dodd-Frank workload for re-writing credit-rating
regulations. The regulator yesterday adopted its first rule to
remove a requirement for credit ratings from rules about
securities offerings. It has proposed several similar rules this
year.  The SEC also issued a proposal in May to enforce changes
in the credit raters’ conduct -- overhauling how the firms
should assess debt securities, ensure the quality of ratings and
prevent conflicts of interest.  Dodd-Frank also required the agency to conduct annual
examinations of each firm registered with the SEC to issue
ratings.  “Examinations will be critical to enforcing compliance
with the substantial new compliance obligations,” said John
Ramsay, deputy director of the SEC’s trading and markets
division, in prepared testimony. He said the first cycle of
inspections for the 10 firms should be completed this year.
“Fulfilling this objective will, of course, place a burden on
the Commission’s examination resources.”  Lawmakers may need to consider changes to the law in order
to ease the implementation process, the OCC’s Wilson said.  “Precluding undue or exclusive reliance on credit ratings
-- rather than imposing an absolute prohibition to their use --
would strike a more appropriate balance between the need to
address the problems created by overreliance on credit ratings
with the need to enact sound regulations that do not adversely
affect credit availability or impede economic recovery,” Wilson
said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ; Jesse Hamilton in Washington at +1-
   jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  