-- 
Specialty Drugs Entice BTG While Awaiting Varicose-Vein Medicine

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-26T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/specialty-drugs-entice-btg-while-awaiting-varicose-vein-medicine.html
BTG Plc (BGC) , whose shares have gained 21
percent in the six months after acquiring a cancer-therapy
business, may pursue other deals as it builds up a sales force
in the U.S., Chief Executive Officer Louise Makin said.  BTG could pursue a licensing agreement, a distribution deal
or an acquisition, Makin said in an interview at the company’s
London headquarters. BTG bought Biocompatibles International Plc
in January for 146 million pounds ($238 million). The company
this month bought rights to an experimental antidote for toxic
reactions to chemotherapy from Wellstat Therapeutics Corp.  “We’re looking at things on the market; we’re looking at
things just approved,” Makin said. “We’re continually
scanning.”  BTG, which has a market value of 961 million pounds, may
itself become an acquisition target, according to Vadim Alexandre, an analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities Plc. The
company’s different sources of income, as well as development
programs with companies such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and Sanofi’s
Genzyme unit, may make BTG attractive, Alexandre said.  “You’re looking at a properly diversified pharmaceutical
company,” said Alexandre, who rates BTG a “buy,” in a phone
interview. “A lot of large companies are lacking strong
pipelines, and BTG could easily become a target. I can’t see how
it’s not on the radar.”  Makin declined to say whether the company has been
approached about a merger.  U.S. Sales Force  BTG has almost doubled its U.S. sales force, spending about
7 million pounds to promote its two poisoning therapies CroFab
and DigiFab, according to the company. CroFab is a snake-venom
remedy, and DigiFab is an antidote for people who have had too
much of the foxglove extract digoxin. BTG is also gearing up to
sell gel beads loaded with cancer drugs, acquired with the
purchase of Biocompatibles.  Retaining sole marketing power over the products will add
at least 30 million pounds in revenue -- just above what BTG
will lose from its hemophilia drug Benefix losing patent
protection -- and bolster the 64 million pounds of cash already
on hand, giving the company the means to invest further in areas
such as emergency care and oncology, Makin said.  “You’re moving with a core focus, or a core competence,
today on this antidote area, but with a clear view that this can
migrate,” Makin said. “We could move into other specialist
areas.”  Research Costs  The company may spend as much as 40 million pounds on
research and development this fiscal year, Makin said. That
cost, which was 32 million pounds for the year ending in March,
has surged 77 percent over the past three years as a proportion
of sales, according to Bloomberg data.  “Distribution deals are more likely” than an acquisition
for BTG in the U.S., Paul Cuddon, an analyst at Peel Hunt LLP in
 London  who rates the company a “hold,” said by phone. “If
Wellstat thinks BTG is the right place to distribute their
product, then there are going to be others.”  BTG also expects to report third-round clinical data for
its biggest investment, the varicose-vein treatment Varisolve,
early next year.  Varisolve, in the final phase of human testing required for
approval, is the first product BTG is developing from laboratory
to market. The treatment, if approved, may reach annual sales of
more than $250 million by 2020, according to Richard Parkes, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in London, who recommends buying BTG
shares. The drugmaker plans to file for approval in the second
half of next year with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .  Share Performance  BTG, which first sold shares to the public in 1995, has
returned 45 percent over the past year, compared with a 17
percent increase in the 17-member Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index, which doesn’t include BTG, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royalties excluding Benefix comprised 28 percent of the
company’s 111 million pounds of sales during the year. BTG made
12.4 million pounds from patents on hip replacements, and a
hormone therapy for prostate cancer licensed to  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  was approved in the U.S. in April.  That treatment, known as Zytiga, may generate $2.1 billion
a year within five years,  Jami Rubin , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analyst, said in June. BTG expects to get about 3 percent of
that, the company said. The European Medicines Agency
recommended approval of Zytiga on July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  