-- 
States Miss Pension Targets by 50% Even With Private Equity

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-26T18:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/states-miss-pension-targets-by-50-with-private-equity-proving-not-enough.html
In the last decade, as a wave of
 baby boomers  began retiring, America’s biggest state pension
systems earned less than half what they needed to keep up with
promises made to millions of graying civil servants.  The state of  Washington’s  3.92 percent return for the 10
years through June 30, 2010, after fees, was the best in a
Bloomberg survey of state pensions with more than $20 billion in
assets. That was nowhere close to the average yearly gains of as
much as 8 percent that fund managers and public officials count
on for meeting obligations to retirees.  “To assume that the median plan will reach 8 percent given
this environment, that’s optimistic to say the least,” said
Karl Mergenthaler, an  executive director  in  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s securities services group in New York. “Public plans have
an incentive to maintain their expected rate where it is. The
risk is that they’ll overreach for returns.”  The last decade is forcing public pensions to re-evaluate
the projected returns that determine how much money taxpayers
and retirees need to pour into retirement funds. Some systems
such as New York,  Rhode Island  and the California State Teachers
Retirement System have reduced their assumptions. It’s a tough
call because lowering projected gains can widen funding gaps,
forcing lawmakers to put even more money into the programs.  Complicating the issue of what returns to expect are the
extraordinary reverses of the last 10 years, including the
Internet stock bubble, the financial crisis of 2008 and the
worst recession since the Great Depression. Returns over 30
years still average more than 8 percent, according to the
 National Association of State Retirement Administrators . And in
the 12 months after June 2010, markets and fund assets surged.  Largest Funds’ Gains  For the fiscal year ended June 30, the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  -- the nation’s largest -- said it
gained 20.7 percent, and the California teachers program, the
second-largest  pension plan , 23.1 percent. The third-largest,
the New York State Common Retirement Fund, returned an estimated
14.6 percent in the fiscal year ended March 31, according to the
state comptroller.  Even though state pension funds posted near-record
preliminary returns for the last fiscal year, their 10-year
gains are still less than 8 percent. Calpers’s 10-year return
increased to 5.36 percent last year from 2.6 percent the
previous year, and the California teachers’ fund, to 5.7 percent
from 2.5 percent.  The median state pension fund will achieve an annual return
of 6.5 percent in the next 15 years, according to a February
2011 study by  Wilshire Associates , the Santa Monica, California,
 investment adviser .  Alternatives Beat Stocks  In outperforming other public funds over the last decade,
Washington’s  system  benefited from investments in real estate
and  private-equity  placements. Private-equity pools may invest
borrowed funds, which can amplify returns and losses, and their
holdings are often opaque. Calpers cited gains on private-equity
investments for its 2011 gains.  “It’s an illiquid, high-risk strategy,” said Tim Friedman, head of communications at  Preqin Ltd ., a London-based
private-equity research firm. “You can lose everything.”  Washington’s program, with $52.7 billion of assets as of
June 30, 2010, is setting the pace as other systems are boosting
private-equity investments, according to consultants. Pensions
are also cutting their holdings of U.S. stocks and buying assets
in  developing countries  such as China, India and South Africa.  Political Backlash  Three of the top five performing funds -- Washington,
 Oregon , and the  Pennsylvania teachers  fund -- had more than 30
percent of their assets in private equity and real estate,
according to  data compiled  by the state retirement
administrators’ group. Four of the five worst performers --
 Maryland , Arizona, the California teachers and Georgia -- had
more than 50 percent of assets in publicly traded equities.  State pension funds increased average allocations for
private equity to 8.8 percent in 2010 from 3 percent in 2000,
Wilshire found in its February study. Meanwhile, the average
allocation to U.S. stocks by 126 state pensions declined 13.9
percentage points since 2000.  Retirement funding spurred a political backlash against
public workers this year. The meager returns after years of
deferred taxpayer contributions magnified funding shortages,
forcing legislatures and city councils to divert more money to
the pensions. This left less for public services.  Adding to the pressures facing pensions, government workers
are accelerating retirements as state budget crises have led to
salary cuts. Governors in Wisconsin, New Jersey, Ohio and
Florida have attacked unions.  Funding Gap  A quarter of the 363 human resources managers for state and
local governments reported a rise in such departures in a  2011
survey  by the Center for State and Local Government Excellence.
Members of the baby boom generation, born from 1946 to 1964,
began turning 65 this year, but many programs allow early
retirements for civil servants in their 50s.  Statewide U.S. retirement programs were short $694.2
billion, or 24 percent, of having enough assets to pay future
pensions at the end of their 2010 fiscal years, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg as of July 15. Hawaii and Wisconsin
haven’t reported and weren’t included.  Already, 14 states raised  retirement age  and length-of-
service requirements to help close pension funding gaps,
including New Jersey, Florida and  Maryland ,  according  to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . Fifteen states
increased employee contribution requirements in 2011, the
conference said.  State judges in Colorado and Minnesota have thrown out
lawsuits by retired public employees challenging reductions to
cost-of-living adjustments, ruling the increases not protected.  Performance Data Opaque  Following the money in public pensions is no easy task for
retirees and taxpayers, based on the 10-year performance survey
by Bloomberg. Audited results may be published online no sooner
than six or nine months after a fiscal year. Returns aren’t
reported consistently from fund to fund. Some disclosures may
appear in annual reports, or in documents for bond sales that
are unrelated to the pension funds themselves.  Bloomberg compiled data from the most recent annual reports
of state pension funds with more than $20 billion in assets as
of June 30, 2010. Bloomberg made follow-up calls to ensure the
returns were after deduction of management fees and to request
adjustments when they weren’t. The research also obtained 10-
year net returns as of June 30, 2010, for funds that use a
different fiscal year-end.  Two of the biggest funds whose fiscal years don’t close on
June 30 --  New York’s Common Retirement  Fund and  Colorado’s
Public Employee Retirement System  -- said they couldn’t provide
returns on that basis.  Median Return  For the 25 programs in the survey, the median 10-year
return was 3.15 percent. The pensions did beat the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, (SPX)  which had an annualized loss of 1.59 percent
for the period, according to Wilshire.  Maryland’s fund, which stuck with conventional investments,
ranked at the bottom of the survey with annual gains averaging
2.10 percent. The fund had assets totaling $31.9 billion as of
June 30, 2010. It posted preliminary returns of 20.04 percent
for fiscal 2011, boosting its 10-year return to 5.01 percent.  Top-Performing Washington  Gary Bruebaker was behind Washington’s decision to pour
money into alternatives to stocks and bonds. He has been chief
investment officer of the State Investment Board since 2001,
leading a team of 30 investment professionals. The 56-year-old
son of a single mother who worked 29 years for Oregon, Bruebaker
says he takes his mission personally. He describes it as getting
the best return for 400,000 public employees, retirees and
beneficiaries at a “prudent” level of risk.  “Most of these people are people just like my mom,” he
says. Before taking over management of the Washington fund,
Bruebaker was a civil servant in Oregon for 23 1/2 years, eight
of them as deputy treasurer.  At the end of fiscal 2010, the system was fourth-best
funded at 92 percent, behind those of New York,  North Carolina 
and South Dakota, according to Bloomberg data.  Alternative investments  such as private-equity and hedge
funds carry higher risks for retirees and taxpayers than
conventional stocks and bonds. Some of the instruments are
seldom traded, or not traded at all, so pensions face
uncertainty about how much their investments are worth.
Investing borrowed funds can amplify losses, which can be hard
to limit because money placed with private-equity and hedge
funds generally can’t be cashed out on demand.  Private Equity  Public retirement systems don’t disclose most details on
their private-equity and hedge-fund portfolios, making it
impossible for taxpayers to assess the risks. Pensions
themselves may get limited information on holdings from money
managers, who argue that disclosing the information could harm
their strategy.  Washington was among the first public pension to invest in
private equity, Bruebaker says. The state committed $13 million
to a 1982  KKR & Co. (KKR)  buyout fund. In 2010, 26 percent of
Washington’s assets were in private-equity, Bruebaker said.  They’ve picked some big winners. A placement of $25 million
in Menlo Ventures VII, a 1997 Silicon Valley venture capital
fund that invested in early Internet companies, was valued at
$117.5 million as of Dec. 31, 2010, for a 135.6 percent return,
according to  fund records .  Investing Advantage  Washington’s 30-year history with private equity gives it
an advantage, Bruebaker says. The state has relationships with
some of the best-performing funds and takes advisory seats on
big investments, allowing it to work closely with the general
partner, including sharing investment ideas, he said. Serving on
advisory boards enables Washington to closely monitor operations
and investments, the investment chief said.  “Whenever they do something special, we want to be one of
the first calls,” Bruebaker said.  Washington’s heavier weighting toward private equity gave
it a boost from 2004 to 2007, as easy credit enabled buyout
funds to borrow cheaply and distribute cash to investors. In
2006, Washington’s private-equity portfolio gained 39.5 percent,
compared with 8.6 percent by the  S&P 500 . Over the decade
through June 2010, the fund’s private-equity investments
returned 6.6 percent, fund records show.  Index Funds  In asset classes such as U.S. stocks where it believes
managers can’t beat the market consistently, Washington has
moved to funds that track an index, Bruebaker says. All of
Washington’s $10.4 billion of U.S. shares, as of March 31, are
in a  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  fund matching all American equities, he
says. The state has $7 billion of its international developed-
market stocks in  index funds  too, according to the fund’s  March
31 quarterly statement .  Washington is also increasing its allocation to  emerging
markets , Bruebaker says. In April, the state agreed to invest
$75 million in a $750 million fund being raised by Prosperitas
Real Estate Partners to invest in Brazilian property.  “Growth is clearly not going to come from the U.S.,”
Bruebaker said. “That’s not a slap against the United States.
It’s the reality of the marketplace.”  Some pensions invested as much as 65 percent in stocks,
helping to account for the decade’s low returns, according to
Eileen Neill, a Wilshire managing director. The opening 10 years
of this century was the first in 70 years in which the U.S.
stock market had a negative return, she said.  “If you had a lot of equity-like investments in your
portfolio, you certainly didn’t get anywhere near that 8 percent
return,” Neill said.  Stocks Betray Maryland  Maryland had 67 percent of its assets in stocks in 2001, a
figure that declined to 51 percent by the end of the decade,
according to the fund’s reports.  The state’s pension assets at 2010 year-end were 37 percent
short of covering pensions promised to 120,247 retirees and
144,343 active vested civil servants, 10th-worst among state
systems, according to Bloomberg data.  During the decade, the state’s domestic stock portfolio
performed worse than the market, trailing the S&P 500 or the Dow
Wilshire 5000 five years out of 10, including four straight from
2005 through 2008, the  fund’s financial reports  show.  Legislative Critique  The state  Department of Legislative Services , a nonpartisan
agency that provides research and policy analysis to Maryland’s
legislature, has “repeatedly expressed concern” about the
performance of the state’s active U.S. equity managers,
according to a draft November 2010 presentation to the Joint
Committee on Pensions.  For five straight years through 2010, passively managed
funds structured to match a stock market index did better than
actively managed ones, which collect higher fees, the
legislative services analysts found. The percentage of the
state’s domestic stockholdings placed with passive funds
declined to 45 percent from about 71 percent in fiscal 2008,
according to the office.  The performance of active U.S. stock managers has improved
this year, beating their benchmark by 0.59 percentage point,
said Robert Burd, the deputy chief investment officer for
Maryland’s pension system since March.  “We have confidence in our current manager lineup to add
value over time,” said Burd, 42, who has been with the system
since 2001.  The state’s decision in 2008 to allocate money to a
program targeting so-called emerging managers led to the decline
in the percentage of passive managers, Burd said. Emerging
managers are small firms that may be ignored by large
institutional investors and often are women or members of
minorities.  Maryland’s New Plan  Manager performance “only slightly explains,” why the
fund did worse than its peers, Burd said. “Asset allocation
explains 90 percent,” he said.  “A lot of our peers were earlier into private equity,”
Burd said. It took the fund’s trustees time to get comfortable
with the illiquidity, use of leverage and lack of transparency
that are characteristic of private-equity funds, Burd said.  Maryland now aims to put 10 percent of its portfolio in
private equity and the same share each into bonds, real estate
and “credit opportunities,” which include high-yield
instruments and distressed debt, according to Burd. It is also
allocating 15 percent to assets that will protect against
inflation such as commodities, 7 percent to hedge funds and 2
percent to cash. The program is cutting the proportion for
stocks to 36 percent from 51 percent, Burd said.  As Maryland diversifies its investments, it has improved
expected returns while reducing portfolio risk, according to an
analysis by the investment consulting group Hewitt EnnisKnupp
Inc., cited in the Department of Legislative Services report.  Boom, Bust, Reaction  Maryland’s Sharpe Ratio, a measurement of the return that
can be expected from each unit of risk, increased to 0.377 as of
June 30, 2010, from 0.242 as of June 30, 2007, according to the
report.  Although it may not appear achievable based on the last
decade, public pensions should be able to return 8 percent a
year on average over 30 to 40 years, said Wilshire’s Neill.
Stocks have earned about 10 percent annually over the last 70
years, and will continue to produce “high single-digit”
returns, she said. The debt weighing on the U.S. government,
businesses and consumers will decline over the next 10 years,
Neill said.  “There are regular booms and busts, and then there’s
reactions,” Neill said. “Ultimately, there’s always recovery,
and that’s what you have to keep in mind as you’re looking out
over a 10-year period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  