-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyers Agree to Delay of Hearing in Rape Case Until Aug. 23

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/strauss-kahn-lawyers-agree-to-delay-of-hearing-in-rape-case-until-aug-23.html
Ex-International Monetary Fund chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s next court appearance on charges of
sexual assault and attempted rape was postponed until Aug. 23,
the second time  New York  prosecutors have delayed the hearing.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was scheduled to appear in state court in
Manhattan on Aug. 1 on charges of assaulting a hotel maid. That
court appearance had been delayed from July 18 to allow for
further investigation. Strauss-Kahn, who is free as he awaits
trial, has denied wrongdoing.  “The investigation into this pending criminal case is
continuing,”  Erin Duggan , a spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We will have no further comment.”  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers,  William Taylor  and  Benjamin Brafman , said in an e-mailed statement that they consented to
Vance’s request for a postponement.  “We hope that by Aug. 23 he will have reached the decision
to dismiss,” the defense attorneys said in their statement.  Kenneth P. Thompson, a former federal prosecutor who is
representing the accuser, said yesterday in a phone interview
that she would “soon” file a civil lawsuit.  The hotel housekeeper has granted interviews to  Newsweek
magazine  and ABC television to tell her story.  Tired of ‘Lies’  “She came forward because she got tired of hearing all the
lies being told about her and about what happened in that hotel
room,” Thompson said.  The New York Post reported this month that the maid was a
prostitute. She isn’t, Thompson said. Manhattan chief assistant
district Attorney Daniel R. Alonso said in a July 3 interview
that prosecutors had no evidence to support the allegation.  Thompson has filed a libel lawsuit on behalf of the accuser
against NYP Holdings Inc., a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA)  that does
business as The New York Post, in New York State Supreme Court
in the Bronx. The Post has said it stands by its reporting.  Thompson said yesterday that the housekeeper’s false
statements in her application for asylum shouldn’t stop
prosecutors from pursuing the case against Strauss-Kahn.  “Her asylum application has nothing to do with the fact
that she was violently attacked,” Thompson said. “She hasn’t
wavered in any way in regard to what happened in that hotel
room.”  Indictment Allegations  Strauss-Kahn grabbed the maid’s breasts and tried to pull
down her pantyhose, according to court filings. The former IMF
chief attempted to rape her and forced her to engage in oral
sex, according to the indictment.  Thompson, who as a federal prosecutor was involved in the
1997 police brutality case involving Haitian immigrant Abner
Louima, said the maid wouldn’t be the first assault victim to
make false statements.  “Abner Louima didn’t tell me and the prosecution team the
entire truth in the beginning,” Thompson said. “He also made
statements to the press that were not true. We didn’t abandon
him because the evidence showed that he was sodomized in the
bathroom of the 70th precinct in  Brooklyn .”  Thompson said Louima admitted to making false statements,
including to the grand jury.  Louima recanted a claim that officers said, “It’s Giuliani
time!” as they tortured him in 1997, referring to then Mayor
 Rudy Giuliani .  Broken Broomstick  One officer admitted in court he had thrust a broken
broomstick into Louima’s rectum. He was later sentenced to 30
years in prison. Another officer was sentenced to prison for
perjury.  According to a letter dated June 30 and filed with the
court by Manhattan prosecutors, Strauss-Kahn’s accuser lied to a
grand jury about her actions immediately after the alleged
attack on May 14. The 32-year-old hotel housekeeper from Guinea
also lied on her tax returns and in an application for asylum,
according to the letter.  The woman admitted in June that she had falsely claimed she
had been gang-raped in  Guinea , prosecutors said. She had “cried
and appeared markedly distraught” in two earlier interviews
when recounting that rape, according to the letter from
prosecutors to Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers.  Strauss-Kahn was freed from home confinement July 1 after
prosecutors said the case against him was hurt by the maid’s
“substantial credibility issues.”  On July 19, Manhattan prosecutors met with the lawyer for
French writer Tristane Banon, who has accused Strauss-Kahn of
attempting to rape her in Paris in 2003. David Koubbi, the
lawyer for Banon, declined to comment as he left the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office after the meeting.  Banon may be interviewed by Manhattan prosecutors, a person
close to the case said after the meeting. The person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the possible interview,
didn’t want to be identified.  French Inquiry  Paris police are conducting a preliminary inquiry into
Banon’s allegations. They have questioned people who she said
she spoke to about the incident to corroborate her story,
including her mother, Strauss-Kahn’s daughter, and French
socialist politician  Francois Hollande , to determine whether a
full investigation into attempted rape is warranted.  Strauss-Kahn was taken off an Air France flight by Port
Authority police at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  in New
York on May 14, the day of the alleged attack at the Sofitel in
midtown  Manhattan .  Strauss-Kahn, who has pleaded not guilty, resigned as head
of the IMF four days later.  After being held for several days without bail, Strauss-
Kahn was released on $1 million bail and $5 million bond and,
until July 1, was required to remain under armed guard and
electronic monitoring. Regarded as a flight risk, he could only
leave his temporary homes in Manhattan for legal, medical and
religious purposes.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  