-- 
Sun Hung Kai Said to Weigh Sale of Brokerage

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sun-hung-kai-said-to-weigh-sale-of-brokerage.html
Sun Hung Kai & Co., the Hong Kong-
based financial services company backed by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., is considering selling a stake in its brokerage and wealth
management business, three people familiar with the matter said.  The company, run by Malaysian businessman Lee Seng Huang,
has been approached by and held informal discussions with
potential buyers from  Asia  and elsewhere for its SHK Financial
unit, said the people, who asked not to be identified and
declined to name any companies. No formal talks are currently
being held, they said.  Sun Hung Kai is also considering seeking a partner to help
it expand outside  Hong Kong  as competition from overseas and
mainland securities firms in Asia’s second-biggest financial hub
squeezes margins, the people said. The median operating profit
margin among 10 brokerages traded on Hong Kong’s stock exchange
slumped to 5.2 percent in 2010 from 10 percent five years
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The traditional brokerage business in Hong Kong is
getting more crowded with new entrants, such as deep-pocketed
Chinese banks, even as commissions continue to see
compression,” said Desmond Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Sun Hung Kai & Co. isn’t related to  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest real estate developer by market value.  “Management will continue to explore opportunities to
expand our business operations for the benefits of the
shareholders,” Sun Hung Kai said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News. The company “will make
appropriate announcements if there is any key M&A activities.”  Taifook Valuation  Shares of Sun Hung Kai rose 1.9 percent to HK$5.40 at 11:48
a.m. in Hong Kong. The stock has dropped 4.1 percent this year,
compared with a 2.3 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  SHK Financial has a net book value of about HK$4 billion
($513 million) to HK$4.5 billion, two people said. Using a
valuation multiple of two times net assets would imply a price
tag of as much as HK$9 billion for the entire unit, which also
includes corporate finance and asset management advisory. The
final book value may vary depending on which assets are
included, one person said.  Hong Kong-listed brokers trade at a median of 1.31 times
book value, Bloomberg data show. Haitong Securities Co.,  China ’s
second-biggest publicly traded brokerage, bought a controlling
stake in Taifook Securities Co. in late 2009 for HK$1.82
billion. Haitong paid 1.87 times book value for an initial stake
of 53 percent.  Taifook, which has since been renamed Haitong International
Securities Group Ltd., now trades at 1.4 times book value,
according to Bloomberg data.  Consumer Finance  Consumer finance accounted for 53 percent of Sun Hung Kai’s
revenue last year while its brokerage and wealth management
operations contributed 36 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
Sun Hung Kai has ruled out any sale of its consumer finance
operations, the people said.  Sun Hung Kai’s profit dropped 14 percent last year to
HK$1.09 billion, reflecting an accounting loss following the
sale of Tian An China Investments Co., a Chinese property
developer and  investment company . Net income peaked at HK$1.9
billion in 2007.  Overseas Push      The company has been trying to expand beyond its home
market by forging alliances overseas. Sun Hung Kai sold shares
to Dubai Investment Group, a unit of Dubai Holding, in 2007 and
issued HK$2.14 billion of mandatory convertible notes and
warrants to CVC Capital last year. The London-based private
equity firm will own 19 percent of the company if the notes are
fully converted.  “Having a partner with experience and a network in China
would appear to make more sense for Sun Hung Kai, as opposed to
other regional players, given that the company is focusing on
developing its consumer finance business in the country,” RBS’s
Cheung said.  Sun Hung Kai was founded in 1969 by Chinese businessman
Fung King Hey. Merrill Lynch & Co. invested in the company in
1980, and sold its stake in the late 1980s. Fung’s family sold
33 percent of Sun Hung Kai to Allied Properties (H.K.) Ltd. in
1996 and held talks to sell some of its financial services
businesses to a unit of Shanghai-based Shenyin Wanguo Securities
Co. that same year, after profit dropped 33 percent.  The company runs businesses including wealth management and
brokerage, asset management, corporate finance, consumer finance
and principal investment. It entered the consumer finance
industry by acquiring  United Asia Finance Holdings Ltd.  in 2006,
and built its China business through a venture with Zhejiang
Province Yongan Futures Broker Co.  Lee Ming-tee, former chairman of Allied Group, was
imprisoned for a year in November 2004 after he pleaded guilty
to two counts of publishing false accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  