-- 
Sun Art Retail Advances Ahead of H.K. Debut

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/sun-art-retail-gains-in-gray-market-ahead-china-hypermarket-chain-s-debut.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd., China’s
largest hypermarket operator, climbed in gray market trading
before its  Hong Kong  debut as investors bet on growing consumer
demand in the most populous nation’s developing cities.  Sun Art, which starts trading on Hong Kong’s stock exchange
today, rose 18 percent to HK$8.50 from the initial public
offering price of HK$7.20 in over-the-counter trading  shown  on
the website of Phillip Securities Group late yesterday. The
listing was delayed by an error in the IPO prospectus.  The retailer, backed by  France ’s Groupe Auchan SA, raised
HK$8.2 billion ($1.1 billion), the second of Hong Kong’s six
IPOs raising $1 billion or more this year to be priced at the
top of a marketed range, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sun Art competes with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Carrefour SA in China, where the industry’s sales may double to
911 billion yuan ($141 billion) in 2015 from 447 billion yuan
last year, according to Euromonitor International.  “The market has been fairly positive on the company’s
business model and French-Taiwanese management, as well as its
sizeable market share,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer
at KGI  Asia  Ltd. “Sun Art shouldn’t do too badly tomorrow. The
market is stabilizing so investors may be looking to buy.”  Net Proceeds  About 6.3 million shares changed hands in over-the-counter
trading as of 5:59 p.m. in Hong Kong yesterday, according to
Phillip Securities’ website.  Auchan and its founder Gerard Mulliez and his family will
hold a controlling stake in Sun Art after the IPO, according to
Sun Art’s prospectus. The remaining shares that won’t be traded
will be held by the Ruentex group, which includes Taiwanese
companies Ruentex Development Co. and Ruentex Industries Ltd.  Net proceeds from Sun Art’s IPO were about HK$8 billion,
half of which will be used to open stores in  China , where it has
196 hypermarkets under the “Auchan” and the Ruentex Group’s
“RT-Mart” brands.  Sun Art will focus its expansion in “populous second-and
lower-tier cities” where wealth is growing, it said in a July 4
statement. The company said it had obtained more than 120 sites
in China for hypermarket complexes as of June 24, with more than
50 locations under development.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales, has
339 stores in more than 120 Chinese cities and may keep buying
land in anticipation that more people in the nation of 1.3
billion will move into cities where it plans to expand,
according to Ed Chan, chief executive officer of the company’s
China operations.  Profit Forecast  The growth of China’s urban population and its middle class
will be “quite robust” in the next 10 to 20 years, Chan has
said.  Sun Art postponed its trading debut from July 15 because
historical earnings-per-share figures failed to account for a
stock split that took place before the IPO.  The hypermarket operator forecast profit of 1.4 billion
yuan or earnings per share of 0.15 yuan, valuing it at 40 times
estimated earnings, according to data in its prospectus and
Bloomberg calculations. Rival Wumart Stores Inc. has a ratio of
30, while Lianhua Supermarket Holdings Ltd. is at 20, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sun Art beat a slump in demand for new equity that caused
at least seven companies to cancel or postpone IPOs in Hong Kong
in the past three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prada SpA, which completed the city’s biggest initial
offering this year, priced near the low end of a targeted range.  Hypermarket Growth  Sun Art last year had a 12 percent market share in China
among operators of hypermarkets, retail outlets with selling
space of more than 2,500 square meters (27,000 square feet) that
primarily sell groceries, according to data from London-based
researcher Euromonitor.  Wal-Mart ranked second with an 11.2 percent market share,
China Resources Enterprises Co. had 9.8 percent and Carrefour
8.1 percent, according to Euromonitor.  China’s hypermarket industry may grow at a 15 percent
compounded annual rate in the next five years, Bruno Mercier,
chief executive officer of Sun Art, said at a July 3 briefing.
It expanded at a 19 percent rate in the previous five years, Sun
Art said in a July 3 statement.  Wal-Mart expects China to be the world’s largest grocery
market by 2014. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has
annual revenue of $7.5 billion in China,  Scott Price , chief
executive officer for Asia, said in March. That compares with $8
billion in  Japan  and less than $1 billion for  India .  WTO Pledges  Wal-Mart reported total revenue, including membership and
other income, of $422 billion for the year ended January.  Overseas retailers started arriving in China in the mid
1990s as its economy opened to foreign investment in the lead up
to joining the  World Trade Organization  in 2001. China relaxed
restrictions on overseas retailers in 2004 to meet WTO pledges,
allowing them to wholly own stores and lifting restrictions on
where they could operate.  China last year surpassed Japan as the world’s second-
biggest economy, and is forecast by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to eclipse the U.S. by 2018.  China’s economy  expanded 10.3
percent last year, with urban  household income  per capita
growing 13.7 percent.  Sun Art opened its first store in  Shanghai  in 1998 and
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour opened China’s
first supermarket in December 1995. Wal-Mart and Dusseldorf-
based Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, arrived in 1996,
according to their websites. Auchan of Croix, France arrived in
1999 and Cheshunt, England-based Tesco in 2004, according to the
companies’ websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  