-- 
Swan Says Australia Businesses Pressured by Consumers, Currency

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-26T10:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/swan-says-australia-businesses-pressured-by-consumers-currency.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
some businesses face pressure from a “cautious consumer” and a
strong currency in the nation’s “patchy” economy.  The mining boom, which will boost trade and investment, is
a “mixed blessing” for small businesses that create almost
half of Australia’s jobs, Swan told a small business conference
in Sydney, according to e-mailed speech notes.  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens earlier today said the nation’s
subdued household spending will likely rebound “at some point”
as consumers gain confidence.  A 21 percent rise in the local dollar in the past year,
spurred by a surge in mining investment to meet demand from
India and  China , is hurting the manufacturing and tourism
industries. Australian households are saving more as assets
including as and houses decline in value.  “I know what the dollar does to those of you exporting
into overseas markets, or competing with imports that become a
lot cheaper in relative terms and therefore more attractive,”
Swan said. The global financial crisis “scared Australians
enough to make them far more cautious and more likely to save
than spend.”  Consumer sentiment this month plunged by the most since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, a survey from
Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute showed. Business
confidence dropped to a six-month low, according to a National
 Australia  Bank Ltd. survey of more than 400 companies from June
24 to June 30.  Stevens has kept borrowing costs unchanged since his last
increase in November as the economy recovered from the country’s
costliest floods and the labor market lost 5,400 jobs in the
April-June period, the weakest quarter since 2001. At 4.75
percent, the nation’s benchmark interest rate is the highest
among the world’s developed economies.  Tomorrow’s government report on the  consumer price index 
will help determine the trajectory of  interest rates , the RBA
said last week in minutes of its July 5 policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  