-- 
U.S. Downgrade May Cost $100B a Year: JPMorgan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-26T20:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-downgrade-may-raise-interest-cost-by-100-billion-jpmorgan-says.html
Political wrangling over a plan to
reduce the deficit may cost the U.S. its AAA rating, adding $100
billion a year to government costs while dragging down economic
growth, according to Wall Street bond dealers.  A U.S. credit-rating cut would likely raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by increasing Treasury yields by 60 to 70 basis
points over the “medium term,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Terry Belton said today on a conference call hosted by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Standard & Poor’s ,
which has given the U.S. a top ranking since 1941, reiterated on
July 21 that the chance of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next
three months and may cut the nation as soon as August.  “That impact on Treasury rates is significant,” Belton,
global head of fixed-income strategy at JPMorgan, said during
the call held by the securities industry trade group. “That
$100 billion a year is money being used for higher  interest
rates  and that’s money being taken away from other goods and
services.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said the U.S. will
exhaust measures to avoid breaching its $14.3 trillion debt
threshold on Aug. 2. The government reached its borrowing limit
on May 16. President  Barack Obama  has threatened a presidential
veto of House Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-step plan slated to be
voted on tomorrow to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and cut $3
trillion in  government spending .  Yields Decline  Moody’s Investors Service on July 13 put the U.S. on review 
for downgrade, while  Fitch Ratings  reiterated July 18 that it
would cut its rating on  Treasury securities  if the government’s
misses a debt payment. The “short-term” effect on Treasuries
of a downgrade would be about 5 to 10 basis points because few
asset managers would be forced to sell Treasuries, Belton said.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.95 percent today, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That compares with an average of
4.03 percent since 2001.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today in  Washington 
he was told by credit-rating companies his deficit-cutting
proposal would not prompt a downgrade of U.S. debt. Boehner
yesterday offered a two-step plan would raise the U.S. borrowing
limit by up to $1 trillion and later by $1.6 trillion while
requiring larger spending cuts, according to Republican aides.  Reid Proposal  “Standard & Poor’s has chosen not to comment on the many
and varying proposals that have arisen in the current debate,”
John Piecuch, a New York-based spokesman for S&P, said in an e-
mail. “Any statement to the contrary is inaccurate,” he said.  Reid’s proposal would cut $2.7 trillion in spending and
give Obama the full $2.4 trillion in additional borrowing
authority he seeks, enough to get through the 2012 elections.
Reid dropped Democrats’ insistence on tax increases.  The Nevada Democrat said today Boehner’s plan “gives the
credit agencies no choice but to downgrade  U.S. debt ” and that
the Senate will vote on his proposal soon.  “If we’re in a situation in which the U.S. has effectively
lost some of its long-term credibility, particularly with
overseas partners who are big buyers of Treasuries, then that
does make it that much harder to get a long-term sustainable
budget situation in place,” Michael Hanson, senior economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said during the
conference call.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose for a third straight month
in June to 9.2 percent, pointing to an economy lacking momentum
entering the second half of the year. Employers added 18,000
workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine months and less than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  The concern stemming from a credit-rating downgrade “is a
negative for growth, and that’s an environment in which
investment and hiring is lower than it otherwise would be,”
Hanson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  