-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Advances on Chile Mine Strike

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-26T12:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-advances-on-chile-mine-strike.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  TOP STORY:  Copper Rises a First Day in Five as Strike Fuels Supply Concern  Copper rose in London for the first day in five as a strike
at the world’s biggest mine fueled speculation supply will fall
short of demand.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  De Beers  Diamond Sales Rise to Record; Output Target Reduced (1)  De Beers, producer of more than a third of the world’s
rough diamonds, said first-half sales rose to a record as price
gains mitigated below-target output.  BP Chief ‘Open’ to Refining Spinoff as Earnings Miss Estimates  BP Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said “all
options” are possible including a refining spinoff as Europe’s
second-biggest oil company reported earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Nuclear Power Pays Price for Fukushima on Loan: India Credit  Nuclear Power Corp. of India is paying the price for
 Japan ’s Fukushima disaster as lenders seek higher rates to fund
the world’s largest atomic power project.  Tepco Draft Compensation Bill Seeks Stakeholder Cooperation (3)  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. shareholders and related parties
will be asked to help compensate those affected by the Fukushima
nuclear disaster, according to a revised draft of legislation.  Japan Corn Cargoes at Quarter-Century Low: Freight Markets (1)  Japan, the world’s biggest corn importer, may buy the
fewest cargoes in a quarter century as concern about radiation-
tainted meat curbs livestock production.  Apollo Global Management Said to Market Natural Resources Fund  Apollo Global Management LLC, the private-equity firm
founded by  Leon Black , aims to raise as much as $1.5 billion for
a fund that will invest in natural resources, said a person
familiar with the matter.  Oil Supplies Decline for Eighth Week in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S.  crude oil  supplies fell for an eighth week, the
longest stretch of declines in more than three years, as
increased profit margins boosted production at refineries, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  JPMorgan Hires Ex-Barclays Commodities Banker for Japan (1)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. hired Naoki Mita, a former Barclays
Plc commodities banker in Tokyo, to help bolster its fuel,
currency and metal hedging operations in Japan.  Drought Withers Smallest Hay Crop in Century to Boost Beef Costs  The smallest U.S. hay crop in more than a century is
withering under a record Texas drought, boosting the cost of
livestock feed for dairy farmers and beef producers from
California to Maryland.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Norsk Hydro Rises Most in 4 Weeks as Profit Beats Estimates (1)  Norsk Hydro ASA,  Europe ’s third-largest aluminum maker,
rose the most in almost four weeks in Oslo trading after second-
quarter profit beat estimates.  Copper-Alloy Product Output in Japan Falls on Car Output (1)  Japan’s output of copper and copper-alloy fabricated
products, including sheets and tubes, slumped 4.2 percent in
June as car production remained subdued after the March
earthquake, an industry group said.  MINING:  AngloGold, Harmony, Gold Fields Slide as Strike Threat Looms (1)  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Harmony Gold Mining Ltd. and Gold
Fields Ltd. fell in Johannesburg trading as South Africa’s
National Union of Mineworkers rejected offers of higher pay from
the producers and said its members would strike.  De Beers Diamond Sales Climb 33% to Record on  India ,  China  (1)  De Beers, producer of more than a third of the world’s
rough diamonds, said first-half sales rose 33 percent to a
record as demand in India and China drove up prices and business
in the U.S. exceeded its expectations.  African Barrick Second-Quarter Profit Advances 51% as Gold Soars  African Barrick Gold Plc, the largest producer of the metal
in Tanzania, said second-quarter profit increased 51 percent on
rising bullion prices.  Xstrata First-Half Thermal Coal Output Rises 5% to 32.4 Mln Tons  Xstrata Plc said first-half thermal coal output rose 5
percent to 32.4 million metric tons.  Copper-Alloy Product Output in Japan Falls on Car Output (1)  Japan’s output of copper and copper-alloy fabricated
products, including sheets and tubes, slumped 4.2 percent in
June as car production remained subdued after the March
earthquake, an industry group said.  Uranium Spot Prices Fall as Nuclear Demand Remains Weak, Ux Says  Uranium spot prices fell 3.7 percent as demand for the
nuclear fuel weakened after Japan’s Fukushima crisis and amid
the northern hemisphere’s holiday season, Ux Consulting Co.
said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Decline After Rally to Record Amid U.S. Debt Stalemate  Gold may decline in  London  as some investors sell the metal
after its rally to a record yesterday and amid concern prices
might fall if U.S. lawmakers agree to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling.  Morgan Stanley Raises Gold, Silver Targets Through to 2016 (1)  Morgan Stanley raised its gold forecasts for 2011 and each
of the next five years, boosting predictions for annual average
prices by as much as 24 percent on heightened demand for haven
commodities.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans, Corn Advance as Crop Conditions Worsen on Dry Weather  Soybeans rose in Chicago for a fourth day in five as
worsening crop conditions in the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter, caused by dry weather added to global supply concerns.
Corn and wheat gained.  Sugar Rises on Speculation Supplies Are Limited; Coffee Advances  Sugar climbed in London, reversing some of yesterday’s
losses, on speculation supplies will remain limited as output in
top producer Brazil continues to lag behind last year’s level.
Coffee advanced.  Rice, Sugar-Cane Crops to Benefit From ‘Good’ India Monsoon Rain  Rice and sugar-cane crops in India, the world’s second-
biggest grower, will benefit from “very good distribution” of
monsoon rainfall, according to the state forecaster, potentially
boosting the nation’s farm output.  Rubber Demand to Gain to 17.5 Million Tons, LMC Forecasts (1)  Global demand for natural rubber may gain to 17.5 million
metric tons by 2025 from about 10 million tons in 2010,
according to Gerard Stapleton, Southeast Asian research head at
LMC International.  Japan Corn Cargoes at Quarter-Century Low: Freight Markets (1)  Japan, the world’s biggest corn importer, may buy the
fewest cargoes in a quarter century as concern about radiation-
tainted meat curbs livestock production.  Palm Oil  Climbs as Weather Threatens U.S. Soybean Crop Prospects  Palm oil rebounded from the biggest drop in two weeks on
concern that deteriorating soybean crop conditions in the U.S.
may boost demand for the tropical commodity used in food and
biofuels.  SHIPPING:  Crude-Oil Tanker Surplus Shrinks in  Persian Gulf , Survey Shows  A glut of  oil tankers  competing to carry 2 million-barrel
cargoes of Middle East crude shrank in the past week.  Rosneft Offers Five August Cargoes of Urals Crude From Primorsk  OAO Rosneft issued a tender to sell five cargoes of Urals
crude for loading from Aug. 10 to Aug. 15 from the Baltic Sea
Primorsk port, according to two traders who participate in the
market.  ECONOMIES:  Record Swap Rates ‘Out of Whack’ Amid Slowdown: China Credit  The cost of fixing interest rates in China may fall from a
record as signs of an industrial slowdown support the case for
monetary tightening to end.  China Crash May Give ‘Zero’ Chance for Bullet-Train Exports (1)  Chinese rail suppliers, who helped build the world’s
largest bullet-train network in less than a decade, may struggle
to sell equipment overseas after two locomotives collided,
killing at least 39 people.  Greece Says It’s Working With IMF, Hasn’t Requested for More Aid  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said his country
is working with the  International Monetary Fund  on “procedural
issues” regarding financing, while a debt official said the
nation hasn’t made an additional loan request to the
international lender.  U.K. Growth Slows to 0.2%, Reinforcing Case for Low Rates (2)  The U.K. economy barely grew in the second quarter,
suggesting the  Bank of England  will continue to keep rates at a
record low to boost a flagging recovery.  India Raises Rate More Than Forecast, Spurring Stock Slide (3)  India’s central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate 
more than forecast to quell the fastest inflation among major
economies, spurring a slide in stocks and gain in the rupee.  Greek Default May Prove Irish, Portuguese Template: Euro Credit  Investors holding Portuguese and Irish bonds may find that
losses imposed on Greek bondholders are a precursor to their own
fate in the next 18 months.  Obama Presses Debt Ceiling Deal With Warning of Economic Danger  President  Barack Obama  warned of a “deep economic crisis”
without a compromise to avert an Aug. 2 U.S. default as he
dueled Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  in back-to-back
speeches on increasing the debt limit.  OTHER MARKETS:  Dollar Weakens, Default Risk Rises as U.S. Battles Debt Limit  The dollar weakened to a record low versus the Swiss franc
and the cost of insuring U.S. debt rose to a 17-month high after
President Barack Obama dueled with House Speaker John Boehner
over the borrowing limit. European stocks fell, and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures fluctuated.  Lira Options Show World’s Worst Currency May Extend Declines (1)  The strategists who predicted this month’s tumble in the
lira say more declines are likely as Turkey’s failure to cut its
record current-account deficit erodes investor confidence.  European Stocks Fall; BP, UBS Drop as Earnings Miss Estimates  European stocks retreated for a second day as companies
from BP Plc to UBS AG reported earnings that missed analysts’
estimates. U.S. index futures were little changed while Asian
shares rose.  Oil Rises as U.S. Debt Weakens Dollar, Countering Demand Concern  Oil advanced as the U.S. President’s warning that the
country’s debt stalemate may damage the economy weakened the
dollar, boosting the appeal of commodities and countering
concern that the crisis will hurt demand.  Norway Police Probe Massacre Suspect’s Claims of More Cells (1)  The perpetrator of Norway’s worst post-World War II
atrocity signaled that he may not have acted alone as police
defended their handling of an incident that left 76 people dead.  SPORTS:  Palermo Wants Chelsea to Pay More for Pastore: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Australia  Picks Former Groundsman Among Test Cricket Rookies (1)  Australia picked four rookies, including a spin bowler who
was working as groundsman six months ago, for its three-Test
cricket series in  Sri Lanka  starting next month.  Copa America Flop Costs Argentina Soccer Coach Batista His Job  Sergio Batista’s year-long stint as Argentina soccer coach
is over after the host nation managed one win at the Copa
America, where it lost in the quarterfinals.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  