-- 
U.S. May Have Enough Cash to Delay Aug. 2 Deadline for Default

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-may-have-enough-cash-to-delay-aug-2-deadline-for-default.html
The U.S. Treasury Department may
have enough cash to pay the government’s bills for days or even
weeks if Congress fails to raise the debt limit before an Aug. 2
deadline, say analysts at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Capital .  The date set by the Treasury is a projection for when the
U.S. exhausts its authority to borrow, not when it runs out of
money.  Chris Ahrens  at UBS and Ajay Rajadhyaksha at Barclays say
the debt limit may not have to be raised next week, in part
because  tax revenue  is coming in higher than forecast.  “Having borrowing authority is like having a  credit
card ,” Rajadhyaksha said in an e-mail yesterday. While the
Treasury “will no longer be able to use its credit card” after
Aug. 2, “it should still be able to pay its bills on Aug. 3,
which is ultimately what matters most.”  The extra cash may help the nation stave off a default and
buy time for politicians to hammer out a deficit-reduction
agreement, Rajadhyaksha said. U.S. stocks fell and Treasury 30-
year yields touched a two-week high yesterday as Republicans and
Democrats failed to reach a deal to increase the $14.3 trillion
federal borrowing limit, boosting the chance the country’s top
credit rating will be cut.  The Treasury “has another two weeks after Aug. 2 basically
of  cash flow  that’s available, and they will pay off the
interest on the debt as their No. 1 priority to avoid any
default,”  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC Silvia, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Daily Talks  The Obama administration and Republican lawmakers have been
engaged in daily talks aimed at raising the debt ceiling and
reducing the deficit.  A two-step plan by House Speaker  John Boehner  would raise
the borrowing limit by up to $1 trillion and later by about $1.6
trillion while requiring larger spending cuts, according to
Republican aides. A competing proposal by Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  would cut $2.7 trillion in spending and give
President  Barack Obama  the full $2.4 trillion in additional
borrowing authority he seeks, enough to get through the 2012
elections.  “We don’t think there will be a default,” Ahrens, head of
U.S. rates strategy for UBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. He estimates the Treasury
has enough cash to make all payments until Aug. 8-10.  Rajadhyaksha and fellow New York-based Barclays analysts
said in a report last week that tax receipts for the five days
from July 14 were about $14 billion higher than Barclays had
predicted, and outlays were about $1 billion less.  Few More Days  “Ultimately, the debt ceiling will have to be raised, but
policy makers might have a few more days than they initially
thought,” Rajadhyaksha said yesterday.  Treasury spokeswoman Colleen Murray declined to comment on
the projections.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told CNBC on July 18
that the deadline for when the U.S. exhausts its borrowing
authority “absolutely” remains Aug. 2.  “We will do everything we can to mitigate the damage,” he
said on the “Fox News Sunday” program on July 24. “We do not
have the ability, only Congress has the ability, to make sure
that people get their payments on time.”  Thirty-year bond yields increased six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.32 percent at 5:16 p.m. yesterday in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched
4.34 percent, the highest level since July 8. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to 1,337.43 after slumping as
much as 1 percent.  Four-Week Bills  The Treasury reduced the size of its auction of four-week
bills for the first time since May to gain more flexibility as
the deadline approaches.  Even if the Treasury’s coffers were to run dry, it could
work with the Fed “to generate enough cash probably for the
next two to three months to avoid any kind of automatic
default,” said Wells Fargo’s Silvia, who is based in Charlotte,
 North Carolina .  Fed officials aren’t providing details about what steps, if
any, they would take if Congress and Obama fail to reach a deal
by Aug. 2.  “Of course, we’ve looked at it and thought about making
preparations and so on,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a
July 13 congressional hearing, without elaborating.  He said a default would be a “a major crisis” that would
“throw shock waves through the entire global financial
system.”  At another hearing the next day, Bernanke said he wanted to
“eliminate any expectation that the Fed through any mechanism
could offset the impact of a default on the government debt.”  ‘Major Crisis’  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York , said the Fed might try to ease any credit
strains caused by a default by allowing banks and other
financial firms to temporarily lend their  Treasury securities  to
the Fed in exchange for cash.  Feroli said the Fed could also lower the interest rate
banks pay to borrow directly from the central bank through the
so-called discount window, now 0.75 percent. U.S. Treasury
securities can be pledged as collateral for those Fed loans.  For financial companies other than banks, the Fed could
create a program that would allow them to temporarily exchange
Treasury securities for short-term loans, Feroli said.  “In general, I think they’d want to temporarily substitute
the Fed’s credit in place of the Treasury’s credit,” said
Feroli, a former Fed researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  