-- 
U.S. Securities Suits Fall Even With Boost in Chinese Company, M&A Cases

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-securities-suits-fall-even-with-boost-in-chinese-company-m-a-cases.html
Securities-fraud class-action
lawsuits dropped the first six months of this year from the
latter half of 2010, even with a boost from a wave of new cases
targeting Chinese reverse mergers, according to a study.  The number of firms sued in securities-fraud suits fell to
94 from 104 in the previous six months, according to the study,
released today by  Stanford Law School’s Securities Class Action
Clearinghouse  and  Cornerstone Research .  The tally was bolstered by suits involving mergers and
acquisitions and claims against Chinese companies that acquired
U.S. shell companies for the purpose of trading on U.S. stock
exchanges. Together, those complaints accounted for almost half
the filings, the study said.  “Basically we’re looking at a low level of fraud claims
based on cooked books or financial statements,” Stanford Law
School Professor Joseph Grundfest, who directs the
clearinghouse, said today in a phone interview. Such claims make
up the majority of securities-fraud suits filed since the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, according to
data collected by the Stanford clearinghouse.  Securities-fraud claims against big companies, as a share
of the total, also declined, according to the study. The
percentage of complaints filed against companies in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell to 8.5 percent of the total, down from
15.4 percent the previous six months, it said.  Market Cap Lost  The amount of money allegedly lost in the securities
frauds, as measured by the amount of lost market capitalization
during the time periods claimed in the suits, has also remained
low, according to the study.  “Filings are going down if you take out the Chinese
companies,” said Daniel Tyukody, a partner in the Los Angeles
office of Goodwin Procter LLP who defends companies in
securities fraud suits.  Tyukody said laws including the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002
and the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act may have influenced companies to be more careful
in their public filings and statements.  Securities-fraud suits typically involve claims by
investors that companies hid negative information to keep their
stock prices artificially high. One or more investors then sue
for the loss in share value that follows when the information
becomes public. The plaintiffs usually seek to represent the
interests of all company investors in a class action, to
increase their leverage and force more favorable settlements.
All such cases must be filed in federal court.  2002 Record  Stock-fraud suits hit a record 266 in 2002 after an
accounting scandal forced Enron Corp. to file what was then the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history. The 2001 collapse of the
energy trader led in part to passage of Sarbanes-Oxley, which
imposed stricter accounting rules. Dodd-Frank, motivated in part
by the financial crisis of the late 2000s, imposed new
requirements on the financial services industry.  It may be difficult to win recoveries against the Chinese
companies, which may not have assets in the U.S., several
lawyers said.  “The plaintiffs may have an excellent case in theory, but
there’s probably nothing to collect against,” said Tyukody.  U.S. companies targeted in the first six months of 2011
included Coinstar Inc., Bank of America Corp., Cisco Systems
Inc., Office Depot Inc. and California Pizza Kitchen Inc.,
according to the Stanford group’s  Web site .  Thomas Dubbs, a partner in the  New York  firm Labaton
Sucharow LLP, said the Cornerstone study overstates the number
of filings by counting the suits against the Chinese companies
and a separate group of suits targeting mergers and
acquisitions. The M&A claims should be considered as adjuncts to
suits challenging the transactions in Delaware Chancery Court,
said Dubbs, whose firm represents institutional investors in
securities-fraud suits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 