-- 
U.S. June New-Home Sales Fall More Than Estimated to 312,000 Annual Pace

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-26T15:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-june-new-home-sales-fall-more-than-estimated-to-312-000-annual-pace.html
Sales of new U.S. homes unexpectedly
fell for a second month and a gauge of property values also
dropped, showing the industry that sparked the recession is
stagnating.  Purchases dropped 1 percent in June to a 312,000 annual
pace, a three-month low, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. Prices in 20 cities dropped 4.5
percent in the year ended May, the most since November 2009,
according to a report from S&P/Case-Shiller.  An expanding pipeline of foreclosures and a lack of demand
will probably keep home values depressed this year, discouraging
construction and delaying a rebound in housing. Another report
showed consumer confidence unexpectedly recuperated in July from
an eighth-month low, led by an improvement in the employment
outlook for the next six months.  “You’re still dealing with a supply-demand imbalance that
suggests  home prices  will remain under pressure,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in
 New York . “Even though confidence has shown some improvement,
we are still at an utterly depressed level.”  Stocks dropped as wrangling between lawmakers over plans to
raise the federal debt limit offset better-than-forecast
earnings from Ford Motor Co. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
decreased 0.2 percent to 1,334.28 at 11:50 a.m. in New York.
 Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note down to 2.95 percent from 3 percent late yesterday.  Unexpected Drop  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 72
economists projected sales of new houses would climb to a
320,000 annual rate. Forecasts ranged from 300,000 to 342,000.
Sales in May were revised down to a 315,000 pace from a
previously estimated 319,000. Some 323,000 new dwellings were
sold in 2010, the fewest on record.  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index rose to
59.5 from a revised 57.6 reading in June that was lower than
previously estimated, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed. Economists predicted the July gauge would
fall to 56, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Easing fuel prices may make households more comfortable
opening their wallets in the second half of the year. At the
same time, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress earlier this month that unemployment above 9 percent
and falling home values are a concern for Americans, which may
restrain any recovery in  consumer spending .  ‘Feeling Better’  “People are feeling a little bit better now that falling
gasoline prices have taken some of the burden off of their
pocket book,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Services Inc. in  Detroit . “Despite the
dire employment situation, people are feeling better about their
own employment situation.”  The report on demand for new houses showed sales fell 16
percent in the Northeast to an all-time low and 13 percent in
the West. Purchases climbed 9.5 percent in the Midwest and 3.4
percent in the South.  The median price of a new home increased 7.2 percent to
$235,200 from June 2010, today’s Commerce Department report
showed. The figures are often influenced by the mix of sales in
any one month, one reason why it can diverge from other data.  S&P/Case-Shiller tracks the value of the same house over
time, making it a more reliable indicator. The figures showed
prices were little changed in May from the prior month after
adjusting for seasonal variations, following an April increase
of 0.4 percent. Unadjusted prices climbed 1 percent from the
prior month, a second consecutive increase.  Seasonal Gain  “The concern is that much of the monthly gains are only
seasonal,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the index committee at
S&P, said in a statement. “Sustained increases in home prices
over several months and better annual results need to be seen
before we can confirm real estate market recovery.”  The Conference Board’s confidence report showed more
respondents expected the availability of jobs would improve in
the next six months, while the proportion expecting their
incomes to rise also advanced.  Grocer  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  is among companies trimming sales
forecasts on growing concern over the slowdown in employment.
Payrolls grew by 18,000 workers in June, the smallest gain in
nine months, as the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent,
according to Labor Department figures.  CEO’s Concern  “Everybody has to appreciate that these are pretty unusual
times,” said Steven Burd, Safeway’s chief executive officer,
said on a July 21 conference call with analysts. “I don’t think
anybody expected fuel costs to be up 32% on the year,
unemployment to be at 9.2 and consumer confidence to be hovering
around 60.”  Pleasanton, California-based Safeway retreated from an
earlier 1 percent to 1.5 percent projection for growth in same
store sales excluding fuel. Instead, the company expects an
uptick closer to 1 percent, officials said on the call.  The stalemate in  Washington  over raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling could also be clouding consumers’ moods.
Party leaders are readying dueling proposals to cut the
government’s budget deficit and raise the debt-ceiling by Aug.
2, the date the Treasury Department says the U.S. will lose its
borrowing authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  