-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Little Changed as Debt Ceiling Looms

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T21:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-drops-as-ford-reports-profit.html
The cost to protect the debt of U.S.
companies against default held at about a four-day high as
investors waited for lawmakers to settle differences on the
federal debt limit, outweighing companies beating profit
expectations.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.1 basis point to a mid-
price of 94.5 basis points as of 5:40 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, joined
the 79 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 companies that have
reported better-than-expected earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Strong corporate balance sheets helped
bolster investor confidence as Congress diverged on two plans to
raise the debt limit.  “Today we’re just marching closer and closer to any sort
of hopeful resolution on the U.S. debt ceiling,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.
Aside from political uncertainty, “there should be a supportive
environment for risk-taking right now,” he said.  The benchmark CDX index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, declined 4.6
basis points last week amid better-than-forecast results during
the second-quarter earnings season.  The index of credit-default swaps jumped 2 points yesterday
after talks to raise the government’s debt ceiling stalled.
President  Barack Obama  and Republican House Speaker  John Boehner 
touted their parties’ separate plans to avoid a possible Aug. 2
default in speeches last night.  “The potential downgrade or failure to reach some kind of
resolution to the debt ceiling is unprecedented for all
practical purposes,” Hussain said.  “They’re basically playing this high-stakes game of
poker,” he said. “There is no winner coming out of it.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  General Motors Co. is the largest U.S. automaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  