-- 
Plotters Sold Weapons, Drugs to Supply Taliban, Hezbollah, U.S. Charges

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-26T22:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-charges-defendants-in-alleged-drug-terrorism-conspiracy-1-.html
Three people were charged by federal
prosecutors in  New York  with conspiring to sell heroin and buy
weapons for  Hezbollah , while a fourth separately was accused of
scheming to sell drugs and guns for the Taliban.  Siavosh Henareh, 53, of  Iran , and Cetin Aksu, whose age and
nationality weren’t immediately available, are accused of
conspiring to sell heroin to three confidential sources for the
U.S.  Drug Enforcement Administration , according to an
indictment. At least one of the sources was posing as an
associate of Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based militant group
designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S. in 1997.  Aksu and a third person, Bachar Wehbe, 29, of Lebanon, are
also accused of conspiring to buy surface-to-air missiles,
rifles and handguns for Hezbollah from the confidential sources,
according to the indictment, which was made public today.  Taza Gul Alizai, 48, of  Afghanistan , was accused of selling
assault rifles and heroin to a confidential source working for
the DEA, prosecutors said in a separate indictment also made
public today. The source pretended to be a broker of drugs and
weapons and told Gul the profits would go to the  Taliban ,
prosecutors said.  “Today’s indictments provide fresh evidence of what many
of us have been seeing for some time: the growing nexus between
drug trafficking and terrorism, a nexus that threatens to become
a clear and present danger to our national security,”  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Drug Lord  The office has prosecuted international arms and drugs
traffickers in the past, such as Haji Bashir Noorzai, an Afghan
drug lord with close ties to the Taliban who was convicted of
drug charges in September 2008 and sentenced to life in prison
in May 2009.  Henareh, also known as “The Doctor,” had a series of
meetings and phone calls with the confidential DEA sources
starting in June 2010 in countries including Turkey, Romania and
 Greece , during which he agreed to arrange the shipment of
hundreds of kilograms of heroin into the U.S., Bharara’s office
said in the statement.  The confidential sources received a one-kilogram (2.2-
pound) sample of heroin in Bucharest in April 2011 from an
unidentified co-conspirator of Henareh’s in anticipation of a
larger, multi-kilogram delivery, according to the statement.  Assault Rifles  The meetings with Henareh led the confidential sources to
be introduced to Wehbe and Aksu, who agreed during meetings in
Romania, Cyprus,  Malaysia  and other places starting in February
2011 to buy military-grade weapons for Hezbollah, including
Stinger and Igla surface-to-air missiles, AK-47 and M4 assault
rifles and ammunition, Bharara’s office said in the statement.  Gul is accused of selling about five kilograms of heroin to
a DEA confidential source in May 2008 and arranging for the sale
of six AK-47 assault rifles and 10 kilograms of heroin about two
years later to the source, who was posing as a Taliban
representative, Bharara’s office said in the statement.  Gul and the confidential source talked about the fact that
the heroin was destined for the U.S. and that proceeds from the
sale of the drug would go to the Taliban, along with the assault
rifles, Bharara’s office said in the statement.  Henareh and Aksu were arrested in Bucharest on July 25 in
coordination with Romanian authorities, while Wehbe and Gul were
detained in the Maldives pursuant to a notice issued by  Interpol 
on July 25, Bharara said in the statement.  Life in Prison  Henareh, Aksu and Wehbe are charged with conspiracy to
distribute heroin, which carries a maximum sentence of life in
prison, prosecutors said. Aksu and Wehbe are also charged with
conspiracy to provide material support to a foreign terrorist
organization and conspiracy to acquire and transfer anti-
aircraft missiles, which carries a minimum penalty of 25 years
in prison.  Gul is charged with conspiracy to engage in narco-
terrorism, engaging in narco-terrorism, conspiracy to distribute
heroin and distribution of heroin. He faces a maximum sentence
of life in prison on each charge if convicted.  Henareh and Aksu are still being detained in  Romania , while
Wehbe and Gul pleaded not guilty today in Manhattan and were
held without bail pending court appearances, prosecutors said.  An attorney representing Wehbe, Philip L. Weinstein of the
Federal Defenders of New York, declined to comment on the
charges in an e-mail.  Alice Fontier, an attorney for Gul, declined to comment on
the charges in a phone interview, saying it’s “extremely early
in the case” and she needs more time to speak to her client, who
was brought to the U.S. yesterday.  The cases are U.S. v. Henareh, 11-93, and U.S. v. Alizai,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 