-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline Amid Debt Concerns, Profit Forecast From 3M

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-26T21:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-baidu-broadcom-gain-on-forecasts.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day
amid wrangling between lawmakers over plans to raise the federal
debt limit and forecasts from  3M Co. (MMM)  and  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)  that disappointed investors.  3M lost 5.4 percent, the most in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , after projecting full-year earnings that trailed
analysts’ estimates. UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery
company, dropped 3.3 percent after saying the third quarter will
be “fairly slow.”  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  tumbled 17 percent,
the most since 2008, as the steelmaker’s profit missed the
average analyst estimate.  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  rose 18
percent after reporting better-than-estimated earnings.  The S&P 500, which rallied 2.2 percent last week, dropped
0.4 percent to 1,331.94 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Dow lost
91.50 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,501.30.  “We have multiple sources of uncertainty, including what’s
happening in  Washington  with the debt ceiling,”  Mark Freeman ,
co-chief investment officer at Westwood Management Corp. in
Dallas, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $14
billion. “The longer the uncertainty goes on, the greater the
risk is that it will negatively affect businesses.”  Negotiations over the nation’s debt limit have whipsawed
stocks. Republicans and Democrats are sparring over separate
plans to raise the federal debt limit and avoid a government
default. House Speaker  John Boehner  said today his debt-limit
plan can pass both chambers of Congress. President Barack Obama’s administration threatened a presidential veto of the
two-step plan to raise the debt ceiling and cut $3 trillion in
 government spending .  ‘Layers of the Onion’  Obama, in an address last night from the White House, said
he remains confident that the stalemate can be resolved if both
sides compromise. Both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service are
weighing a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating.  “The uncertainty over the debt ceiling issue is pushing
the market down,” Sandy Villere III, who helps manage the
Villere Balanced Fund at New Orleans-based St. Denis J. Villere
& Co., said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees $1.5
billion and the fund has beat 97 percent of peers in the past
five years. “But people will eventually peel off the layers of
the onion and look at the good earnings that are still being
produced.”                  The  S&P 500  rallied last week, erasing 81 percent of its
loss since April 29 as  Europe  pledged support for  Greece  to end
the region’s debt crisis and corporate profits topped analysts’
estimates. Since July 11, about 80 percent of S&P 500 companies
that have released quarterly results beat projections, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  3M, UPS Tumble  Industrial shares led losses among eight of the 10 main
groups in the S&P 500 today, falling 1.9 percent. 3M dropped 5.4
percent to $89.93 after the maker of Post-It Notes projected
2011 earnings that fell short of analysts estimates as lower
demand for LCD televisions curbed sales in its display and
graphics business, the company’s third-biggest unit.  UPS, a bellwether of the economy that handles goods ranging
from financial documents to pharmaceuticals and industrial
parts, tumbled 3.3 percent to $71.59 after saying in a
conference call that the third quarter will be “fairly slow”
before demand picks up in the last three months of 2011.  Equities pared losses as a report showed confidence among
consumers unexpectedly rose in July from an eight-month low, led
by a rebound in the outlook for jobs over the next six months.
The Conference Board’s index of  consumer confidence  climbed to
59.5 from a revised 57.6 reading in June that was lower than
previously estimated. Economists predicted the July gauge would
fall to 56, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Housing Report  All 12 stocks in a gauge of homebuilders declined after a
separate report from S&P/Case-Shiller showed  home prices  in 20
metropolitan areas declined 4.5 percent in May from the same
month last year. The year-over-year decrease was the biggest
since November 2009, adding to evidence the housing market is
struggling. Other data showed sales of new homes unexpectedly
declined for a second month in June.  AK Steel Holding, the third-largest U.S. steelmaker by
sales, plunged 17 percent to $12.81 as it reported second-
quarter profit excluding some items of 32 cents a share, missing
the average analyst estimate by 36 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  dropped 5.2 percent to $266.91 after its
third-quarter sales and profit forecast missed estimates and the
company said a price increase was crimping new-user signups.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  gained 6.9 percent to $9.11 as the
supermarket chain reported first-quarter earnings of 35 cents a
share, beating the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 33 cents.  RadioShack, Baidu  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  surged 20 percent to $15.69 as the
consumer-electronics retailer said it will provide Verizon
Wireless products in its stores starting Sept. 15 and it was
“comfortable with the range of analysts’ earnings estimates for
the remainder of 2011.”                       Baidu Inc., the owner of  China ’s most popular Internet
search engine, climbed 5 percent to $164.36. The company said
third-quarter sales will be at least $611.1 million, compared
with the average analyst forecast for $568.4 million, Bloomberg
data show.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , the supplier of communications chips for
Apple Inc.’s mobile devices, rallied 9.4 percent to $38.20 after
forecasting third-quarter sales that topped analysts’
predictions on booming demand for iPhones and iPads.  Lexmark International surged 18 percent, the biggest gain
since 2000 and the most in the S&P 500, to $33.93. The maker of
laser and inkjet printers reported second-quarter profit
excluding some items of $1.36, beating the average $1.03
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on strong demand from
corporate customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  