-- 
UBS Scraps Profit Goals, Targets $2.5 Billion Cost Cuts as Earnings Slump

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-26T14:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ubs-scraps-earnings-goal-after-profit-falls-49-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
scrapped its profit target for 2014 and announced cost cuts
after second-quarter net income dropped 49 percent following a
slump in earnings at the investment bank.  Net income fell to 1.02 billion Swiss francs ($1.27
billion) from 2.01 billion francs in the year-earlier period,
the Zurich-based bank said in a statement today. That missed the
1.29 billion-franc mean estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. UBS shares declined.  The bank plans to cut costs by as much as 2 billion francs
over the next two to three years in response to what Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  called a “weakening economic
outlook.” Earnings at UBS’s investment bank dropped 71 percent
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis reduced revenue from the sales
and trading of stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  “These results were disappointing, with decent results in
asset gathering pulled back by another disappointing performance
from  investment banking ,”  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based
analyst at Mediobanca SpA, said in a note to clients.  UBS fell as much as 3.5 percent and was down 2.7 percent to
13.53 francs as of 3:06 p.m. in Zurich trading. The stock has
dropped 12 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent decline
in the 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index.  Gruebel’s Target  “While we believe we will deliver higher profitability,
our target for pretax profit set in 2009 is unlikely to be
achieved in the original timeframe of three to five years,” UBS
said in the statement today.  The bank is reviewing all its objectives and will comment
on future strategy at an investor day in November, Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil said on a conference call. The
cost-savings target isn’t a net number as the bank will continue
investment in selected areas, he said. UBS’s total costs were
24.5 billion francs last year.  Gruebel, 67, may have to cut his goal for pretax profit of
15 billion francs in 2014 by as much as 20 percent, or scrap it,
as tougher capital standards and sluggish markets weigh on
results, analysts said before the results were released. UBS’s
investment bank, which piled up 57.1 billion francs in
cumulative losses during the three years through 2009, is at the
heart of the dilemma over targets. The investment bank employed
17,776 people, or about 27 percent of UBS’s total staff, at the
end of June.  Increasing Risk  Gruebel and Carsten Kengeter, 44, who runs the investment
bank, have been trying to revive earnings at the division for
two years. They hired more than 1,700 people across the
investment bank and brought in new business heads, including
Rajeev Misra and Yassine Bouhara, former executives at Deutsche
Bank AG,  Europe ’s biggest investment bank by revenue, to replace
people that left or were fired. They’ve also increased risk-
taking to improve earnings opportunities.  The measures have brought limited benefits. UBS’s share
among the nine biggest investment banks of revenue from trading
stocks and bonds and advising clients on capital-market
transactions and mergers doubled from 2009 to 2010, yet it
remained the lowest among competitors. First-half revenue is
also the lowest compared with rivals that have already reported
second-quarter earnings.  Some investment-banking businesses can become bigger or
smaller, Gruebel said. While more than 50 percent of what the
unit does directly relates to the rest of UBS’s operations, the
“big question” is how large the trading business needs to be,
he said.  Turnaround Time  UBS’s turnaround is “going to take at least five years,”
Ralph Silva, an analyst at Silva Research Network, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “Their infrastructure costs
are higher than some of the other banks.”  Rival Deutsche Bank reported second-quarter profit of 1.2
billion euros ($1.74 billion), after writing down the value of
Greek debt holdings.  Germany ’s biggest bank today confirmed a
goal of 10 billion euros in operating pretax profit this year,
while saying the European sovereign debt crisis will make it
more difficult to reach a target at its investment bank.  Pretax profit at UBS’s investment bank slumped to 376
million francs in the second quarter from 1.31 billion francs in
the year-earlier period. The unit’s cost-to-income ratio, which
was the highest among the nine biggest investment banks last
year, rose to 86 percent in the quarter.  Job Cuts  The investment bank, which already cut about 6 percent of
jobs in the first quarter, may slash 700 more positions, mostly
in the back office, a person familiar with the situation said
this month. The bank may cut about 5,000 jobs across divisions
to save 1 billion francs in annual costs, Swiss newspaper Tages-
Anzeiger said this month, citing unidentified “insiders.”  UBS said it doesn’t envisage “material improvements” in
market conditions in the current quarter and that it will
probably book “significant restructuring charges” later this
year.  “It is clear to us that the new capital and regulatory
requirements will weigh on banking profits going forward,”
Gruebel said at a presentation in Zurich. “This is a constraint
for the entire banking industry, and we cannot rely on markets
to boost our profits when global economic growth looks as it may
have stalled.”  The bank plans cost reductions across divisions and will
cut jobs, Naratil said, without providing details because the
bank’s assessment was still in its “early stages.” Job cuts
won’t affect client advisers in  wealth management , he said.  Client Inflows  Pretax profit at the wealth management and Swiss bank fell
3.3 percent to 1.09 billion francs, while asset management
posted a 7.7 percent decline to 108 million francs. Wealth
management Americas swung to a profit of 140 million francs from
a pretax loss of 67 million francs.  Wealth management units reported net new money of 8.2
billion francs in the quarter, while the retail and corporate
division had the first outflow in three quarters of about 600
million francs. The bank’s “positive long-term net new money
trends are still intact,” Naratil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  