-- 
UBS Needs ‘Strong’ Investment Bank Amid Cost Cuts, Naratil Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-26T14:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ubs-needs-strong-investment-bank-amid-cost-cuts-naratil-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  needs a “strong and
competitive” investment bank, Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said, as analysts suggested the lender may scale down
the business amid a review of financial targets.  UBS will cut expenses in “any places where cost-income
ratios aren’t in line with our expectations,” Naratil said
today in an interview in Zurich. “However, I really do want to
emphasize the importance of an investment bank to our wealth
management franchise.”  The investment bank’s cost-to-income ratio of 78 percent
was the second highest in UBS, after the 90 percent posted by
its wealth management Americas unit. UBS said earlier today it
won’t reach a 15 billion-franc ($18.7 billion) pretax profit
target by 2014 and will cut jobs to help save as much as 2
billion francs over the next two to three years.  “We expect that the investment bank, especially the fixed
income, currencies and commodities business, will bear the brunt
of the costs initially, but cost cuts are likely to come across
the organization,”  Peter Thorne , an analyst with Helvea SA,
said in a note. “We look for capital to be taken out of the
investment bank eventually.”  Without scaling back and reducing the capital it uses,
about 90 percent of the cost cuts would need to come from the
investment bank to increase the unit’s pretax return on equity
to 12 percent, Huw van Steenis, a London-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, said on UBS earnings conference call today. The unit’s
return on equity, a measure of profitability, was 7.9 percent in
the second quarter compared with 21 percent a year earlier.  ‘Big Question’  UBS didn’t provide details on the cost cuts because they’re
still in the “early stages” of planning, Naratil said. More
than half of the investment bank is needed to support UBS’s
 wealth management  business, Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  told analysts and journalists.  “I think in the end, it comes down to 50 percent to 75
percent probably would be needed to keep our wealth management
going,” Gruebel said. The “big question” is how large the
trading business needs to be.  Gruebel and Carsten Kengeter, 44, who runs the investment
bank, have been trying to revive earnings at the division for
two years. They hired more than 1,700 people across the
investment bank and brought in new business heads, including
Rajeev Misra and Yassine Bouhara, former executives at Deutsche
Bank AG,  Europe ’s biggest investment bank by revenue, to replace
people that left or were fired.  Risk Taking  UBS’s revenue from sales and trading of stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities fell 28 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier even as the bank’s risk-taking increased.
The investment bank’s average value-at-risk, a measure of how
much it could lose in the markets in a single day, rose to 75
million francs from 48 million francs a year earlier, with the
biggest increase in risk from credit spreads.  “We did take on more risk in credit in particular earlier
in the quarter,” Naratil said. “We did take that down” and
“started the third quarter in a more conservative position.”  UBS’s investment bank piled up 57.1 billion francs in
cumulative losses during the three years through 2009.  The bank may seek to reposition the securities unit toward
businesses that use less capital because of the stricter
regulatory requirements and reduce some fixed-income activities,
said  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in
Zurich.  “UBS and a lot of other investment banks will probably
focus on businesses such as advisory or cash equity trading
where balance sheet isn’t used,” Nielsen said.  Stricter Rules  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed
stricter capital rules for lenders worldwide last year and the
Swiss government, which rescued UBS with a 6 billion-franc
capital injection in 2008, came up with additional demands for
UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG. This may make some investment-
banking businesses unviable at the same time that  risk aversion 
among clients concerned about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is
hurting earnings.  The bank may also cut some costs among the support
functions for wealth management, even though UBS said that
client advisers won’t be affected, according to Nielsen.  “There is probably still some fat to cut in wealth
management,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  