-- 
Ukrainian Corn, Sunflowers Benefit From Weather, Consultant Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-07-26T12:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ukrainian-corn-sunflowers-benefit-from-weather-consultant-says.html
Corn and sunflowers in Ukraine are
benefiting from favorable weather that promotes plant growth,
UkrAgroConsult said.  Both crops had good pollination when temperatures were
moderate, the Kiev-based researcher said in a statement e-mailed
today. Ample soil moisture and higher air temperatures are
aiding plants now, and corn’s development ensures high yields if
weather remains favorable, it said.  Ukraine’s national weather center raised its grain-harvest
estimate today, citing climate conditions and increased corn
sowing. Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said last week
the corn crop may reach as much as 16 million metric tons this
year, compared with 11.9 million tons in 2010.  Sunflowers’ leaf surface is 30 percent larger than last
year, UkrAgroConsult said. It also said  sugar beet  is mostly in
good and satisfactory condition, with beet tops weighing on
average 12 percent more than a year earlier, when dry weather
reduced yields of all crops.  Sunflower planting slipped 0.3 percent this year to 4.56
million hectares (11.3 million acres), the state statistics
office said July 13. Sugar-beet seeding increased 8.7 percent to
544,400 hectares.  Seventy percent of wheat harvested so far this year since
June is of feed quality and 30 percent is suitable for milling,
UkrAgroConsult said. The area sown with wheat, both winter and
spring varieties, increased 5.3 percent this year to 6.79
million hectares, according to the statistics office.  Barley plantings fell 16 percent to 3.8 million hectares,
the statistics office said July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  