-- 
Mumbai Land Prices May Decline 30% on Cash Crunch, Oberoi Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-07-26T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/mumbai-land-prices-may-decline-30-on-cash-crunch-oberoi-says.html
Mumbai land prices may fall as much
as 30 percent over the next year as higher borrowing costs force
some indebted developers to sell real estate,  Oberoi Realty Ltd. (OBER) 
Chairman Vikas Oberoi said.  “Land will be the first thing to get corrected,” Oberoi
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in the
Goregaon district of Mumbai. “The government has induced
artificial pain, with the  Reserve Bank of India  increasing rates
and telling banks not to lend to developers. We will see a cash
crunch.”  Developers face borrowing costs of more than 20 percent,
Oberoi said. His company, with no debt and about 14 billion
rupees ($317 million) in cash, will take advantage of falling
prices to buy land, he said. India’s third-largest developer by
value sold shares in an initial public offering last year that
was underwritten by Morgan Stanley, the New York-based
investment bank.  The  Reserve Bank  of India, in a bid to reduce the highest
inflation rate among major economies, yesterday raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 50 basis points to 8 percent.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation, which
quickened to 9.44 percent in June, may remain close to 10
percent until November, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Yes
Bank Ltd.  ‘Large-Scale Distress’  India’s real-estate industry will face “large-scale
distress” amid rising borrowing costs and shrinking access to
credit that may force developers into fire sales for assets,
Amit Goenka, national director of capital transactions at the
Indian unit of Knight Frank LLP, said in an interview in April.  Indian developers will have to repay 1.8 trillion rupees of
debt to state-run banks, private equity funds and other lenders
over the next two to three years, Goenka said.  Cash flow  may
also come under pressure as creditors seek earlier repayments,
he said.  Mumbai home-sale registrations fell to the lowest level in
two years in June as higher rates and  home prices  curbed demand,
according to broker Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  “When the developer gets into a cash crunch, he’ll first
stop buying land,” Oberoi said. “There is a tussle between the
buyer and seller and the first effect of that will come when
developers will be shy of buying land.  ‘Cascading Effect’  “If the cascading effect happens, it will start with land
prices coming down,” he said. “If things aren’t moving,
developers will be willing to shave off between 10 percent and
30 percent on land prices.”  Deals between developers at lower prices are possible, said
Ashutosh Limaye, director of strategic consulting at the local
unit of Jones Lang LaSalle. He said he doesn’t expect properties
to be sold at auction at discounted prices.  “Even today, developers are showing up for land
auctions,” said Oberoi. “The first level of pain will come
when a company says it won’t sell cheap but also won’t buy
expensive. That’s the time I’ll start buying.  “Right now, we are looking at land, but I still end up
being the third or the fourth guy in terms of price,” he said.  Oberoi Realty reported a 58 percent gain in earnings for
the three months ended March 31 as the company generated more
home sales in  India ’s most expensive real estate market.
Competitors that become laden with debt create an opportunity
for Oberoi, the chairman said.  “It’s music to my ears if somebody blinks and we get land
cheaper,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 