-- 
UN Gives $14 Million to Alleviate Hunger in Kenya, Limit Impact of Drought

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T12:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/un-gives-14-million-to-alleviate-hunger-in-kenya-limit-impact-of-drought.html
The  United Nations  released 1.25
billion shillings ($13.8 million) from its emergency fund to
help millions of people in Kenya facing hunger amid the worst
drought in decades, a UN official said.  Drought conditions are worsening in areas including Turkana
near the Ethiopian border, and Wajir and Mandera, close to
Somalia, Aeneas Chuma, the UN’s humanitarian coordinator in the
country, told reporters today in the capital, Nairobi.  “The current situation is that drought conditions continue
to deteriorate and worsen  food security  in northern and
northeastern pastoral regions of Kenya,” Chuma said. “Up to
3.5 million people will need food assistance in the coming
months.”  East Africa has suffered from two poor rainy seasons that
caused one of the worst droughts since 1950-51, according to the
UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization . The UN needs $1.6
billion in the next 12 months to provide aid to the region, it
said on July 25. In May, Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki declared
the drought a national disaster.  About 385,000 children are either “moderately or
severely” malnourished, while another 90,000 pregnant or
lactating mothers face malnutrition, Olivia Yambi, country
representative for the UN Children’s Fund, told reporters.
Migration by families searching for food is decreasing enrolment
in some schools, while exposing children to the risk of child
labor, abuse and prostitution, the UN said.  ‘Serious Crisis’  “The crisis is very serious,” Yambi said. “It is eroding
gains in child survival, potentially also eroding gains  Kenya 
has made in the area of education.”  The  mortality rate  for children under five years of age in
Kenya is 52 per 1,000 births, while the primary-school enrolment
ratio is 94.6 percent for boys and 90.5 percent for girls,
according to UN data.  Life expectancy  in the nation of 38.6
million people is 54 years.  Kenya’s government is working with agencies including the
UN World Food Programme to respond to the crisis. The WFP also
plans to establish a mobile unit to ensure health centers in the
region are adequately stocked with drugs and medical equipment.  WFP has a funding shortfall of $110 million for its
programs, the organization’s deputy director, Pippa Bradford,
said at the news conference today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net . 