-- 
Hungary Banking System Outlook Stays Negative, Moody’s Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-07-26T07:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/hungary-banking-system-outlook-stays-negative-moody-s-says-1-.html
Hungarian banks’ asset quality will
deteriorate further and profitability will remain “weak” over
the next 12 to 18 months as the operating environment remains
“uncertain,” Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The large amount of foreign-currency lending to
households underpins the rating agency’s expectation that asset
quality will deteriorate further as these borrowers’ ability to
service their debt has weakened significantly, following a more
than 30 percent depreciation of the forint against the  Swiss
Franc  in recent years,” Simone Zampa, a Moody’s vice president,
wrote in a report today.  Sixty-four percent of Hungarian household mortgages were
denominated in foreign currencies as of May 31, according to the
 central bank . Hungarian banks and the government agreed in May
to fix the  exchange rate  on foreign-currency mortgages through
2014 to relieve borrowers of mounting debt repayments.  Local banks, including the units of  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , tightened credit after the 2009 global recession
boosted delinquencies and many homeowners who had borrowed,
predominantly in Swiss francs, defaulted as the forint weakened.  The forint, which fell to a record low against the Swiss
franc last week, has weakened 5.6 percent against the franc in
July alone.  Moody’s forecast that bank earnings will remain weak in
2011 as profits are eroded by rapidly growing risk costs,
shrinking business volumes and a banking tax, according to the
report. Lenders’ operating environment “remains challenging
given the relatively distressed household and commercial real-
estate sectors,” it said.  “These negative factors reduce the ability of the less
well-capitalized banks to maintain a sufficient capital buffer
in the current uncertain macroeconomic environment.”  The rating company expects support from the foreign owners
of Hungarian banks to continue at current levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  