-- 
UniCredit Seeks Tossing of ‘Hollow’ Madoff Trustee RICO Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-26T16:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/unicredit-seeks-to-dismiss-madoff-trustee-s-racketeering-claims.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  asked a district judge
to dismiss “hollow” racketeering claims brought by the
liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s to demand $59 billion from the
bank, or three times what investors lost in the  Ponzi scheme .  Trustee Irving Picard erred in applying U.S. racketeering
law to a foreign bank, Milan-based UniCredit and its Bank
Austria unit said yesterday in a court filing. The trustee
didn’t show they engaged in racketeering or had any motive for
participating in the Ponzi scheme, they said. U.S. District
Court Judge Jed Rakoff in New York is reviewing Picard’s
bankruptcy court suit.  Picard named Bank Austria in a December complaint against
Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and dozens of other
Austrian and Italian parties. He demanded $19.6 billion -- his
estimate at the time of all principal lost by Madoff investors -
- using the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
to triple the amount. The claim is the largest of more than
1,000 filed by Picard.  “The allegations of fact for which these mammoth
recoveries are sought, however, are threadbare and do not point
to liability on the part of Bank  Austria ,” the bank said. “The
damage done to Bank Austria by the mere filing and continued
existence of these bogus allegations is substantial. Faced with
an alleged liability equal to just under one-sixth of the gross
domestic product of Austria, the bank remains under a cloud.”  Picard’s Claims  According to Picard’s suit, Kohn ran a scheme through Bank
Medici that delivered $9.1 billion to Madoff’s Ponzi operation.
Participants including Bank Austria funneled $4 billion of the
total through feeder funds, he said.  Bank Austria helped create and owned 25 percent of Bank
Medici, also starting the Primeo, Herald, Herald Lux, Alpha
Prime and Senator funds that invested in Madoff, according to
Picard. Some funds also invested in each other to disguise their
dependence on Madoff, he said. Bank of Austria had access to
“fabricated” fund statements and conspired with other parties
to distribute the Primeo Fund’s misleading marketing materials,
he said.  Picard didn’t identify any specific marketing documents or
false statements, nor any facts about the formation of the
alleged conspiracy, UniCredit said. He had no facts either for
asserting that Bank Austria formed a fund-management company to
disguise the fact that Madoff was actually managing the Primeo
Fund, or was part of a group that concealed Bank Medici’s
blanket exposure to the con man, it said.  ‘Culpable Knowledge’  The trustee didn’t show Bank Austria had a motive or
“culpable knowledge” to commit bank, mail and wire fraud, and
failed to support his demands for triple damages by showing a
pattern of racketeering activity, the bank said. A general
desire for fees is “insufficient” to explain its motive for
joining in the “alleged criminal enterprise,” UniCredit said.  Picard’s own complaint “makes clear” that Madoff and Kohn
were in control, not Bank Austria, it said.  “Plaintiff’s Rico claims are hollow,” the bank said in
the filing. “Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to support
his claims that Bank Austria was a knowing participant, or even
had knowledge of, the alleged Madoff-Kohn scheme.”  Kohn has denied wrongdoing. Picard “will respond at the
appropriate time in filings with the district court,”
spokeswoman Amanda Remus said in an e-mail.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 