-- 
UPS Declines Most in 14 Months After Forecasting ‘Slow’ Third Quarter

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-07-26T20:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/ups-reaffirms-2011-profit-forecast-as-quarterly-earnings-meet-estimates.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, fell the most since
June 2010 after projecting a “fairly slow” third quarter
before demand picks up in 2011’s last three months.  Asian growth outside  China  was weaker than expected last
quarter and the U.S. will still be “extremely sluggish” this
quarter, Atlanta-based UPS said today on a conference call.
Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said the financial and real-
estate markets are weighing on U.S. volumes amid “a broad
environment of uncertainty.”  Some customers are “trying to decide what to do” after
missing first-half sales targets, Kuehn said in a telephone
interview. “Given just the incredible turmoil that we see every
day on the news, it’s not a time to be thinking about making
decisions for the next six months to a year.”  UPS slid $2.46, or 3.3 percent, to $71.59 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the biggest drop
since June 29, 2010.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the largest cargo
airline, fell 88 cents to $91.  “The domestic comment about the third quarter and the no-
growth scenario, I think that’s probably the major problem for
this weakness in the stock price,” said  David Campbell , an
analyst with Thompson Davis & Co., in Richmond,  Virginia , who
recommends buying the shares. “And then of course they’re not
particularly precise about how the growth is going to happen in
the fourth quarter.”  Domestic Volume  Second-quarter net income climbed 26 percent to $1.06
billion, or $1.07 a share. The company boosted shipping rates as
U.S. domestic volumes grew 0.1 percent. Domestic package volumes
have been “relatively flat” in July, UPS said on the call.  The U.S. recovery is slowing amid rising unemployment,
which increased for the third straight month in June to 9.2
percent, and declines in sales of new homes. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the U.S. may experience a “deep economic
crisis” if leaders of Congress fail to reach a deal to raise
its debt ceiling. Republicans and Democrats in Congress are
trying to round up votes for rival debt plans aimed at averting
a U.S. default one week from today.  UPS reiterated its 2011 earnings forecast of $4.15 to $4.40
a share, excluding some items. Analysts predicted $4.34. The
company reported earnings of $3.56 last year.  Flights Added  Second-quarter sales advanced 8.1 percent to $13.2 billion,
driven by demand in China and  Europe . UPS has added flights
between the two continents to benefit from emerging-market
shipping demand.  Average revenue per package rose, led by a 14 percent gain
in international domestic pieces. International volume climbed
6.2 percent, driven by an 8.1 percent advance in international
export shipments. The company also saw a 19 percent jump in
revenue from its freight segment.  Demand in  Germany ,  France  and  Turkey  helped boost
international domestic shipments, Kuehn said.  Excluding a gain on real-estate transactions, earnings of
$1.05 a share matched the average prediction in a Bloomberg
survey of 23 analysts. A year earlier, UPS reported net income
of $845 million, or 84 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  