-- 
Murdoch-Backed Takeover Disrupted by Australia Collapses Austar: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-07-27T07:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/murdoch-backed-takeover-disrupted-by-australia-collapses-austar-real-m-a.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s recent setback in
Australia is giving investors the chance to make the largest
profit on any pending acquisition in the world.  Foxtel, backed by Murdoch’s News Corp., is facing delays in
its A$1.9 billion ($2.1 billion) takeover of Sydney-based  Austar
United Communications Ltd. (AUN)  as antitrust regulators warn that the
combination of Australia’s biggest pay-television operators may
“substantially” reduce competition. The A$1.52-a-share
purchase agreement is 45 percent higher than Austar’s closing
price yesterday after the shares slid 19 percent in three days.
That’s the largest premium of any pending deal greater than $500
million globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian regulator pushed back its ruling the week
after a phone-hacking crisis forced  News Corp. (NWSA)  to drop a bid for
pay-TV provider  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  While
Austar, controlled by John Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , is now
trading as if there’s no deal, the acquisition still has a 25
percent likelihood of winning approval, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and White Funds Management Pty.  “The deal is not dead,” Gregory Lafitte, head of Asian
merger arbitrage at Louis Capital Markets in  Hong Kong , said in
a telephone interview. “We’ve already lost the premium so the
risk of seeing the stock lower is quite low.”  Anyone who buys the stock now “could earn a great
return,” he said. Austar rose as much as 1.9 percent in Sydney
trading today before closing up 1.4 percent, its biggest gain in
two weeks, at A$1.06.  The press office for the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission, the nation’s competition watchdog, declined to
comment on the deal review.  Foxtel Remains Confident  Ilse Schache, a spokeswoman for Austar at media relations
firm Financial Dynamics, declined to comment beyond the
company’s July 22 statement. Austar said it “will continue to
work with the ACCC to resolve issues identified” and “remains
committed to effecting the transaction.”  Adam Suckling, a spokesman for Foxtel, declined to comment
beyond the company’s separate  statement  the same day.  “Foxtel remains confident that the proposed transaction
does not substantially lessen competition in any market,” Chief
Executive Officer Kim Williams said in the statement. “Foxtel
will respond to the ACCC as part of its ongoing process.”  Foxtel, Australia’s largest pay-TV operator, announced May
26 a proposal to pay a 22 percent premium to Austar’s prior 20-
day trading average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
purchase would help Foxtel, which focuses on metropolitan areas,
expand in rural locations.  ‘Near Monopoly’  Malone’s Liberty Global owns 54 percent of Austar. Sydney-
based Foxtel is half owned by Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest
phone carrier. News Corp. and  James Packer ’s  Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  each own 25 percent.  The combination of Foxtel and Austar would “create a near
monopoly,” the ACCC said in a statement on its website July 22.
The competition regulator’s final decision, which was originally
due July 21, has been  pushed back  to Sept. 8 as it seeks more
information and additional public comments.  There is no connection to News Corp.’s phone-hacking issues
in the U.K., ACCC Chairman  Graeme Samuel , who will retire July
31, said in a phone interview last week.  Before today, Austar had fallen 25 cents, or 19 percent, to
A$1.05 since the regulator’s statement, the lowest closing price
since Feb. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The ACCC was pretty firm,”  Angus Gluskie , who manages
about $350 million at White Funds Management in Sydney,
including shares of Consolidated Media and Telstra, said in a
phone interview. “They think that it prevents competition.
Given that that’s the core of their concerns, it’s very hard for
Foxtel to say that doing the combination leaves sufficient
competition there.”  ‘Buying Opportunity’  There’s still a 25 percent chance that the deal succeeds in
its current form, Gluskie said. Laurent Horrut, an analyst with
JPMorgan in Sydney, also pegs the likelihood at 25 percent, down
from 50 percent, according to a July 22 research note.  Buying the stock now could hand investors a return of more
than 43 percent if the deal closes. The stock closed at A$1.13
on March 1, the day before the company disclosed that Foxtel was
in talks with Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global to buy
Austar.  “The stock is back to pretty much where it was before they
had the deal,”  David Joyce , a New York-based media analyst at
 Miller Tabak  & Co., said in a phone interview. “It has created
a sort of buying opportunity. There’s still plenty of time for
them to get the deal done.”  Dominique d’Avrincourt, a Melbourne-based analyst at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , said there’s “zero
probability” of the deal closing.  Seven Group  “We just don’t see it happening,” d’Avrincourt said in a
phone interview. “The market is telling you now that this stock
is back to fundamentals.”  If the Foxtel deal collapses, other bidders in the Asia-
Pacific region may emerge, said Miller Tabak’s Joyce. He
declined to name potential buyers.  Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW)  of
Sydney may bid if Foxtel is blocked, the Australian Financial
Review said July 25.  While Seven Group would be a “logical” buyer, it may face
similar regulatory scrutiny,  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver, said in a phone interview.  Foxtel is facing a roadblock after New York-based News
Corp. this month shut down the News of the World publication
amid phone-hacking revelations, including tapping into the
voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl. Three days after the tabloid
published its last edition July 10, News Corp. was also forced
to scrap a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.8 billion) bid for pay-TV
provider BSkyB.  ‘Sensitivity on Murdoch’  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. Chairman and CEO Murdoch, 80, got his start in
1953 when he inherited a daily newspaper in  Adelaide ,  Australia .
He owns about 146 metropolitan, regional and rural newspapers in
the country, according to the company’s 2010  annual report .  “Even though they said point blank that it has nothing to
do with Murdoch, there is some sensitivity on Murdoch,”
Wunderlich’s Harrigan said of the ACCC’s review of the Foxtel-
Austar deal. “Murdoch is really on the periphery in terms of
his involvement, but maybe at the margin this is enough to tip
it.”  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment on the prospects for Foxtel’s bid for Austar and the
regulatory review.  Austar has fallen so far that there’s little risk in buying
the shares now, Louis Capital’s Lafitte said.  “Most investors had expected the regulator to give the
deal a green light but some concerns are still to be raised,”
Lafitte said in an e-mail. “The downside is currently quite
limited. The upside is quite high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 