-- 
Murdoch’s Influence Fades as Cameron Slams Back Door to 10 Downing Street

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-26T23:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/murdoch-s-influence-fades-as-cameron-slams-back-door-to-10-downing-street.html
Rupert Murdoch , feted by leaders who
feared the sway his media empire held over British voters, has
been put on notice by U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron that
“the clock has stopped” on his influence over British
politics.  Summoned to Parliament on July 19 to say what he knew about
illegal activities at the News of the World, Britain’s best-
selling newspaper before it was shut by the scandal, Murdoch
said premiers asked him “many times” to visit their 10 Downing
Street office in London through the back door.  “He’s not going to have anything like the same influence
he’s had in the past,” said Lance Price, who worked for Labour
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  from 1998 to 2001 before leaving and
publishing “The Spin Doctor’s Diary.” Lawmakers would take
Murdoch’s likely reaction into account when deciding policies,
Price said. “No prime minister’s going to treat him in the way
he once did.”  Leaders of both Britain’s main parties -- Labour and the
Conservatives -- wooed Murdoch, whose News Corp. still publishes
 The Sun , the biggest selling daily tabloid, and the upmarket
Times and Sunday Times. The Sun has backed the winner in every
election since 1979, when it urged voters to support  Margaret Thatcher ’s  Conservative Party .  ‘More Healthy’  “We have all got to be open about the fact that both front
benches spent a lot of time courting Rupert Murdoch, courting
News International,”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing division, and
other media, Cameron told the House of Commons last week. “This
sort of relationship needs to be changed and put on a more
healthy basis. Now we are prepared to admit it, but basically,
if you like, the clock has stopped on my watch.”  Blair once flew to  Australia  to address a meeting of News
Corp. executives as he sought to woo Murdoch’s support for
Labour in the mid-1990s.  Blair’s communications chief, Alastair Campbell, described
in his diaries the moment in the run-up to the 1997 election
when The Sun announced it would back Labour instead of  John Major ’s Conservatives.  Blair “thought it was good news in its own right,” as
well as being “good in the effect it would have on the other
side’s morale,” Campbell wrote. “On one level, it was
ridiculous that it should be seen as a big event, but the
reality is that is exactly how it is seen.”  The  News of the World , with a reputation for covering sex
and scandal, was Murdoch’s first newspaper purchase in Britain
in 1969. He added The Sun shortly afterward. The Times and
Sunday Times joined the Murdoch stable at the start of the
1980s, bought from Thomson Corp. after a labor dispute had shut
the Times for more than a year.  ‘Polluted Press’  “There is no one person more responsible for the pollution
of what was already a fairly polluted press, and the pollution
of the British press is an important part of the pollution of
British political life,” a leading television playwright,
 Dennis Potter , said in a BBC television interview shortly before
his death in 1994.  “I call my cancer, the main one, the pancreas one,
Rupert,” Potter said. “I would shoot the bugger if I could,”
he said of Murdoch.  “An organization whose newspapers demanded greater
responsibility among the powerless in our society believed it
was so powerful that it was beyond that self-same
responsibility,” opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband 
said of News Corp. in a speech last week. “It was one of the
great failures of politics that their power went unchallenged
for so long.”  ‘Falling Asleep’  During his testimony last week, Murdoch “looked very
weak,” said Labour lawmaker Jim Sheridan, who questioned the
80-year-old News Corp. chairman about his relationships with
prime ministers. “If it was an act, it was a very good act. He
was falling asleep.”  Murdoch told Sheridan he had “never guaranteed anyone the
support of my newspapers.” Asked by another lawmaker, Damian Collins, about his “frequent meetings” with premiers, Murdoch
replied: “I wish they would leave me alone.”  Murdoch told the committee that he was not responsible for
the phone-hacking scandal and that the News of the World made up
just 1 percent of a global company. Instead, he blamed “the
people that I trusted to run it, and then maybe the people they
trusted.”  ‘Clear Up’  Cameron said at the end of last week that “News
International has got some big issues to deal with and a mess to
clear up.”  The widening phone-hacking scandal and its political
backlash also forced News Corp. to drop its 7.8 billion-pound
($12.8 billion) bid for the 61 percent of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the country’s biggest pay-television
operation, it doesn’t own.  At least 10 people have been arrested, including former
News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks and
ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Cameron’s
press chief until January of this year.  Data released by the government as it tries to create a
clean break show that 41 percent of Cameron’s meetings with
senior media figures since coming to power were with News Corp.
For Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , the figure was
40 percent.  Bloomberg  LP, the parent of Bloomberg  News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  ‘Rumble On’  Lawmakers should take Murdoch at his word that he’s not
interested in influencing British public life, said  Chris Bryant , a Labour lawmaker who’s suing News International over
the affair.  Murdoch’s son James, News Corp.’s deputy chief operating
officer, who also testified that he was unaware of hacking
allegations, “is in much more difficulty,” Bryant said in an
interview. “All of this is going to rumble on for him.”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham
University, said he believes the power of Murdoch’s newspapers
was already waning, along with the rest of the printed press, as
circulations have fallen.  Blair and his successor,  Gordon Brown , “spent so much time
courting them because of Labour’s experience in the 80s and
early 90s” during an 18-year absence from government, Cowley
said in an interview. “They were fighting the last war. But if
it got them a few extra votes, why not do it?”  Even so, Sheridan, the Labour panel member, said he’s
unconvinced that Murdoch’s influence is gone for ever.  “There’s nothing to demonstrate that he’s not as powerful
as he was,” Sheridan said. “The proof will be in the eating. I
don’t think we’re out of the woods yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  