-- 
Meet Husain Haqqani, Hardest Working Man in DC: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-07-26T00:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/husain-haqqani-hardest-working-man-in-dc-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Life for many members of
 Washington ’s diplomatic corps is, one imagines, pretty much a
picnic. For example, the ambassador from  Barbados  generally
faces no career-threatening crises. Nor does the ambassador from
 Luxembourg .  Others have trickier assignments. The ambassador from
 Yemen , Abdulwahab Abdulla al-Hajjri, can’t be having an easy
time lately, especially since his brother-in-law is his
country’s beleaguered and despised president. The ambassador
from  Bahrain , Houda Nonoo, is in the supremely odd position of
being a Jewish woman representing a Sunni Muslim monarchy that
oppresses a Shiite majority.  The ambassador with the hardest job in Washington is
undoubtedly Pakistan’s  Husain Haqqani , a skilled and wily
diplomat who faces the near-impossible task of representing a
country that Washington considers at once a crucial ally and a
treacherous adversary.  A one-time Islamist turned pro-democracy Americaphile,
Haqqani is seen by many in his own country as an American toady.
But some of his critics, including many of  Pakistan ’s generals,
benefit materially from Haqqani’s work as his country’s most
effective interpreter and apologist.  Bin Laden Dilemma  Haqqani’s entire tenure as ambassador has been an exercise
in  crisis management . But the crisis has become truly perilous
since a U.S. Navy SEAL team found  Osama bin Laden  living quietly
in a city not far from Pakistan’s capital and killed him May 2.  Pakistan saw the raid as a gross violation of its
sovereignty; the U.S. saw Bin Laden’s presence in Pakistan as,
at the very least, proof of Pakistan’s unwillingness to fight
terrorism. Since the raid, the countries have behaved like an
about-to-be-divorced couple: The Pakistanis have been rolling up
CIA networks, and the U.S. has suspended $800 million in
military aid.  I visited Haqqani recently at his embassy, which is across
the street from the Israelis (of all people), to talk about the
diverse impossibilities of his assignment. He didn’t completely
disagree with me when I suggested that he has the worst job in
the city.  “You can call it the worst, or the best,” he said. “I see
it as the single most challenging.”  Double-Layered Problem  Haqqani faces a double-layered problem. Not only is his
country viewed by many on  Capitol Hill  as an enemy state, but
also Pakistanis at home have turned ferociously anti-American.
So Haqqani spends as much time explaining America to Pakistan as
he does explaining Pakistan to America.  He recently visited his country’s National Defense
University and asked a group of officers, “What is the principal
national security threat to Pakistan?” A plurality named not
India, or al-Qaeda, but the U.S.  Haqqani blames Pakistan’s democratic nature (he has taken
to speaking as if the Pakistani military doesn’t have veto power
over decisions made by the civilian government) for part of the
country’s anti-U.S. turn.  “Because we are a democracy now, the political leadership,
while maintaining good relations with the  United States , does
not want to risk too much politically in terms of speaking out
on behalf of this relationship. So I end up having to do the
speaking out for this bilateral relationship.” He paused, then
said, “Which causes issues for me.”  Mutual Suspicions  He also blames the policies of the U.S. “You can’t have a
relationship with a country just by making demands on it.
Pakistanis ask why you don’t understand our domestic politics.
Americans have to take into account that the primary emotion on
the Pakistani side is abandonment and a feeling that America
doesn’t respect us. Of course, I turn around and say that these
are reasonable assertions, but with all due respect we have to
understand their domestic compulsions as well.”  He went on, “If the primary emotion on our side is
abandonment, the primary emotion on the American side is
deception, that the Pakistanis deceived us.”  Whatever their reasons, it’s delusional for Pakistanis to
think of the U.S. as an enemy. Although the U.S. has sometimes
been a feckless partner, it is no more an enemy of Pakistan than
it is of India. The U.S. spends billions of dollars on civilian
and military aid to Pakistan (much of it negotiated by Haqqani),
and Washington would very much like to trust in Pakistan’s
friendship.  The American street, however, is deeply frustrated. One
doesn’t have to believe that top Pakistani officials knew of  Bin
Laden ’s Abbotabad hideaway -- I don’t -- to view Pakistan’s
support for the militants killing Americans in  Afghanistan  as
the action of a hostile state.  And so Haqqani spends most of his time patching the
relationship, especially on Capitol Hill.  Deepening Crisis  His work was made particularly difficult last week, when
accusations surfaced that Pakistan’s intelligence agency, the
ISI, was secretly funneling money to U.S. political candidates
to sway them to Pakistan’s side. “Out of 11 congressional
offices I visited, five put the newspaper with that story in
front of me. I’m trying to come and talk about the big picture
issues,” he said.  It is because the Obama administration, and Congress, like
Haqqani more than they like other Pakistani officials that he
can be as effective as he is.  Perhaps his finest moment came during the case of  Raymond
Davis , the bungling CIA contractor accused of fatally shooting
two people on a street in Lahore. The U.S. claimed Davis
possessed diplomatic immunity; the Pakistanis disagreed.  The case was turning into the biggest crisis between
Pakistan and the U.S. in years when Haqqani helped engineer an
elegant solution: He turned to sharia, Muslim law, which allowed
the dead men’s families to be compensated with blood money. This
is the ploy that sprang Davis from jail.  Nearing Breakup  But the Davis matter pales in comparison to today’s
tensions. Pakistan and the U.S. are near the point of breakup,
with devastating consequences for the fight against al-Qaeda and
the Taliban.  Hillary Clinton , who was visiting  India  last week,
essentially designated Pakistan’s traditional adversary as a
strategic partner.  There’s only so much a single ambassador can do. What’s
most noticeable today in the relationship between the U.S. and
Pakistan is the fatigue caused by the comprehensive dysfunctions
between them. Haqqani sees this fatigue wherever he goes.  “I try to explain these countries to each other. Sometimes
I meet people who say, ‘Oh, God, here is the man who has an
explanation for everything.’”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 