-- 
UTI’s Kulkarni Says No Signal That India Rate Tightening Is Over

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-07-26T07:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/uti-s-kulkarni-says-no-signal-that-india-rate-tightening-is-over.html
Swati Kulkarni, a  fund manager  at
UTI Asset Management Co.,  India ’s fourth-largest money manager
with $15.6 billion in assets, comments on the outlook for stocks
after the central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by a
more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensex retreated 1.5
percent to 18,594.07 at 12:49 p.m. in Mumbai, headed for its
steepest drop in two weeks. The  Reserve Bank  of India raised the
repurchase rate to 8 percent from 7.5 percent, it said in a
statement today. Kulkarni spoke by phone.  “It’s a negative surprise. You don’t get any signal that
the tightening is over with this 50-basis point hike because the
concerns on inflation and the demand-side pressures are quite
explicit in the policy statement.”  On impact on growth:  “Clearly, the focus would continue to be on managing
inflation and growth is something which is on the back burner
right now. Though the growth expectations are at 8 percent, I am
not sure whether it will be 8 percent or less because the impact
of this tightening might be felt on the growth numbers
ultimately.  ‘‘May be the GDP estimate also may have to be scaled down.  ‘‘Unless you get a sign of interest rates peaking out, the
investment in the country will not be kicked-off.’’  On sector preferences:  Kulkarni said she might ‘‘defer’’ adding  interest-rate 
sensitive stocks in her portfolio ‘‘for a while.’’  ‘‘Definitely, the pressure on interest-rate sensitive
sectors might persist for some time.  ‘‘Consumer stocks might outperform but valuations’’ are not
in their favor. ‘‘Absolute outperformance could be limited from
here on.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 