-- 
Valeant Is Said to Approach Swedish Drugmaker Meda About Acquisition Offer

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-07-27T16:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/valeant-is-said-to-approach-swedish-drugmaker-meda-about-takeover-offer.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) , the drugmaker that has pursued more than 10
acquisitions in the past year, approached Sweden’s  Meda AB (MEDAA)  about
a takeover, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The approach was informal and may not lead to a deal, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
situation is private. Meda, based in Solna, Sweden, has a market
value of about 22.9 billion kronor ($3.6 billion) based on
today’s closing stock price.  The companies have a history of doing deals together.
Valeant, based in Mississauga, Ontario, said in June it would
buy rights to sell two of Meda’s medicines in the U.S. and
 Canada . Three years ago, Valeant sold its European drug business
to Meda, giving the Swedish company access to the faster-growing
eastern European and Russian markets. The Wall Street Journal
reported the approach yesterday.  “Meda’s board of directors has not received an approach of
the kind that is described in the article,” Meda said in a
statement today. “However, there are several collaborations
between Meda and Valeant including joint ventures in Canada,
 Mexico  and  Australia .” Laurie Little, a Valeant spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Meda rose 4.75 kronor, or 6.7 percent, to 75.80 kronor at
at the close of trading in  Stockholm . It was the stock’s biggest
advance since May 4.  Meda Valuation  Meda, Sweden’s second-largest health-care company by
revenue after  Getinge AB (GETIB) , in May reported first-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates. Net income rose to 375 million
kronor from 362 million kronor a year earlier. Growth was strong
in emerging markets and over-the-counter products, Meda said.  The Olsson family, which owns shipping, offshore-drilling,
finance and property companies, holds more than 22 percent of
Meda’s stock through its  Stena Sessan AB  holding company. Bert Ake Eriksson, Stena Sessan’s president, serves on the Meda
board.  The drugmaker is trading at about 12 times the 5.84 kronor
per share that it may earn in 2012, according to the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s less than
the 13 times earnings in the median of a sample of 16 European
pharmaceutical companies of similar size, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Meda sells Bifera, a drug to treat iron deficiency;
Cesamet, a treatment for nausea from chemotherapy; Muse, a drug
for erectile dysfunction; and Edluar, which helps patients fall
asleep. In 2010, the company reported sales of 11.6 billion
kronor ($1.6 billion).  Valeant develops and distributes drugs to treat epilepsy
and other central nervous system disorders. The company lost a
bid for  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  to  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  in
May. Chief Executive Officer Michael Pearson said after that
Valeant has been in talks with “multiple” potential
acquisition targets and has “irons in the fire around the
world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  