-- 
Valero Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates on Canadian Losses

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T20:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/valero-profit-rises-as-refining-margin-doubles-to-record.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest
independent U.S. crude refiner, reported second-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates on wider-than-expected losses at
its Canadian refinery.  Net income was 16 cents a share less than the average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company,
based in  San Antonio , today reported profit of $743 million, or
$1.30 a diluted share, from $583 million, or 93 cents, a year
earlier.  Valero lost 90 cents a barrel refining fuel in  Canada  where
it relies on higher-priced imported crude, said  Fadel Gheit , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, who rates the shares
“outperform” and owns none.  “The miss was probably because we underestimated the
magnitude of the bad results in the Northeast,” Gheit said in a
telephone interview today. The loss in the Northeast, which
includes only the company’s  Quebec City  refinery, cut operating
income by $17 million, according to Valero’s release.  U.S. Gulf Coast profit margins also were lower than
expected, Chi Chow, a Denver-based analyst for Macquarie Capital
USA Inc. who had expected profit of $1.48 a share, wrote today
in a note to clients. A lightning strike June 6 shut a crude
processing unit in Port Arthur, Texas, impeding output for about
two weeks, Valero said in today’s statement.  Crack Spreads  Valero fell 20 cents to $26.48 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares, which have gained
51 percent in the past year, have 12 buy ratings from analysts,
eight holds and one sell.  The  New York  Mercantile Exchange crack spread, a measure of
the difference between the cost of West Texas Intermediate crude
and the price at which refiners can sell fuel, averaged $26.63 a
barrel for the quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The crack spread topped $35 a barrel on July 11, the highest
level in at least 25 years.  The crack spread on higher-priced  Brent crude , the
benchmark for imports, averaged $11.85 in the past quarter, 9
percent more than a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Valero operates 14 North American refineries and announced
plans in March to acquire Chevron Corp.’s Pembroke plant in the
U.K. for $1.73 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  