-- 
Vick Loses Nutrition Endorsement Deal Because He Backed a Similar Product

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T14:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/vick-loses-nutrition-endorsement-deal-because-he-backed-a-similar-product.html
Michael Vick ’s endorsement contract
with sports nutrition company  Fuse Science Inc ., signed earlier
this month, was terminated because the  Philadelphia Eagles ’
quarterback agreed on a deal with a competitor, Fuse’s parent
firm said.  Vick signed a five-year agreement with Fuse, a sports
nutrition company owned by  Double Eagle Holdings Ltd. (DEGH) , on July
7. The deal included cash, stock and stock options with the
parent company.  On July 22, MusclePharm Corp., said in a news release that
Vick agreed on a three-year, $1.55 million endorsement deal, and
that it was, in fact, the exclusive sports nutrition company of
Vick.  “Subsequent to our entering into and announcing the
exclusive agreement, we learned that on or about July 20, 2011,
Mr. Vick entered into an endorsement agreement with another
company engaged in the same product categories, notwithstanding
the exclusivity provisions of our agreement,” Aventura,
Florida-based Double Eagle said today in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. “This created an
unacceptable conflict and, accordingly, on July 25, 2011, we
terminated the agreement with Mr. Vick.”  Telephone and e-mail messages left for Vick’s marketing
agent, Andrew Stroth, and contract agent, Joel Segal, seeking
comment on the Double Eagle release weren’t immediately
returned. Telephone and e-mail messages left for Annette
Dallavalle, a spokeswoman for Denver-based MusclePharm, seeking
comment on the release also weren’t immediately returned.  Signing With Nike  Vick, 31, re-signed with Nike Inc., four years after being
dropped by the world’s largest sporting-goods company after he
admitted to his role in a dog-fighting ring.  Vick served time in federal prison on the dog-fighting-
related counts, and then played the past two seasons with the
Eagles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 