-- 
Vietnam’s Prime Minister Dung Re-Elected to Second Term, Wins 94% of Votes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-26T09:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/vietnam-s-prime-minister-dung-re-elected-to-second-term-wins-94-of-votes.html
Vietnam  reelected Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung to a second five-year term today in a single-
candidate vote that was a formality after his reappointment to
the 14-member Politburo in January.  Dung was chosen by 94 percent of lawmakers in the  National
Assembly , according to Do Van Chien, head of the body’s ballot
monitoring committee, who announced the results in Hanoi. The
confirmation clears the way for Dung to announce a new cabinet
next week that the assembly will then vote on, according to a
schedule given to reporters.  “The party chose to maintain stability” in sticking with
Dung, said Raymond Burghardt, former American ambassador to
Vietnam who is director of seminars at the  East-West Center  in
Honolulu. “By keeping the leadership stable, that avoids
unpredictable consequences, but it also means that they’re
putting their faith in an approach that has tended to favor
state-owned enterprises over the development of a strong private
sector.”  During Dung’s first term, the government’s economic
policies faced criticism from groups such as the  International
Monetary Fund . Policies gave the impression that the government
favored short-term growth over economic stability needed for
expansion over a longer period, the IMF said in a December
 report .  State-Owned Enterprises  Dung also came under fire for the near-collapse of the
state-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group last year, with
at least one lawmaker calling for a no-confidence vote on his
leadership. Dung and other leaders acknowledged “shortcomings"
in managing Vietnam Shipbuilding, and the government vowed to
speed up privatizing state-owned firms, deputy premier Nguyen
Sinh Hung told the National Assembly in March.  Dung’s cabinet choices will include Nguyen Van Binh as
leader of the central bank, according to three people with
knowledge of policy makers’ discussions on the matter who spoke
last week.  Inflation accelerated for the 11th straight month in July
to 22.16 percent, the highest inflation rate among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg. The country’s benchmark VN Index
is also  Asia ’s worst performer and has slid 16 percent this
year.  In February, Dung passed a resolution to rein in consumer
prices by tightening monetary and fiscal policies, curbing
lending growth to below 20 percent and trimming the  budget
deficit .  ‘Positive Sign’  ‘‘It’s a positive sign that he’s taken moves that are
probably unpopular,” said Matt Hildebrandt, a Singapore-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The issue now is, what’s his
personal willingness to put his reputation on the line to make
the tough decisions to slow inflation and get investor
confidence back?”  Vietnam also named Truong Tan Sang, a Politburo member and
the Communist Party’s head of secretariat, as president
yesterday. Nguyen Sinh Hung, who served as deputy prime
minister, was elected as chairman of the National Assembly.  Dung “has drawn some lessons from the previous term,”
said Quach Manh Hao, deputy chief executive of Thang Long
Securities Joint-Stock Co, Vietnam’s third largest brokerage.
“It will be better in the next term if he speeds up the
privatization process and reforms the governance structure so
that companies will be more effectively managed.”  Dung, who is from the southern Mekong Delta province of Ca
Mau, was first elected as prime minister in 2006. He served as
standing deputy prime minister for almost nine years before
becoming premier.  Under Dung, Vietnam joined the  World Trade Organization  in
2007. Vietnamese exports to the U.S. surged to $14.8 billion in
2010 from $1.03 billion in 2001, when a trade accord between the
two countries took effect, according to the U.S. International
Trade Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at   oha3@bloomberg.net  