-- 
LVMH Sees No Sign of Slowdown in Luxury After Profit Surpasses Estimates

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-27T07:29:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/lvmh-sees-no-sign-of-slowdown-in-luxury-after-profit-surpasses-estimates.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the maker of Celine handbags and TAG Heuer watches, sees no sign
of a slowdown in demand for luxury goods after reporting first-
half profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income climbed 25 percent to 1.31 billion euros ($1.9
billion), the Paris-based company said in a statement after the
market closed yesterday. The average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 1.25 billion euros.
Second-quarter sales advanced 9 percent to 5.05 billion euros.  “LVMH’s performance is of great quality in our view given
the tougher basis of comparison” in the second quarter,  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup in  London , wrote today in a
note. He recommends buying the stock.  The world’s largest maker of luxury goods has waiting lists
for some of its leather products and plans to introduce new
models of watches in the second half. LVMH agreed to buy Bulgari
SpA in March and snapped up a stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA
to benefit from surging demand for $7,000 Birkin bags $2,700
pink gold bracelets.  “We approach the second half of the year with confidence
and are relying upon the creativity and quality of our products
as well as the effectiveness of our teams to pursue further
market-share gains,” LVMH Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said in a statement.  LVMH rose 50 euro cents to 130.5 euros at 9:27 a.m. today
in Paris. The shares have gained 5.9 percent this year, giving
the maker of Moet & Chandon champagne and $6,000 TAG Heuer
chronographs a market value of 65.4 billion euros. The company
will pay an interim dividend of 80 cents on Dec. 2.  LVMH, which first disclosed it had built up stake in Hermes
in October, now owns 21.4 percent of its Paris-based rival, up
from 20.2 percent at the start of the year, its finance director
said on a conference call yesterday.  Global Luxury Demand  Global sales of  luxury goods  may rise 8 percent in 2011
excluding currency swings as demand strengthens in the U.S. and
 Europe  and emerging-market shoppers splurge, Bain & Co.
estimated in May.  First-half profit from recurring operations rose 22 percent
to 2.22 billion euros, LVMH said. The current operating margin
reached 22 percent, a record for the period. First-half revenue
increased 13 percent to 10.3 billion euros, or 15 percent
excluding currency swings and acquisitions.  Selective Distribution  “LVMH published a strong set of” first-half figures, HSBC
analysts including  Antoine Belge  wrote. “The growth and
profitability prospects of the selective distribution division,
both short and longer term, have been clearly underestimated by
the market and ourselves, which should lead to some consensus
earnings upgrades.” He has a neutral rating on the stock.  First-half profit from recurring operations at the unit,
which includes DFS and Sephora, climbed 63 percent, LVMH said.
Revenue rose 18 percent in the period, excluding currency swings
and acquisitions, as growth at Sephora benefited from new
stores, particularly in  China , LVMH said.  On a local currency basis, first-half sales gained 26
percent in  Asia , 17 percent in the U.S., excluding  Hawaii  and 8
percent in Europe. Revenue fell 6 percent in  Japan , though sales
grew there in June, Finance Director Jean-Jacques Guiony said.  Sales at the company’s fashion and leather-goods business
rose 14 percent on an organic basis, boosted by demand for
Monogram Empreinte soft-leather collections at Vuitton. LVMH
raised prices at Vuitton in the second quarter by 2 percent to 3
percent in the euro zone, Guiony said.  Currency impacts will be “significantly negative” for the
rest of the year if exchange rates stay where they are today,
Guiony said on the call.  Extra Capacity  LVMH posted growth in watch and jewelry sales of 27
percent, excluding currency swings and the impact of
acquisitions. The unit opened more TAG Heuer stores and
introduced a women’s range in the Formula 1 line. LVMH plans to
accelerate the development of its watch-making capacity in 2011.  LVMH, which owns 76.1 percent of Bulgari, will probably
make a tender offer for the remaining shares at the end of
August, according to Guiony. The deal should close in late
September, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  