-- 
LVMH Profit Beats Estimates Quarterly Sales Rise

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-26T19:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/lvmh-says-first-half-profit-climbs-25-to-1-90-billion-from-year-earlier.html
(Corrects percentage gain in 9th paragraph.)  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, reported first-half
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as demand for its Monogram
Empreinte soft leather collections at Vuitton surged.  Net income climbed 25 percent to 1.31 billion euros ($1.9
billion), the Paris-based company said today in a statement
after the market closed. The average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 1.25 billion euros.
Second-quarter sales advanced 9 percent to 5.05 billion euros.  Sales of fashion and leather products, the company’s
biggest unit, rose 14 percent on an organic basis as shoppers
snapped up designs by Celine and Fendi. LVMH has expanded its
leather-goods capacity and increased a stake in  Hermes
International (RMS)  SCA, the maker of Birkin bags, as demand for
accessories surges. LVMH sees no sign of a slowdown in luxury
goods this year, the company said.  “The luxury sector has not been affected by the recent
economic turmoil,” Barclays Capital analysts including Vicki Lee said in a July 19 note to clients. Lee has an “overweight”
rating on the stock.  LVMH, which first disclosed it had built up an Hermes stake
in October, said today it owns 21.4 percent of their Paris-based
rival, up from 20.2 percent reported earlier.  LVMH fell 55 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 130 euros today in
Paris. The shares have gained 5.6 percent this year, giving the
maker of Moet & Chandon champagne and $6,000 TAG Heuer
chronographs a market value of 66 billion euros. The company
will pay an interim dividend of 80 cents on Dec. 2.  Global Luxury Demand  Global sales of  luxury goods  may rise 8 percent this year
excluding currency swings as demand strengthens in the U.S. and
 Europe  and emerging-market shoppers splurge, Bain & Co.
estimated in May.  “We approach the second half of the year with
confidence,” LVMH Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said
in the statement.  First-half profit from recurring operations rose 22 percent
to 2.22 billion euros, LVMH said. The current operating margin
reached 22 percent, a record for the period. First-half revenue
increased 13 percent to 10.3 billion euros, or 15 percent
excluding currency swings and acquisitions, the company said.  On a local currency basis, first-half sales gained 26
percent in  Asia , 17 percent in the U.S., excluding  Hawaii  and 8
percent in Europe, the company said in a presentation. Revenue
fell 6 percent in  Japan .  Bulgari Purchase  LVMH, which in March agreed to buy Bulgari SpA for about
4.3 billion euros including debt, posted growth in watch and
jewelry sales of 27 percent, excluding currency swings and the
impact of acquisitions. The unit opened more TAG Heuer stores
and introduced a women’s range in the Formula 1 line.  First-half sales of wines and spirits gained 13 percent,
while perfume and cosmetics advanced 11 percent, LVMH said.
Revenue at the selective retailing unit, which includes Sephora
and DFS, rose 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  