-- 
Disney Offers to Buy Out UTV Software for $454 Million to Expand in India

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-07-26T11:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/walt-disney-to-acquire-19-82-more-of-india-s-utv-software-from-founders.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  offered to buy the
rest of India’s  UTV Software Communications Ltd. (UTV)  it doesn’t own
for as much as 20.1 billion rupees ($454 million), as the
world’s biggest media company seeks to expand in Bollywood.  Disney, which owns 50.44 percent of UTV, offered to buy all
remaining outstanding shares for no more than 1,000 rupees each,
the Mumbai-based company said in a statement today. That’s 11
percent higher than the closing price yesterday.  The buyout will give the Burbank,  California  based company
control of UTV, which makes and distributes movies and produces
television programs, as rising incomes boost spending on
entertainment in  Asia ’s third-largest economy. Revenue from the
 film industry  in  India  may grow to 132 billion rupees in 2015
from 83 billion rupees last year, KPMG said in March.  “Part of Walt Disney’s rationale for increasing its stake
in UTV is to get more of a foothold in the film industry,” said
Rohit Maheshwari, an analyst at KR Choksey Shares & Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s the right time to do this because UTV is
one of the few players in the market that’s been really
successful at making movies.”  UTV rose 5.4 percent to 950.15 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, the highest since December 2007.  Approvals Sought  Disney will buy a 19.82 percent stake held by the founders,
UTV said in the statement. The remaining stake will be purchased
from public shareholders. The company’s board today approved
Disney’s proposal and UTV will seek permission from the
shareholders, it said.  The proposed delisting is subject to regulatory and
shareholders’ approvals, Disney said in an e-mailed statement.  “Given the multiple stages and the nature of the process,
a successful outcome is uncertain,” Disney said. “In the event
Disney is successful in acquiring sufficient outstanding shares
of UTV to delist, Rohinton Screwvala, current CEO of UTV, will
sell his shares to Disney and become managing director of The
 Walt Disney  Company India.”  Bloomberg TV, owned by Bloomberg LP, is in a strategic
partnership with founders of UTV to operate Bloomberg UTV, a 24-
hour English language business and financial news network in
India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  