-- 
Wells Fargo Appoints Avid Modjtabai to Oversee Consumer-Lending Division

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/wells-fargo-appoints-modjtabai-to-lead-consumer-home-lending.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, said Avid Modjtabai will lead the bank’ new
consumer-lending business and that Mike Heid will be sole
president of the mortgage unit.  Modjtabai, 49, previously head of the technology and
operations group, will oversee the Wells Fargo Consumer Lending
division, which will include mortgage, home-equity and student
loans, among other businesses, the San Francisco-based company
said yesterday in a statement.  Heid, 54, had been co-head of the mortgage business with
Cara Heiden, 55, who’s retiring, and will report to Modjtabai,
the firm said. Kevin Rhein, 57, who led the card and consumer-
lending units, will become chief information officer, taking
over technology operations from Modjtabai.  “We strengthen our culture and our leadership pipeline
when we rotate top talent across lines of business and
organizations,” Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, said
in the statement. “Consolidating our consumer-lending
activities under one organization reflects our focus on putting
customers at the center of everything we do.”  Wells Fargo is preparing for the retirement of Mark Oman,
the executive in charge of mortgage and consumer finance who
will step down by year-end. Oman has been at the bank since 1979
and led its rise to become the nation’s largest mortgage lender.  The company also in the middle of Project Compass, a plan
to cut expenses by $1.5 billion a quarter by the end of next
year. Modjtabai and Rhein will continue to report to Stumpf, the
company said.  Wells Fargo has declined 6.5 percent this year, closing
yesterday at $28.97 on the New York Stock Exchange.  ‘Generating Efficiencies’  “Efficiencies on the retail side are becoming more and
more important,”  Marty Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim
Securities LLC in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. In naming Modjtabai, “they’re saying we
need someone who has a lot of years and a lot of expertise in
thinking about how to improve the systems, generating
efficiencies and improving service at the same time.”  Wells Fargo, the second-largest U.S. mortgage servicer, is
among lenders that have signed consent orders with federal
regulators designed to improve their foreclosure procedures by
hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems, and policing
lawyers and vendors.  Attorneys general  in 50 states are investigating mortgage
servicing and foreclosures at the nation’s biggest banks.  Earlier this month, Wells Fargo was fined $85 million to
settle Federal Reserve claims that employees at its consumer-
finance unit, Wells Fargo Financial, pushed customers who may
have been eligible for prime  interest rates  into loans carrying
higher rates intended for riskier borrowers. The company
shuttered the unit in July 2010, eliminating 3,800 jobs, and
stopped making non-prime home loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 