-- 
Western Union Rises on Higher Revenue, Earnings Forecasts

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-07-26T20:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/western-union-beats-estimates-and-raises-earnings-forecast-1-.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the world’s
largest money-transfer business, rose the most in more than a
year in New York trading after the company boosted 2011 revenue
and earnings forecasts and posted a profit increase that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The shares jumped $1.05, or 5.5 percent, to $20.29 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain since April 27, 2010. Second-quarter net income climbed 19
percent and adjusted earnings of 42 cents a share beat the 38-
cent average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Western Union raised its 2011 earnings-per-share forecast
to a range of $1.48 to $1.53, from a previous prediction of
$1.41 to $1.46, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said today
in a statement. Revenue on a constant-currency basis will grow
between 4 percent and 5 percent, the company said, compared with
the previous forecast of 3 percent to 4 percent.  “We are encouraged with the revenue-guidance increase,
which likely stemmed from improving performance in the
international and core businesses,” analysts led by Tien-tsin
Huang at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a research note today.  Sales from the consumer-to-consumer business climbed 8
percent and represented 84 percent of revenue during the second
quarter. Western Union faces increasing competition from
electronic and mobile phone money-transfer services. Electronic
channels, including account-based, mobile and Internet-based
money transfers, accounted for 3 percent of total revenue in the
second quarter, according to the statement.  Net Income  Net income rose to $263.2 million, or 41 cents a share,
from $221 million, or 33 cents, in the same period last year.
Revenue increased 7 percent to $1.4 billion.  “In the beginning people said, ‘Hey, this is a dying
business,’ but obviously our core business in 470,000 locations
is carrying us,” Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek, 50, said
today in a phone interview. “Our electronic channels are
growing. We are expanding to new customer segments. I think we
are very well-positioned.”  The company, which gets more than two-thirds of revenue
from outside the U.S., has been expanding internationally.
Western Union announced July 5 it would buy a business-payments
division of London-based Apax Partners LLP’s Travelex for $976
million, a move that would help Western Union expand its
business-to-business international transaction services with a
presence in 16 countries by the end of 2011.  Travelex Purchase  The Travelex purchase is the company’s third acquisition
this year. In June, Western Union agreed to purchase the rest of
Finint Srl, an Italian money-transfer firm and spent $136
million to complete a takeover of Angelo Costa Srl, another
Italian company that does money-transactions, according to a
regulatory filing.  “I am a fortunate CEO of a fortunate company, we produce a
lot of cash,” Ersek said.  Last year, the company signed an agreement with OAO
Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest lender, to offer money transactions
at more than 8,000 branches. Western Union also agreed to a deal
with MTN Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest mobile-phone company, to
offer international remittance services in the 21 countries
where MTN operates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  