-- 
White House Said to Propose 54.5 MPG Fuel-Economy Goal for 2025

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-07-27T03:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/white-house-is-said-to-propose-relaxed-54-5-mpg-fuel-economy-goal-for-2025.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration altered its proposal for a 2025 U.S. fuel-economy
average to 54.5 miles per gallon to make allowances for light
trucks, people familiar with the negotiations said.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
are reaching an agreement with the White House on the framework
for the 54.5 mpg rule, three people familiar with the talks said.
Automakers are waiting for paperwork later today from the White
House to formalize agreements, and the administration may
announce a deal by the end of the week, one of the people said.
The people declined to be identified because talks are ongoing.  The new fuel-economy target is a reduction from 56.2 mpg
sought in a proposal to automakers last month. It may reflect
the White House’s desire to reach agreement as soon as possible,
the people said. The rule may include credits for some types of
technology, said three people with knowledge of the talks, who
declined to be identified.  “This seems to be how the game is played -- they put a big
fuel economy number out there and then introduce loopholes,”
said  Jeremy Anwyl , CEO of Edmunds.com, a  Santa Monica ,
California-based website that tracks auto sales and pricing data.
“They want to try to keep everyone happy.”  The White House is pressuring automakers to agree to a
framework for a rule to be released by Sept. 30, said two people,
who asked not to be identified because the negotiations are
confidential. The rule is to take effect in 2017.  Equipment Credits  The proposal includes credits for equipment that can reduce
fuel consumption, such as technology that shuts off engines when
cars are idling and louvered front grilles, three people said.  Greg Martin , a spokesman for GM, and Linda Becker, a
spokeswoman for Chrysler, declined to comment. Christin Baker, a
spokeswoman for Ford, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message and e-mail left after regular business hours.  The Environmental Protection Agency and  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  are writing the rule with
 California ’s Air Resources Board, which has the authority to
write its own air-quality rules if it disagrees with U.S. rules.
If California hadn’t agreed to the proposal, it wouldn’t have
been offered to automakers, a person briefed on the negotiations
said.  Pickup Trucks  Spokesmen for the EPA and NHTSA declined to comment on the
negotiations.  Stanley Young , an Air Resources Board spokesman,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  This week’s proposal to automakers would allow pickups and
sport-utility vehicles to improve fuel economy more slowly than
cars for the first five years and would give manufacturers
credits for hybrid trucks, said two people who declined to be
identified. Under previous fuel-economy rules, light trucks have
had lower mpg targets than cars.  The plan also includes different targets for so-called work
trucks, which are heavier than most pickups, SUVs and minivans
that count as light trucks, one person said.  Automakers may seek some relief on  pickup trucks  so they
can still be built with engines powerful enough to handle the
workload required by some customers, said  Jim Hall , principal of
2953 Analytics Inc., a consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan .  Working Vehicles  Pickup trucks need more powerful engines for hauling. Those
larger V-8 engines are less fuel efficient and carmakers are
concerned that meeting regulations will make it difficult to
sell pickups in the volume that the market demands.  “They have to do it,” Hall said in a telephone interview.
“This is a vehicle that has a specific function for working.”  Talks have slowed because of a midterm review proposal,
favored by automakers, which would require regulators to assess
the standard and potentially raise or lower it midway through
the rule’s span, two people said.  Automakers have said one reason they want the review is
because the time frame is double that of the 2012-2016 rule that
takes effect next year. A midterm review would give regulators a
chance to reassess assumptions that the needed engine technology
will exist, Ellen Gleberman, a vice president of Washington-
based trade group Global Automakers, said last week.  Initially, the administration wanted to allow regulators to
decide if a review was needed. Automakers are pushing to
establish a set of criteria that could trigger a midterm review,
one person said. That would make it tough for regulators to
refuse to do it, the person said.  Wade Newton, a spokesman for the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , declined to comment on the details of the
discussions. Members of the Washington-based association include
Ford,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Chrysler and GM.  “Productive discussions are under way among the automakers
and administration,” he said.  The Auto Alliance and Ceres, a Boston-based coalition that
includes environmental groups, have been running competing radio
ads across the U.S. saying, respectively, a tougher fuel-economy
standard would cost or create jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  