-- 
Yields Soar in Spanish, Italian Bond Auctions as Investor Demand Declines

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-26T10:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/yields-soar-in-spanish-italian-bond-auctions-as-investor-demand-declines.html
Demand for Spanish and Italian debt
declined and borrowing costs rose at their first auctions since
European leaders agreed on a new rescue for  Greece  that has
failed to stem contagion from the region’s sovereign crisis.  Spain  sold 2.89 billion euros ($4.2 billion) of three-month
and six-month bills, less than the maximum target of 3 billion
euros. The three-month notes were priced to yield 1.899 percent,
the highest since 2008. Demand was 6.27 times the amount sold,
down from 9.49 last month, and the bid-to-cover for the six-
month bills was 2.15, compared with 3.84 in June. Italy met its
target of 7.5 billion euros of six-month bills, and the yield
was the highest since 2008 as demand declined.  “Demand was not as aggressive as markets would’ve liked to
see, especially for the Spanish auction,” said  Harvinder Sian ,
a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
 London . “Borrowing costs are already higher and this is going
to be a lasting trend -- we are pretty pessimistic on the
situation in  Europe  as the crisis is continuing.”  European leaders’ agreement on July 21 on a second bailout
for Greece that includes contributions from private investors
has not stopped contagion through the southern euro region.
Moody’s Investors Service responded to the accord yesterday,
saying it implied a default for Greece, and slashed the nation’s
credit rating three steps.  Spanish and Italian bonds fell on the secondary market
after the auctions, giving up earlier gains as the gap between
Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs widened to 331 basis
points from 314 basis points before the sale. The Italian spread
increased to 295 basis points from 290 yesterday.  “If you think that the market is buying into the EU summit
of last week then you’d expect to see better T-bill auctions,”
said  Peter Chatwell , fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB in London. “Demand for Spanish paper does look weaker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 Abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  