-- 
Zimbabwe Economy on Course to Grow 9.3 Percent This Year, Biti Forecasts

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-26T15:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-26/zimbabwe-economy-on-course-to-grow-9-3-percent-this-year-biti-forecasts.html
Zimbabwe Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  said the economy is on course to expand 9.3 percent this
year, while inflation would probably meet the 4 percent target.  Agriculture will expand 19.3 percent, while mining output
leaps 44 percent, Biti said in his midterm budget statement to
lawmakers in the capital, Harare, today.  The government will need an extra $700 million in revenue
by the end of the year, he said, compared with the $500 million
fiscal deficit he forecast on July 13. To narrow the shortfall,
the government needs to eliminate 75,000 so-called ghost
workers, who don’t do any work and are on the payroll, Biti
said. It also needs to raise more funds from diamond sales.  “It is worrying to note that there is no connection
whatsoever between diamond exports made by  Zimbabwe  and the
revenue realized,” Biti said. “We need to put in place proper
mechanisms to monitor the movement of the diamonds from the
point of mining, marketing, export and trade.”  The government plans to spend $2.7 billion and generate
revenue of $2.25 billion this year, according to the budget
presented in November. Employee wages consume more than 70
percent of the national budget, Biti told the state-controlled
Herald in February.  The  International Monetary Fund  said June 16 that the
inflation rate in Zimbabwe may reach about 7 percent by
December, up from 2.9 percent last month.  The Movement for Democratic Change, of which Biti is a
member, shares power with President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at   psanders@bloomberg.net . 