-- 1950s Tax Fantasy Is a Republican Nightmare
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-01-02T23:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/1950s-tax-fantasy-is-a-republican-nightmare.html
Of course, 2013 will be fine, because
the 1950s sure were. That’s the premise for the coming year,
especially in regard to the  agreement  in  Washington  to raise
U.S. tax rates on the well-off.  In the 1950s, after all, tax rates were far higher than
what the House and Senate have agreed on, a top rate in the high
30 percent range. Back then, they were even higher than what
President  Barack Obama  might have proposed, if left to his own
counsel. Republicans in that era went along with the idea that
high rates took something away from the rich and thereby
stabilized society.  Republican President Dwight Eisenhower’s idea of a
significant marginal rate cut was to push the top rate down to
91 percent from 92 percent. Corporate taxes hit 50 percent. Jobs
proliferated, wages rose, and the economy prospered. Lately,
several documentaries have tried to capture the period,
including “ Something Ventured ,” about how the technology boom
got its start.  The implications of this 1950s narrative are clear. High
tax rates and the redistribution they might yield can stabilize
us now, giving the economy “good directional stability,” to use
an industry phrase for a 1950s car, the  Nash Metropolitan . High
rates can accelerate growth.  Even the staunchest fan of low taxes draws comfort from the
1950s storyline. The official tax rates to which the U.S. now
reverts, such as the top income rate of 39.6 percent, still look
so much lower than 1950s ones. So maybe the U.S. can thrive and
innovate.  Effective Rates  Unfortunately, the tax situation wasn’t what it seemed. The
illusion commences with that famous 1950s top rate of 91
percent. Official rates matter, but so do effective rates, the
percent of income that people actually pay in tax. The Internal
Revenue Service reckoned that the effective rate of tax in 1954
for top earners was actually 70 percent.  Or lower.  Marc Linder , a law professor at the University of
 Iowa , has  shown  that a more comprehensive interpretation of
income that includes capital gains suggests the real effective
tax rate for millionaires was 49 percent in 1953. The effective
rate dropped throughout the decade, reaching 31 percent by 1960.
That 31 percent is just slightly higher than the 29 percent
level a Congressional Budget Office report  figures  the average
effective tax for the top quintile will be in 2014. And that
number for 2014 doesn’t include taxes in Obama’s health-care
law.  A second fantasy about the 1950s is that government soaked
the rich. Joseph Thorndike and Martin Sullivan in Tax Notes
magazine took a look at the tax distribution of the decade. They
found that those earning more than $100,000 paid less than 5
percent of the taxes collected in the U.S., a far smaller share
than the wealthiest shoulder today.  A third aspect of the 1950s, and one that differs from
today, was that taxes then were headed downward -- there was
“directional stability.” Everyone understood that taxes were
dropping, at first, modestly or unofficially, through loopholes,
then officially in the rate cuts of the early 1960s under
Democratic Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.  Even Eisenhower pushed for a reduction in dividend taxes,
though he succeeded only modestly. The prospect of lower taxes
encouraged growth. Today, by contrast, whether they apply to
dividends or income, taxes are set in the “up” direction. The
only debate, as we saw this week, was by how much, and when.  A final reason that the 1950s were  different  from today was
American primacy. In those years the U.S. might set its taxes,
nominal or real, at whatever level it liked.  No Competition  The only competition it confronted, after all, was from
 Europe , still recovering from World War II, or the U.K., whose
tax regime was even more confiscatory than our own. Now,
however, the U.S. must compete. And this is where the U.S., with
some of the world’s highest corporate taxes, flunks.  The political dynamic of the 1950s is  traced  by Thorndike
in a paper he wrote for  New York  University Law School and the
Bush Institute, where I work. “The high tax rates of the 1950s
represented a compromise of sorts,” Thorndike writes, “between
those who wanted to ‘soak the rich’ in the name of fairness and
those who sought to ‘float all boats’ with a rising tide of
economic growth. When we recall the era’s sky high statutory
rates, we are remembering only half the story.”  The behind-the-scenes  record  of the 1950s portends both
good and ill. The good is that the higher tax rates that are
coming will last longer on paper than they do in reality. The
bad news is that those rates will hold at first, with genuine
costs to growth that both parties will be slow to acknowledge.
In other words, “2013” may be another documentary, but not
necessarily one we want to watch.  (Amity Shlaes, a Bloomberg View columnist, is the director
of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush Institute. Her
 biography  of Calvin Coolidge will be published in February. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 