-- AbbVie Rises on First Day of Trading After Abbott Spinoff
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-02T21:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/abbvie-rises-on-first-day-of-trading-after-abbott-spinoff.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and its drug-
company spinoff AbbVie Inc. both gained as their shares traded
on the open market for the first time as separate businesses.  Abbott  shares  climbed 2.3 percent to $32.05 at the close in
 New York , giving the company a market value of about $50.7
billion. AbbVie  shares  gained 2.8 percent to $35.12 for a
valuation of $55.5 billion. The stocks had traded on a when-
issued basis in December.  Abbott split the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company in two
because the drug and diversified products units grew into
distinct business lines, Chief Executive Officer  Miles White  has
said. Breaking them up will enable investors to better value the
businesses, he said when the decision was announced in 2011.
AbbVie touted its  product range , including products for
rheumatoid arthritis and testosterone.  “With those assets and a relentless focus on innovation we
intend to create significant value for our shareholders,” said
Richard Gonzalez, AbbVie’s CEO, said in a statement today.  Abbott’s top products include cardiac stents, nutrition
items and diagnostic tests. The split will get Abbott out from
under the shadow of Humira, the anti-inflammatory injection that
is the world’s best-selling medicine with $7.93 billion in 2011
sales. It made up 20 percent of the company’s sales that year.  AbbVie is exploring new indications for Humira beyond
rheumatoid arthritis, and won U.S. approval to market the drug
for ulcerative colitis last year. The North Chicago, Illinois-
based drugmaker also is testing therapies to treat hepatitis C
and has a rheumatoid arthritis pill in development with Belgian
drugmaker  Galapagos NV. (GLPG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  