-- Abengoa Starts First South America Solar-Thermal Power Plant
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-02T18:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/abengoa-starts-first-south-america-solar-thermal-power-plant-1-.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the largest developer of
solar-thermal power plants, completed a 10-megawatt project at
an  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  copper mine in Chile’s Atacama Desert that
will reduce the facility’s use of fossil fuels.  The project is South America’s first solar-thermal project,
Seville, Spain-based Abengoa said today in a  statement  on its
website. The company also produces biofuels and develops
desalination plants.  The energy produced on-site will reduced by 55 percent the
diesel that Antofagasta’s Minera el Tesoro unit uses to extract
copper metal from its ore, according to the statement. Mining
companies and other ventures that operate in remote areas are
showing growing interest in solar power, said Logan Goldie-Scot,
an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Solar can make sense for isolated mining operations where
the costs of supplying diesel make for high operating costs,”
he said in an interview today from  London . The Abengoa plant
“fulfills a particular need for this mine.”  Solar-thermal systems typically use mirrors to focus
sunlight on a boiler, creating steam that’s harnessed to produce
electricity.  Chile’s northern desert region, one of the sunniest places
on Earth, will be South America’s fastest-growing solar market
for the next few years, Goldie-Scot said. Photovoltaic plants,
which convert sunlight directly into electricity, may be more
popular because they are generally less expensive, he said.  Companies including Spain’s  Acciona SA (ANA)  and the local power
utility  AES Gener SA (AESGENER)  filed for permits last year to develop
solar projects worth more than $9 billion, according to Chile’s
environmental regulator Servicio de Evaluacion Ambiental.
Abengoa broke ground six weeks ago on West Africa’s first
desalination facility, a venture that would provide drinking
water for about 500,000 people in Ghana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  