-- Madison Dearborn Returns Record $3.3 Billion to Clients
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-01-02T17:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/madison-dearborn-returns-record-3-3-billion-to-clients.html
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC,
 Chicago ’s biggest private-equity firm, handed back a record $3.3
billion to investors in 2012 as it sold companies to take
advantage of higher pricing fueled by the  Federal Reserve ’s bond
buying, according to a year-end letter to clients.  The firm, which has raised more than $18 billion across six
funds since it was founded in 1992, surpassed its previous peak
from 2011 when it returned close to $2 billion, according to
last month’s letter, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . High debt levels in deals suggest it’s a good time to sell
assets, the company wrote.  “Experience has shown time and again that the economic
benefit of high leverage and cheap debt is rarely retained by
the buyer, and is almost always paid over to the seller in the
form of higher purchase prices, a pattern which was repeated in
2012,” the firm, which has $12 billion under management, said
in the letter.  Borrowing used in U.S. deals during the third quarter
averaged 6 times earnings, close to the 6.2 times at the peak of
the leverage buyout boom in 2007, the firm wrote, as the Fed’s
so-called quantitative easing fueled a boom in credit, Madison
Dearborn said.  Tax Increases  The firm’s sales of companies last year helps it avoid an
increase in tax rates on  capital gains , including private equity
managers’ carried-interest income, which were part of a tax deal
passed by the U.S. House last night. The top rate will increase
to 23.8 percent from 15 percent, including taxes from the 2010
health-care law that took effect yesterday.  Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman at Abernathy MacGregor Group
Inc., declined to comment on the letter on behalf of Madison
Dearborn.  Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  implemented
$2.3 trillion in two rounds of bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, since 2008 to boost U.S. economic growth.  In September, the Fed announced a third round of easing in
which it’s purchasing $40 billion of mortgage debt a month as it
seeks to improve growth and reduce unemployment. In December,
the Fed added $45 billion a month of Treasury purchases to the
program, bringing total purchases to an $85 billion-a-month
pace.  “As investors embraced greater risk in search of yield,
capital flows into the high yield and leveraged loan markets
have been robust, driving leverage and purchase price multiples
higher,” the firm wrote.  Macro Outlook  Madison Dearborn sold credit information provider
TransUnion Corp. to Advent International Corp. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. for a 52 percent gross internal rate of return and a
2.2 times multiple of cost, according to the letter. It sold
NextG Networks Inc. to  Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI)  for a 42
percent rate of return and a 2.5 multiple.  Other sales included packaging maker BWAY Parent Co. and
beverage and salad dressing company Bolthouse Farms, generating
multiples of 1.8 and 2.4, respectively.  “In some cases we elected to trade some multiple for a
higher IRR, which we believe is appropriate from a portfolio
perspective given the uncertain macro outlook,” the firm wrote.  Madison Dearborn spent about $900 million in five
transactions last year as of Dec. 21. The firm’s latest fund,
Madison Dearborn Capital Partners VI LP, was expected to be 58
percent invested by year-end, according to the letter. The fund,
which began investing in February 2009, deployed $2.1 billion in
11 companies by year-end and the firm expected it to be fully
invested by mid-2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  