-- Thai Billionaire Extends Deadline for F&N Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-01-03T06:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/thai-billionaire-extends-deadline-for-f-n-offer.html
A group led by  Overseas Union
Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  extended a deadline for a S$13.1 billion ($10.7
billion) bid for Fraser & Neave Ltd., prolonging its battle with
a Thai billionaire for control of the Singapore conglomerate.  The OUE-led group pushed back the date on its S$9.08 per
share bid to Jan. 14, according to a stock exchange statement
today. Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi yesterday
moved the closing date on his S$8.88 per share offer until Jan.
10.  Charoen agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in July,
setting off a fight for the company’s soft drink and property
assets and prompting the sale of its beer unit to  Heineken NV. (HEIA) 
F&N shares have traded above both offers in a sign that
investors expect the bidding war to escalate.  F&N traded 0.2 percent lower to S$9.65 at 2:37 p.m. in
Singapore trading today. OUE, a Singapore-based property
company, has enlisted  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest drinks
maker, in its bid. OUE would get the company’s property business
and Kirin would take the food and beverage unit.  Thai Offer  Kirin has agreed to tender its 14.8 percent stake in F&N,
OUE has said. The Japanese brewer, Asia’s biggest beverage
maker, will offer S$2.7 billion for F&N’s food and beverage
business, if OUE wins enough support to complete the takeover.  F&N has said it had committed to pay the OUE consortium a
break-up fee of as much as S$50 million if a competing offer is
successful.  F&N’s board has said an independent adviser has found both
offers “not compelling, though fair.”  Charoen’s unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate
unit. His Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer,
gets almost all its revenue from its home market. Charoen, 68,
has a net worth of about $8.9 billion today based on current
calculations from the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The Thai billionaire agreed to pay S$2.78 billion for an
initial 22 percent stake in F&N by acquiring the stock held by
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and its partners. He later
acquired more shares to take him near the threshold to make a
bid.  Charoen’s offer for F&N valued the rest of the company at
about S$8.9 billion on September 13, the day his TCC assets
offered S$8.88 a share for the 69.6 percent of F&N it didn’t
already control.  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar
Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OUE, which gets about 65 percent of its revenue from hotel
operations, is planning at least one investment a year in
 Singapore  to boost property holdings that include office towers,
luxury apartments and malls, Stephen Riady said in an interview
in August.  Heineken won control of F&N’s brewery unit, the maker of
Tiger beer, in a  deal  that closed in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  