-- Thailand Inflation Quickens to 13-Month High on Food Prices
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-01-02T05:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/thai-inflation-quickens-to-13-month-high-on-rising-food-prices.html
Thailand ’s inflation accelerated to a
13-month high in December, exceeding economists’ estimates, as
subsidies failed to counter rising prices of food and fuel.  An index of  consumer prices  rose 3.63 percent last month
from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi
province outside Bangkok today, compared with a 2.74 percent
increase reported earlier for November. The median estimate of
12 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was 3.22 percent.  The Bank of Thailand cut the  benchmark interest rate  twice
last year to support the economy as it recovered from the floods
of 2011 and global demand for its exports weakened. The
government has raised minimum wages and offered a diesel-tax
subsidy to boost consumption, while the monetary authority has
said inflation will slow to 2.8 percent this year.  “We expect the central bank to leave the key rate
unchanged at least in the first half, unless there is an
unexpected shock to the global economy,” Sarun Sunansathaporn,
an economist at Tisco Securities Co. in Bangkok, said before the
data release. “They may start raising the rate in the second
half if food-price inflation and the impact from the wage
increase kick in.”  The baht rose 0.3 percent as of 12:03 p.m. in Bangkok. The
benchmark Stock Exchange of Thailand Index gained 1 percent,
heading for its highest close since February 1996.  Within Range  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government last month
extended the diesel-tax cut to end-January and approved a new
round of increases in the daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht ($9.8)
from the beginning of this year, after a similar raise in April
in seven provinces including Bangkok.  “Inflation was higher in December mainly on rising food
prices,”  Permanent Secretary  for Commerce Vatchari Vimooktayon
said at a press briefing. The impact of the wage increase will
“not be much” and price gains this year are expected to be
within the range forecast, she said.  Consumer prices  rose 0.39 percent in December from the
previous month, according to today’s report. Inflation averaged
3.02 percent in 2012, the ministry said, predicting price gains
of 2.8 percent to 3.4 percent in 2013.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel costs,
was 1.78 percent last month and averaged 2.09 percent last year.
The central bank uses the measure to guide policy and expects
price gains will stay below its target of 3 percent this year,
the ceiling also for last year.  Thailand will use 2011 instead of 2007 as the base year for
inflation and add more items such as natural gas for vehicles,
Vatchari said. The new index will be announced in February, when
data for January is scheduled to be released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  