-- Thaicom Gains Most in 18 Months on China Partner: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-02T10:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/thaicom-gains-most-in-six-months-on-china-partner-bangkok-mover.html
Thaicom Pcl (THCOM) ,  Thailand ’s satellite
monopoly, gained the most in 18 months in Bangkok trading after
saying it agreed to form a new partnership to help sell its
high-speed Internet services in China.  The  shares  surged 9.3 percent to 25.25 baht at the close,
the biggest gain since July 2011. The stock was the  third-best
performer  on the  SET100 Index (SET100) , which rose 1.1 percent.  Thaicom, controlled by Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte,
signed an initial agreement on Dec. 30 with a unit of Hong Kong-
based  Synertone Communication Corp. (1613)  to become the new provider
of its Ipstar services in China, according to a regulatory
filing today. Thaicom has banked on higher revenue from its
Ipstar satellite, an orbiter that offers high-speed Internet
services, to return to profit after four years of annual losses.  “The announcement is very positive for Thaicom because
sales of Ipstar services in  China  have been very
disappointing,” Chirasit Vuttigrai, an analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities (Thailand) Co. in Bangkok, said by telephone. “This
raises optimism that the Ipstar business in China will
significantly improve with the new partner.”  Under the agreement, Synertone will become the sole
provider of Ipstar service capacity available for mainland
China, Thaicom said. The Chinese market accounts for about 24
percent of total capacity of its Ipstar satellite, it said. The
orbiter is the company’s biggest satellite.  Thaicom may buy an equity stake in Synertone, according to
the Thai company. A final agreement between Thaicom and
Synertone must be signed by March 31, it said.  The partnership will enable Synertone to explore a new
source of revenue and expand its customer base for specialized
communication products, the company said in a separate statement
on Dec. 30.  Thaicom posted an annual loss every year between 2008 and
2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It had a profit
of 50 million baht ($1.6 million) in the first nine months of
2012, compared with a net loss of 175.6 million baht in the same
period a year earlier, it said Nov. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  