-- Amazon Wins Dismissal of Apple’s False Advertising Claim
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-02T19:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/amazon-wins-dismissal-of-apple-s-false-advertising-claim.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  won dismissal of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s claim that the online retailer’s use of the term
“app store” for Android device software is false advertising.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , today granted Amazon’s request to throw out one
claim in Apple’s lawsuit alleging trademark infringement and
unfair competition over the Amazon Appstore for Android, a
service begun in March that sells applications for the Kindle
Fire and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Apple is seeking a court order to block Amazon from using
the term. Amazon has argued the words are a generic term that
Apple doesn’t have exclusive rights to use. A trial is scheduled
for Aug. 19.  The iPhone maker, which started its APP STORE in 2008, said
Amazon’s use of the term was false advertising because it
deceives customers into believing that Amazon’s service has the
qualities of Apple’s applications store, Hamilton said in her
ruling. Apple maintained this could divert its revenue to
Amazon.  Apple hasn’t shown that Amazon’s advertising attempt to
mimic Apple’s, failed to show that Amazon made any false
statement, and presented no evidence that customers were misled
by Amazon’s use of the term, Hamilton said.  Judge’s Finding  “The court finds no support for the proposition that
Amazon has expressly or impliedly communicated that its Appstore
for Android possesses the characteristics and qualities that the
public has come to expect from the Apple APP Store and/or Apple
products,” Hamilton said.  She ruled only on Amazon’s request to eliminate the false
advertising claim.  In 2008, Apple applied to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
office to register APP STORE, according to the order.  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  opposed the registration, saying the term is generic. Last
year the Trademark Trials and Appeals Board put an opposition
proceeding on hold pending the outcome of the lawsuit before
Hamilton.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the ruling. A call to
Seattle-based Amazon’s media line seeking comment on the ruling
wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 