-- Amgen Whistle-Blower Loses Bid to Challenge Aranesp Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-03T23:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/amgen-whistle-blower-loses-bid-to-challenge-aranesp-deal.html
A doctor who accused  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  of
illegally marketing drugs lost his bid for a court hearing to
challenge the company’s $612 million civil settlement of
misbranding claims.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson denied the doctor’s
request yesterday, according to a record filed in federal court
in  Brooklyn , New York. The order didn’t give any explanation for
the decision.  Joseph Piacentile, a New Jersey physician, said in court
papers that he got an “ultimatum” from the government to
either sign onto a global settlement of Amgen whistle-blower
claims or face possible dismissal of his case. Piacentile
declined to participate in the settlement and the U.S. has since
asked the judge to dismiss the suit, according to court records.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, pleaded
guilty in December to a misdemeanor charge of misbranding its
anemia drug Aranesp and agreed to settle a group of whistle-
blower suits alleging the company also engaged in illegal sales
practices regarding other drugs. The company agreed to pay $150
million in criminal penalties and $612 million in civil
settlements.  ‘Relator’s Share’  Piacentile declined to settle because the government
refused to provide information about his allocation of the total
settlement, a lawyer for Piacentile, Eric Cramer, said in a
memorandum filed Dec. 28. As a so-called relator, Piacentile
could share in a recovery under the  False Claims Act .  “The government is attempting to settle relators’ claims
out from under them without providing either the statutory
relator’s share, adequate notice or an opportunity to be heard
by this court as to the fairness of that outcome,” according to
the memorandum.  Piacentile had worked on an undercover investigation of
Amgen and collected evidence from top marketing executives at
the company and at an important customer, cancer treatment
network U.S. Oncology, according to a complaint filed in
September 2004 and unsealed after the settlement was announced.  The doctor alleged in his suit that Amgen, based in
 Thousand Oaks ,  California , “routinely” paid kickbacks to
doctors to encourage them to prescribe at least seven drugs,
including Aranesp, psoriasis treatment Enbrel and Neulasta,
which helps cancer patients fight infections.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office
in Brooklyn, declined to comment on the case.  ‘Wholly Improper’  In a Dec. 31 court filing, prosecutors said Piacentile’s
request for a hearing “is wholly improper and should be
denied” or at least stayed pending the judge’s decision on the
government’s motion to throw out the case.  The settlement “does not compromise the ability of
relators in this action to go forward with their case, should
they survive the motion to dismiss,” according to the
government’s filing.  Piacentile is a “serial filer” of whistle-blower
complaints, having lodged at least 13 such cases against various
companies in federal courts, prosecutors said in documents filed
in November seeking to dismiss the case.  Piacentile has a website,  Whistleblowers Against Fraud ,
which pursues whistle-blower claims and maximizes rewards,
according to the memorandum. In the suit against Amgen,
Piacentile added a former company sales representative, Kevin
Kilcoyne, to the complaint, according to the memorandum.  “Piacentile was never employed by Amgen and is not an
inside employee who has risked income or employment to become a
whistle-blower based on direct knowledge of fraud at Amgen,”
prosecutors said in the filing.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Piacentile v. Amgen Inc., 2:04-
cv-03983, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  