-- Amtrak Seeks Safety Changes to Allow U.S. Bullet Trains
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-01-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/amtrak-seeks-safety-changes-to-allow-u-s-bullet-trains.html
Amtrak  will recommend new U.S. rail-
safety regulations to allow it to replace its Acela trains in
the Northeast U.S. with lighter, faster equipment, Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said.  U.S. crashworthiness standards force  Amtrak  to use trains
that have locomotives on both ends and are slower and heavier
than bullet trains used in Europe and  Asia , Boardman said in an
interview. Those standards reflect that U.S. passenger trains
often share tracks with freight railroads rather than operating
on their own lines.  Existing standards apply to trains traveling as much as 150
miles per hour (241 kilometers per hour). Writing new rules that
relax railcar structural-strength requirements for faster trains
“would allow for less use of fuel, quicker acceleration, a
different performance profile,” Boardman, 64, said. “What
we’re really looking for is a performance specification here.”  Amtrak last month announced it would seek bids to replace
its 12-year-old fleet of 20 Acela trains operating between
Washington and  Boston  instead of adding two cars to each train,
a plan its inspector general questioned as too expensive. The
Acela carried about 3.4 million passengers and produced about a
fourth of Amtrak’s $2 billion in ticket revenue for the year
ended Sept. 30.  Boardman, in the interview, said he’d like to add at least
10 to 12 trains before beginning to retire the current Acela
fleet. The cost, for which Amtrak said it will seek information
from potential suppliers in early 2013, may be $30 million to
$40 million per trainset, Boardman said.  “It depends on how many we actually would purchase and
whether anybody else in this country is going to move forward
with high-speed trainsets,” he said.  Train Competition  Amtrak in 1996 signed a contract valued at $1.2 billion to
buy the original Acelas, which operate much more slowly than
their maximum speed on most of the Northeast Corridor due to the
limitations of tracks and tunnels.  Companies including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  may want to compete with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) 
and  Alstom SA (ALO) , the joint suppliers of Acela equipment used since
the service’s start 12 years ago. Amtrak is subject to rules
that require its equipment to be made in the U.S.  Safety standards for passenger trains operating at more
than 150 mph are being developed, Kevin Thompson, a spokesman
for the Federal Railroad Administration, said in an e-mail.
Amtrak is “working with FRA and other members of the Railroad
Safety Advisory Council to better define the car strength
criteria for higher-speed passenger equipment,” he said.  Amtrak’s long-term plan for high-speed service in the
Northeast envisions those trains running on dedicated tracks.  Congress Challenge  Boardman, who was FRA administrator from 2005 to 2008, said
he’ll also challenge Congress this year to commit to maintaining
taxpayer funding for long-distance train service outside the
Northeast Corridor, so it can get the best value on equipment
purchases.  Amtrak will be up for reauthorization by Congress in 2013,
as the railroad’s chief critic in the House, Florida Republican
 John Mica , relinquishes his seat as chairman of the
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee due to term limits.  Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican who
has said taxpayer subsidies for Amtrak are inevitable, will
assume the panel’s chairmanship this month. Amtrak has never
made an annual profit and received about $1.4 billion in
taxpayer aid in the 2012 fiscal year.  “Until Congress establishes that reliable funding source
for rail infrastructure investment, it’s going to be very
difficult to take advantage of millions of dollars available
from the private sector,” Boardman said.  Non-Cash Returns  Boardman, who became Amtrak’s CEO in 2008, said it won’t be
easy to convince budget-conscious lawmakers to spend more money
on a transportation service they sometimes hold out as an
example of waste. Mica held a series of hearings last year to
criticize Amtrak’s subsidies, especially on long-distance
trains, and its $151 billion proposal to build a high-speed
system in the Northeast.  “It’s always that way in business; there are always scarce
resources for the things that you want to do,” he said. “So
you continue to look for the returns. Those are not always
returns in cash money.”  Mica’s staff in September released a report showing
taxpayers have provided Amtrak subsidies of $50.97 per ticket
sold for the past five years, an amount Boardman said needs to
be compared with taxpayer support for highways and airports.  President  Barack Obama  made establishing high-speed rail
passenger service in the U.S. a priority shortly after taking
office in 2009. U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood last
week in a  blog  post said that vision still exists even after
states including Florida and Ohio rejected grant money they’d
received to build such projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  