-- Apple, Brandywine, Pinterest: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-02T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/apple-brandywine-pinterest-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  should post a
bond equal to 88 percent of the value of smartphones found to
infringe  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents if it loses a U.S. trade ruling and
wants to keep selling the devices, a judge said.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender in
October found that more than a dozen models of Samsung mobile
phones, media players and tablet computers infringed patents on
the iPhone and other Apple products.  Pender, in a recommendation posted Dec. 28 on the agency’s
website, said Samsung should face a ban on imports of the
infringing products. Pender also specified bonds Samsung is to
post if the full commission accepts his decision to ban imports
and the company wants to keep selling the products during a 60-
day period when President  Barack Obama  could overturn the ban.  In his Dec. 28 order, Pender said Samsung should pay bonds
of 32.5 percent on sales of media players and 37.6 percent for
tablet computers. Samsung argued for lower payments based on a
royalty rate of 4.9 percent, Pender said in his order. The judge
accepted Apple’s suggested rates.  “That’s a high rate,” Christopher Marlett, founder of MDB
Capital, an  intellectual-property  consultancy, said in an
interview. “With those economics, it will be difficult for
Samsung to decide whether to sell the products at all.”  The six-member trade commission is to finish its
investigation by Feb. 25.  Samsung could try to avoid the bonds by changing product
designs to address the dispute, and Apple could ask the
commission to decide whether the new equipment still infringes
its patents, said Rodney Sweetland III, a lawyer with Duane
Morris LLP in Washington who specializes in ITC cases.  Even if the commission ordered an import ban, it would
probably give Samsung time to work around the patents to ensure
there is no disruption to consumers and carriers, Sweetland said
in an interview.  The products involved in the ITC case include models of the
Galaxy Tab tablet, and the Galaxy Nexus and Galaxy S II
smartphones. Not included are some popular products including
the Galaxy S III smartphone and Galaxy Note II pen-equipped
phone.  Samsung “will continue to take all appropriate measures to
ensure the availability of our innovative products for American
consumers,”  Adam Yates , a company spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement on Dec. 31.  “We remain confident that the full commission will
ultimately reach a final determination that affirms our
position,” Yates said. “Patent law must not be manipulated to
give one company a monopoly over rectangles with rounded
corners, or technology that is being improved every day by
Samsung and other companies.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Brandywine Files More than 50 Suits in Multiple District Courts  Brandywine Communications Inc., a maker of GPS and time-
code time-and-frequency products, filed more than 50 patent
infringement cases in the last week of December.  The suits were filed in a number of districts, including
courts in  Los Angeles ; Boise,  Idaho ; Wilmington,  Delaware ;
Tyler, Texas; and  Portland ,  Oregon .  Defendants are accused of infringing six patents related to
cellular communication. Defendants are largely providers of
cellular and Internet products and services.  Some of the patents at issue in this case have changed
hands multiple times. Patent 5,206,854 has had nine different
assignments, according to a database of the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office .  Unlike many patent-holders who filed multiple infringement
cases, Tustin, California-based Brandywine actually manufactures
products related to the patents.  According to the company
website , Brandywine produces GPS-synchronized clocks, network
synchronization equipment, and time and message displays used in
placed like airports and hospitals.  The company didn’t request an order barring further use of
its technology. Brandywine asked the various courts for awards
of money damages, including an ongoing royalty.  One of the many new cases is Brandywine v. O.T.T.
Communications Inc., 1:12-cv-01768-UNA, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Pinterest Sued, Intellectual Property Misappropriation Claimed  Pinterest Inc., the Palo Alto, California-based operator of
a social-media website, was sued for intellectual property
misappropriation by a New Jersey resident.  In a complaint filed Dec. 27 in federal court in Manhattan,
Theodore F. Schroeder claims that Pinterest is based on ideas
and intellectual property he developed when he was a student at
 Columbia Law School , beginning in 2005.  He said he was eventually frozen out of the deal that gave
birth to Pinterest, even though he was assured by investors that
there was no interest in profiting from his design work on a
project that was the antecedent to Pinterest.  The suit doesn’t specifically accuse Pinterest of copyright
infringement. Instead, Schroeder claims his skills and
intellectual property were misappropriated and that promises
made to him were broken.  In a Dec. 31 e-mail, Barry Schnitt, a spokesman for
Pinterest, said the lawsuit is baseless and that the company
will fight it.  The case is Theodore F. Schroeder V. Brian S. Cohen, 1:12-
cv-09413, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Website Operator Responds to United’s Trademark Complaint  The operator of a website that criticizes United Air Lines
and compiles consumer complaints has responded to a trademark
lawsuit by  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , operator of the
airline.  According to a statement on his  Untied.com website , the
founder of that site asked a Canadian federal court to dismiss
the suit that was filed in November 2012.  Jeremy Cooperstock, the engineer and McGill University
professor who started the site, told the Canadian court that the
suit has no legal merit.  A hearing is set for Feb. 13 in Montreal, according to
Untied.com.  In a Nov. 28 story,  United Press International  reported
that United claimed in its court filing that the site infringed
its United and Continental-related trademarks and causes
customer confusion.  Ramsay Backs Down, Says U.K. ‘Spotted Pig’ Application a Mistake  Celebrity chef  Gordon Ramsay , who applied for the U.K.
trademark on The Spotted Pig, has now said the application was
an innocent mistake and that he regrets the resulting brouhaha,
the U.K.’s  Daily Mail  newspaper  reported .  Ramsay, known for his appearance on the cooking shows on
both U.S. and U.K. television, told the Daily Mail that he was
annoyed by the critical comments about the registration from
other chefs, including  Mario Batali .  He denied that he filed the U.K. application in efforts to
block the possible opening of an overseas branch of New York’s
Spotted Pig restaurant, the Daily Mail reported.  University of Georgia Seeks Cancellation of Regent Trademark  The  University of Georgia  has responded to an infringement
suit brought by a Virginia private college founded by evangelist
 Pat Robertson .  Regent University of Virginia Beach, Virginia, filed suit
in federal court in  Georgia  in September 2012, claiming the use
of “Georgia Regents University” infringed its trademark. The
new school is to result from a merger of Augusta State
University and Georgia Health Sciences University, according to
court papers.  In a response filed Dec. 21, the regents of the University
System of Georgia said they filed papers seeking cancellation of
the Virginia school’s “Regent University” trademarks.  The Georgia regents also claimed that the suit is barred
under the doctrine of sovereign immunity, and that they hadn’t
waived that immunity or consented to the suit.  The Virginia school’s mark is generic, functional and
contestable, and there is no likelihood of consumer confusion
between the name of Regent University and Georgia Regents
University, the Georgia regents said in the court filing.  In addition to seeking dismissal of the suit and
cancellation of the Virginia school’s trademarks, the Georgia
regents asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Regent University v. C. Dean Alford, 1:12-
cv-00131-JRH-WLB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Georgia (Augusta).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 