-- Aquarius Reaches 6-Month High on Metal Pinch: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-02T11:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/aquarius-reaches-6-month-high-on-metal-pinch-johannesburg-mover.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  rose to a six-
month high in Johannesburg trading amid speculation that South
African supply of the metal will be lower during the first
quarter and after it sold assets in Zimbabwe.  Shares of the fourth-largest platinum miner climbed as much
as 13 percent to 8.35 rand, the highest since June. The stock
had slumped to a low of 4.55 rand during labor strikes in South
Africa last year. Platinum prices gained 1.4 percent in  London .  “The full impact of the Amplats strike will be felt in Q1
2013” Nomura analysts led by Tyler Broda wrote in a note,
referring to Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the biggest producer
of the metal.  Aquarius shut most of its mines in 2012 as cost increases
outpaced price gains, while labor strikes and wage demands
spread from platinum mines to resource industries across South
Africa.  The company last month announced it will sell 51 percent of
its  Zimbabwe  mining venture for $550 million to meet demands
that foreign and white-owned companies with more than $500,000
of assets cede a majority to local black people.  The miner is an equal partner in Mimosa Investment Holdings
with Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. Mimosa will provide a 10-year
loan to fund the deal, which the parties aim to conclude by
March 31, Aquarius said.  “Good news recently with the Mimosa JV,” Broda said in an
e-mail. “Shares were also at a very austere price after Stuart
left.”  Former Chief Executive Officer Stuart Murray quit the
Perth, Australia-based company in October. Jean Nel, previously
a commercial director at Aquarius, was named CEO on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  