-- Argentina Said to Unveil Oil Export Payment Plan Within a Week
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-01-02T21:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/argentina-said-to-unveil-oil-export-payment-plan-within-a-week.html
Argentina  probably will unveil an oil
export payment plan within a week to restore output by the
largest producers  YPF SA (YPF) ,  Pan American  Energy LLC,  Petrobras
Argentina SA (PESA)  and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ’s Argentine
unit, according to six people with knowledge of the plans.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will
probably eliminate an oil export compensation program and allow
producers to export at $70 a barrel if the market price is above
$80, said the people who asked not to be identified because the
measure hasn’t been made public.  Under the current program known as Oil Plus, Argentina pays
$42 a barrel for exports, plus a compensation of as much as $28
a barrel. Delayed compensation payments prompted  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (386) , known as Sinopec, and Pan American to reduce
production last year.  “The Oil Plus program is dead and will soon be replaced by
a new regulation,” said Cayetano Capurro, an union leader
representing 12,000 oil workers, in a phone interview from
Comodoro Rivadavia, Argentina, in the southern province of
Chubut. “The companies will have certainty for their payments
and thus will resume their normal output.”  Capurro is scheduled to meet Fernandez and Argentina’s
Planning Minister Julio De Vido on Jan. 7 to discuss the oil
policy. Capurro said he was told about the revised program in a
meeting yesterday with Chubut’s Governor Martin Buzzi.  Buzzi wasn’t available to take calls, said his secretary,
who confirmed the meeting between Buzzi and Capurro.  Strike Plans  Chubut relies on income from oil exports and has been
waiting for the new regulation “for months,” Oil Minister
Ezequiel Cufre said by telephone from  Buenos Aires . He said he
couldn’t confirm the timing of an announcement.  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman for Argentina’s Economy Minister
Hernan Lorenzino, declined to comment by phone.  Capurro said today his union plans to go on strike on Jan.
14 if the new regulation isn’t unveiled. Pan American has
informed several hundred union workers they will be fired
because the current payment program curbs production, according
to Capurro, who said Pan American would shelve its plans to fire
workers if the new payment plan is revealed. Pan American
declined to comment on the new program.  Fernandez suspended the oil export compensation payment
program in February. The program was revived retroactively in
June to  oil companies  producing more. Producers weren’t paid
$1.7 billion for the period while the program was halted.  In August, Sinopec sent a letter to the Argentine
government requesting a delayed $184 million oil exportation
compensation payment.  Pan American Energy, which exports 40 percent of its
Chubut-based Cerro Dragon field, reduced output to 89,700
barrels in November 2012 from 100,600 barrels in December 2011,
the company said today in an e-mail response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  