-- Australia Gets Late Wickets to Dismiss Sri Lanka for 294 in Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-03T07:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/australia-sends-sri-lanka-in-to-bat-in-final-cricket-test.html
Australia took six wickets in the
final session to bowl out Sri Lanka for 294 on day one of the
third cricket Test after sending the touring team in to bat.  Jackson Bird had Suranga Lakmal caught by  Mike Hussey  to
end the innings just before stumps and finish with 4-41.
Mitchell Starc claimed 3-71 and  Peter Siddle  took two wickets
after home captain  Michael Clarke  won the toss and opted to
utilize his four-man pace bowling attack first at the Sydney
Cricket Ground as Australia seeks to sweep the series 3-0.  Lahiru Thirimanne and Mahela Jayawardene hit half-centuries
to help lift Sri Lanka to 250-5 before the touring team lost its
last five wickets for 44 runs.  Thirimanne top scored with 91 off 151 balls after arriving
in Australia this week as cover for the injured  Kumar Sangakkara , while Jayawardene made 72 in his final Test as Sri
Lanka skipper before stepping down from the role.  Thirimanne got within nine runs of his maiden century in
elite Tests before trying to slash a shot over the fielders that
was caught by a diving  David Warner , giving spin bowler Nathan
Lyon his only wicket of the day.  Bird removed both opening batsmen before the lunch break.
Jayawardene then led a counterattack until edging a Starc
delivery to Clarke at slip. Siddle then trapped Thilan Samaraweera leg-before-wicket as Sri Lanka reached 169-4 at tea.  The tourists advanced to 222-4 in the final session before
losing  Angelo Mathews , Thirimanne, Dhammika Prasad, Dinesh
Chandimal, Rangana Herath and Lakmal.  Sri Lanka, which has never won a Test in Australia, was
forced to make four changes from the team that lost the second
Test in Melbourne by an innings and 201 runs. Chandimal and
Thirimanne came in for the injured Sangakkara and Prasanna
Jayawardene, while Lakmal and Nuwan Pradeep replaced injured
pacemen Chanaka Welegedara and Shaminda Eranga.  Before the start of play, a moment’s silence was observed
for former England captain Tony Greig, who died in Sydney on
Dec. 29 at age 66. Greig worked as a cricket commentator for
 Australia ’s Nine television network for more than 30 years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  