-- Best Vehicle Sales Streak Since 1973 Boosts U.S. Dealers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-01-02T21:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/best-vehicle-sales-streak-since-1973-boosts-u-s-dealers.html
U.S. light-vehicle sales probably
rose in December to wrap up a three-year run unrivaled in almost
four decades as consumers replaced cars and trucks that are, on
average, the oldest ever on the nation’s roads.  Car and light truck sales in the U.S. probably rose 9.8
percent in December, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. That would cap a third-straight annual gain of at
least 10 percent, the first such industry streak since 1973.  “It sure feels a lot better to be selling cars today than
a few years ago,” Geoffrey Pohanka, president of the Pohanka
Automotive Group, said in a telephone interview. “The age of
the fleet and the attractiveness of a lot of cars that are being
designed now are going to help sustain sales going forward.”  That confidence in continued demand has his Washington,
D.C.-area dealer group expanding only a few years after
retrenchment. Pohanka closed three Saturn stores and a Chrysler-
Dodge outlet as part of the 2009 restructurings of the
predecessors to  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC. In
2013, he plans to build a second Honda store in as many years
and also will add a new Volkswagen dealership.  U.S. light-vehicle sales in December likely climbed to
almost 1.37 million, the average of estimates by 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That would push deliveries for the full
year to 14.5 million, the best annual total since 2007.  Sandy Demand  Lingering replacement demand from owners of damaged
vehicles and purchases deferred by superstorm Sandy on the East
Coast may have boosted vehicle sales by about 50,000 in
December, Credit Suisse Group AG estimated in a Dec. 27 report.
The annualized industry sales  rate , adjusted for seasonal
trends, may have been 15.4 million for December, the average of
15 analysts’ estimates.  The projected pace for December almost matches November’s
15.5 million sales rate, the best month for industrywide
deliveries since January 2008. Automakers report December sales
figures tomorrow.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s sales increase in December may lead all
automakers with a gain of 32 percent, the average of eight
analysts’ estimates. The Tokyo-based automaker introduced a
revamped Civic compact and redesigned Accord sedan -- its two
top-selling models -- late last year.  “They’re getting back to what Honda’s best at, which is
value for the money,” said Pohanka, whose dealership group
already includes three Honda stores in Maryland and  Virginia .
“The new Accord has just taken off. The Civic is going to
continue to do well.”  Auto Fleet  The sales rate was 13.6 million the previous December,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. The U.S. averaged 16.8
million light-vehicle deliveries annually from 2000 to 2007,
then dropped to 10.4 million in 2009, a 27-year-low, according
to Autodata.  Americans have held onto their cars longer, pushing the
average age of vehicles on U.S. roads to about 11 years,
according to researchers Experian Automotive and R.L. Polk & Co.  “Autos are in the third or fourth inning of this recovery
with a lot of room yet to go,” said David Kudla, who manages
about $1 billion as chief executive officer of Mainstay Capital
Management in Grand Blanc, Michigan, and recommends shares of GM
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   The budget bill passed by Congress yesterday, which averts
income-tax increases for most Americans while taxing top-earners
more, may help boost demand in 2013, said Tom Doll, U.S. chief
operating officer of  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru brand.  ‘Money Available’  “With the fiscal cliff now behind us, people now realize
they are going to have the money available that they would have
had maybe to put on taxes,” Doll said today in an interview on
Bloomberg TV’s “Bottom Line.” Industry sales may climb to at
least 15.2 million in 2013, he said.  GM, the top-selling automaker in the U.S., probably
increased deliveries in December by 2.1 percent, the average of
11 estimates. The Detroit-based automaker boosted incentives on
Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups during the month to
try to clear excess inventory ahead of introducing new versions
of the trucks this year.  “The last thing they need is to have significant volumes
of the old pickup in showrooms in April,” Alan Baum, principal
of auto-industry researcher Baum & Associates in West
Bloomfield,  Michigan , said in a telephone interview. “If they
keep the incentives up, Wall Street will hammer them. The
preferable course is to cut production.”  Ford Production  Ford, No. 2 in U.S. auto sales, likely will report a 1.2
percent increase in December deliveries, the average of 11
estimates. The automaker, based in Dearborn, Michigan, is
spending more than $773 million to boost production across six
plants in its home state, according to a Dec. 27  statement .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , poised to take back the title of
world’s biggest automaker, probably sold 10 percent more
vehicles in December, the average of eight estimates. The Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker on Dec. 26 forecast a 2 percent
increase in global sales this year to a record 9.91 million
vehicles.  Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , likely boosted
deliveries in December by 7.6 percent, the average of 11
estimates. Fiat, based in Turin, Italy, said Dec. 20 that it
will invest more than 1 billion euros ($1.32 billion) to build
two compact sport-utility vehicles at an Italian factory that
will export to markets including the U.S.  Analysts estimate that Nissan Motor Co. sales will climb
2.7 percent, the average of eight estimates. South Korea’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may combine to sell 13
percent more vehicles in December compared with a year earlier,
the average of six estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which exceeded its full-year target for U.S.
sales of 500,000 vehicles in November, likely boosted sales in
December by 31 percent, the average of four estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from December 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  December had 26 selling days, one fewer than in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  