-- Budget Deal Offers Silver-Lining Playbook for Next Round
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/budget-deal-offers-silver-lining-playbook-for-next-round.html
The just-in-time budget deal Congress
passed on New Year’s Day calls to mind Samuel Johnson’s
observation about dogs that walk on their hind legs: “It is not
done well; but you are surprised to find it done at all.”  The same could be said of U.S. lawmakers. For more than a
year, the conversation in  Washington  focused on achieving a
Platonic grand bargain to overhaul the tax code, reform
entitlement programs and reduce the national debt.  We have supported a compromise that would trade Medicare
reforms for higher tax rates and a tax-code overhaul. It would
have been grand if the package sent this week to President
 Barack Obama  accomplished even a bit of that. It doesn’t;
Congress is too polarized to reach such a deal. Still, this
week’s agreement doesn’t deserve the derision it’s getting from
some economists and fiscal policy experts.  For now, Congress has found enough common ground to defuse
a $600 billion fiscal time bomb, no easy feat considering our
divided government and the deep ideological differences between
the parties. The combatants will have to summon the courage to
do it again in two months, when the Treasury will have depleted
its borrowing authority, the deadline for stopping $110 billion
in automatic spending cuts arrives, and the law that funds the
government expires.  At that point, with the U.S. on the verge of default, a
painful sequestration and a government shutdown -- fiscal cliff
doesn’t seem adequate to describe it anymore -- we’d love to see
the elusive “grand bargain.” But another round of successful
small-ball will suffice, thank you.  Personal Relationships  The last phase of the negotiations should serve as a guide,
starting with one of the agreement’s biggest lessons: Cross-
party personal relationships matter. When Obama and House
Speaker John Boehner failed to work out a deal after repeated
attempts spanning 18 months, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell turned to Vice President Joe Biden. The two 70-year-
olds served together for about a  quarter-century  in the Senate,
almost always on opposite sides of the issues yet never
forgetting the validity of the other’s political imperatives or
point of view.  In less than two days, they worked out the deal Congress
just adopted. “Simply put,” said Jared Bernstein, the vice
president’s former chief economist, “they remember a day when
politicians compromised.”  The agreement’s economic effects could surprise the
naysayers. It sensibly retains some short-term fiscal stimulus
while increasing revenue in the long run. The measure, for
example, extends unemployment insurance for about 2 million
jobless people whose benefits have ended. It also continues
refundable tax credits for low-income families and college
students.  True, the payroll tax cut was allowed to lapse. Its absence
could pull more than $100 billion out of the economy in 2013,
and is the primary reason that an estimated 77 percent of
taxpaying households will face higher levies this year. But
losing the two-percentage-point tax break, which was never meant
to be permanent, is a small price to pay for avoiding income-tax
increases for more than 99 percent of taxpayers.  Many a commentator has pointed out that the  federal budget 
will be $4 trillion bigger than projected, even with the deal.
That analysis, however, is based on the assumption that all the
Bush-era tax cuts, along with numerous other annual patches,
would have expired as scheduled -- a remote possibility at best.
The view among the deficit hawks at the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget is that the  national debt  will shrink
by $650 billion over 10 years, using more realistic assumptions.  Less Inequality  Obama can take pride knowing that the agreement improves
 inequality  somewhat. The burden of higher taxes will fall
hardest on the top 1 percent, and particularly on the top 0.1
percent, of income earners. Those making more than $2.7 million
will pay an average of $443,910 more in 2013, or 26 percent of
the additional burden, according to the bipartisan  Tax Policy
Center . Households with income between $500,000 and $1 million
will pay an average of $14,812 more.  Republicans -- and the rest of us, too -- can take heart
knowing that the deal ends uncertainty about the fate of the tax
cuts passed under President George W. Bush. Much of the reason
the fiscal cliff existed in the first place was that
Republicans, using budgetary sleight-of-hand, put a 10-year
limit on the tax cuts, yet had no intention of letting them
expire. No longer will Congress keep taxpayers guessing whether
the tax cuts will survive or die.  With the federal government having hit its debt ceiling,
Republicans hope to replay their 2011 demand that debt-limit
increases be matched dollar-for-dollar with spending cuts. Obama
laid down a “no hostages” marker on Jan. 1 when he said future
deficit-reduction deals must balance spending cuts with further
tax increases. At the same time, Obama said he’s open to
compromise. Medicare spending can be reduced, he said, perhaps
by limiting cost-of-living increases. We agree that hostage-
taking is unacceptable and that Obama’s Medicare offer is a good
place to begin the next round of negotiations. Now it is House
Republicans’ turn to name the revenue-raisers they can accept,
or the spending cuts they want.  Lest we forget, Congress already made more than $1 trillion
in spending cuts in 2011. An additional $1.2 trillion could be
saved or raised later this year. When added to the just-
concluded pact, the total could come close to $3 trillion in
spending cuts and tax increases over the coming decade. Deficit
reduction in fits and starts is still deficit reduction.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 