-- Cabraal Says Sri Lanka Policy to Bolster Growth, Curb Inflation
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-01-02T08:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/cabraal-says-sri-lanka-policy-to-bolster-growth-curb-inflation.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank will strive
to contain price pressures while bolstering economic growth this
year, Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said.  The island seeks inflation in the mid-single digits, and
the government’s infrastructure drive will help boost expansion
to 7.5 percent in 2013 from an estimated 6.5 percent in 2012,
Cabraal said in his annual policy  speech  in Colombo today.  Sri Lanka raised interest rates in February and April last
year and let the rupee weaken, part of a policy overhaul to damp
import demand that stoked a trade deficit and pressured currency
reserves. The monetary authority unexpectedly lowered borrowing
costs for the first time since 2011 on Dec. 12 to support growth.  “The cycle of tightening was one of the shortest in our
history,” due to the central bank’s “multi-pronged” policy
strategy, Cabraal said. “We are deeply committed to a low
inflation regime.”  The benchmark  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  of stocks rose 0.3
percent at 1:27 p.m. local time. The Sri Lankan rupee, down more
than 10 percent against the dollar in the past 12 months, was
little changed.  Sri Lanka is easing limits on forward-market transactions,
Cabraal said, adding the central bank would step in to prevent
sharp exchange-rate movements.  “We support continued fiscal consolidation,” Cabraal also
said today.  The nation’s economy expanded 4.8 percent in the third
quarter of last year, the slowest pace since 2009 as faltering
global demand hurt exports and a drought curbed farm output.  Inflation exceeded 9 percent for the sixth month in seven
in December. That’s one of the highest rates in a basket of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  