-- Canadian Dollar Posts Three-Month Gain on U.S. Cliff Deal
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-02T22:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/canadian-dollar-posts-two-month-gain-as-u-s-avoids-cliff.html
The Canadian dollar rose the most in
three months against its U.S. counterpart as the U.S. passed a
deficit-reduction plan to avoid automatic austerity and head off
the threat of recession in the nation’s largest trading partner.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened
against the majority of its most-traded peers as the budget deal
passed in the  U.S. Senate  on New Year’s Eve cleared its last
legislative hurdle before becoming law, ending the threat of
$600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases. Crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, rose for a second day.  “I would say the fiscal cliff deal has taken away some
tail risks, that would be falling into a government spending
contraction induced recession,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone
from Toronto. “That’s supported oil, that’s supported
commodities, and that’s in turn supported the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie advanced 0.9 percent to 98.49 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:04 p.m. Toronto time, after earlier making its
largest intraday jump since Sept. 13. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0153.  Futures on crude oil added 1.3 percent to $92.97 per barrel
in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 2.5
percent.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds declined, with
yields rising seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
1.87 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
fell 64 cents to $107.58.  The nation’s corporate bonds topped government debt last
year by the most since 2009, led by gains in public-private
partnership securities issued to finance the construction of
hospitals.  Health-care bonds returned 10.5 percent in 2012, the top
performing Canadian corporate category, compared with returns on
the broad corporate index of 6.5 percent, 2.4 percent for
federal bonds and 3.1 percent for provincial bonds, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The firm’s Global Corporate
Index made 11 percent.  “General risk sentiment is improving,” said  David Watt ,
chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Toronto. “The fiscal
deal in the U.S., that’s been holding markets back, so the fact
they got an agreement basically could take a source of
uncertainty away from markets.”  Interest Rates  Trading in overnight index swaps shows investors see little
chance of the  Bank of Canada  raising  interest rates  before July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank has
kept the benchmark rate at 1 percent since September 2010, the
longest pause since the 1950s.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie was 5.61 percent, below the one year
average of 9.05. Implied volatility signals the expected pace of
currency swings and is quoted and used by traders to set option
prices.  The Canadian dollar traded stronger than its 50-, 100-, and
200-day moving averages, breaking technical levels that signal
further strength.  “In the short term, I think we’ll see a lot of resistance
at 98.25, so the U.S. dollar will find support at that level,”
said  Darren Richardson , senior corporate dealer at CanadianForex
Ltd, by phone from Toronto. “We’ve got a lot of technical
support there, previous highs from October, December was at
98.25 and that should hold in for today.”  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.5 percent in the past 12
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  