-- Central African Republic Says Rebels Agree to Peace Talks
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-02T15:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/central-african-republic-says-rebels-agree-to-enter-peace-talks.html
Rebels from the  Central African
Republic  are willing to enter peace negotiations and abandon a
push toward the capital, Bangui, said Interior Minister Josue
Banua, citing information he received from a regional body.  Insurgents from the group called Seleka have been fighting
for control of territory as they advanced toward the capital
since beginning an offensive on Dec. 10. The organization says
President Francois Bozize has failed to honor a 2008 peace deal.  “The government has been ready for a long time for talks,
now it’s a good thing the rebel leaders have decided to
negotiate,” Banua said by phone from Bangui. The rebels
indicated they would travel to Libreville, Gabon’s capital, for
talks even though no date has been set, he said.  The Economic Community of Central African States, which
Banua said gave him the information today, met last month in the
Chadian capital, N’Djamena, and developed a “road map” to
resolve the crisis, according to a statement on the website of
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group . That included calling
for a cease-fire and encouraging all sides to enter talks under
the auspices of Eccas, Crisis Group said.  In a speech yesterday to mark the start of 2013, Bozize
urged the militia to disarm and allow him to serve the rest of
his term through to the next elections planned for 2016. Last
month, he pledged to form a government of national unity.  Seleka spokesman Eric Massi didn’t answer three calls made
to his mobile phone or respond to a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  Gabon yesterday sent 120 troops to Central African
Republic, Ruffin Pacine Odzounga, the country’s defense
minister, told reporters in Libreville, Gabon today.  “They are not going to fight anybody,” he said. “They
will provide operational support to the peace mission under the
mandate of the Economic Community of Central African States.”  France  has already sent 150 troops, adding to the 250 it
already has in the country, to support the mission and to
protect the 1,200 French citizens in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  