-- Clinton Discharged from Hospital With Doctors’ Approval
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/clinton-shown-leaving-new-york-hospital-in-video-aired-by-cnn.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
was discharged from a New York City hospital and is expected to
make a full recovery from the ailments that kept her from public
view for more than three weeks, according to the State
Department.  “She’s eager to get back to the office, and we will keep
you updated on her schedule as it becomes clearer in the coming
days,” Philippe Reines, deputy assistant secretary of state for
public affairs and a long-time Clinton aide, said in a statement
yesterday.  Clinton was hospitalized on Dec. 30 for a blood clot found
that day between her brain and skull, according to her aides.
They said the clot was discovered when an MRI scan was performed
during a check-up before Clinton’s planned return to work at the
State Department. Earlier, the secretary suffered a concussion
three weeks ago after fainting at home from dehydration while
ill with a stomach virus, the aides have said.  Clinton’s medical team advised yesterday that she is
“making good progress on all fronts, and they are confident she
will make a full recovery,” Reines said in his e-mailed
statement.  A former first lady, U.S. senator and presidential
candidate, Clinton, 65, is one of the world’s best-known figures
and ranks in polls as the early Democratic favorite for
president in 2016 if she chooses to run again. In a Gallup
survey of Americans released over the weekend, she ranked as the
most-admired woman in the world for the 11th consecutive year.  Information Vacuum  Until Clinton’s hospital discharge was announced, the lack
of detailed information on her condition created a vacuum that
was filled in part by speculation and misinformation. Her
staffers had provided terse and intermittent updates on her
health since she last appeared at a public event, in  Belfast  on
Dec. 7.  Hours before her discharge, State Department officials
declined yesterday to reply directly when asked whether Clinton
was still a patient at New York-Presbyterian Hospital.  Conflicting news reports emerged when Clinton, looking well
and walking unassisted, was spotted climbing into a black Ford
Explorer outside a hospital building. The Mail Online, website
of the Daily Mail tabloid in the U.K., ran photos of the
Clintons.  Reines at the time had no public comment on the images of
Clinton departing a building at the hospital accompanied by
former President Bill Clinton, who was smiling, and their
daughter, Chelsea. NBC News posted a Twitter message saying she
was released from the hospital and then posted a new message
saying she hadn’t.  Footage Aired  After  CNN  aired footage of the Clintons leaving a hospital
building, a correspondent for the cable news network said it
wasn’t clear whether the secretary had left only temporarily.
The Associated Press reported that Clinton had gone for tests in
another building of the hospital complex and returned.  “Being forthright with very basic information about the
secretary’s whereabouts and condition would be optimum and would
serve to keep the record straight and the rumor mill at bay,”
Jamie Moss, founder and president of newsPRos, a national media-
relations firm based in New York, said in an interview.  Moss, a lawyer and former journalist, credited Clinton’s
team and her doctors with explaining her condition on Dec. 31.
Still, she was among crisis-management specialists who
questioned why the secretary’s aides didn’t say more sooner,
such as disclosing the location of the clot the day it was
discovered.  Reducing Speculation  “If her PR team is concerned about the implications of her
medical condition for her future political career, putting the
facts out and keeping speculation to a minimum would be in their
best interest,” Moss said.  The secretary of state, who would turn 69 during the 2016
election year, has repeatedly dismissed speculation that she may
run for president again.  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland rejected the
notion that the department hasn’t been open enough in reporting
on Clinton’s health. She also dismissed reporters’ requests to
make Clinton’s medical team available to answer questions
directly.  The department had issued eight statements in the last
three weeks, two of which had been signed by Clinton’s
physicians, Nuland said before the announcement of her
discharge. “Her doctors have been quite forthcoming in the two
statements they have issued,” Nuland said yesterday.  Nuland also portrayed Clinton as “quite active on the
phone,” talking with her aides regularly.  Phone Calls  Clinton phoned United Nations Special Envoy for  Syria 
Lakhdar Brahimi and Qatari Prime Minister and Foreign Minister
Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani to discuss Syria and other Middle East
issues on Dec. 29, according to Nuland.  As secretary of state, Clinton traveled 949,706 miles and
visited 112 countries over 401 days, according to the State
Department website. Now, she has said she intends to pursue her
advocacy for women and children outside of government after
leaving the State Department at the start of President  Barack Obama ’s second term.  Obama last month named Massachusetts Democrat John Kerry,
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, as his
choice to succeed Clinton.  Clinton has said she will testify before Congress when she
recovers about the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on a U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya, that resulted in the death of U.S. Ambassador
Chris Stevens and three other Americans. Some Republican
senators have said they won’t consider Kerry’s nomination to
replace her until Clinton testifies.  Clinton’s daughter punctuated the day’s coverage with a
comment last night.  “Grateful my Mom discharged from the hospital & is heading
home. Even more grateful her medical team confident she’ll make
a full recovery,” Chelsea Clinton said in a Twitter message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  