-- Condo-Flip Redux Would Leave Fed Out in the Cold
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-02T23:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/condo-flip-redux-would-leave-fed-out-in-the-cold.html
I remember when I knew for sure that
soaring  home prices  had gone beyond “ froth ” to attain bubble
status. It was sometime in 2004, and the alert landed in my
inbox.  A public-relations firm sent me a pitch for a new website,
 condoflip.com , where one could buy and sell condominiums sight
unseen. The idea that the average person’s largest store of
wealth had succumbed to a no-lose gambling mentality was a good
indication that this was no ordinary  bull market .  Fast forward nine years, and the residential real-estate
market, the traditional leader of the business cycle, is
starting to shake off the combined effect of bad loans, falling
 home prices  and tight credit, and is  contributing to economic
growth  once again.  So imagine my surprise when I heard a radio commercial last
week pitching a guide to flipping homes. Can’t be, I thought.
The U.S. has had its share of asset bubbles during the three
decades of the Great Moderation: a period of low, stable
inflation. Usually history doesn’t repeat itself quite that
quickly, at least not with the same asset class.  A  Google search  for “house flipping” produced everything
from “House Flipping Basics” to a step-by-step “Beginner’s
Guide” to a free “Flip This House” seminar. At least the
 Federal Reserve  can claim partial success for fanning another
housing bubble.  Flip Flop  No, policy makers don’t say it quite like that. But
consider their actions.  The Fed has done everything in its power to lower long-term
interest rates, focusing more on the composition of its  balance
sheet  than the size. It sold its entire portfolio of short-term
Treasuries in exchange for longer-term notes and bonds. The
maturity extension program concluded at year-end, but the  Fed
will continue to purchase  $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries
and $40 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities a month,
indefinitely.  With the Fed’s help,  30-year fixed-rate mortgages  fell to a
record low of 3.3 percent. It’s now cheaper to buy than to rent
a comparable property almost everywhere in the U.S., according
to real-estate website  Trulia.com .  The only thing standing between  interest rates  and another
real-estate bubble is sentiment (we have learned that house
prices can and do fall) and  tight credit , two not-insignificant
hurdles. After a decade of lending to anyone with a pulse, banks
are leaning in the other direction. But with the  spread between
banks’ cost of funding and mortgage-lending rates  unusually
wide, how long will it take for them to cash in?  While I was considering the possibility of condo-flip
redux, I started to think about asset bubbles in general and the
Fed’s new policy guidelines in particular. Is there anything in
the array of squishy thresholds for raising interest rates that
would provide an early warning system for asset bubbles?  An  unemployment rate  of 6.5 percent, maybe lower; a
forecast of inflation -- the Fed’s! -- of no more than 2.5
percent one-to-two years out; and “well-anchored” inflation
expectations. These are the conditions that must be met before
the Fed begins the long slog to normalize interest rates.  Could asset prices get out of line under such a regime,
threatening the economy and financial system once again? Recent
history suggests it’s possible for the economy to be well within
the Fed’s speed limits for inflation and  unemployment  with
trouble brewing in asset markets.  For example, in 2003, the unemployment rate and the rise in
the  consumer price index  averaged 6 percent and 2.3 percent,
respectively. The Fed’s preferred inflation measure, the
personal consumption expenditures price index excluding food and
energy, increased a tame 1.5 percent that year.  Target Practice  Meanwhile,  house prices , which had been increasing faster
than the CPI since 1997, rose 10.7 percent. Undeterred, the Fed
lowered its benchmark rate to 1 percent from 1.25 percent in
mid-2003 even as the real funds rate, adjusted for inflation,
wallowed in negative territory. I somehow doubt the new metrics
would have helped the Fed to see what it missed under the old
regime.  Asset bubbles would be less likely under a target of
nominal gross domestic product, according to David Beckworth,
assistant professor of economics at Western Kentucky University
in  Bowling Green . Even if faster productivity growth led to
lower prices, “under an NGDP target the Fed doesn’t care if
prices fall as long as nominal spending is stable,” Beckworth
said.  I’m not convinced. Nominal spending was still rebounding
from the 2001 recession in 2003 and wouldn’t have telegraphed
easy monetary policy. And house prices per se aren’t included in
any of the inflation indexes, which use the imputed rental value
of a home instead.  Unless bubbly asset prices manage to insert themselves into
the unemployment rate, the Fed’s inflation forecasts or the
market’s  inflation expectations , it’s hard to see how the new
guidelines will do anything to improve the Fed’s clairvoyance.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 