-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in November
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-01-02T15:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-in-november.html
Spending on U.S. construction
projects unexpectedly dropped in November, restrained by
declines in non-residential building and public works.  Outlays fell 0.3 percent to $866 billion annual rate after
increasing a less-than-previously estimated 0.7 percent in
October, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington.
The median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.6 percent increase. Housing climbed to the
highest level in more than four years.  The residential real-estate market will probably continue
to drive spending as record-low  mortgage rates , an increasing
population and dwindling inventory boost construction. At the
same time, the damage from superstorm Sandy and government
budget battles that raise concern about the outlook for growth
may curb the rest of the industry.  “There’s good, solid momentum story in the residential
sector,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America
at BNP Paribas in  New York . “We now have a construction sector
that’s a modest contributor to GDP rather than a drag. This is a
very gradually healing story, not a boom story.”  Also today, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index rose to 50.7 in December from 49.5 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected a reading of 50.5.  Shares Surge  Stocks jumped, after the largest year-end rally for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1974, as lawmakers passed a
bill averting spending cuts and tax increases threatening a
recovery in the world’s biggest economy. The  S&P 500  climbed 2
percent to 1,455.1 at 10:21 a.m. in New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from little
changed to a 1.5 percent gain. October was initially reported as
a 1.4 percent advance.  Construction spending increased 9.2 percent in the 12
months ended in November before adjustments for seasonal
variations, today’s report showed.  Private construction spending fell 0.2 percent from the
prior month.  Homebuilding outlays increased 0.4 percent to a $295.3
billion annual rate, the most since November 2008. Private non-
residential projects decreased by 0.7 percent, reflecting
declines in the building of factories, power plants and
educational facilities.  Housing Climbs  Residential real estate has gained momentum going into the
end of 2012. Existing-home sales reached a three-year  high  in
November, contributing to a lack of inventory that has boosted
residential builders. New-home  sales  advanced 4.4 percent to a
377,000 annual pace in November, the highest level since April
2010, the Commerce Department reported last week.  At the same time, the threat of government spending cuts
may lead some builders to delay or abandon projects. Spending on
areas such as higher education is slowing, said Dave Myers,
president for building efficiency at  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) ,
which supplies building control systems and energy management.  “For 2013, we expect a flat market here in  North America .
Within that, we are seeing spending declines that are projected
to be lower in institutional markets” including higher
education, Myers said on a Dec. 19 call with investors. “We are
seeing a slightly positive outlook for commercial activities.
It’s been the first time in a long time we’ll see slight
increases in the year and we are seeing, for the first time in a
long time, some positive signs about growth in the residential
market and well.”  Spending on public projects declined 0.4 percent from the
prior month, today’s report showed. Federal construction slumped
5.5 percent after advancing 9.7 percent in October. State and
local agency projects rose 0.1 percent from the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  