-- Credit Rallies Most in 14 Months in Europe on U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-02T16:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/credit-rallies-most-in-five-months-as-u-s-lawmakers-pass-budget.html
Credit markets in  Europe  rallied by
the most in 14 months and issuers prepared the year’s first bond
sales after U.S. lawmakers passed a budget bill that averts a
threat to the recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated companies dropped 47 basis points to 436
basis points at 4:45 p.m. in  London , the biggest decline since
Oct. 27, 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain ’s
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Paris-based utility
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  hired banks for debt offerings.  The U.S. budget breakthrough clears a yearlong impasse over
how to avoid tax increases and spending cuts due to start this
month that could lead to a recession. The bill will delay by two
months automatic budget cuts as Republican lawmakers scrapped
efforts to add further reductions to the deal.  “The deal averts the immediate threat of a massive fiscal
tightening,” Emily Nicol, a London-based analyst at Daiwa
Capital Markets Europe, wrote in a note to clients. “But it
only postpones until the start of March the automatic spending
cuts that formed a large part of the fiscal cliff.”  U.S. lawmakers face their next battle as soon as next month
over increasing the country’s debt ceiling, which was reached on
Dec. 31. Congress must act to prevent a default and avoid a
similar dispute in 2011 that led to a downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating.  “Markets will remain on tenterhooks for the rest of this
year as fractious U.S. political point-scoring takes center
stage,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint Partners in London,
wrote in a note to clients.  Yields Plunge  The drop in debt insurance costs adds to last year’s rally
when the Markit iTraxx Crossover index fell 36 percent in the
biggest decline since 2009. Bond yields plunged to a record 1.91
percent in 2012 from 4.4 percent at the start of the year, while
the yield premium to the benchmark swap rate narrowed to 131
basis points from 252, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Corporate Index shows.  BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, plans to sell five-year
senior unsecured bonds in euros, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be named because they aren’t
authorized to speak about the offering.  Veolia Environnement  hired banks for a series of investor
meetings to sell subordinated, undated securities in euros and
pounds, a person with knowledge of the roadshow said.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies fell 11 basis points to 106. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of contracts on the senior debt of
banks and insurers fell 16 basis points to 126 and the
subordinated index fell 26 to 209 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  