-- TCW to Pimco Bet on Housing Bond Rally After 41% Gain
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   P i e r r e   P a u l d e n
-- 2013-01-02T13:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/tcw-to-pimco-bet-on-housing-bond-rally-after-41-gain.html
The world’s biggest bond managers are
betting housing debt that rallied as much as 41 percent last
year will again beat other fixed-income investments in 2013 as
the U.S. real estate recovery strengthens.  TCW Group Inc., Pacific Investment Management Co. and
DoubleLine Capital LP are forecasting gains for mortgage bonds
without government backing, including those tied to subprime
loans, even after hedge funds and other investors piled into the
market last year, reducing potential returns.  “Non-agency debt is still the best opportunity in fixed
income,” said Stephen Kane, who helps oversee $135 billion at
Los Angeles-based TCW. “There is still the potential for
significant price appreciation compared with collecting yield on
other investments.”  The non-agency market jumped last year as housing started
to reverse a six-year slump driven by Federal Reserve efforts to
push  mortgage rates  to record lows.  Home values  have climbed by
more than $1.3 trillion to $23.7 trillion since the end of 2011,
according to Zillow Inc., and prices will rise by 3.4 percent in
2013,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts estimate.  “The trade has gotten a little bit crowded,” said Daniel Ivascyn, who runs the $21 billion  Pimco Income Fund (PIMIX) , which
returned 22 percent in 2012, beating 99 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “You have to be
willing to accept price volatility in the near term but over the
long run they’re still reasonably attractive.”  World Beating  Non-agency bonds backed by subprime mortgages issued before
the housing market collapsed in 2007 beat most fixed-income
assets in 2012, with returns averaging 41 percent,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
index data show.  An index tied to bonds created in the second half of 2006
that were issued with AAA ratings rose about 47 percent last
year to 50.4 cents on the dollar, according to London-based
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  That compares with a gain of about 16 percent for high-
yield, high-risk company debt and a 2.6 percent return for
mortgage bonds guaranteed by government agencies including
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  The non-agency debt bounced back from 2011, when it lost
5.5 percent, as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis ignited investor
concern that banks would be forced to sell assets and the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  botched a plan to auction toxic
mortgage bonds it inherited during the bailout of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008.  Hedge Funds  The central bank sold the debt last year, fueling
confidence that the market for commercial property and mortgage
bonds was stabilizing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , D.E. Shaw & Co.
and Angelo Gordon & Co. started pools of capital to invest in
housing bonds and hedge funds that invested in mortgages
produced the industry’s  best returns  last year with a gain of
about 20 percent.  Kyle Bass, who made $500 million betting against subprime
mortgages during the 2007 crash, said in November he was
wagering half his firm’s money on a rebound in those assets.  Securities tied to the riskiest mortgages are virtually
“bulletproof,” because even if the U.S. housing market
declines by 10 percent, investors won’t take a principal hit on
their bonds, Bass said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  While Elliott Management Corp., the $21 billion New York-
based hedge fund founded by billionaire investor  Paul Singer ,
expects a “continuation of good news in housing,” it sold
residential mortgage-backed securities in the third quarter
because their yields had fallen too much, according to a letter
sent by the firm to investors.  Housing Recovery  Analysts at firms including JPMorgan and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  also expect housing to gain next year after prices rose
4.3 percent in the 12 months through October, according to the
 S&P/Case-Shiller index  of 20 cities, the biggest year-over-year
advance since May 2010. Sales of previously owned homes jumped
5.9 percent in November from the previous month to reach the
most in three years, the National Association of Realtors
reported last month.  “The housing recovery is on a firm footing and should
continue,” said Kane, who helps run the $24 billion
 Metropolitan West Total Return Bond Fund (MWTIX) , which has beaten 98
percent of comparable funds this year, Bloomberg data show.
“The recovery in housing doesn’t need to be heroic for non-
agency MBS to deliver double-digit returns.”  TCW estimates high-yield company debt will return about 7
percent and investment grade bonds will gain 3 percent over the
next year.  DoubleLine’s Vitaliy Liberman predicts non-agency debt may
return up to 8 percent in 2013.  “If we continue to see the trends where the essential
economy is chugging along and  interest rates  are still benign,
that’s a very positive environment for housing,” said Liberman,
a portfolio manager at the Los Angeles-based firm, which
oversees more than $50 billion and is run by  Jeffrey Gundlach .
“The base case scenario for non-agency securities is very
favorable as compared to other fixed income because it’s still
trading at a much deeper discount.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 