-- Defense Contractors Gain Temporary Reprieve on Cutbacks
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-01-02T23:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/defense-contractors-gain-temporary-reprieve-on-cutbacks.html
Defense contractors led by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  gained a
reprieve from U.S. spending cuts that may prove short-lived.  The companies’ shares rose in the immediate aftermath of a
budget deal by President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers that put off
by two months the automatic reductions in military and domestic
programs that had been scheduled to take effect today.  After that, “the arrow of cuts is more directly pointed at
defense spending” than earlier,  Byron Callan , a defense
industry analyst at Capital Alpha Partners LLC in Washington,
said today in a phone interview.  The House of Representatives last night cleared a bill
raising taxes on top income earners and extending expanded
unemployment benefits. It also delayed until March 1 the
automatic defense budget cuts of about $500 billion over 10
years. Obama said he would sign the bill.  Lockheed rose 1.1 percent to $93.27 at the close in New
York trading. General Dynamics gained 2.8 percent to $71.21, and
Raytheon increased 1.8 percent to $58.62. The broader Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.5 percent.  The two-month delay would cost about $24 billion that would
be offset by a blend of additional revenue and spending
reductions, half of which would come from defense.  While “Congress has prevented the worst possible outcome
by delaying sequestration,” the danger of automatic cuts
remains, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said today in a
statement. Lawmakers are responsible for eliminating it “as a
threat by enacting balanced deficit reduction,” Panetta said.  Less Time  If the automatic cuts aren’t averted by March, the Pentagon
would have that much less time to impose the $55 billion in
reductions mandated for the current fiscal year that ends in
September, Callan said.  Even if a new deal is reached, “it’s possible an
additional $100 billion to $200 billion of reductions” will be
imposed on defense spending as part of such an agreement,
Christopher DeNicolo, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor’s in
New York, wrote in a note to investors today.  Those additional cuts, along with the $487 billion
reduction in planned defense spending over 10 years that the
Pentagon already agreed to impose, will mean “flat to declining
revenues and earnings for most U.S. defense contractors for the
next several years,” DeNicolo said.  Instability, Uncertainty  Amid contractors’ relief that lawmakers “‘avoided the
cliff,’ all they did was push it down the road,” said Stan
Soloway, chief executive officer of the Professional Services
Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that represents
contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI International Inc. (CACI)   “It does not erase any of the instability and uncertainty
that has been vexing every federal agency” and contractors that
support them, Soloway said in a phone interview.  While lawmakers made headway on taxes, “we’re very
concerned that they could not agree to a long-term solution to
sequestration,” said Dan Stohr a spokesman for the Aerospace
Industries Association, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group
that represents Lockheed, Raytheon,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and other defense
contractors.  The association last month called on lawmakers to separate
sequestration from negotiations over taxes and spending, rolling
back the automatic cuts as the first order of business.  Forecasts Clouded  Defense company executives announcing their 2012 year-end
results later this month may not be able to offer clear
forecasts for 2013 because of the uncertainty, Callan, the
analyst, said.  The Pentagon has yet to analyze what yesterday’s agreement
“means for our current budget,” Defense Department spokesman
George Little told reporters today. “There probably will be
some impact,” in fiscal 2013, “but we don’t know precisely
what that number is” given that the Pentagon will have only six
or seven months of the fiscal year to apportion the cuts if
sequestration occurs.  Asked how much of the agreed-to $24 billion in short-term
cuts the Pentagon would be required to absorb this fiscal year,
Little said no precise figure was available.  Many of the Pentagon’s 800,000 civilian employees still
“might face some kind of furlough” if automatic budget cuts go
into effect, Little said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  