-- Murder Charges Filed in Delhi Rape Amid Calls for Swift Justice
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-03T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/delhi-bus-rape-accused-face-murder-charge-as-india-seeks-justice.html
Police formally charged with murder
five men accused of gang-raping a woman aboard a bus in New
Delhi, an attack that triggered outrage and demands for a rapid
overhaul of how sexual assaults are prosecuted in India.  Additional charges of rape and kidnapping were also filed
in a district court in the Indian capital yesterday. A sixth
person is a juvenile and will be subject to a separate judicial
process. The men are accused of beating and assaulting the 23-
year-old physiotherapy student on Dec. 16 before throwing her
and a male companion from the vehicle as it drove along streets
in the south of the city.  The woman’s death nearly two weeks later in a  Singapore 
hospital fueled street demonstrations demanding the government
and police crack down on sex crimes, speed up the prosecution of
alleged rapists and toughen sentencing. A panel headed by the
 Supreme Court  Chief Justice Altamas Kabir is expected to hear a
petition seeking the forming of fast-track courts in all states
to handle serious sexual offenses.  “In this case the government is reacting exceptionally
fast because of public protests,” said Ranjana Kumari, director
of the New Delhi-based Centre for Social Research. “There
should be change in our legal system so that other victims, who
are waiting for justice, get similar treatment.”  Breaking with precedent, the rape case will be heard on a
day-to-day basis once it begins in a bid to meet calls for swift
justice. Other fast-track courts will begin sitting in  New Delhi 
this week.  The five men charged yesterday are Ram Singh, Mukesh Singh,
Vinay Sharma, Akshay Singh and Pawan Gupta. No further details
were immediately available.  Brutal Assault  “It will be our endeavor to ensure the harshest punishment
in the book for the culprits,” Dharmendra Kumar, special
commissioner of police, said Dec. 29, hours after the death of
the woman, who hasn’t been named.  In a sign of the anger the rape has triggered, about 200
lawyers staged a demonstration yesterday outside the court where
charges will be brought, calling for the death sentence for
those accused of the assault.  Saket District Bar Association President Rajpal Kasana said
no member from the bar association would represent the men. The
government may provide lawyers from other courts, Kasana said.  On the eve of the court filing, new details emerged of the
brutal assault that has triggered weeks of soul-searching in New
Delhi and beyond.  Silent March  The victims boarded the bus without knowing it was plying
illegally, the Press Trust of  India  news agency reported, citing
interviews with police officers it did not name. The suspects
first attacked the 28-year-old man and when the woman intervened
to protect him, she was beaten and sexually assaulted, it said.  After throwing both from the bus, the driver attempted to
run them down, the agency reported. The assailants told police
they had raped the woman “to teach her a lesson” after she
fought back in a confrontation, the Indian Express said Dec. 19.  The woman, who was flown to Singapore for treatment paid
for by the Indian government, died in hospital Dec. 29. She was
cremated a day later and her ashes have been submerged in the
Ganges river, considered holy by India’s Hindu majority.  The doctor who carried out the postmortem in Singapore will
be among 30 witnesses the police plan to cite in the charge
sheet, Press Trust said Jan. 2.  Bloated Courts  The attack, blanket media coverage and the continuing
demonstrations have thrust crimes against women to the top of
India’s political agenda. Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit
Jan. 2 led a silent march in the capital.  “We have already seen the emotions and energies this
incident has generated,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in
an e-mailed statement Dec. 29. It’s up to all Indians to
“ensure that her death will not have been in vain.”  Singh has appointed a retired Delhi High Court judge to
investigate the crime and suggest ways to fix lapses in
policing. He also asked a panel headed by a former chief justice
to  rewrite  criminal codes to allow harsher penalties to be
imposed, including capital punishment in the “rarest of rare”
rape cases.  The government Jan. 1 announced a 13-member  task force 
headed by the secretary of the home ministry to examine the
safety of women in Delhi on a regular basis. Dikshit’s
government has opened a telephone helpline to help women in
distress.  Indian courts can hand down the death penalty for murder,
while rape has a maximum sentence of life in prison.  Typically in India it takes years for ordinary Indians to
get justice because of a slow-moving legal process and
overburdened courts. About 63,342 cases were pending in the
 Supreme Court  as of July 31, of which 67 percent have been in
process for more than a year, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  