-- Dench, Radcliff Join Jude Law in Grandage Masterplan
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-01-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/dench-radcliffe-join-jude-law-in-grandage-s-theater-masterplan.html
Sometimes you can make money by
giving away money.  British theater director Michael Grandage and his executive
producing partner James Bierman have just started a 14-month
commercial season of five plays in the West End. The opener is a
glorious production of the dark musical comedy “Privates on
Parade,” starring Simon Russell Beale.  Some 100,000 seats are available at just 10 pounds ($16.21)
through the whole season, which will later include performances
from Judi Dench, Daniel Radcliffe and Jude Law. There will also
be extra seats at the same low price released every morning.  When Grandage, 50, and Bierman, 41, initially announced the
series in June, they didn’t have a penny of funding in place.
They were still adamant about their ticket plan, and that there
should be educational and training opportunities at the heart of
the project.  Both had come from the subsidized  Donmar Warehouse , a
powerhouse studio theater in Covent Garden.  Grandage was the artistic director behind successes like
the Tony-winning play “Red” and an unforgettable “King Lear”
with Derek Jacobi. Bierman was executive producer. They built
programs for better access, training and education.  “In the old days, people used to describe these schemes as
box-ticking,” says Grandage when we meet at the London offices
of the new Michael Grandage Company.  Commercial Model  “Producers would offer half-hearted access and education
projects just to ensure their government subsidy,” he says. “Not
us. They’re the things that excited me most, even if they’re not
traditionally at the heart of a commercial theatrical model. We
needed to make our season work with those schemes very high up
on the list of priorities.”  A stalls ticket at 10 pounds means a potential loss of
47.50 pounds profit from top price seats. Grandage and Bierman
have effectively given that money away as a subsidy.  Did the cut-price seats put potential investors off backing
the season?  “Not at all,” Bierman says. “We went out to find backers
who understood the importance of cheap tickets, and opening
doors for people, and training young designers.”  With stars like Dench and Law already in place, they raised
the necessary 2 million pounds in a short space of time.  Risk Environment  “One investor said to me that although he might be able to
make more money elsewhere, we had given him the strongest
opportunity to make his money back,” says Bierman. “That’s an
important element in a high-risk environment like the West
End.”  Grandage, who will direct all five shows in the season,
says that he wanted to find like-minded backers for the long
term and not just a quick buck.  “They had to understand why the other parts of the
equation mattered so much,” he says. “We might not have an
actor of the level of Dench or Law again, but it will still be
someone whom we believe in with as much passion and excitement.
I hope our investors would still come on that journey with us in
the future.”  There are still tickets left, even at the 10 pound price.  Future productions include the world premiere of “Peter
and Alice” by John Logan (author of “Red”), starring Dench
and Ben Whishaw. The play recounts the meeting as adults between
Alice Liddell and Peter Llewellyn Davies, the people upon whom
“Alice in Wonderland” and “Peter Pan” were based.  Irish Play  Radcliffe appears in “The Cripple of Inishmaan” by Martin
McDonagh.  “Daniel told me he wanted to do an Irish play, because
both of his parents are Irish,” says Grandage.  Sheridan Smith is Titania in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
and Law cries God for Harry, England and Saint George as the
hero of “Henry V.”  It’s a dream season, with a dream team behind it, and it
seems hard to imagine that the box office won’t do well. Bierman
still likes to put the excitement in perspective.  “You can’t enter any artistic endeavor with the goal of
making money as your primary objective” he says. “There’s got to
be a love of it.”  He recounts a salutary piece of advice he was given by his
mentor, the legendary West End producer Michael Codron.  “He said you’ll sometimes sit across a desk from an
investor whose money you’ve lost. Don’t be sat there if you
didn’t believe in the play. It’s very useful advice. I adore
these plays, and I’ve signed the best director in town. Whatever
happens, I can put my hand up and say I believe in them.”  For information about the whole season, which runs at the
Noel Coward Theatre:  http://michaelgrandagecompany.com  or
+44-844-482-5141  Muse highlights include  Stephanie Green’s  Scene Last Night,
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and Daniel Akst on  books .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This article was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 