-- Dollar-Funding Stress Declines, Money-Market Indicators Signal
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-02T15:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/dollar-funding-stress-declines-money-market-indicators-signal.html
Money-market indicators signaled
short-term dollar-funding stress eased to the lowest level in
more than 16 months.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  fell  to 0.305 percent, the lowest since Aug. 19,
2011, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-
OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, narrowed to
15.4 basis points, from 15.9 basis points on Dec. 31.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, fell to 19 basis points from 19.5 basis
points on Dec. 31, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed to 13.22 basis points from 13.75 basis points
on Dec. 31. The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S.
banking sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from
expectations for dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  Commercial Paper  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $7.3 billion to $1.0656 trillion in the week ended Dec. 26,
according to Fed data.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 19.3 basis points below Euribor, from 20.8 basis
points on Dec. 31.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was little
changed. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another
was 12.2 basis points compared to 12 basis points on Dec. 31.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.3 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.29 percent on Dec. 31,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was little changed from
the day before.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.09 percent on Dec. 31. The rate opened
today at 0.17 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Fed Bank of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  