-- Double-Deck Elevators Rise as Tallest Towers Test Limits
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-01-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/double-deck-elevators-rise-as-tallest-towers-test-limits.html
Otis Elevator Co.’s quest to carry
people up skyscrapers twice as tall as the  Empire State Building 
hearkens back to a pivotal innovation by its founder: ensuring
that riders won’t plummet back to earth if something goes awry.  The  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  unit has to go beyond the
braking mechanism Elisha Otis demonstrated with a rope and saber
at the 1854 World’s Fair. It’s working on systems able to stop
16 metric tons (35,274 pounds) of elevator and cable falling
from the top of a kilometer-tall tower -- equal to a half-full
tractor trailer driven off a cliff.  With high-rises in  China  and Saudi Arabia poised to surpass
Dubai’s record 2,717-foot (828-meter)  Burj Khalifa , the race to
outfit the next generation of super-tall buildings is spurring
engineering leaps at Otis,  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  and their elevator-making
competitors in a market valued at $66 billion in 2010.  “We’re reinvesting in the skyscraper because the buildings
on the drawing board right now are just different,” President
Pedro Baranda said in an interview at Otis’s headquarters in
Farmington,  Connecticut . “Understanding the elevatoring of a
very high-rise building can often give you insights into what
you can do better at the lower end.”  Skyscraper construction is rebounding as the global economy
regains its footing after the worst slump since the Great
Depression. As many as 24 skyscrapers approaching 1,000 feet may
be completed in 2013, compared with nine in 2012, according to
the  Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat , and a new round
of even loftier structures is on the drawing board.  One Kilometer  They include Sky City, a 2,750-foot mixed-use high-rise in
Changsha, China, whose builder says it would use prefabricated
panels to cut construction time to 90 days, and Kingdom Tower, a
proposed kilometer-high skyscraper in  Jeddah , Saudi Arabia, that
would soar at least 20 percent higher than Burj Khalifa.  Elevators used in smaller structures aren’t up to the task
of moving people that high. Engineers are responding by double-
decking cars to serve two floors at once and coordinating
elevator traffic with computers, council Chairman Antony Wood
said.  “Advances in elevators in the past 20 years are probably
the greatest advances we’ve seen in tall buildings,” Wood said
in a telephone interview from  Chicago .  The recovery in skyscraper demand is good news for
companies such as Otis. Cleveland-based researcher Freedonia
Group estimates the global elevator market will grow 6.4 percent
annually to $90 billion for five years ended in 2015.  Burj Khalifa  For  Burj Khalifa , completed in 2010 for $1.5 billion, Otis
designed a system using double-deck cars, computerized dispatch
and its compact Gen2 lifts, which replace steel ropes with
polyurethane-coated belts and bulky motors with smaller gearless
drives, eliminating the need for a large engine room.  To reach even higher, Otis is looking for ways to improve
its braking systems. It’s familiar territory for the company.  Elisha Otis, its founder and namesake, pioneered the so-
called safety elevator more than 150 years ago at a time when
lifts were seen as too unsafe. He devised a spring-loaded
mechanism that activated to catch the platform if the hoisting
rope failed.  Otis  teamed  with circus founder and showman P.T. Barnum to
demonstrate his invention at the 1854 World’s Fair in  New York ,
according to the U.S. Library of Congress. Wielding a sword,
Otis cut the rope and his safety device activated, arresting the
platform’s fall.  Height Challenge  The modern version of such a system relies on more advanced
technology, and the complexities only increase with the height
of the building, Daryl Marvin, director of innovation at Otis,
said in a telephone interview.  A plummeting elevator car and its hundreds of feet of
supporting steel cable can fall as fast as 45 miles per hour.
Stopping that much weight moving so quickly generates a lot of
heat -- as much as 300 degrees Celsius (572 degrees Fahrenheit),
Marvin said.  So to start preparing for next-generation elevators, Otis
had to strengthen its 383-foot test tower rising from an office
park in suburban Bristol, Connecticut, about 100 miles northeast
of New York.  “We need to be able to test a system for a kilometer-high
building before a kilometer-high building is built,” Marvin
said. “It’s a bit of a challenge to set it up in such a way
that it doesn’t destroy our test tower if it doesn’t completely
work the way we expect it to.”  Computer Assist  Technology developed for super-high-rises can eventually
reach more-modest buildings. One example: Otis’s intelligent-
dispatch software, which lets riders enter a destination on a
keypad or touch screen in a building lobby before being directed
to the appropriate elevator, Marvin said.  Since the $36 million contract for Burj Khalifa’s 57
elevators and eight escalators would represent only 0.4 percent
of Otis’s revenue in 2005, the year it was awarded, applying
expensive R&D from the project to a broader swath of products is
important.  Kone, which has its elevators in  Saudi Arabia ’s 1,970-foot
 Makkah Clock Royal Tower  and the 1,700-foot Taipei 101 tower in
 Taiwan , the world’s second- and third-tallest buildings, decided
to go the other direction with its test tower.  Instead of building up, the Finnish company built more than
1,000 feet down into a limestone mine in the town of Lohja,
about 30 miles from its Espoo headquarters.  Big Drop  The facility allows for testing elevators at the breakneck
speeds super-tall buildings require, said Johannes de Jong,
Kone’s director of projects and technology.  “The goal was to develop the technology needed for super-
and mega-high-rise buildings,” de Jong said in a telephone
interview. “This is the only test tower in the world where you
can test speeds of 2,000 feet per minute up to 3,500 feet per
minute. Others have to rely on simulators, so it’s an
advantage.”  Kone is also using the facility to test the optimal speed
for fans that control air pressure inside its cars, which can
descend in a mega-high rise building faster than a landing
commercial airplane, de Jong said. While jets may have 30
minutes to reduce cabin pressure as they approach the airport,
elevators in the tallest buildings may have just 30 seconds to
depressurize, he said.  Both Otis and Kone said they will compete to put elevators
in Saudi Arabia’s proposed kilometer-high Kingdom Tower.  “We are definitely verging on technology that will allow
buildings to be higher,” de Jong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  