-- Egypt’s Soccer League Will Resume a Year After Deadly Violence
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-01-02T10:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/egypt-s-soccer-league-will-resume-a-year-after-deadly-violence.html
Egypt ’s national soccer league will
resume next month, a year after more than 70 fans were killed in
clashes following a game in Port Said.  The Egyptian Premier League will start a new season on Feb.
2, the country’s soccer governing body said on its website
following a meeting between the sports and interior ministers.
The first round of games will be played without spectators.  The competition will be divided into two pools, with the
winners and runners-up of each qualifying for the semifinals,
the Egyptian Football Association said yesterday. It’s the first
time it’s used the format since 1976.  Soccer matches in the country were suspended indefinitely
when Al-Masry fans attacked visiting supporters from Cairo-based
Al-Ahly last February, a year after a mass uprising forced
former President  Hosni Mubarak  from office. Weapons in the
soccer violence included knives, swords, clubs, stones, bottles,
and fireworks.  The resumption of the league “will be an indicator of
Egypt’s stable security situation,” the EFA said.  The decision by the interior ministry to give the go-ahead
for the league to restart comes after it rejected three previous
attempts from Egyptian soccer authorities to resume games in a
country where it's the most popular sport.  Fans of Al-Ahly, one of  Africa ’s best-known teams, had
called for the league to remain on hold until a court
investigating the Port Said incident issues a verdict, Al-Ahram
newspaper reported.  “The EFA and the clubs’ managements should reach out to
fans in order to avoid unrest inside and outside the stadiums,”
the soccer body said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  