-- Emerging ETF Flows to Grow as Shares Surge, Shaoul Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-02T21:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/emerging-etf-inflows-to-grow-as-shares-reach-record-shaoul-says.html
The second-biggest exchange-traded
fund tracking emerging-market equities will see more inflows
after the amount of shares outstanding reached a record last
week, according to Marketfield Asset Management LLC.  Outstanding shares in the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index  rose to an all-time high of 1.11 billion by Dec. 28,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF  jumped  2
percent to $45.23 in New York, the highest level since August
2011 and pushing its market value to $50 billion.  Developing-nation stocks are rallying as a deal between
U.S. lawmakers to avert spending cuts and tax increases bolsters
the outlook for the world’s largest economy. The 21 nations
featured in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 821 stocks send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  “This really demonstrates the renewed determination of
U.S. investors to maximize exposure to these markets,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman and chief executive officer of Marketfield,
which oversees $4.4 billion including emerging-market assets,
said in a note e-mailed today. “Given these flows we would have
expected a strong first few sessions for  emerging markets  in
2013.”  Inflows may start to subside by the second week of this
year leaving the market vulnerable to a retreat, said Shaoul,
whose  MainStay Marketfield Fund (MFLDX)  returned 14 percent in the past
year and beat 96 percent of its peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Vanguard ETF  The iShares MSCI emerging-markets ETF has $48.2 billion in
total assets, trailing the  Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (VWO) ’s
$59.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Vanguard ETF rallied 2.1 percent to $45.47 today, the strongest
close since Aug. 3, 2011.  Investors are “extremely bullish” on emerging markets
over the medium term,  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a note e-
mailed today. About 90 percent of clients are bullish on
developing-nation markets globally over the next three months,
the most ever, Anne said, citing a December investor survey.  “Near-term uncertainties did not derail the fundamental
view,” he wrote. Investors will “probably turn even more
bullish, now that the U.S. fiscal cliff problem has been
addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  