-- Emerging Stocks Jump as BRICs Set for Bull Market on U.S.
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-02T22:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/emerging-stocks-rise-as-brics-head-for-bull-market-on-u-s-bill.html
Developing-nation stocks rose to a
10-month high, pushing the MSCI BRIC Index of the largest
 emerging markets  up 22 percent from last year’s low, after U.S.
lawmakers passed a bill that averted spending cuts and tax gains
that had threatened the world’s largest economy.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, rallied 3.6 percent to a record,
pushing an index of emerging-market technology stocks to the
highest in more than 12 years.  China Pacific Insurance (Group)
Co. (267)  jumped to a 17-month high after Credit Suisse Group AG
included the stock among its 2013 top picks. Brazil’s  Bovespa
Index (IBOV)  surged to the highest since April, boosted by  Vale  SA.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 2.1 percent to
1,078.16 in New York, the highest since March 2. The  MSCI BRIC
Index (MXBRIC)  rose 2.6 percent to close in a bull market. The  House of
Representatives  voted in favor of budget law as Republicans
abandoned efforts to add spending cuts, boosting confidence in
the  U.S. economy . The 21 nations in the developing-nations gauge
send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average,
data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  “The fiscal cliff was one of the big drags on the market
at the end of the last year, so I suspect that for the next few
days and weeks we’re going to see markets run up further,”  Neil Shearing , the chief emerging markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said by phone from London.  ETF Surges  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, an ETF tracking developing-nation shares, jumped 2 percent
to $45.23, the strongest close since August 2011. The ETF will
see more inflows after the amount of shares outstanding reached
a record last week according to Marketfield Asset Management
LLC. Outstanding shares rose to an all-time high of 1.11 billion
by Dec. 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Vanguard MSCI
Emerging Markets ETF (VWO)  rallied 2.1 percent to $45.47, the
strongest close since August 2011.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, lost 9 percent to 19.74, the
lowest on record.  The Mexico IPC Index climbed 1.4 percent to a record, while
Brazil’s Bovespa rallied 2.6 percent to the highest level since
April 19 as commodity prices boosted the outlook for the
country’s biggest companies. Iron-ore producer Vale jumped 4.2
percent, while oil producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
climbed 8.7 percent.  Braskem SA (BRKM5) , Latin America’s largest petrochemical maker,
surged 6.4 percent in Sao Paulo after selling Brazilian assets
for a total of 652 million reais ($319.6 million).  ‘Avoid a Recession’  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
traded in  Hong Kong  advanced 4 percent, the most among Asian
emerging-market gauges. The BSE India Sensitive Index climbed
0.7 percent to a two-year high, led by  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , which
gained 3.1 percent, as its December sales surged. Russia’s
equity market was closed for holidays.  “Investors are positioning in emerging markets for the
coming year, encouraged by the removal of the U.S. fiscal cliff
issue,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage about $18.3
billion as senior vice president at BPI Asset Management Inc. in
Manila. “The global scenario isn’t going to be as bad as
previously imagined since this measure will help the U.S. avoid
a recession.”  Commodity producers rallied in Johannesburg, leading the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index (JALSH)  2.1 percent higher to the
highest level on record.  Oil companies  helped lift Poland’s
 WIG20 Index (WIG20)  up 1.7 percent, and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  surged
2.7 percent.  Turkey, Malaysia  The Czech Republic’s PX Index rose 2.6 percent to the
highest level since August 2011, led by television channel
operator Central European Media Enterprises Ltd., which
increased 9 percent.  Turkey’s  Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  rose
1.8 percent to a record. Zorlu Enerji Elektrik Uretim AS climbed
14 percent, the biggest rally since Sept. 2009. The Istanbul-
based power utility said Dec. 31 it will acquire power producer
Zorlu Dogal Elektrik Uretimi from parent Zorlu Holding and group
firms.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index declined 0.8 percent
with trading volumes about 24 percent lower than the 30-day
average. The measure snapped five days of gains that pushed
valuations to a two-year high.  Pakistan’s KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  sank 1.8
percent, the most in 14 months. A planned rally by a religious
scholar calling for electoral reforms was endorsed by a
coalition partner of the ruling party yesterday.  Emerging Valuations  Brazil’s real gained 0.3 percent against the dollar, the
most in a week. The Russian ruble strengthened to 30.1730 per
dollar in unofficial trading, up from 30.5580 yesterday. The
currency closed at 30.4075 per dollar on Russia’s Micex Index
Dec. 28. The Indonesian rupiah strengthened 1.5 percent against
the dollar to lead gains in emerging market currencies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rallied 15 percent last
year, beating a 13 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , a
measure of developed-nation stocks.  A  gauge  of technology companies equities in the developing-
nations measure jumped 2.6 percent today to the highest level
since April 2000.  Largan Precision Co. Ltd. (3008)  surged 6.9 percent,
the most in a month to lead gains on the MSCI Emerging Markets
Information Technology Index. The Taiwanese company’s revenue
will be boosted by Apple Inc. and Chinese orders, Economic Daily
reported, citing analysts.  The developing-nations index trades at 12.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 14.1 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Risk-on’  The MSCI BRIC Index of Brazilian, Russian, Indian and
Chinese shares has risen 22 percent from its June 4 low. A bull
market is defined by a rally of 20 percent or more from a low.
The Sensex has rallied 26 percent in that period, the most among
the biggest emerging markets.  “The new year starts with a strong risk-on green light,”
 Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA in London, said in an e-mailed note today. “There
is significant scope for risky assets in emerging markets to
perform strongly in the near term.”  Samsung Electronics added 3.6 percent, the  biggest
contributor  to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s gain today.  China Pacific Insurance (2601)  jumped 7.2 percent in Hong Kong,
its fifth day of gains. The stock is among Credit Suisse’s top
picks in China this year, analysts Vincent Chan and Peggy Chan
wrote in a client note.  China International Marine Containers Group Co. Ltd. (2039) , the
world’s biggest container maker, jumped 13 percent to a record
to lead advances in emerging market stocks.  Parkson Tumbles  Parkson Holdings Bhd. (PKS)  was the worst performer on the gauge,
sinking 7.5 percent in its worst slump in four years. The stock
jumped 9.2 percent on Dec. 31, taking its 14-day  relative
strength index  level to 79.6, the highest since Nov. 5.  Innolux Corp. (3481)  jumped 6.7 percent and  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) 
soared 5.4 percent in Taipei. The two flat-panel companies will
start mass production of AMOLED displays this quarter, according
to the Economic Daily News today.  Anglo American Plc, ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. and BHP
Billiton Ltd. climbed at least 5 percent in Johannesburg. PKN
Orlen SA, Poland biggest oil refiner, climbed 5.1 percent.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities added 0.9 percent,
with oil rising to a three-month high and copper jumping 3.5
percent in London.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 253 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  