-- Ten Things You Should Know About the Cliff Deal (So Far)
-- B y   P a u l a   D w y e r
-- 2013-01-02T14:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/ten-things-you-should-know-about-the-cliff-deal-so-far-.html
(This post has been updated to reflect the House vote on the fiscal-cliff
package.) It was a nail-biter, but almost no one expected otherwise. Congress on Jan. 1
finally voted to avoid most of the $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts that threatened to send the  U.S. economy  into the Dumpster. Technically,
the U.S. went over the fiscal cliff. But, like in the Road Runner cartoons (an
apt metaphor in more ways than one), lawmakers stopped the anvil from crushing
us in midfall. In case you were watching football all New Year's Day, here's what you need
to know to sound smart on Wednesday: 1. If you thought the fiscal-cliff imbroglio was all about cutting the $16.4
trillion national debt, silly you. The fight was really over which party would
take the biggest political hit by trampling on core ideological beliefs, such as
no tax increases (Republicans) or no safety-net cuts (Democrats). The deal, in
fact, won't reduce the deficit but add to it, by failing to tame runaway
entitlement spending. According to the  Congressional Budget Office , the package
will reduce revenue by $3.6 trillion over 10 years, using current law (assuming
everything expires as current law is written) as the baseline. A less-
pessimistic view from the deficit hawks at the Committee for a Responsible
Budget is that the package would decrease the national debt by $650 billion over
10 years, if the baseline assumption is current policy (which more realistically
accepts that annual patches, including fixes to the alternative minimum tax, are
essentially permanent). 2. The biggest winner, politically speaking, is President  Barack Obama , who
has made good on his campaign promise to raise taxes on the rich, even if he had
to redefine "rich" as individuals earning more than $400,000 and couples making
more than $450,000. And he'll be soaking them in several other ways, including
by raising taxes on investment income, restoring limits on deductions and
exemptions that the Bush tax cuts had ended, and raising taxes on inherited
estates. Obama wins in other ways, including with a one-year extension of
 unemployment benefits  beyond the typical 26 weeks most states allow, and by
forcing Republicans to back down from entitlement cuts or changing the way
Social Security cost-of-living increases are calculated. 3. The biggest losers are Republicans who signed  Grover Norquist 's no-tax-
increase pledge, as well as Norquist himself. All but five Senate Republicans
plus 85 out of 236 House Republicans voted to raise taxes. It will be the
largest tax increase since 1990, when President  George H.W. Bush  broke his "read
my lips" convention promise -- and paid the price by losing his re-election bid
two years later. 4. Taxes will go up on the rich only, right? Wrong. Federal taxes will rise
for 77 percent of Americans because the two-percentage-point payroll tax cut has
now expired. A person earning $50,000 and who is paid twice a month will lose
$41.67 a paycheck. For the truly rich, those households whose income is $1
million or more, the average tax hit will be $171,330, per the  Tax Policy
Center . Households earning between $500,000 and $1 million will, on average, pay
$15,055 more. All told, the new taxes (not counting payroll taxes) will affect
only 0.7 percent of households, according to the Tax Policy Center. 5. The award for the most illogical reason to vote "no" goes to Senator Marco
Rubio, the Florida Republican who has his eye on a 2016 run for the White House.
"Thousands of small businesses, not just the wealthy, will now be forced to
decide how they'll pay this new tax and, chances are, they'll do it by firing
employees, cutting back their hours and benefits," the senator said in a release
explaining why he was one of eight "no" votes. As Bloomberg View has written,
Rubio is dead wrong on this point: First, small businesses destroy almost as
many jobs as they create. Second, only a tiny percent of small-business owners
would fall into the new upper-income brackets subject to higher taxes. Third,
many businesses counted as small aren’t engaged in traditional small-business
activity. Instead, they are partners in  hedge funds , law firms and private-
equity shops, or they are highly paid actors, athletes, speakers and
authors. 6. The MVP award for best negotiator goes to Vice President Joseph Biden. The
agreement, reached in the waning hours of 2012, was brokered by Biden and
Senator  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the chamber's Republican leader. Obama met
with his staff until 2 a.m. on Dec. 31, but it was Biden who went to the Capitol
to sell the agreement to  Senate Democrats  in a two-hour New Year's Eve
session. 7. The fiscal cliff has not been averted. If anything, the U.S. faces an even
more ominous deadline in a few months. The debt ceiling was hit as of New Year's
Eve. The  U.S. Treasury  will dip into its tool bag to keep the country's
borrowing ability going, but that will last only about two months. Also in early
March, the sequestration -- $110 billion in across-the-board spending cuts, half
in defense and half in domestic programs -- springs back to life, unless
Congress finds a way to offset it with other spending cuts. Weeks later, the law
that keeps the government funded expires. It all means that, in late February
and early March, Congress will face a sequestration, a government default and a
government shutdown. Republicans say they'll use the leverage created by the
debt ceiling to force Obama to accept spending cuts, particularly in entitlement
programs. Obama resisted that notion on Dec. 31, saying he wants more tax
increases and won't accept Republican plans to "shove" spending cuts past him.
"If they think that's going to be the formula for how we solve this thing, then
they've got another thing coming," he said. It isn't clear how Obama plans to
make his threat stick, especially if  House Republicans  are willing to throw the
U.S. into default unless they get the spending cuts they demand. 8. The payroll tax cut expiration, combined with higher taxes for top
earners, may slow the economy, reducing growth in the first quarter to 1
percent, from 3.1 percent in 2012's third quarter, according to economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. But that's on paper. With the fiscal melodrama over (for a
couple of months, at least), the mending economy, housing turnaround, pent-up
consumer demand, rock-bottom energy prices and renewed business investment could
result in robust growth in 2013. 9. The $110 billion in automatic spending cuts, which were the biggest
stumbling block to a final Senate deal, will be delayed for just two months.
Half of the $24 billion cost of delaying the sequestration will be covered by
allowing 401(k) retirement account holders to convert some of their balances
into Roth-style accounts that can be tapped tax-free in retirement. The change
will raise revenue because people who do such conversions pay income taxes up
front. Such conversions aren't currently allowed in 401(k) plans. 10. For individuals whose income is more than $400,000, and households
earning more than $450,000, rates on  capital gains  and dividends will increase
to 20 percent from 15 percent. But the true rate will be 23.8 percent once a 3.8
percent tax, created under the Affordable Care Act, is included. That tax, which
takes effect today, is one of the measures Congress adopted to pay for the
health-care-reform law. ( Paula Dwyer  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board. Follow her on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the Ticker.    