-- Energy Year Ahead: Energy Lobbyists Gird for Tax Overhaul Fight
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-01-02T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/energy-year-ahead-energy-lobbyists-gird-for-tax-overhaul-fight.html
A battle is brewing over a potential
corporate tax overhaul in 2013, and the prospect fills oil and
gas lobbyist Lee Fuller with dread.  “As a whole, this industry really doesn’t see an advantage
to these proposals that would lower the corporate rates and
eliminate deductions,” said Fuller, the vice president for
government relations at the Independent Petroleum Association of
America.  Translation: the  energy industry  is going to cling for life
to its tax breaks.  Repealing investment benefits -- including one that allows
deducting the expenses of everything from roadwork to well
repair -- will curtail investments that are lowering foreign oil
imports and creating thousands of jobs, Fuller said. Critics --
including President  Barack Obama  -- say oil and gas companies
can afford to give more.  Tax issues this year will affect businesses here and
abroad, from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to the U.S. unit of Iberdrola SA,
a Spanish company that specializes in clean energy, if the White
House and Congress get serious about cutting out the dozens of
breaks and subsidies in favor of a lower rate.  Obama’s call to end the $4 billion in annual tax subsidies
to  oil companies  including  Exxon Mobil , the biggest U.S. oil
company, has failed to pass in either house of Congress.  Green Tax Breaks  Green energy interests are also ready to fight to continue
their incentives.  Wind companies, for example, are trying to protect a credit
that shaves as much as a third off the costs of producing power,
saying its disappearance will lead to significant job losses.  The  American Wind Energy Association , a Washington-based
group whose members include General Electric Co., released a
plan in December to phase out the credit in six years, a
concession to growing concerns about the rising federal deficit.  One way to raise revenue is to tax carbon dioxide
emissions, which could also encourage the development of
renewables to address the risks associated with climate change.  The idea appears to have greater cachet off Capitol Hill
than on it. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and incoming
chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, says a
carbon tax would be a “big lift politically.”  Reaching any agreement on energy has been hard to do in
recent years. Congress hasn’t passed a major bill since 2007,
when lawmakers agreed to raise the fuel-efficiency standards for
cars and trucks and set biofuel production targets.  Since then, the U.S. energy landscape has undergone a
“transformational shift,” Wyden said in a recent interview.  Fracking Boom  Hydraulic fracturing has increased domestic production of
oil and natural gas. That’s lowered imports, and cut gas costs
to their lowest level in a decade. Chemical companies are
planning to re-locate stateside because natural gas is an
important ingredient for their products.  Natural gas has also become the fuel of choice for
utilities instead of coal. The switch is lowering  carbon
emissions , even though Obama couldn’t get through Congress a
sweeping  climate-change  bill.  Wyden said more direction from Washington could provide
businesses with greater certainty over where to invest,
expanding growth in an industry that’s already a bright spot in
a sluggish economy.  One issue he plans to examine is whether natural gas should
be exported. Fifteen companies have applied to the Energy
Department for permission to sell to markets in Asia and
elsewhere. An Energy Department-commissioned study has offered
an almost unqualified endorsement of exports.  ‘Low-Carbon Economy’  Wyden said that in 2013 he’ll try to promote hydropower,
biomass and geothermal power sources to help develop a “low-
carbon economy.” On these issues, he said he hopes to find
agreement with the top Republican on the panel, Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, whose state shares some of the same
resources.  Paul Bledsoe, a Washington-based energy consultant, said
he’s doubtful Democrats who control the Senate and Republicans
in charge of the House can agree on a major bill. One possible
way forward would be to couple an energy-efficiency bill with
measures expanding offshore oil and gas production.  “The real question is whether the parties would rather
have a bill or a talking point,” Bledsoe, a former energy
adviser to President  Bill Clinton , said.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING IN 2013:  EPA:  Lisa Jackson ’s planned departure as head of the
Environmental Protection Agency leaves President Barack Obama
facing a confirmation war as regulators prepare to release final
rules imposing the first limits on carbon dioxide emissions.
Congressional Republicans have sought unsuccessfully to prevent
the EPA from acting under the  Clean Air Act  to fight global
warming. In 2013, a new administrator may come under fresh
attacks if the agency acts to limit  greenhouse gases  from
existing facilities. Now proposed rules are limited to new  power
plants .  KEYSTONE: The  State Department  says it will make a determination
about  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s pipeline from Alberta’s  oil sands  to
refineries in Texas early in 2013. Environmentalists oppose the
project because they say it promotes development of tar sands
mining, which releases more carbon dioxide than oil drilling.  CONFERENCES: From  solar panels  to  Canadian oil sands , there is
no shortage of talking topics at various energy conferences
tracked by the  U.S. Energy Information Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  