-- Ex-Citigroup Prop Trader Joel Salomon to Start Hedge Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-01-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/ex-citigroup-prop-trader-joel-salomon-to-start-hedge-fund.html
Joel Salomon, a former director at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , plans to start long-short equity hedge fund
SaLaurMor Capital LP this month.  Salomon, 48, left Citigroup in January 2012, where he ran a
financial-stock portfolio valued at $700 million at its peak in
2011 within the equity principal strategies unit, he said last
month in a telephone interview. Citigroup said in October 2011
it was closing the group as regulators prepared to restrict
banks from using their own money to wager on securities and
markets.  SaLaurMor, named for Salomon’s two daughters, Lauren and
Morgan, will be based in New York and start with a focus on
small- and mid-cap financial stocks such as insurance companies
and asset managers, Salomon said, and it may eventually trade in
the credit of financial firms. The firm, SaLaurMor Management
LLC, will trade in North American, European and Asian markets.  “ Europe  clearly has much cheaper valuations than the U.S.
but the macro headwinds are much more significant there,”
Salomon said. “We found that there’s substantial value in a
fair number of  European insurance  companies. If you look at
dark-cloud scenarios, there’s downside in Europe as well.”  $700 Million  Salomon is fundraising and hopes to attract about $700
million, he said. If the fund ultimately invests in credit, the
capacity may increase.  Salomon joined Citigroup in 2008 and started under two
managers reporting to Sutesh Sharma, who resigned in 2011 to
found the hedge fund Portman Square Capital LLP. Sharma’s team
managed about $2 billion.  Traders have been leaving banks to start or join hedge
funds after U.S. lawmakers approved the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010.
The law, which includes the bank restrictions advocated by
former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker, increased
oversight of Wall Street in response to the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression. While the rule doesn’t go into
effect until 2014, Wall Street firms have begun to comply.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment.  SaLaurMor will probably start with three other employees,
Salomon said, including a senior analyst he has chosen whom he
declined to identify, another analyst yet to be picked and an
executive to lead the firm’s operations.  Insurance Stocks  Long-short funds such as SaLaurMor can bet on or against
stocks.  The fund will have an average holding period of 12 to 24
months for stocks, Salomon said. He sees opportunity in
undervalued and overvalued companies and in those that are
little affected by interest rates or regulation, such as
requirements for banks to hold higher levels of capital.  “We’re looking at companies that are not subject to that
kind of regulation, like reinsurance companies, and we’re
looking at fee-based companies, like insurance brokers,” he
said. “Even in years like 2012, there are some companies down
30 to 50 percent and others up 50 percent or more.”  Before Citigroup, Salomon was vice president and senior
analyst at FSI Group LLC. Prior to that, he was a senior credit
risk manager at  Swiss Re AG. (SREN)  He started his career as an
associate actuary at New York Life Insurance Co. and an analyst
with Moody’s Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  