-- Fix on ‘Dairy Cliff’ Sends Farm Bill Back to Square One
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-01-02T19:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/fix-on-dairy-cliff-sends-farm-bill-back-to-square-one.html
The fiscal-cliff settlement, which
extends the most-recent agriculture law until September, is
frustrating farmer groups that spent 2012 pushing new programs
and now must start again under a tougher spending outlook.  Congress’s approval of a one-year extension of the farm
bill that expired Sept. 30 heads off government-mandated higher
milk prices. It also preserves subsidies that even farmers call
wasteful and makes plans approved by the U.S. House Agriculture
Committee and full Senate last year moot. Now back to square
one, lobbyists and lawmakers may have an even tougher climb as
cost-cutting rules the day, said analyst Mark McMinimy.  “The dairy cliff was the moment their leverage reached its
peak, and that’s passed,” McMinimy, of Guggenheim  Washington 
Research Group in Washington, said in an interview. “They’re
going to have to regroup and may come up with a little bit
different strategy this year.”  Farm bills, usually passed every five years, set policy and
fund U.S. Department of Agriculture programs including food
stamps and crop subsidies, which benefit companies such as
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  by encouraging lower
raw-material costs. Farmers had  record profits  and exports under
the most recent law, approved in 2008, while food-stamp spending
has more than doubled since 2007 because of the recession and
now accounts for about half of the USDA budget.  Debates Postponed  The vote yesterday to raise taxes on the wealthy and
postpone difficult debates on spending cuts also extended farm
programs until Sept. 30, giving Congress time to craft a new
farm bill this year. Without the fix, the government would be
required to buy milk, driving up dairy prices to levels mandated
by a 1949 law that took effect when the previous policy expired.  The International Dairy Foods Association, which represents
 Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery chain, and  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
world’s biggest food company, said it was pleased with the deal
that avoided higher milk prices. “This agreement allows
Congress time to fully and openly consider future reforms to our
nation’s dairy policies,” the group said.  Still, many lawmakers and farm groups were disappointed.
The top Republicans and Democrats on both congressional
agriculture committees had pushed for an extension that
contained elements of legislation they had backed last year,
including a new dairy program intended to stabilize prices for
the boom-or-bust industry. That plan, which House Speaker  John Boehner  blasted as worse than “Soviet-style” economic
management, was stripped from the fiscal-cliff deal.  Written Commitment  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the ranking
Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee and author of the
dairy plan rejected by Boehner, said yesterday he is so angry
about the one-year extension that he wants Republican leaders to
commit to a floor vote on a farm bill before he cooperates on
creating one.  “I’m not going through the effort unless I actually know
they’re going to let us actually do our work,” Peterson said in
an interview. “We were getting screwed -- I knew it -- but
there was nothing I could do about it.”  Voting Record  Peterson was one of only 16 House Democrats to vote against
the fiscal-cliff agreement. House Agriculture Committee Chairman
 Frank Lucas , Republican of  Oklahoma , supported the plan, as did
 Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan , who heads the Senate farm panel,
and  Pat Roberts  of  Kansas , its top Republican.  The House Agriculture Committee plans to start drafting a
new farm bill on Feb. 27, while the Senate panel will begin its
work “soon,” Stabenow said Dec. 30.  Pam Johnson, president of the National Corn Growers
Association, said the one-year patch will make long-term
planning for farmers difficult.  “The system is clearly broken,” Johnson, whose group
represents the country’s most-valuable U.S. crop, said in a
statement. The association hopes congressional leaders this year
“can place petty partisanship aside to create a bill that
benefits all of America,” she said.  The  National Farmers Union , the second-biggest U.S. farmer
group, is also unhappy. “An extension represents a
shortsighted, temporary fix that ultimately provides inadequate
solutions that will leave our farmers and ranchers crippled by
uncertainty,”  Roger Johnson , the group’s president, said in a
news release.  More Difficult  Passing a farm bill this year may be more difficult than in
2012 because of ever-increasing budget pressures, said Gary
Blumenthal, chief executive of World Perspectives Inc., an
agriculture consulting firm in Washington.  Having already had his way on dairy, “Speaker Boehner’s
position is going to be pretty influential,” Blumenthal said in
a telephone interview. Given that, the agriculture committees
may need to pare their wish lists on new programs and focus on a
proposal that will avoid battles with leadership the farm lobby
may lose. “There will be a stronger recognition that we need to
get this done and out of the way,” Blumenthal said.  The agriculture committees still have cards to play,
McMinimy said. The extension means the continued existence of a
$5 billion-a-year program that pays farmers regardless of crop
prices, an unpopular subsidy that last year’s House and Senate
plans discarded. In addition, their 2012 proposals were both
deemed less expensive than current law by the  Congressional
Budget Office , which may make them attractive as the basis of
budget cuts, McMinimy said.  “If there’s a risk going forward it’s that they lose
subsidies and don’t get anything in return,” McMinimy said.
“These guys have a pretty good track record of punching above
their weight class politically. I wouldn’t count them out yet.”  Still, Peterson said he’s not optimistic about progress in
2013, given what happened to last year’s efforts.  In December, “we’re going to be having another big
freakout about the milk prices,” he said. “That’s what’s going
to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  