-- Ex-Satyam Directors Win Dismissal of U.S. Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-03T20:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/former-satyam-directors-win-dismissal-of-u-s-fraud-lawsuit-1-.html
Former  Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS) 
directors persuaded a judge to dismiss claims in a U.S. lawsuit
over a $1 billion accounting fraud.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in New York yesterday
dismissed claims against former members of Satyam’s audit
committee and other directors, citing insufficient allegations
in the complaint. Yesterday’s ruling in the class action, or
group lawsuit, involved only the former board members, not other
defendants in the case.  Most allegations in the complaint “concern an intricate
and well concealed fraud perpetrated by a very small group of
insiders and only reinforce the inference” that some former
board members “were themselves victims of the fraud,” Jones
said in a 71-page ruling.  Satyam, based in Hyderabad, has been embroiled in  India ’s
biggest corporate fraud probe. Former Chairman Ramalinga Raju
disclosed in January 2009 that he overstated assets by more than
$1 billion. In 2011, the company agreed to pay $125 million to
settle a U.S. shareholder lawsuit alleging securities
violations. Other defendants in the lawsuit have also reached
settlements.  Steven Singer, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t return a
call after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on
the ruling.  “We are gratified by Judge Jones’s decision,” said Irwin Warren, a partner with the New York firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP who represented five of the seven directors in the case.
“It was truly unfortunate that these directors -- diligent
individuals of the highest integrity and reputation -- were ever
named defendants.”  The case is In Re Satyam Computer Services Securities
Litigation, 09-md-2027, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  