-- Gas Ships With Car Carriers Seen Recovering Best in Glut
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-01-02T16:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/gas-and-car-ships-seen-best-recovery-bets-as-vessel-glut-lingers.html
Earnings for ships that haul
liquefied gases, cars and oil products are most likely to
recover this year amid a continued glut of merchant vessels that
may spur more bankruptcies, said Arctic Securities ASA.  Gas, auto and oil-product carriers are “niche” areas of
the industry helped by conditions including barriers to entry,
the Oslo-based investment bank said today in an e-mailed report.
Arctic selected  Golar LNG Ltd. (GLNG) , which operates a fleet of gas
ships, and vehicle transporter  Wilh. Wilhelmsen ASA (WWASA)  as two of
its top stock picks for this year.  Fleet oversupply will again weigh on freight rates for
container vessels, crude-oil tankers and ships carrying  dry-bulk 
commodities including coal and iron ore through 2013, Arctic
said. Still, the bank chose dry-bulk carrier  Golden Ocean Group
Ltd. (GOGL)  as a top selection for this year along with Frontline 2012
Ltd.  “Shipping equities have generally been under pressure
through 2012 as most segments are suffering from overcapacity,
but we see 2013 as the year when deliveries abate in most
markets,” Arctic said. Billionaire  John Fredriksen  is the
largest investor in Golar LNG, Golden Ocean and Frontline 2012.  Charter rates for the largest crude tankers will average
$23,000 a day this year, down from $25,200 in 2012, according to
Arctic. Hire costs this year for the ships and smaller oil
carriers as estimated by the bank are “unlikely to be enough to
keep cash balances intact for the industry,” according to
Arctic, which maintained a sell rating on the crude-tanker
fleet.  Scrapped Vessels  Earnings for dry-bulk vessels will remain pressured even as
deliveries of new ships in 2013 ease from a record and combine
with scrapping of older ships to pare fleet growth to 4.1
percent from 12 percent last year, according to Arctic.  “Applying our earnings forecasts to any company model
should lead to a decline in cash balances and we expect more
newsflow on distress sales or companies ‘checking out,’” the
bank said of dry-bulk shipping.  Arctic said it’s concerned that steps taken by banks to
help prevent ship operators from running out of money may create
“a sub-class of ‘zombie’ companies,” delaying a rebalancing of
supply and demand. Still, now is the right time to invest in the
industry, according to the report.  “Despite our view that 2012 may have been the trough year
viewed across all markets, we find the likelihood of more
restructurings in 2013 as very high given the fact that our
earnings forecasts only offer a small uptick,” Arctic said.  Weaker Demand  Shipping of dry-bulk commodities by sea will rise 4.6
percent to 3.9 billion metric tons this year, with the market’s
focus likely to shift to slowing demand from the oversupply of
vessels, Arctic said.  Demand for liquefied natural gas carriers is poised to
remain firm in 2013 after rates gained to records last year amid
demand for the fuel from leading global importer  Japan ,
according to the bank.  Freight rates for very large gas carriers will average
$27,000 to $33,000 daily over the next three years, “a level
that should keep ship owners and investors happy,” Arctic said.
The vessels haul liquefied propane and butane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  