-- German Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerated in December
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-02T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/german-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-december.html
German inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in December as food and travel costs surged.  The inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy, calculated
using a harmonized European Union method, rose to 2.1 percent
from 1.9 percent in November, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had predicted inflation to
remain unchanged, according to the median of 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News  survey . In 2012, inflation averaged 2.1 percent.  Inflation in  Germany  breached the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent limit for a second year even as the debt crisis curbed
spending and investment in the 17-nation currency bloc, the
country’s largest export market. The euro area entered its
second recession in four years in the third quarter and the
German economy may have contracted markedly in the final three
months of the year, the Bundesbank said on Dec. 17.  “We’ve seen massive increases in food prices in December
which are interrupting the gradual decline of inflation rates,”
said Thomas Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “I
wouldn’t exaggerate this development. Inflation should continue
to moderate if energy-price driven costs ease further.”  Oil prices  fell more than 7 percent last year as the
cooling economy curbed demand. The ECB last month lowered its
economic forecasts and President  Mario Draghi  said he expects
euro-area inflation to fall below 2 percent this year.  The rate fell to 2.2 percent in November and economists
predict it dropped to 2.1 percent last month. The European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg will publish that report
on Jan. 4.  In the month, consumer prices rose 1 percent. Non-
harmonized German inflation accelerated to 2.1 percent in
December from 1.9 percent in November, today’s report showed.  Prices for package vacations surged 22.8 percent in
December from a month earlier, and food prices gained as much as
1.2 percent in the states, which published inflation data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  