-- German FDP Voters Favor Bruederle Over Roesler
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-02T14:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/german-fdp-voters-favor-bruederle-over-roesler.html
Eight months before a German election
that may end  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition with the Free
Democratic Party, support for FDP leader Philipp Roesler among
voters is dwindling, a Forsa poll showed.  Seventy-six percent of FDP voters said the party’s caucus
chief,  Rainer Bruederle , would be a better leader than Roesler,
Stern magazine  said , citing the poll it commissioned together
with RTL television.  Roesler’s party may fail to win enough votes for
parliamentary representation at a regional election in his home
state of Lower Saxony on Jan. 20 and may face the same fate at
national level, polls show. The FDP leader  declined  to tell
Bild,  Germany ’s biggest-selling newspaper, whether he’ll run
again for party chairman at a May 3-5 congress in Nuremberg.  “It’s not about individuals. It’s about the future of the
liberal cause,” Roesler was cited as saying by Bild. “Whether
I run again at the next party congress isn’t up for discussion
now. I’ve always said that I am going step by step. The next
step is success in Lower Saxony.”  Deputy FDP leader Birgit Homburger, whose regional group
hosts a Jan. 6 party meeting in Stuttgart,  urged  FDP members to
show unity after Free Democrat Environment Minister Dirk Niebel
said the party should split the jobs of chairman and top
candidate for the September 2013 federal election.  Support for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and its
Christian Social Union Bavarian sister party rose to 41 percent
in a Forsa poll published Dec. 27 from 38 percent a week
earlier, while backing for the FDP slipped to 4 percent from 5
percent. The threshold for parliamentary representation is 5
percent.  The opposition Social Democrats, with former Finance
Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  as candidate for the chancellorship
and Frank-Walter Steinmeier as party leader, held at 27 percent
support while the Green Party, their prospective coalition
partner, fell to 13 percent from 14 percent.  The anti-capitalist Left Party held at 8 percent support.  Forsa polled 1,003 people on Dec. 20-21. The margin of
error was as high as 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  