-- Gevo Surges on Plans to Repurchase $15 Million in Shares
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-02T21:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/gevo-surges-on-plans-to-repurchase-15-million-in-shares.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , which halted production of
its flagship biofuel product in September, rose the most in six
months after saying it will repurchase as much as $15 million of
its “undervalued” stock this year.  Gevo climbed 18 percent to $1.82 at the close in  New York ,
the most since June 20.  The company will fund the purchases with cash and cash
equivalents, Englewood, Colorado-based Gevo said today in a
statement.  The purchase is a sign that the company is making progress
in its efforts to resume production of isobutanol at its plant
in Luverne,  Minnesota , said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  The buyback program sends “a very positive signal” and
“we agree wholeheartedly” that the stock is undervalued,
Molchanov said today in an interview. The company had about $92
million in  cash  as of Sept. 30, more than its current market
value of $70.5 million.  The shares fell 53 percent from Sept. 24 through the end of
the year after the company said it was curtailing isobutanol
production in Luverne to make changes to its manufacturing
process. The chemical, a four-carbon alcohol that Gevo makes
from corn, is blended with gasoline or used to make plastics,
jet fuel and other products typically derived from petroleum.  The “repurchase program reflects our confidence in Gevo’s
future,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Gruber said in the
statement.  The manufacturing problems came in the execution phase,
said Mike Ritzenthaler, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis . He expects Gevo to resume production of isobutanol
at the plant in the second quarter. It’s currently making
ethanol.  “Management’s job now is to regain a bit of credibility
after the snafu they had in production,” said Ritzenthaler.
“This may be the first sign things are starting to move in the
right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  