-- Gundlach’s DoubleLine Hires TCW’s Stallings, Nazer
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-02T15:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/gundlach-s-doubleline-hires-tcw-s-stallings-nazer.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the bond manager
who founded DoubleLine Capital LP, hired two stock fund managers
from TCW Group Inc. as his firm expands into equities.  Brendt Stallings and Husam Nazer, who managed about $5
billion in stock strategies at TCW, the firm that fired Gundlach
in 2009, will join as portfolio managers and partners in a newly
created unit called DoubleLine Equity LP, according to a
statement today from Los Angeles-based DoubleLine.  DoubleLine, which has about $53 billion in assets under
management, is expanding into equities as bond yields hover near
record lows and governments struggle to control spending.
Gundlach said in September that equities are a superior
investment to bonds as an inflation hedge and that he was
seeking to diversify and broaden the firm. He also said at the
time that equities wouldn’t repeat the poor performance they had
from 2000 to 2010.  “I will continue to explore other complementary
partnerships and acquisitions to diversify our business and
serve our clients,” Gundlach said in today’s statement.  Gundlach joins  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest
bond fund, in diversifying into stocks amid speculation the
three-decade rally in bonds may be ending. Gross’s Pacific
Investment Management Co. three years ago started an expansion
into equities in anticipation that their returns will beat those
of bonds over coming years.  Funds Trail  Stallings, 44, and Nazer, 41, will hire at least five
investment professionals this year, according to the statement.
Stallings ran the $71 million  TCW Growth Equities Fund (TGGEX) , whose
institutional shares returned 12 percent over the past year,
trailing 78 percent of rivals. The fund gained 0.6 percent over
the past five years, behind 61 percent of similarly managed
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nazer managed the $822 million  TCW Small Cap Growth Fund (TGSCX) ,
whose institutional shares delivered 3.1 percent over the past
12 months, trailing 97 percent of peers, and 2.3 percent over
the past five years, trailing 52 percent of similarly managed
funds.  Private-equity firm  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in August agreed to
buy TCW in a deal that will give management and employees a 40
percent stake. TCW, which manages about $135 billion, was owned
for more than a decade by French bank Societe Generale SA.  TCW said Nov. 1 that Mike Olson and Chang Lee, research
analysts at TCW, would replace Stallings and Nazer after they
resigned from the firm effective Dec. 31 as co-portfolio
managers of the TCW Small and Mid-Cap Growth Equities team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  