-- Mideast to Beat Emerging Stocks on Yield, Templeton Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-02T13:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/mideast-to-beat-emerging-stocks-on-yield-pursuit-templeton-says.html
Middle East  and North Africa equities
are set to outperform  emerging markets  as higher dividends and
state-funded expansion lure investors hunting for better
returns,  Franklin Templeton Investment Management Ltd. (BEN)  said.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the biggest Gulf Cooperation
Council stocks rose 3.7 percent in 2012, lagging behind the 15
percent rally in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  Shares in the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index, which includes the most-traded stocks
in the six-nation group, offer a  dividend yield  of 3.87 percent,
versus  2.67 percent  on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As international investors search further afield for
yield, the MENA equity case will garner more interest,” Bassel Khatoun and Salah Chamma, Dubai-based co-heads of MENA equity at
Franklin Templeton Investments (ME) Ltd., said in a Dec. 30 e-
mailed response to questions. Stocks trailed emerging-market
peers in the past five years and “given the supportive regional
fundamentals, there is a strong case for the reversal of that
trend,” they said.  MENA stocks underperformed peers as a wave of popular
unrest in the so-called Arab Spring and Dubai’s debt crisis
deterred foreign investors. Momentum is returning as the GCC
invests oil wealth on more than $1 trillion of projects,
including schools and roads in Saudi Arabia and stadiums to host
the 2022 soccer  World Cup  in Qatar. Companies benefiting from
this spending will lure investors given attractive valuations,
said  Franklin Templeton , whose MENA fund had $50 million in
assets under management at the end of November.  Catching Up  Gulf equities trade at 1.57 times book value, or assets
minus liabilities, while those on Egypt’s index trade at 1.39
times, versus a multiple of 1.79 for developed markets in the
MSCI World Index. The BGCC 200 Index gained 1 percent at 5:10
p.m. in Dubai, with the emirate’s benchmark measure surging 2.7
percent, after U.S. lawmakers passed a bill to avert spending
cuts and tax gains threatening the economy.  MENA economies will grow 3.6 percent in 2013, according to
 International Monetary Fund forecasts . That’s three times faster
than average growth for developed nations, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Between 2009 and 2012, the MSCI emerging-market gauge
surged more than 85 percent, compared with a gain of 17 percent
for GCC equities and 19 percent for  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index. Volume
on MENA markets languished in the past two years as popular
revolts ousted leaders in  Tunisia , Egypt, Libya and Yemen,
sparked a civil war in  Syria  and clashes in Bahrain.  Oil Wealth  Apart from Bahrain, GCC states have emerged mostly
unscathed, helping draw more investors to equities in the bloc,
which supplies about a fifth of the world’s oil. Trading volume
in Dubai averaged 119 million in the fourth quarter compared
with 62 million a year ago.  Brent crude  held above $100 a barrel
for a second year. Crude oil rallied as much as 1.7 percent to
$93.42 a barrel in  New York  today.  “As a result of high  oil prices  and increased production,
MENA countries have amassed considerable capital surpluses over
the past 10 years,” said Khatoun and Chamma. “The region
offers exposure to economies with organically high growth rates
that are supported by a combination of low debt and ample
reserves.”  The economy of  Saudi Arabia , home to the biggest Arab
bourse, grew 6.8 percent in 2012, according to Finance Ministry
estimates. That beat the 5.6 percent median estimate of 16
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The fiscal momentum is
encouraging Saudi companies to expand, triggering the fastest
loan growth in almost four years and record debt sales in 2012.
The benchmark Tadawul All Share Index gained 6 percent in 2012
after dropping 3.1 percent in 2011.  Ownership Restrictions  “Pro-growth fiscal measures and accelerating bank lending
has created some highly compelling investment opportunities,”
said Khatoun and Chamma, who sub-advise the Franklin MENA Fund,
which returned 8 percent last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The fund is “keen to access companies that are
directly or indirectly exposed to governments’ infrastructure
spending,” they added.  Still, foreign investors can’t invest directly in Saudi
stocks including  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s
biggest petrochemicals company by market value, and  Kingdom
Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , which is owned by billionaire  Prince Alwaleed Bin
Talal . Moves to open up more to foreigners could serve as a
“transformative catalyst,” Khatoun and Chamma said.  ‘Attractive’ Valuations  Index provider MSCI Inc. classifies the Persian Gulf’s
seven bourses as frontier markets, a designation that typically
applies to markets that are less developed and have more
restrictions on foreign stock ownership. An upgrade for the
U.A.E., Qatar and Saudi Arabia would potentially expand the
dedicated investor base to about $450 billion from $15 billion
now, Khatoun and Chamma estimate.  Shares in Qatar, the world’s richest country on a per-
capita income basis, fell 4.8 percent in 2012, the first annual
decline since 2008 and the second-worst showing in the Persian
Gulf after Bahrain. The drop happened even as Qatar’s economy
expanded 6 percent, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The country plans to spend $130
billion as it prepares to host the World Cup.  Equities on the benchmark  QE Index (DSM)  are valued at  1.59 times
book value,  compared with 2.15 times for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX) 
“Current valuations are attractive from both a relative and
historical perspective and are complemented with a degree of
downside protection,” Khatoun and Chamma said.  The MENA IPO pipeline could also be improving after Saudi
companies helped the region more than double sales this year to
$2 billion, Ernst & Young International said Dec. 23.  Profit Pickup  Profitability at the region’s companies could also support
equities. Dubai-based  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  rallied 46 percent
in 2012, recovering from two years of declines, as the developer
of the world’s tallest skyscraper benefited from a revival in
trade and tourism. Emaar’s annual profit probably grew 16
percent, the average estimate of 11 analysts on Bloomberg shows.
That compares with a 27 percent drop in 2011.  The U.A.E. central bank’s Dec. 30 decision to curtail
mortgage lending may ease concern that Dubai is poised to repeat
one of the world’s worst property market crashes and will help
drive out speculators, according to Emaar.  Egypt’s EGX 30 was the second-best performer among 93
global gauges tracked by Bloomberg in 2012, after its 51 percent
jump erased the prior year’s plunge. The index is set to rally
in the first quarter, led by “fast money” accounts, VTB
Capital Plc said in a report last week.  “With a strong macroeconomic backdrop, attractive
valuations and some important liquidity catalysts on the
horizon, 2013 bodes well for the MENA region,” Khatoun and
Chamma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  