-- Hilary Mantel Wins Costa Novel Award After Booker Victory
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-01-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/hilary-mantel-wins-costa-novel-award-after-booker-victory.html
Hilary Mantel made literary history
last night, becoming the first author to win the Costa Novel
Award after taking the Man  Booker Prize  for the same book,
“Bring Up the Bodies.”  Mantel’s victory is one of a trio of firsts for  Whitbread
Plc (WTB) ’s annual  Costa Book Awards , which saw women authors triumph
in all five categories including biography, captured by Mary and
Bryan Talbot’s graphic memoir, “Dotter of Her Father’s Eyes.”  Other winners included Francesca Segal, daughter of the
late Erich Segal, who took the Costa First Novel Award for “The
Innocents” (Chatto & Windus). A retelling of Edith Wharton’s
“The Age of Innocence,” it unfolds in the heart of present-day
London’s Jewish community.  These category winners will receive 5,000 pounds ($8,148)
from Whitbread’s Costa coffee-shop chain, and go on to compete
for the 30,000 pound Costa Book of the Year, to be awarded in
London on Jan. 29.  Previously known as the Whitbreads, the prizes seek to
honor the most enjoyable books of the year by authors based in
the U.K. and Ireland. They have emerged as a fixture of the
 London  literary calendar since their creation in 1971.  “Bring Up the Bodies” (Fourth Estate) has already helped
Mantel become the first U.K. author to win the Man Booker Prize
twice and the first to win for consecutive novels. The second
installment of her trilogy dramatizing the rise and fall of
Tudor statesman Thomas Cromwell, it was “Quite simply the best
novel of the year,” the Costa Novel Award judges said.  Comic Artist  Mary Talbot jointly snagged the Costa Biography Award with
her husband Bryan, a comic artist whose solo work includes a
series of graphic detective novels.  “Dotter of Her Father’s Eyes” (Cape) is the first graphic
work to win a Costa award, and intertwines the stories of two
father-daughter relationships -- those of  James Joyce  and his
daughter Lucia, and of Mary Talbot and her father, an expert on
Joyce’s work.  Among other Costas, Kathleen Jamie captured the Poetry
Award with “The Overhaul” (Picador), which judges described as
“the collection that will convert you to poetry.”  Sally Gardner, whose dyslexia saw her branded
“unteachable” as a child, won the Children’s Book Award for
“Maggot Moon” (Hot Key Books).  Muse highlights include Norman Lebrecht on  music  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 