-- Million Buck Smiles, Marat’s Empty Bath in Paris Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-01-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/million-buck-smiles-marat-s-empty-bath-in-paris-show.html
Yue Minjun has every reason to laugh.
In 2007, one of his paintings sold at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in  London  for
2.9 million pounds ($4.47 million).  Laughing faces are the Chinese artist’s trademark. At
first, he used to portray friends. Later, he switched to self-
portraits with closed eyes and a big grin.  The  Fondation Cartier  in Paris has organized the first
retrospective of his work in  Europe , bringing together 40,
mostly large-sized paintings and some 100 drawings.  Yue, who was born in 1962, comes from a family of oil
workers. Before he took up painting professionally, he worked as
an electrician on an offshore oil platform. He now lives in
Beijing.  His breakthrough on the international art scene came in
1999, when he was invited to show his work at the Venice
Biennale.  Yue’s laughing faces have led some art critics to lump him
into the Cynical Realist school which satirizes Socialist
Realism, the officially sanctioned style prior to Mao’s death in
1976.  He is, however, reluctant to have his oeuvre pigeonholed,
and he maintains a vague position on the political subtext of
his paintings.  In an interview printed in the show’s catalog, while
discussing the painting “On the Rostrum of Tiananmen,” he is
careful not to criticize the 1989 massacre of protesting
students by government troops. He only admits to “a profound
sense of loss and disillusionment.”  Ai Weiwei  His caution is doubtless one reason why the touchy Chinese
government has left him alone while persecuting his more
provocative fellow artist Ai Weiwei. Still, it’s obvious that
Yue isn’t just an apolitical humorist.  On the surface, “The Execution,” the record-setting
canvas sold at auction in 2007, (a record now held by  Zhang Xiaogang ’s painting “Forever Lasting Love” that sold for $10.2
million in 2011 by Sotheby’s  Hong Kong ) is a parody of Edouard Manet’s “The Execution of Emperor Maximilian,” replacing the
emperor and his entourage with four laughing types in underwear.  Yet the red wall in the background, a reference to
Beijing’s Forbidden City, tells you that the artist had more in
mind than just a spoof.  The same applies to laughing heads cut off from their
bodies or cut open to be filled with what looks like red
balloons. Could this be a sly allusion to brainwashing?  Hidden Intent  Yue, as usual, remains cautious.  “I wonder,” he says in the interview, “whether my way of
painting isn’t interpreted too easily as social criticism. That
doesn’t correspond to what I wish to express.”  Whatever he wishes to say, the message isn’t exactly
original. We’ve known since the 1923 debut of Franz Lehar’s
schmaltzy operetta “The Land of Smiles” that appearances can
deceive and that there’s a lot of frustration and despair behind
a happy facade.  Fortunately, Yue leaves the beaten track from time to time
and ventures on something different.  One of the wittiest pictures in the show is “The Death of
Marat,” a copy of Jacques-Louis David’s celebrated canvas. Only
one detail is missing -- the hero of the French Revolution in
the bath.  “Yue Minjun -- L’Ombre du Fou Rire” is at the Fondation
Cartier, 261 Boulevard Raspail, through March 17.  Information:  http://www.fondation.cartier.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,
 Stephanie Green ’s Scene Last Night and Daniel Akst on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 