-- India Said to Have $24 Billion Cash; May Keep Borrowing Target
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-02T14:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/india-said-to-have-24-billion-cash-may-keep-borrowing-target.html
India ’s cash surplus of 1.3 trillion
rupees ($24 billion) and efforts to clamp down on spending will
help it keep to its borrowing target for the year to March, said
a government official with knowledge of the matter.  The Ministry of Finance, which has completed 89 percent of
its record 5.7 trillion rupee borrowing, will refrain from
breaching that target, the official said, asking not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Any additional
obligations, if required, may not exceed 200 billion rupees,
according to the official.  A reduced possibility of new supply may help bonds extend
gains. India’s 10-year bonds rose for a ninth day today, the
longest winning run since November 2009. At its last policy
review on Dec. 18, the  Reserve Bank  of India cited “large”
government balances as one of the reasons for a squeeze in cash
availability. The overnight interbank borrowing  rate , a gauge of
funding availability, touched a nine-month high of 10 percent
this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a liquidity crunch right now as the government
is spending very slowly,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based
strategist at Nomura Holdings Plc, said in an interview today.
“Since the government’s cash position is pretty comfortable,
the need for more borrowing will be limited.”  The  finance ministry  deferred a debt auction previously
scheduled for this week after reviewing its cash position,
according to a statement on Dec. 31. The government will instead
offer to sell 120 billion rupees of notes in the week ending
Feb. 22.  Ratings Outlook  Lenders borrowed an  average  of 1.2 trillion rupees a day
from the central bank’s repo window last month, the most since
March, reflecting the cash shortage in the banking system. The
government is asking ministries for details of the money they
have spent before allocating more funds, the official said.  The government plans to keep its revised budget deficit
 target  of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product for the
financial year ending March 31 and pare it by 0.5 percentage
point in the next fiscal year, the official said. The fiscal
deficit was 5.8 percent in the last fiscal year.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cited the shortfall and
slowing growth as they lowered their outlooks for the sovereign
rating this year, pushing the nation a step closer to junk
rating. Both companies rank India’s debt BBB-, the lowest
investment grade.  India’s deficit was 4.13 trillion rupees in the first eight
months of this fiscal year, or 80 percent of the annual target,
according to a statement on the website of the Controller
General of Accounts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  