-- India Considers Higher Gold Taxes
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-01-02T11:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/india-may-increase-gold-import-taxes-on-deficit-minister-says.html
India , the world’s largest bullion
buyer, may raise taxes on gold imports to help tackle a record
current-account deficit, Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram said.  “We may be left with no choice but to make it a little
more expensive to import gold,” Chidambaram said, reading from
a statement in  New Delhi  today. “The matter is under the
government’s consideration.”  Curbs may crimp gold demand in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy, hurting prices that rallied for a 12th year in 2012 as
investors held record amounts in exchange-traded products and
central banks stepped up purchases. About 80 percent of India’s
current-account deficit is attributable to gold imports,  Reserve
Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in November.  “Demand will slow down further if taxes are raised. The
jewelry industry is already facing the brunt of a slowing
economy,” Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All India Gems &
Jewellery Trade Federation, said by phone from New Delhi.
Imports may decline by 20 percent to 25 percent in 2013 from an
estimated 750 metric tons last year, he said.  Gold for immediate delivery climbed as much as 0.7 percent
to $1,684.75 an ounce today, the highest level in two weeks,
after the  U.S. Congress  agreed to a budget deal. Prices gained
7.1 percent in 2012.  Record Deficit  “An import-duty hike is possible,” said  Madan Sabnavis ,
chief economist at  Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. (CARE)  in Mumbai.
Increasing the import duty “seems like a sound decision.”  Taxes may be raised to 6 percent from the current 4 percent
over time, Bamalwa said.  Last March, India doubled the tax on purchases of gold bars
and coins to help narrow the current-account gap. Still, demand
for gold picked up “significantly” in the July-to-September
quarter, the Reserve Bank of India said in its biannual
Financial Stability report last month, which flagged the deficit
and said there was depreciation pressure on the rupee.  India’s current-account deficit widened to $22.31 billion
in the three months to Sept. 30 as a faltering global economy
hurt exports, the  Reserve Bank of India  said Dec. 31. That was
in line with the $22.3 billion median estimate of 12 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The current account is the broadest
measure of trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  Gold imports are “a huge drain,” Chidambaram said today.
“Suppose gold imports had been one half of the actual level,
that would have meant that our foreign-exchange reserves would
have increased by $10.5 billion. I would therefore appeal to the
people to moderate the demand for gold.”  Indian Prices  Imports by India rose for the first time in five quarters
in the three months to Sept. 30, according to the World Gold
Council. Imports jumped 9 percent to 223 tons in the third
quarter of 2012 from 205 tons a year earlier, the producer-
funded group said in a report on Nov. 15.  Bullion in Mumbai, which surged to a record 32,464 rupees
($598) per 10 grams on Nov. 26, gained 13 percent in 2012 after
the rupee fell about 3.5 percent against the dollar. Gold for
February delivery climbed 0.5 percent to 31,044 rupees on the
 Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  at 4:02 p.m. in Mumbai.  Buying gold is considered auspicious during religious
festivals and weddings in India. The festival season starts in
August and ends in November, and is followed by the wedding
season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  