-- indonesia inflation slows a second month
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-01-02T08:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/indo-inflation.html
Indonesia ’s inflation slowed for a
second month in December, supporting the central bank’s decision
to hold off interest-rate increases as exports slump.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.3 percent from a year earlier
last month, after a previously reported 4.32 percent gain in
November, the statistics bureau said in Jakarta today. The
 median  estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists was
4.2 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has kept borrowing costs unchanged for 10
straight meetings as exports tumbled and the rupiah weakened.
Price pressure in Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy may rise as a
planned increase in electricity tariffs and minimum wages take
effect, with a possible reduction in fuel subsides also weighing.  “Inflation has stabilized at its current rate,”  Aninda Mitra , head of  Southeast Asia  economics at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said after the data was released.
“We think that inflation is headed higher on account of several
factors such as low base effects, higher wages, and impending
electricity and fuel price hikes.”  Price gains may accelerate to 4.9 percent in 2013, central
bank official Perry Warjiyo said last month.  The rupiah weakened 0.5 percent to 9,685 per dollar as of
2:59 p.m. in Jakarta, after reaching a three-year low of 9,785
earlier, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency declined about 6 percent last year, the
worst performance in Asia after the yen among 11 most-active
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices rose 0.54 percent last month from November.
The core inflation rate was 4.4 percent, the same as the 4.4
percent pace the month before.  Exports Fall  Exports fell 4.6 percent in November, a separate report
showed, declining for an eighth straight month. Imports climbed
9.9 percent from a year earlier, leaving a deficit of $478.4
million. The economy grew 6.17 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from a year earlier, holding above a 6 percent pace for
an eighth quarter.  Exports may decline this year, while investment may rise,
Vice President Boediono said in Jakarta today at the opening of
trading at the Indonesia Stock Exchange. The government is
optimistic Indonesia’s macro economy will “remain good,” he
said.  Indonesia’s budget deficit reached 1.89 percent of GDP last
year as  government spending  slowed and the government didn’t use
reserves and risk-anticipation funds, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  told reporter at the stock market opening in
Jakarta today. The government’s 2012, deficit target was 2.23
percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  