-- Copper Advances in New York Following U.S. Budget Accord
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-02T19:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/industrial-metals-rise-in-london-following-u-s-budget-accord.html
Industrial metals rallied to a three-
month high, leading commodities higher, as a U.S. budget
agreement that averted higher taxes and spending cuts brightened
the outlook for demand.  The House approved a measure skirting income-tax increases
for most households in the country, the world’s second-largest
metals consumer. President  Barack Obama  said he would sign the
bill into law. Global equities advanced, and lead, aluminum and
nickel led gains on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (LMEX)  of 24
raw materials. Copper rose the most in more than three months.  “This does help growth prospects, because if the tax
increases went into play, it definitely would have taken a huge
chunk out of gross domestic product,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner
at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River , New Jersey, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re looking for improved demand this
year for industrial metals.”  Copper futures for delivery in March increased 2.3 percent
to settle at $3.736 a pound at 1:22 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, the biggest gain since Sept. 14.  China  is the largest
metals consumer.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 3.5 percent to $8,209 a metric ton ($3.72 a
pound).  The metal advanced 4.4 percent in 2012 on the LME, the
third gain in four years, helped by forecasts for supply to lag
demand. Copper  inventories  tracked by the exchange declined 14
percent in 2012, the third straight contraction.  The LMEX Index, which tracks the six primary metals on the
exchange, settled at 3,581.7, the highest since Sept. 14.  Tin surged as much as 4.7 percent today, rising to the
highest since February and leading gains among the London
exchange’s six main metals. Lead reached $2,439 a ton, the
highest since September 2011. Aluminum, zinc and nickel also
increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  