-- Huawei, Samsung, ZTE Named in New InterDigital Complaint
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   B e t h   M e l l o r
-- 2013-01-03T03:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/interdigital-files-new-trade-agency-case-against-samsung-huawei.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  were named in a new patent-
infringement complaint filed by  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  over
technology related to the latest mobile-phone standards.  The complaint, filed with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, builds on one that InterDigital lodged
against Huawei, ZTE and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in 2011, which is scheduled
for a hearing in February. The case includes new patent claims
against Huawei, ZTE and Nokia and adds Samsung, which had
previously licensed InterDigital technology.  Samsung Electronics shares dropped 1.8 percent to 1,548,000
won as of 12:13 p.m. in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index
slipped 0.6 percent. The stock touched a record high yesterday
and surged 44 percent last year.  InterDigital claims Huawei, ZTE, Samsung and Nokia products
including mobile phones, USB sticks,  laptop computers  and
components infringe as many as seven of its patents. It’s
seeking an order that would prevent imports of the products into
the U.S.  “While the vast majority of our dozens of licensees
recognize our contributions and choose to license our portfolio
based on discussions alone, in some cases we’re forced to resort
to legal action,” Lawrence Shay, president of InterDigital’s
patent holding unit, said in a statement yesterday.  The company said it filed companion lawsuits in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, seeking cash compensation for the
unauthorized use of its inventions. That case will probably be
put on hold pending the outcome of the ITC case.  King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based InterDigital also
announced yesterday that it had extended a patent license with
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to ensure it covers 4G
technology.  Huawei and ZTE are China’s two largest makers of phone
equipment. Both are based in Shenzhen. Samsung, based in Suwon,
South Korea, is the world’s largest maker of mobile phones.  The first patent case against Huawei prompted the Chinese
company to file an antitrust complaint with European Union
regulators. Huawei claims InterDigital has made “unreasonable
and discriminatory demands” for licensing fees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Mellor in  New York  at 
 bmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  