-- Islamists Join Syrian Rebels in Military Airfield Attack
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-01-02T13:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/islamists-join-syrian-rebels-in-military-airfield-attack.html
Syrian rebels, including an Islamist
group branded a terrorist organization by the U.S., engaged in
“intense” clashes with President Bashar al-Assad’s forces at a
military airfield in the northern region of Idlib.  Opposition fighters appeared to be attempting to storm the
Taftanaz airbase following heavy shelling, according to an e-
mailed statement from the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights . The intense clashes left at least four rebels dead
and one helicopter damaged, the observatory said. The opposition
group said Jabhat al-Nusra, designated a terrorist group by the
U.S. last year because of ties to al-Qaeda, had joined the
attack.  Assad’s military lost barracks, airfields, heavy weaponry
and oilfields across the country during the last quarter of
2012. Fighters engaged in a 22-month struggle to topple the
government in Damascus also have control of mainly Sunni Muslim
towns and suburbs stretching from the northeast outskirts of the
capital to the southwest of the city.  More than 44,000 people have been killed in violence that
has pitted the mainly Sunni Muslim opposition against Assad’s
Alawite-dominated security forces, the observatory estimates.  Air Attack  At least 20 people died today when warplanes struck a gas
station in the Damascus suburb of Mleeha, Omar Hamza, an
opposition spokesman told Al Arabiya television. The attack
killed 50 and wounded dozens more, according to the opposition
Local Coordination Committees in an e-mailed statement. The
number of dead is likely to rise as rescuers continue to pull
human remains from the rubble, the LCC said.  United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi warned on Dec.
30 that the war in  Syria  is spiraling into “hell” that’s
giving power to regional warlords.  “The situation is bad and it’s getting worse,” Brahimi
said in Cairo. “I can’t see anything other than these two
paths: Either there will be a political solution that will meet
the ambitions and legitimate rights of the Syrian people, or
Syria will turn into hell.”  The fighting has caused damage totaling 2 trillion Syrian
pounds ($28 billion), Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi said on
state television on Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  