-- Outlook for 2013 Improves as U.S. Manufacturing Climbs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-02T21:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-increased-to-50-7-in-december.html
Manufacturing picked up in December,
reflecting growth in orders, employment and exports that
indicate the U.S. expansion will be sustained in 2013 following
the budget deal.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing  index 
climbed to 50.7 from a three-year low of 49.5 in November, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group reported today. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction. Other data showed fewer
outlays for non-residential projects pushed down  construction
spending  in November for the first time in eight months.  A rebound in housing and stabilization in global growth
point to a pickup in sales that will boost companies such as
 General Electric Co. (GE)  Stocks surged, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest rally in a year, as Congress
passed a bill averting spending cuts and tax increases that
threatened to push the world’s largest economy into a recession.  “We are starting the new year on at least a fairly firm
note,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who projected the ISM index
would climb to 51. While some manufacturers have been holding
back because of the budget debate, he said, “there is demand in
this economy. As soon as businesses are able to take advantage
of this, we’ll see a bigger contribution from manufacturing to
overall economic growth.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 2.5 percent, the  biggest gain  since
Dec. 20, 2011, to 1,462.42 at the close in  New York . Commodities
surged and Treasuries fell after Congress passed a bill
preventing tax increases for more than 99 percent of households.  Construction Spending  Homebuilding outlays increased 0.4 percent in November to a
$295.3 billion annual rate, the most in four years, a report
from the Commerce Department showed today. The pickup failed to
offset declines in non-residential building and public works as
total construction spending fell 0.3 percent in November after a
0.7 percent gain.  The median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for the ISM index to rise to 50.5. Estimates ranged from
48 to 52. For all of last year, the factory gauge averaged 51.7,
down from 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 in 2010.  “We can take away a lot of positives from the December
report,” Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the ISM factory survey,
said on a conference call with reporters. The agreement to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff “is positive news” and “bodes well
for manufacturing,” said Holcomb, who predicted the index will
gradually climb to the mid-50 level over the next few months.  Growing Orders  The ISM’s report showed a fourth consecutive month of
expanding orders in December, prompting the biggest advance in
the supply managers’ employment index in more than three years.
The group’s export gauge showed sales overseas grew for the
first time in seven months.  Manufacturing in the U.K. unexpectedly expanded in December
at the fastest pace in 15 months, according to a report today
from Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  in  London . In the euro area, manufacturing continued
to shrink, Markit said.  China ’s manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in December at
the fastest pace in 19 months, boosting optimism that a recovery
in the world’s second-biggest economy is gaining traction,
according to a Dec. 31 report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics.  “We see China getting better,”  Jeffrey Immelt , chairman
and chief executive officer at General Electric, said at a Dec.
17 investor meeting. “The U.S. consumer continues to be
stronger and housing gets better, but there’s no doubt that the
fiscal uncertainty slowed activity in the fourth quarter of the
year. We think Europe and  Japan  will remain slow, but stable.”  12 Percent  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
 U.S. economy , was at the forefront of the recovery that began in
June 2009.  The automobile industry remains one source of growth. Cars
and light trucks sold at a  15.5 million  annual rate in November,
the most since February 2008, boosted in part by buyers
replacing cars damaged by superstorm Sandy, according to data
from Ward’s Automotive Group.  An improving housing market also is helping manufacturers
such as  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) , a maker of welding equipment,
construction supplies and auto parts.  “On the construction side, certainly we do expect housing
starts to get better from where they’ve been,” Ronald Kropp,
chief financial officer of the Glenview, Illinois-based company,
said on a Dec. 14 conference call with analysts.  More Optimistic  American manufacturers are more optimistic about the
outlook for sales and spending this year than service providers,
signaling that factories will support the economic expansion
after they slumped in recent months, according to a survey
released Dec. 11 by the ISM group.  Purchasing managers at factories anticipate sales will grow
4.6 percent in 2013 and business investment will increase 7.6
percent, the report showed. By comparison, service providers
estimate revenue will grow 4.3 percent this year and that
 capital spending  will rise 7 percent, the ISM said.  Employers probably added jobs in December at about the same
pace as the prior month, showing the labor market held up as
lawmakers struggled to resolve the fiscal impasse, economists
said before a report this week.  Payrolls rose by 150,000 workers after a 146,000 gain in
November, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department figures due Jan.
4. The  unemployment rate  may have held at 7.7 percent, the
lowest since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  