-- California Law Banning Shark Fin Sales Survives Legal Attack
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-02T23:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/judge-refuses-to-block-california-law-banning-shark-fin-sales.html
A federal judge in  California  refused
to block enforcement of the state’s shark fin sales ban,
rejecting arguments that the law discriminates against Chinese-
Americans.  The law serves a legitimate local purpose based on concerns
that shark finning, in which fins are removed from caught sharks
and the carcasses thrown back into the water, kills millions of
sharks annually causing a serious threat to the ocean ecosystem,
U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton said in a written ruling
today.  “Plaintiffs have provided no evidence that the law was
enacted for the purpose of discriminating against Chinese-
Americans,” Hamilton ruled. “Plaintiff’s own evidence shows
that only a small percent of Chinese-Americans eat shark fin
soup regularly, and that approximately half of Chinese-Americans
actually support the Shark Fin Law.”  San Francisco’s Chinatown Neighborhood Association and
another group representing Chinese-Americans and businesses
whose cultural practices involve using shark fins sued to
challenge the law, which took effect a year ago. The groups said
the law violates constitutional equal protection and other
rights.  California’s shark fin sales ban, passed by the Legislature
in 2011, bars restaurants from selling any newly acquired shark
fins starting July 1 of this year.  Ancient Tradition  Chinese people have had to forgo participating in the
ancient tradition of serving shark fin soup at banquets, and the
law doesn’t protect sharks because it’s still legal to kill
them, lawyers for the groups said in court papers.  Restaurant owners, merchants and importers have lost
hundreds of thousands of dollars in the past year due to lost
sales of shark fin soup and shark fins, according to documents
submitted by the plaintiffs. One Millbrae, California,
restaurant could lose $100,000 a year, while another in Daly
City, California, expects to lose more than $850,000 a year,
Hamilton said, citing plaintiffs’ claims.  “We are disappointed in the ruling but we realize that the
legal standard for preliminary injunction is very high,” Jill
Diamond, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said today in a
telephone interview. “We remain optimistic about the case and
are prepared to move forward until we prevail.”  The case is Chinatown Neighborhood Association v. Brown,
12-03759, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  