-- Killer E-Mail Tips, New Age ABCs Spice Up Gospel on Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-01-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/killer-e-mail-tips-new-age-abcs-spice-up-gospel-on-sales.html
Daniel H. Pink knows something about
sales. Two of his earlier books, after all, have been
bestsellers. His latest is intended to let the rest of us in on
the secret.  And he succeeds well enough.  Pink , whose works include
“ Drive ” and “ A Whole New Mind ,” is one of those amiable
writers who artfully blend anecdotes, insights and studies from
the social sciences into a frothy blend of utility and
entertainment.  His new book, “ To Sell Is Human ,” follows this reliable
recipe, complete with a reference to the Prisoner’s Dilemma, a
staple hypothetical without which no such work would be
complete.  Pink’s main message is that we’re all in sales now. One in
nine Americans, and a comparable proportion of workers in other
countries, is directly employed in selling. Yet that’s only the
beginning, for the rest of us also spend a huge proportion of
our time trying to talk people into things. Pink concludes that
it’s all sales, so we’d better get good at it.  His other point is that today’s selling landscape has
changed radically. No longer can characters who act like they
jumped right out of a script by Arthur Miller or David Mamet
talk the rest of us into swampland or aluminum siding. A
shoeshine, a smile or even some inside dope aren’t enough now to
get people to buy what you’re flogging.  Adam Smith  Pink’s first point -- that we’re all in sales -- is valid,
but it’s not as new as he seems to think. None other than Adam Smith observed that, as a result of capitalism, everyone
“becomes in some measure a merchant.”  That was in “An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the
Wealth of Nations,” which first appeared in 1776.  But as to the changing nature of sales, Pink is onto
something. He observes that the Internet has swept away much of
the information advantage previously enjoyed by sales people, so
that now customers arrive in automobile showrooms, for example,
armed with extensive research, including knowledge of the once-
sacrosanct invoice price.  In place of the time-honored ABCs of selling -- Always Be
Closing -- Pink suggests the New Age-y sounding Attunement,
Buoyancy and Clarity.  Sellers, he says, must focus on a buyer’s needs -- and not
just the ones the customer knows about, but ones customers
haven’t even realized they had. Effective selling means not just
problem-solving, but problem-finding. It means not exploiting,
but serving.  Pink is right, although here too, the news isn’t as new as
he thinks. Once upon a time some Wall Street types really did
live by this idea. Some no doubt still do.  Like most of its Malcolm Gladwell-inspired brethren, this
short book is a little too long; the section on improvisational
theater is mostly a waste.  But the time spent with the last active Fuller Brush Man is
a joy, and it’s fun to read about how Elisha Otis gave the
world’s greatest elevator pitch -- by cutting the cable on an
elevator with himself in it to prove his version was fail-safe.  The author does offer up a fair share of insight and
concrete suggestions. What gets people to read your e-mail? A
subject line that emphasizes usefulness or curiosity, but not
both. The more e-mail your recipient gets, the more you should
lean on utility. And be specific, as in “4 tips to improve your
golf swing this afternoon.”  Gesture Mirrors  It’s easy to make fun of books like this, with its
predictably counterintuitive studies and emphasis on measures
like “mirroring” -- subtly aping the posture and gestures of
your interlocutor. But such works have their uses.  This one is fun, and readers will be well served if they
adopt its wholesome message: that to persuade, you must believe
in what you’re selling, and serve those to whom you sell it.
Sales, in other words, takes idealism.  “Moving others doesn’t require that we neglect these
nobler aspects of our nature,” Pink concludes. “Today it
demands that we embrace them.”  “To Sell Is Human: The Surprising Truth About Moving
Others” is published by Riverhead (260 pages, $26.95). To buy
this book in North America, click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,
 Stephanie Green’s  Scene Last Night and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris
arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in New York at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 