-- Netanyahu Lead Narrows in Poll as Jewish Home Party Gains
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-02T20:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/netanyahu-lead-narrows-in-israel-poll-as-jewish-home-party-gains.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu electoral coalition lost support in a
new poll by  Haaretz  daily, as the Jewish Home party that favors
increased building of West Bank settlements continued to gain.  Likud-Beitenu would win 34 parliamentary seats according to
today’s poll, down from 35 in a Dec. 31 Haaretz survey and 39 on
Dec. 10. Parties likely to support Netanyahu’s efforts to form a
new coalition after the Jan. 22 vote would still gain more than
half of the seats in  Israel ’s 120-seat parliament, the Knesset.  Among the parties expressing support for Netanyahu as
premier is Jewish Home, which opposes concessions to the
Palestinians in the peace process. Jewish Home would gain 14
seats according to today’s poll, up one from Dec. 31 and five
from Dec. 10.  Likud-Beitenu’s decline “is in part a result of mistakes
in its campaign strategy,” according to Tamir Sheafer, a
professor in the political science department of Hebrew
University in Jerusalem.  He cited Netanyahu’s criticism of Jewish Home last month
after its leader Naftali Bennett said that as a soldier he would
refuse orders to evacuate West Bank settlements. “Those attacks
only gave Jewish Home more publicity,” Sheafer said.  Sheafer also said that with Netanyahu, 63, so clearly the
front-runner for prime minister, voters who might support his
party in a closer race feel more comfortable backing smaller
factions that will end up in his coalition anyway.  Likud-Beitenu is still polling at more than twice the
strength of its closest competitor, the Labor party, which would
win 16 seats according to the Haaretz survey. The poll of 666
Israelis has a 3.9 percent margin of error, the daily said.  Netanyahu merged his Likud party list with former foreign
minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu faction in October.
Liberman was indicted on Dec. 30 on fraud and breach of trust
charges after stepping down as minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  