-- New Mutant Laptops Spawned by Windows 8: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-01-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/new-mutant-laptops-spawned-by-windows-8-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Windows 8 is more than just the most
radical makeover in the quarter-century history of  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s
operating system. It’s also creating a new class of mutant
personal computers.  Nowhere is this clearer than in the laptop segment, where
the long-dominant clamshell design is yielding to new forms:
computers that bend, tilt and swivel, with touch screens that
are clearly inspired by, even if they don’t directly compete
with, handheld tablets like  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPad.  With that in mind, I’ve been trying several of these new
convertible-tablet hybrids. All are of the “Ultrabook”
category: They run on  Intel (INTC)  chips, are thin and light as these
things go, have no DVD drives and use solid-state  flash memory 
in place of a traditional hard disk.  Of the first wave, my favorite so far is  Lenovo (992) ’s IdeaPad
Yoga, which as its name implies can be folded into all sorts of
interesting positions.  At first glance, the Yoga, which starts at $999, looks like
a fairly standard clamshell, .67 inch (1.7 centimeters) thick 
and weighing 3.4 pounds (1.5 kilograms). It’s solidly built, 
with hinges strong enough to keep the 13.3-inch screen from 
flopping around -- one of my laptop pet peeves.  If you use the screen only in that position, though, you’re
missing the whole point.  Touchscreen Tablet  Fold the Yoga over and it becomes a touchscreen tablet --
too heavy to hold for long, but useful to watch a video or take
advantage of Windows 8’s full-screen applications. (The
keyboard, which faces out, is automatically disabled to avoid
errant presses.)  You can also stand the screen up, using the inverted
keyboard as a base, or prop it up like a tent.  The major drawback, one that afflicts its competitors as
well, is the minimal storage capacity -- or, more specifically,
the amount of it claimed by Windows 8 system files. Fewer than
half the 128 gigabytes on my test machine were available for my
own applications, files and content. The least expensive model
with a more plausible 256 GB, available in the U.S. only through
 Best Buy (BBY) , is $1,400.  Eccentric Sony  Sony devices these days range in design from
straightforward to what-were-they-thinking eccentricity. The Duo
11, which starts at $1,200, falls into the latter category.  At rest, the Duo is a tablet .71 of an inch thick. At 2.87
pounds, it is more manageable than the Yoga. But it becomes
considerably less satisfying when, after fumbling around to
figure out how to open it, you lift and slide the 11.6-inch
touch screen to expose the keyboard.  The problem is the design, which means that the propped-up
screen covers almost half the base. The result is a cramped
keyboard with no place to rest your palms, nor even a track pad.
Instead, there’s a tiny round pointing device wedged in between
the G, H and B keys.  It makes for a thoroughly unpleasant typing experience.
While  Sony (6758)  tries to mitigate the input problems by including a
stylus, there’s no place on the Duo 11 to store it.  In general, the Duo 11 is much better for consuming content
than for producing it: The high-resolution screen makes viewing
high-definition videos in tablet mode a pleasure. But my test
unit was plagued by a balky accelerometer that sometimes took an
inordinate amount of time to reorient the screen when I flipped
it from landscape to portrait.  Un-Flashy Toshiba  Over the years, Toshiba has developed a reputation for
solid, decidedly un-flashy, laptops. Windows 8 has given it the
opportunity to finally break out, and Toshiba has seized the
moment to deliver the Satellite U925t, a convertible starting at
$1,150 that is -- sorry -- solid and decidedly un-flashy.  At 3.4 pounds, the Satellite is actually a little lighter
and has a smaller footprint than the Yoga. But it feels bulkier,
owing to its slightly greater thickness and less elegant design.  Like the Sony, and unlike the Lenovo, the  Toshiba (6502) ’s screen
is always exposed, meaning that you may want some sort of sleeve
or cover to protect it from dirt when not in use.  Also like the Sony, you slide the screen up to put the
Satellite into laptop mode. But at least you have an adequately
sized keyboard, a touchpad and a little extra space for your
wrists. You also have a larger screen -- 12.5 inches -- though
its 1366-by-768-pixel display lags behind both the Duo 11 and
Yoga. And while long battery life isn’t an outstanding
characteristic of this entire category, the Satellite was
marginally better than either of the others.  The coming months will see the arrival of scores of similar
Windows hybrids, most notably including a new, more powerful
version of Microsoft’s Surface. Whether these new devices can
stave off the PC’s long, slow decline remains to be seen, but in
the meantime they are introducing some welcome novelty into the
market.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Norman Lebrecht on  music , Catherine
Hickley on  art   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 