-- Norway House Prices Surge in December, Adding to Rate Pressure
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2013-01-02T11:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/norway-house-prices-surge-in-december-adding-to-rate-pressure.html
House prices  in  Norway  rose the most
in more than a year in December as near-record low  interest
rates  fueled home buying, increasing pressure on the central
bank and financial regulators to cool credit growth.  House prices, which have doubled since 2002, rose an annual
8.8 percent in December compared with 7.5 percent in the prior
month, the Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents said in a
statement today. Prices gained a seasonally adjusted 1.7 percent
in the month and rose 7.7 percent for all of 2012, according to
the Oslo-based organization.  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita is
withstanding a recession in the euro area, and even displaying
signs of overheating, amid record investment in Norway’s
petroleum industry. The central bank kept  its benchmark interest
rate  unchanged at 1.5 percent in December and stuck to a plan to
raise rates as soon as March.  “The figures confirm our long hold view that the housing
market needs some kind of stabilizing factor,” said Frank Jullum, chief economist for Norway at Danske Bank A/S. “We will
see some measures from the government in 2013, aimed at damping
the housing prices.”  The  Finance Ministry  last month moved to stem household
lending as the central bank estimated private debt levels will
exceed 200 percent of disposable incomes in 2013. The government
proposed an increase in risk weights on mortgages to 35 percent,
about triple current levels, and wants to place limits on
covered bond lending. The central bank will also, starting next
year, advise the ministry on countercyclical buffer requirements
for banks.  Stricter regulation is seen helping to cool house price
growth. Leif Laugen, a deputy leader at the Association of
Norwegian Real Estate Broking Companies, estimates growth will
ease to a “moderate” 4 percent to 6 percent in 2013.  Weak global growth prospects abroad have curtailed the
central bank’s scope to address overheating risks without
fueling krone gains. Central bankers in the euro area, the U.S.
and  Japan  have resorted to additional stimulus, pushing rate
increases further out in time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  