-- NYC Top-Quality Office Availability Reaches 19-Year High
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-01-02T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/nyc-top-quality-office-availability-reaches-19-year-high.html
The availability of top-quality 
 office space  in  Manhattan  rose to the highest in almost two
decades as a new skyscraper at the  World Trade Center site 
neared completion, according to brokerage Studley Inc.  The Class A availability rate jumped to 14.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from 12.3 percent the previous three months, the
New York-based firm said in a draft report. Studley, which
represents tenants, defines availability as empty space plus
offices that are slated to become vacant in the next 12 months.  The increase was largely driven by a rise in available
space in lower Manhattan, where 4.3 million square feet (399,000
square meters) is being marketed at the new 4 World Trade Center
tower and  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ’s World Financial
Center. Almost 1 out of 5 square feet of offices downtown are
unclaimed -- a 20-year high and up from 12.6 percent in the
third quarter, Studley said. The influx of space, along with
“cautious” leasing by companies, may pressure landlords to cut
asking rents, said Michael Colacino, the brokerage’s president.  “There’s got to be an inflection downward in pricing
downtown to really clear that market, to get all that space
absorbed,” Colacino said in an interview. “The rents at the
Trade Center and the Financial Center will have to come down to
make that market happen.”  For all of Manhattan, the fourth quarter’s Class A
availability rate was the highest since the end of 1993, when
the city was recovering from the savings and loan crisis that
caused  Wall Street  to cut 16 percent of its jobs, according to
Studley.  Downtown Space  Larry Silverstein , developer of 4 World Trade Center, has
about 1 million square feet still unrented at the 2.3 million-
square-foot skyscraper, set to open by late 2013. The World
Financial Center, in the process of being renamed Brookfield
Place, has almost 3.3 million square feet becoming available,
mostly from the expiration of Bank of America Corp. leases.  The two downtown landlords are seeking rents of $55 to $75
a square foot, according to the Studley report. In the fourth
quarter, the average asking rent for Class A offices downtown
was $51.11, up 1.4 percent from the previous three months, the
brokerage said.  Landlords sitting on large blocks of available space may
also have to accept smaller tenants than they may have planned
for, Colacino said.  “There aren’t a lot of 800,000- to 1 million-square-foot
tenants out there,” he said. “There are a fair number of
500,000- to 600,000-foot tenants. Back in the day, there were
always a few million-square-foot behemoths out there, and I just
don’t see them in today’s market.”  New Buildings  Silverstein expects his new skyscraper “to lease up just
as successfully” as 7 World Trade Center, the 1.7 million-
square-foot tower that was rebuilt after the 2001 terrorist
attacks and is fully occupied, said  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for
the developer.  “Great companies want to be in new, green, high-tech
buildings,” he said.  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman for New York-based Brookfield,
declined to comment on World Financial Center leasing.  The citywide availability rate will probably keep climbing
through 2013 as another 3.3 million square feet of Class A space
hits the market, the brokerage said. That includes 1.3 million
square feet at 1 World Trade Center, the skyscraper being
developed by the  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  and
the Durst Organization.  ‘No Pressure’  The tower, slated to be the Western Hemisphere’s tallest at
1,776 feet (541 meters), “is unique,”  Douglas Durst , the Durst
Organization’s chairman, said in an e-mail. “With over 55
percent of the building already leased, we are under no pressure
and have no intention of lowering our asking rents.”  Also next year, 880,000 square feet at 180 Maiden Lane, a
downtown tower co-owned by  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , is slated to
become available when American International Group Inc. leaves
in May 2014, Studley said.  The property was among many on the eastern edge of lower
Manhattan whose basements flooded Oct. 29 during  Hurricane
Sandy , making the buildings uninhabitable for several days.
Damage in the area may mute demand by technology firms, which
were the most aggressive takers of office space in 2012,
Colacino said.  Many New York businesses have been delaying leasing
decisions while they wait out the resolution of U.S. budget
talks, financial regulations under the Dodd-Frank law and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, Colacino said.  Leasing Slowdown  Total Manhattan office leasing in the fourth quarter was
less than 6 million square feet as of mid-December, after two
straight quarters of more than 9 million square feet each,
according to Studley. The pace is similar to the first three
months of 2012, which had the smallest amount of leasing since
the 2009 recession, the brokerage said.  Most  New York  companies are reducing the amount of space
per employee, with many choosing row-style seating arrangements
over individual offices or cubicles, Colacino said.  In Midtown, the largest and most expensive U.S. office
market, Class A availability rose by almost a percentage point
to 13.1 percent, the highest level since the middle of 2010,
according to Studley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  