-- Oil Rises to Three-Month High as U.S. Passes Budget Bill
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-01-02T20:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/oil-rises-to-three-month-high-as-u-s-passes-budget-bill.html
Oil rose to the highest level in more
than three months after U.S. lawmakers passed a bill to undo
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that had threatened
growth in the world’s biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures climbed 1.4 percent as the  House of Representatives 
approved a Senate measure to reverse higher income taxes for
more than 99 percent of households. President  Barack Obama  said
he will sign it into law. Oil reduced gains as the euro erased
an advance against the dollar.  “The congressional action has made people feel a lot more
optimistic about the  U.S. economy , and we are seeing a big move
up for oil,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The big
thing is that there is no tax increase for most people.”  West Texas Intermediate for February delivery rose $1.30,
or 1.4 percent, to $93.12 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement level since Sept. 18.  The futures dropped 7.1 percent last year, the first
decline since 2008. Trading was closed yesterday for the New
Year’s Day holiday. The volume for WTI oil contracts was 3.3
percent below the 100-day average at 3:16 p.m. in  New York .  Brent for February settlement rose $1.36, or 1.2 percent,
to $112.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The North Sea grade advanced 3.5 percent in 2012, a
fourth annual gain. The number of contracts trading was 0.6
percent less than the 100-day average.  The euro fell 0.2 percent against the dollar after rising
as much as 0.7 percent. A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  House Vote  The House approved reinstating cuts that expired Dec. 31 on
taxable individual income of up to $400,000 and $450,000 for
married couples. The bill leaves higher earners with a marginal
tax rate of 39.6 percent, up from 35 percent in 2012. It also
extends expanded  unemployment benefits  and continues refundable
tax credits for low-income families and college students.  “Investors are euphoric because we’ve avoided going over
the fiscal cliff,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at
the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The better growth outlook
should keep prices rising for at least the next couple of
weeks.”  The legislation passed the House by a  vote  of 257-167 after
11 p.m. yesterday in  Washington . Republicans immediately turned
to their next battle -- a bid to use the need to raise the
nation’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling to force Obama to accept
cuts in entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “The debt ceiling is another huge fight,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital
Advisors. “You still have quite a few substantial things out
there that could really impede growth.”  Technical Indicator  WTI front-month closed above the 200-day moving average for
the first time since Sept. 17 after touching above it in
intraday trading on Dec. 31.  Ending above the average helps “maintain a lot of
momentum,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at
Iitrader.com in Chicago.  Oil also gained as manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in
December at a pace that shows the industry is stabilizing. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing  index  climbed to
50.7 last month from November’s 49.5, the weakest level since
July 2009, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today.  Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise to 50.5.  A government gauge of  China ’s manufacturing showed a  third
month of expansion  yesterday, a sign that the recovery in the
world’s second-biggest oil-consuming country will extend to this
year.  Chinese Manufacturing  “China’s manufacturing number is pretty solid and so is
the U.S. ISM number,” Baruch said. “We have a deal worked out
in Washington. If we continue to get solid data this week, I
expect the market to break above the $95 level.”  Oil futures in New York last traded above $95 a barrel in
September.  WTI slid in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom deepened a glut at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest storage hub and the
delivery point for the New York contract. That left it at an
average $17.48 a barrel below Brent last year, compared with a
premium of about 95 cents in the 10 years through 2010. The
difference was $19.35 a barrel today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  