-- Oil Climbs to Three-Month High as U.S. House Passes Budget Bill
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-02T12:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/oil-trades-near-two-month-high-as-u-s-senate-passes-budget-bill.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
almost three months in New York after U.S. lawmakers reached a
deal to avert automatic tax increases and spending cuts that
threatened growth in the world’s biggest economy.  Futures increased as much as 1.7 percent after legislation
to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff was passed by a vote of
257-167 in the House after Republicans abandoned an effort to
add spending cuts to the Senate’s plan. A government gauge of
 China ’s manufacturing showed a third month of expansion
yesterday, a sign that the recovery in the world’s second-
biggest oil consumer will extend to this year.  “The compromise reached on the fiscal cliff means that the
U.S. economic recovery can continue unimpeded,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
London, who predicts oil will remain near current levels this
month. “Unemployment will continue to shrink in the U.S. and
the housing market to recover.”  West Texas Intermediate for February delivery rose as much
as $1.60 to $93.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the highest since Oct. 10. It was at
$93.27 at 12:51 p.m. in London. WTI dropped 7.1 percent last
year, the first drop since 2008. Trading was closed yesterday
for the New Year holiday.  Brent for February settlement rose $1.13, or 1 percent, to
$112.24 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The North Sea grade advanced 3.5 percent in 2012, a
fourth annual gain.  Bipartisan Vote  WTI slid in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom deepened a glut at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest storage hub and the
delivery point for the New York contract. That left it at an
average $17.48 a barrel below Brent last year, compared with a
premium of about 95 cents in the 10 years through 2010. The
difference was $18.89 a barrel today.  The bipartisan agreement in the U.S. breaks a yearlong
impasse over how to head off $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts taking effect today. The Senate passed the bill
early Jan. 1 by a 89-8 vote and President  Barack Obama  said he
will sign the legislation.  “This law is just one step in the broader effort to
strengthen our economy,” Obama said at the White House after
the House vote.  “Now that the deal is through it’s no surprise that oil is
trading higher,” said Michael McCarthy, a chief strategist at
CMC Markets in Sydney, who predicts WTI may reach $100 a barrel
this month. “We’re clearly seeing a modest expansion in
manufacturing in China. That speaks directly to global oil
demand.”  China Manufacturing  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.6 in December,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday in Beijing. That
compares with the 51 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 27 analysts and 50.6 in November. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  A report later today may show U.S. factories produced more
last month. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
index probably rose to 50.4 in December from 49.5 the prior
month, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  Oil’s rally in New York may stall as futures reach
technical resistance, a level where sell orders are typically
clustered. The 14-day relative strength index has risen to 67.1,
the highest since mid-September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A reading above 70 signals prices may have climbed
too quickly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  