-- Olam Says in Best Shape Since 2005 IPO Amid Waters Attacks
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-01-03T09:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/olam-says-balance-sheet-strongest-since-2005-initial-share-sale.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader that short-seller  Carson Block  said may fail,
said it’s in the best financial health since its 2005 initial
public offering and is “comfortable” with its debt.  The world’s second-largest rice trader had S$3.42 billion
($2.8 billion) of equity and S$6.99 billion of net debt as of
Sept. 30, Singapore-based Olam said yesterday in a filing. It
had S$10.71 billion in cash, readily traded assets and undrawn
credit lines as of that date, Olam said.  Block first questioned Olam’s accounting methods at a
conference in  London  on Nov. 19, and later likened it to failed
energy trader Enron Corp. in a report by his research firm  Muddy
Waters  LLC. Olam, which counts Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte
as its second-biggest shareholder, refuted Block’s claims and
responded with a proposed $1.25 billion bond and warrants
offering to address “lingering doubts” about its financial
position.  “The company has the strongest balance sheet position
including its highest equity base and lowest gearing since its
initial public offering in February 2005” as of June 30, 2012,
Olam said yesterday. The company “has a solid future on the
back of a clear and differentiated strategy, a strong business
model, and a proven execution capability,” it said.  Olam extended gains for a second day and closed 3.3 percent
higher at S$1.70 in Singapore, the highest price since Nov. 19.
Olam, the  second-worst performer  on the Straits Times index in
2012, lost 27 percent last year.  Legal Action  The company, also one of the six largest cotton traders,
has said it faces no risk of insolvency and sued Block and Muddy
Waters on Nov. 21 in the Singapore High Court, calling their
comments malicious falsehoods. Muddy Waters rated Olam a strong
sell in a 133-page report in November, saying it was likely to
fail.  “The board is comfortable with the current equity levels
and gearing,” Olam said yesterday in the filing.  Olam said Dec. 3 it will offer $750 million in bonds and as
much as $500 million in warrants. Temasek, Singapore’s state-
owned  investment company , said it would back Olam’s bond
offering and will buy any rights not taken up by other
 investors . Kewalram Singapore Ltd., Olam’s biggest shareholder,
said Dec. 10 it also supports the company’s bond issue and its
business strategy.  The bonds and warrants are expected to be issued on Jan.
29, Olam said yesterday.  No Equity Needed  Olam doesn’t need any further new equity at this stage and
does not need to access the debt capital markets until the end
of fiscal 2014 should it choose to, it said yesterday.  Houston-based Enron, once the world’s largest energy
trader, plunged into bankruptcy in December 2001 following
revelations it was using off-balance-sheet vehicles to hide
billions of dollars in losses and inflate the stock price. More
than 5,000 jobs and $2 billion in employee retirement funds were
wiped out by the collapse. Investors sued to recover more than
$60 billion in losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  