-- Monti Not Seeking Presidency as Ally Questions Bersani’s Chances
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-02T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/monti-not-seeking-presidency-as-ally-questions-bersani-s-chances.html
Prime Minister Mario Monti said he is
not seeking  Italy ’s presidency as his decision to try for a
second term in elections in February hinders his chances of
being appointed to the non-partisan post.  “It’s obvious that I have never aimed” to succeed Giorgio Napolitano, whose seven-year term expires in May, Monti told
Radio Uno’s Radio Anch’io program today. “Some political
observers said that was likely; it’s certainly less likely
today,” he said.  Monti first declared on Dec. 28 that he would guide a
coalition of centrist parties in the Feb. 24-25 vote. His bloc
trails the Democratic Party in all opinion polls. Monti’s ally,
Union of Centrists party head Pier Ferdinando Casini, said today
that Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani cannot expect to
become prime minister unless he wins a majority in both houses
of Parliament.  Italy’s election law makes it difficult for a party to gain
a majority in the Senate, meaning Monti’s forces may end up in a
position to bargain with the Democrats over forming a coalition
government if the elections produce a hung parliament.  Many investors “hope that Monti is in there somewhere,
leading a coalition of maybe not like-minded parties, but just
keeping an element of reform, at least not unwinding the reforms
that are currently put in place”  Rob Carnell , chief
international economist at ING Group NV in  London , told Guy
Johnson and Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television today.  Open to Alliance  Bersani, who backed Monti’s 13-month-old government, told
daily newspaper la Repubblica on Dec. 30 that he was open to an
alliance with Monti and his allies and that “one cannot govern
with 51 percent.” Monti signaled today that he thought the
positions of some in the Democratic Party on issues such as
welfare and labor relations are too rigid and not in line with
his policies.  Monti is leading an alliance of centrist parties that back
his agenda to continue an economic overhaul of Italy while
supporting support pro-European policies. While he’s overseen a
recovery in Italy’s bonds and repaired its tattered standing
abroad, Monti’s agenda has left Italians with higher taxes,
rising unemployment and an economy mired in its fourth recession
since 2001.  Yields Fall  The yield on 10-year bonds, which surged to 7.26 percent in
November 2011, past the level that had prompted Ireland,  Greece 
and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, was at 4.31 percent at 12:55 p.m.
in Rome. The gap with similar-maturity German bunds was 292
basis points, down from a 2011 high of 553 basis points.  The Democratic Party had the support of more than 30
percent of potential voters, with its coalition allies backed by
another 6 percent in a Dec. 21 poll by the SWG Institute. A list
led by Monti would get 15.4 percent, the poll showed.  Monti said today that the light at the end of tunnel of
 Europe ’s economic crisis is “closer” and that Italy’s standing
with  Germany , the euro-region’s biggest economy, has improved
under his government. If confirmed as head of government after
the elections, he would commit to lower taxes for families while
cutting public spending further and reducing the size of
Parliament, Monti said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  