-- Pakistan Airlines Seeks State Aid After Years of Losses
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-01-03T11:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/pakistan-airlines-seeks-government-support-after-losses.html
Pakistan International Airlines
Corp. (PIAA) , the flag carrier reeling from seven straight years of
losses, sought financial assistance from the government for at
least a third time since 2007 to pare debt.  The carrier, known as PIA, has asked for 25 billion rupees
($257 million) from the government, Managing Director Muhammad Junaid Yunus said in a Jan. 1 interview at his office in
Karachi,  Pakistan . The  management  is in talks with the  finance
ministry  to raise the capital before March, he said.  “I’m praying that we get this,” Yunus said. “This is a
government airline, it’s a national asset.”  PIA plans to lease 12 fuel-efficient planes this year,
Yunus said, as the company turns for funds to the government,
which itself is trying to repair state finances after recording
the highest  budget deficit  in two decades. South Asian carriers
 Air India  Ltd. and SriLankan Airlines Ltd. have also won state
funding amid competition from Emirates and Middle East carriers.  Pakistan’s national carrier got government loans of 25
billion rupees in 2007 and about 8 billion rupees in the year
ended in June 2009, Yunus said.  “The cash injection won’t bring PIA out of trouble but it
will still make things better for them,” said Khurram Schehzad,
the Karachi-based head of research at brokerage Arif Habib Ltd.
“The implementation of this should be gradual considering the
looming elections and the coming budget.”  PIA  fell  0.3 percent to 3.81 rupees at the close in
Karachi, erasing a gain of as much as 5.5 percent. The benchmark
KSE 100 index rose 0.6 percent. The stock more than doubled last
year, ending eight straight years of annual declines.  Kingfisher Losses  Fuel costs and rising competition have also hurt other
carriers in the region. The Indian government said it may
provide as much as 300 billion rupees ($5.5 billion) to
unprofitable Air India through 2020.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ,
India’s second-biggest carrier by market share in 2011, has
halted operations since October after five years of losses.  PIA plans to lease eight A320s and four turboprops, Yunus
said. The Airbus planes would be used for services to cities
including Dubai,  Abu Dhabi ,  Kuwait  and Mumbai. The company will
raise bank loans to fund the fleet upgrade after government
approval, he said.  The carrier has a debt of 150 billion rupees, Yunus said.
PIA posted a  loss  of 26 billion rupees in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It previously reported an annual
profit in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  