-- Paulson Named in ACA’s Revised Goldman Sachs CDO Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-03T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/paulson-named-in-aca-s-revised-goldman-sachs-cdo-suit.html
Paulson & Co., the  New York  hedge
fund, was named as a defendant in a proposed revised lawsuit by
 ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. (MANF)  against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
over a collateralized debt obligation called Abacus.  Paulson and Goldman Sachs conspired to induce ACA to
provide financial guaranty insurance for the Abacus deal, which
was “doomed to fail,” the firm said in papers filed yesterday
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. ACA, which sued
Goldman Sachs in 2011, is seeking court permission to file a
revised complaint adding Paulson as a defendant.  “The proposed amended complaint properly pleads that, at a
bare minimum, Paulson gave Goldman Sachs substantial assistance
in achieving the fraud,” ACA said.  Goldman Sachs in July 2010 won court approval of a $550
million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over claims that it misled investors in the Abacus
CDO. Goldman Sachs failed to disclose Paulson’s role in selecting
underlying securities or that Paulson had taken a short position
against the CDO, the SEC said.  ‘Baseless Action’  Goldman Sachs and Paulson deceived ACA into believing that
Paulson was a long investor in the deal and agreed to structure
the transaction in a manner that concealed Paulson’s short
interest, ACA said in court papers.  The request to add Paulson as a defendant “is completely
without merit,”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, said in
a statement.  “As there is no basis in law or fact for the proposed
amendment, Paulson will defend itself against this baseless
action if the amendment is allowed,” he said.  State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick ruled in April
that ACA’s fraud claims against New York-based Goldman Sachs
could proceed. ACA is seeking to recover $120 million in
damages, according to a court filing.  The case is ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. v. Goldman Sachs &
Co., 650027-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  