-- PDVSA Bonds Rally as Chavez Suffers New Health Setback
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-01-02T19:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/pdvsa-bonds-rally-as-chavez-suffers-new-health-setback.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied, with yields
on notes from the state oil company falling to a record low, as
President  Hugo Chavez  suffered a new setback in his recovery
from a fourth cancer operation.  Yields on Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA’s 8.5 percent bonds due
in 2017 fell 57 basis points, or 0.57 percentage point, to 8.46
percent at 2:40 p.m. in Caracas, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The price of the securities from PDVSA, as the company is
known, rose 2.21 cents to 100.14 cents on the dollar.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said he’s returning to
Venezuela after spending time at Chavez’s bedside during a four-
day visit to Cuba during which he revealed that the self-
declared socialist suffered renewed complications from a
respiratory infection following surgery three weeks ago. Bonds
also rose as U.S. lawmakers passed a bill undoing tax increases
for 99 percent of households, boosting the prospects for the
world’s largest economy and buoying emerging-market assets.  “Venezuelan bonds are reacting to Chavez’s situation and
to the news of the fiscal agreement in the  United States ,”
Francisco Ghersi, the managing director at Knossos Asset
Management in Caracas, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Because the 2017 is the most liquid of PDVSA bonds,
it normally moves most on good and bad news.”  Venezuelan  government bonds  returned 47 percent last year,
the most in  emerging markets  after  Ivory Coast , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBI Global index, as investors bet that
Chavez’s battle with an unspecified form of cancer would prevent
him from completing a third term and pave the way for economic
policies in Venezuela supporting investment.  Election Results  The government’s benchmark 2027 dollar bond rose 3.07 cent
to 102.41 cents on the dollar, the highest price since Dec. 12.
The yield fell 38 basis points to 8.95 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chavez, who first disclosed his cancer in June 2011,
defeated Henrique Capriles Radonski by more than 10 percentage
points in an Oct. 7 election after telling Venezuelans he was
“totally free” of the disease. He was last seen in public on
his arrival in Cuba on Dec. 10 and is due to start a third six-
year term on Jan. 10, though the government has said the date
and venue for the swearing-in ceremony are flexible.  Before departing for Cuba, Chavez urged Venezuelans to vote
for Maduro, his long-time foreign minister and recently-
appointed deputy, should his health prevent him from resuming
office.  Surgery Complications  If Chavez is unable to start his new term on Jan. 10 and
doesn’t step down, under the country’s constitution the National
Assembly president must determine if the absence is temporary or
permanent. If his absence is deemed permanent, the head of
parliament must call for an election within 30 days.  During the Dec. 11 operation, his fourth in 18 months,
Chavez experienced complications due to bleeding, Maduro said
Dec. 13. Surgeons took corrective measures in time to control
the bleeding, he said. A week later, Information Minister
Ernesto Villegas said that Chavez was in “stable” condition
after his medical team controlled a respiratory infection.  Maduro said yesterday he was encouraged by the the
“immense strength” displayed by Chavez during two visits to
the Havana hospital where the Venezuelan leader is being
treated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  