-- Pennsylvania Sues NCAA Over ‘Illegal’ $60 Million Fine
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-01-02T22:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/pennsylvania-to-sue-ncaa-over-sandusky-related-fine-1-.html
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett
sued the National Collegiate Athletic Association, challenging a
$60 million fine levied against  Pennsylvania State University 
for its role in the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal.  The NCAA sanction violates antitrust law by restraining
competition in the markets for college sports and enrollment,
according to a complaint filed today in federal court in
Harrisburg. The NCAA used Sandusky’s offenses as a “pretext”
to impose unprecedented penalties, the state said.  Penn State President Rodney Erickson was forced by the NCAA
“to agree to the sanctions under the threat of a death
penalty” to its football program, Corbett said today at a press
conference near the university in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “The NCAA leadership can’t make up its own rules,” the
governor said. “A handful of top NCAA officials simply inserted
themselves into an issue they had no authority to police.”  Penn State was sanctioned by the NCAA in July and fined $60
million for its failure to prevent the sexual abuse by Sandusky,
who was convicted of molesting 10 boys over 15 years when he was
a football coach. The 68-year-old Sandusky, an assistant coach
for 31 years under  Joe Paterno , was sentenced in October to a
minimum of 30 years in prison.  In addition to the fine, the Indianapolis-based  NCAA , the
governing body for college sports, stripped Penn State of 112
football wins from 1998 through 2011 and barred the Nittany
Lions from bowl games for four years, matching the longest post-
season ban in NCAA history.  NCAA Attorney  NCAA General Counsel Donald Remy called Corbett’s
announcement a setback to the university’s efforts to move
forward.  “Not only does this forthcoming lawsuit appear to be
without merit, it is an affront to all of the victims in this
tragedy,” Remy said in a statement.  Penn State said in a statement that it’s “committed to
full compliance with the consent decree.”  Corbett said in July that he was grateful that the NCAA
didn’t impose a so-called death penalty shutting down the
football program. He said he sought assurance from  Penn State 
that no taxpayer dollars would be used to pay the fine.  “The NCAA had no authority to operate outside of their own
bylaws,” Corbett said today. This is a criminal matter, not a
violation of NCAA rules.’’  Penn State said in August that it would pay in five annual
installments of $12 million out of football reserves, the
deferring of capital and maintenance expenditures and an
internal Athletic Department loan.  Likely Arguments  Corbett’s claims make for a difficult argument and one that
the NCAA is probably prepared to argue against, said Michael McCann, director of Vermont Law School’s Sports Law Institute.  “The NCAA is going to say we have a contractual
relationship with Penn State and Penn State accepted these
sanctions,” McCann said. “Penn State missed an opportunity to
challenge this when they signed the consent decree. They
contractually relinquished their rights.”  The NCAA sanctions required the payment to be made over
five years into a special fund for child-abuse prevention
programs.  James Schultz,  Pennsylvania ’s general counsel, said the
state has a strong case and will seek “an injunction of the
entire litany of sanctions.”  “The NCAA didn’t have any business in this,” Schultz said
at the press conference.  Sports Money  In the fiscal year ended in 2011, Penn State’s athletic
department generated $116.1 million in operating revenue and
posted a $14.8 million operating profit, according to school
records. The football team had an operating profit of $43.8
million on $58.9 million in revenue.  The NCAA acted against the school less than two weeks after
an investigation found that Paterno, who died of  lung cancer  in
January 2012, and other school officials tried to cover up abuse
allegations. Paterno wasn’t charged with any crime.  The $6.5 million internal investigation commissioned by the
university and led by  Louis Freeh , a former director of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , found that school officials
ignored red flags involving Sandusky for more than a decade.  Freeh’s report faulted the “culture of reverence”
surrounding Penn State’s football program for leading to the
Sandusky scandal.  Former Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and two other
school officials face criminal charges tied to a 2001 abuse
allegation against Sandusky. A trial set for January in state
court in Harrisburg has been delayed indefinitely.  Paterno Family  Paterno’s family hasn’t reviewed the suit and declined to
comment on any specifics,  Mara Vandlik , a spokeswoman for the
family with McGinn & Co., said in a statement.  “The fact that Governor Corbett now realizes, as do many
others, that there was an inexcusable rush to judgment is
encouraging,” the family said in the statement.  Corbett, a Republican, said at the news conference that the
state in the suit will ask a judge to declare the consent
agreement illegal. Penn State President Rodney Erickson
reluctantly entered into the accord under the threat of a death
penalty, Corbett said.  ‘Real Prosecutors’  “It’s interesting that a former prosecutor would raise
that concern because real prosecutors do that to defendants all
the time,” said Wes Oliver, a Duquesne University law
professor. “That’s exactly what every plea bargain in America
looks like.”  “If Tom Corbett has an objection to the decree it should
have been at the time it was entered,” Oliver said in a phone
interview.  State Senator Jake Corman, also a Republican, said after
the press conference today that he plans to introduce
legislation to address how the $60 million fine is spent. In a
Dec. 28 letter to legislators, Corman said he wants to direct
funds from penalties placed on Commonwealth supported schools to
causes within the state.  ‘Terrible Situation’  “Penn State University was put in a terrible situation,”
Corman said. “They can’t bring this lawsuit. That’s why we’re
here. It could be argued as to whether they should have signed
the consent decree or not, but we just have to go forward.”  Corbett said he conferred with outgoing state Attorney
General Linda Kelly before deciding to bring the suit. He hasn’t
yet spoken to incoming Attorney General  Kathleen Kane .  Kane, a Democrat, called for an investigation of the
handling of the Sandusky probe during her campaign.  Prosecutors began looking into Sandusky in early 2009 under
then-Attorney General Corbett, who was elected governor in 2010.
Sandusky wasn’t charged until November 2011, almost three years
after the probe began.  For Corbett’s antitrust claim to be successful he would
have to prove that the NCAA’s purpose was to give an advantage
to every member school at Penn State’s expense, Oliver said.  “It will fail miserably because it puts him now in
conflict with the university which accepted the sanctions,”
Oliver said. “I can’t come up with any reason why this makes
sense.”  The case is Corbett v.  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , 13-cv-6, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  