-- QPR Gets First Victory at Chelsea Since 1986; Liverpool Wins 3-0
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-01-03T00:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/qpr-logs-first-win-at-chelsea-since-1986-on-wright-phillips-goal.html
Last-place Queens Park Rangers earned
its first victory at Chelsea in 27 years while Liverpool and
Everton also won in the Premier League.  Shaun Wright-Phillips ended a 969-day goal drought in
English soccer’s top tier to give QPR a 1-0 win at  Stamford 
Bridge last night. Luis Suarez scored twice and set up another
goal as Liverpool won 3-0 at home against Sunderland, while
Everton rallied for a 2-1 victory at Newcastle.  “We worked hard and, because we defended like we did, we
got what we deserved,” Wright-Phillips said in a televised
interview with ESPN.  QPR remains bottom of the 20-team standings, tied on 13
points with Reading. European champion Chelsea missed out on the
chance to climb one place to third and stays on 38 points.
Everton, with 36 points, takes fifth spot from Arsenal, while
Liverpool advances two places to eighth with 31 points.
Manchester United leads the table with 52 points, seven more
than second-place Manchester City.  It was QPR’s first success at Stamford Bridge since a 2-0
League Cup win on Jan. 29, 1986. It last won in the league at
Chelsea on April 4, 1983, in the second tier, while its last
victory in the top division at its rival was a 3-1 win in 1979.  Chelsea interim coach Rafael Benitez made five changes to
the starting lineup that won 2-1 at Everton on Dec. 30. Strikers
Juan Mata and Eden Hazard were left on the bench in favor of
Oscar, whose only league goal this season came in an 8-0 win
over Aston Villa on Dec. 23, and Fernando Torres, who is tied
with Mata on a team-high seven Premier League goals this season.  Chelsea Chances  After a first half dominated by defense, QPR goalkeeper
Julio Cesar blocked Torres’s point-blank shot in the 53rd minute
and Chelsea midfielder Frank Lampard put the ball in the net
after 66 minutes only for the goal to be disallowed for offside.  QPR scored 12 minutes later from a corner kick. Adel Taarabt cushioned the ball into the path of former Chelsea
player Wright-Phillips, whose right-foot shot went low across
Chelsea keeper Ross Turnbull into the net. Wright-Phillips last
scored in the league on May 9, 2010, for Manchester City.  “They worked their socks off and they got their rewards,”
QPR manager Harry Redknapp told reporters. “We deserved it and
it was a fantastic performance.”  QPR secured its second league win of the season and its
first on the road after Branislav Ivanovic headed just over the
bar in the final minute of the game.  “A lot of things went wrong,” Benitez told reporters.
“We had to be focused, but we didn’t have the tempo and some
players may have been tired.”  Suarez’s Double  At Anfield, Suarez set up the opening goal for Liverpool
with a pass over the Sunderland defense that allowed Raheem Sterling to run through on goal and chip the ball over keeper
Simon Mignolet after 19 minutes.  Suarez doubled the advantage seven minutes later and
Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard sent a cross-field pass into
the path of the Uruguayan in the 52nd minute that Suarez
converted into his 15th goal of the league campaign.  Manchester United striker Robin van Persie is the top
scorer this season with 16 goals.  Substitute Victor Anichebe scored after 60 minutes at St.
James’ Park in Newcastle to give Everton the 2-1 comeback win.
Papiss Cisse got the opening goal for the Magpies after two
minutes and Leighton Baines tied it for Everton two minutes
before halftime.  Newcastle, which yesterday gave Chelsea permission to
negotiate with Demba Ba after the Blues met the requirements of
the release clause in the Senegalese striker’s contract, stays
15th in the table with 20 points, one place and two points
behind Sunderland.  Premier League play resumes Jan. 12 after the third round
of the F.A. Cup, in which Chelsea travels to Southampton and QPR
hosts West Brom on Feb. 5. Liverpool is at Mansfield the
following day, while Everton visits Cheltenham on Jan. 7.
Newcastle visits Brighton and Bolton hosts Sunderland Jan. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 