-- Lewis Says He’ll Retire at End of Baltimore Ravens’ Season
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-02T18:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/ray-lewis-says-he-ll-retire-at-end-of-baltimore-ravens-season.html
Ray Lewis , the  Baltimore Ravens ’
seven-time National Football League All-Pro linebacker,
announced that he will retire at the end of the postseason.  Lewis, 37, first told teammates today and then media
members that he will return from injury to play Jan. 6 in a home
playoff game against the  Indianapolis Colts  and that he will
retire after the postseason.  “Everything that starts has an end,” Lewis said,
according to the team’s website. “It’s just life, and for me,
today I told my team that this will be my last ride.”  A 13-time Pro Bowl player over 17 NFL seasons, Lewis was
named the Associated Press Defensive Player of the Year for the
2000 campaign, which ended with a Super Bowl win over the  New
York Giants . He also was named the championship game’s Most
Valuable Player, and repeated as Defensive Player of the Year in
2003.  “I told them I just feel so much peace at where I am with
my decision because of everything I’ve done in this league,”
Lewis said. “I’ve done it, man.”  Lewis hasn’t played since completely tearing the triceps in
his right arm while making a tackle in an Oct. 14 game against
the  Dallas Cowboys . He had a team-leading 57 total tackles and
one sack prior to being sidelined.  Speaking in a media session today for the first time since
the injury, Lewis said he’s where he should be physically.  “There is no reason for me not to be playing Sunday,” he
said.  Playoff Matchup  Baltimore went 10-6 this season to win the American
Football Conference’s North Division. The Colts are 11-5.  Lewis has been an emotional leader for the Ravens and among
the most popular figures in Baltimore since being selected 26th
in the 1996  NFL draft  out of the  University of Miami . He was
named an NFL All-Pro the following year and as recently as last
season.  Lewis’s career was threatened in January 2000, when he was
involved in a post- Super Bowl  fight outside an Atlanta night
club that resulted in two people being stabbed to death.  Lewis initially was charged with murder and aggravated
assault. The charges were dropped the following June when Lewis
pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of obstruction and agreed
to testify against two of his former friends, who later were
acquitted.  The NFL fined Lewis $250,000, the largest levied against a
league player at that time, though he wasn’t suspended. The next
season he led the Ravens to their only Super Bowl title.  For his career he has 1,573 tackles, 31 interceptions, 20
fumble recoveries and 41.5 sacks, according to  Pro-Football-
Reference.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  