-- Real Rises on Bets Brazil Will Allow Gain After U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-02T20:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/real-rises-on-bets-brazil-will-allow-gain-after-u-s-budget-deal.html
Brazil ’s real gained for the first
time in three days on speculation policy makers will allow the
currency to strengthen after U.S. lawmakers passed a bill to
avoid scheduled tax increases.  The real advanced along with most of the dollar’s 16 major
counterparts after the U.S. House passed a bill undoing higher
income taxes for more than 99 percent of households, boosting
the prospects for the world’s largest economy and buoying
emerging-market assets. Traders speculated that the real will
extend its gains as a Brazilian central bank official said last
month that a weaker  exchange rate  has contributed to inflation.  “The agreement in the U.S. to avoid the fiscal cliff is
the big event in the market now,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , the head
of foreign-exchange trading at Treviso Corretora in Sao Paulo,
said in a phone interview. “On top of that, Brazil is using the
currency to control inflation, so the market may begin to test
the 2 level again.”  The real appreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0457 per dollar. Swap
rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.73 percent.  The currency advanced Dec. 20 after Carlos Hamilton, the
central bank’s director for economic policy, said policy makers
consider an exchange rate of 2.05 per dollar as more
“adequate” when creating economic forecasts than 2.10. The
central bank isn’t comfortable with 5 percent annual inflation,
Hamilton said.  Inflation Report  Brazil’s annual rate of consumer price increases as
measured by the benchmark IPCA index has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 27
consecutive months. Inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 5.53
percent in November from 5.45 percent the month before, the
statistics agency reported Dec. 7.  Swap rates rose today on speculation the U.S. budget deal
will boost global growth and cause Brazil’s inflation to
accelerate, limiting the central bank’s ability to cut borrowing
costs further.  “This reduces the risk of a global slowdown that could
have lowered prices in the international market and opened up
space for more rate cuts,” Flavio Serrano, a senior economist
at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo , said by phone.  U.S. budget optimism overshadowed a report showing consumer
prices in Brazil’s seven biggest cities as measured by the IPC-S
index rose 0.66 percent in the 30 days through Dec. 31, less
than the 0.71 percent median forecast of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Target Rate  Policy makers left the  target lending rate  at a record low
7.25 percent in November following 10 straight reductions to
support  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The real lost 9 percent against the dollar in 2012, the
worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after  Argentina ’s peso.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  