-- Treasury Yields Rise Most Since October on Budget Deal
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-02T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/treasury-10-year-notes-fall-as-u-s-approves-budget.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year yields
rising the most in more than two months, as demand for the
safest securities was curtailed by speculation a budget approved
by U.S. lawmakers will sustain the economic expansion.  Yields climbed to the highest since Oct. 25 after Congress
passed legislation averting income-tax increases for more than
99 percent of households, breaking an impasse about how to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff. Lawmakers must next tackle the U.S.
 debt ceiling , which reached its $16.4 trillion limit on Dec. 31.  “People are jumping out of bonds,” said  Michael Franzese ,
senior vice president of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man
Capital Markets in  New York . “Something was done and we avoided
cuts and huge tax increases. This is a great buying opportunity
for Treasuries. The debt ceiling now looms large.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 5 p.m. New York time, based
on Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent
security due in November 2022 declined 23/32, or $7.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 3/32. The yield gained as much as nine
basis points, the steepest advance since Oct. 17.  The yield on the 30-year bond rose by as much as 10 basis
points, the most on an intraday basis since Sept. 14.  The yield is forecast to climb to 2.2 percent at the end of
the year, according to the median estimates of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, while the yield on the 30-year bond is
forecast to end the year at 3.3 percent, according to a separate
survey.  Term Premium  U.S. government securities traded today at the least
expensive levels in more than two months. The 10-year term
premium, a model created by economists at the  Federal Reserve 
that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation, touched negative 0.74 percent, the least costly since
Oct. 25.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
last year was negative 0.77 percent.  “The safety bid is being taken out of the market,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “Optimism reigns supreme.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note has traded in a
range of 30 basis points since October, dropping from a high
that month of 1.85 percent on Oct. 25 to a low of 1.55 percent
on Nov. 16.  Riskier Assets  The climb in yields comes as better-than-forecast economic
data led to a 3.1 percent annual gross domestic product growth
rate in the third quarter, beating the 2.8 percent forecast, the
Commerce Department reported Dec. 20.  Diminishing returns in the Treasury market also pushed
investors into other asset classes, as the Fed purchased more of
the securities, aiding the appeal of riskier assets in its
efforts to strengthen the economy.  Treasuries returned 2.2 percent in 2012, the least in three
years according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
signs of improvement in the economy led investors to seek
higher-yielding assets.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks advanced 17
percent including reinvested dividends in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Ceiling  Treasury yields climbed today after the  House of
Representatives  voted in favor of the Senate’s budget
legislation. While the budget measure averts most of the
immediate pain of more than $600 billion in tax increases and
federal spending cuts, it is only one step toward controlling
the federal deficit, an issue that will return with a February
fight over whether and how the debt ceiling should be raised.  The budget package passed by Congress doesn’t do enough to
reduce debt growth to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade,
Moody’s Investors Service said today.  The deal doesn’t “provide a basis for a meaningful
improvement in the government’s debt ratios over the medium
term,” Moody’s said in a press release. Further measures are
likely to be taken in the coming months that would result in
lower future deficits, “which are necessary if the negative
outlook on the government’s bond rating is to be returned to
stable,” the ratings agency said. “Lack of further deficit
reduction measures could affect the rating negatively.”  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top AAA rating
in 2011. Since then, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note
dropped to an all-time low of 1.379 percent on July 25, while
the  S&P 500 Index  rallied 13 percent in 2012, extending the bull
market rally to 111 percent since March 9, 2009.  Market Disagrees  The global  bond market  disagreed with Moody’s and S&P more
often than not last year when the companies told investors that
governments were becoming safer or more risky, with yields
moving in the opposite direction from what ratings suggested in
53 percent of the 32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit
outlook, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed starting tomorrow will begin buying $45 billion of
Treasuries a month in an expanded round of quantitative easing
to lower borrowing costs and strengthen the economic recovery.
The new purchases won’t involve selling shorter-term securities,
ending the Operation Twist program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  