-- Record Low Power Prices Stung by Plunging Use in Europe
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-01-02T17:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/record-low-power-prices-stung-by-plunging-use-in-europe.html
The slump in European power that has
driven prices to record lows is showing no sign of ending as the
region’s second recession in four years curbs energy use.  Electricity for the next year in Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy, will probably fall 9.2 percent in 2013, extending its
17 percent decline last year, according to Credit Suisse Group
AG. Power demand in Germany will drop 2 percent this year, the
same amount as in 2012, Bank of America Corp. said.  Europe’s electricity use has struggled to recover since
2009, when the region was hit by its worst recession since World
War II. Demand is poised to shrink 1 percent annually in the
seven years through 2020, Credit Suisse said. That’s being
compounded by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s backing for
renewable energy, which is causing gas-fired plants including
those owned by EON SE to lose money.  “German power prices are more and more influenced by the
addition of renewable power generation as well as the economy,”
Dirk Seidel, a trader at Dong Energy Markets GmbH in Leipzig,
Germany, who has bought and sold power for six years, said in a
Dec. 28 phone interview. “And I don’t see any reason why the
market should reverse its trend based on either of the two.”  Electricity for 2013 fell to a record 44 euros ($58) a
megawatt-hour on Dec. 27, the lowest for a year-ahead contract
since 2009, and last traded at 44.05 euros Dec. 28, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg. The French next-year contract
dropped to 46.55 euros on Dec. 27, its lowest since December
2009. The two countries are the region’s biggest users.  Cheaper Emissions  European Union carbon allowances slid 12 percent last year
as the bloc’s regulator hesitated over plans to curb supplies of
permits. That made it cheaper for utilities to burn more-
polluting coal instead of gas. The share of renewable capacity
in German electricity generation has almost doubled since 2006,
creating more supply than needed to meet demand, Bank of America
said in a November report.  The European Commission has proposed a delay in the sale of
permits to emit 900 million metric tons of carbon dioxide in the
next three years, a measure known as backloading that is
expected to boost 2013 carbon prices, which fell to a record
5.93 euros on London’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange on Dec. 5.  “The only support for power prices would be a higher
carbon price, which requires a successful backloading policy
from the European Commission,” Mark Owen-Lloyd, co-founder of
Leap Trading Ltd. and an energy trader for seven years, said by
e-mail from London on Dec. 27.  More Plants  German year-ahead power, a European benchmark contract, may
slide 4.7 percent this year to as low as 42 euros a megawatt-
hour, according to UBS AG.  “This is driven by our expectation of a further drop in
the carbon price as well as worsening oversupply,” Patrick Hummel, an analyst for UBS in Zurich, said by e-mail.  Prices may fall below 40 euros a megawatt-hour from 2014 if
overcapacity isn’t cut and demand keeps shrinking, Vincent Gilles, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a Dec.
12 report. Power for 2014 dropped 0.6 percent to a record 45.15
euros today, broker data show.  Expected capacity additions of 10.5 gigawatts of coal- and
gas-fed plants and growing output from renewable sources may
delay the recovery of margins, Petr Bartek, an analyst at Erste
Group Bank AG in  Prague , said in a November report. A nuclear
reactor typically generates about 1 gigawatt, enough to supply 2
million European homes.  Forecast Cut  Societe Generale SA on Nov. 20 revised its forecast for
year-ahead German electricity in the first three months of 2013
to 50.40 euros a megawatt-hour. The bank,  France ’s second-
biggest lender by market value, previously predicted a price of
52 euros.  “Power prices are not that low compared to the average
quarterly prices since 2009,” Paolo Coghe, a Paris-based
analyst at the bank, said in an interview on Dec. 12.  Profits at gas-fed  power plants  in Germany and France have
been negative over the past year, hurting profits at EON and  GDF
Suez SA. (GSZ)  The German 2013 clean-spark spread, a measure of
returns from using gas to generate energy, fell 6 percent to a
record minus 13.94 euros a megawatt-hour on Dec. 27, broker data
show.  Shares of EON plunged the most in 20 years in November
after the company scrapped profit forecasts and said it may have
to close units as falling electricity prices made it difficult
for gas-fired plants to make money. Germany’s largest utility
was the worst  performer  on the country’s DAX stock index last
year.  Shutdown Request  Shareholders asked EON in December to shut the Irsching-5
gas-fired plant temporarily because it’s unprofitable. The two-
year-old, 860-megawatt facility in Bavaria operated for less
than 1,600 hours in 2012, compared with 4,000 hours the previous
year, EON Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said on a
Nov. 13 conference call.  The German 2014 clean-dark spread fell as much as 5.8
percent to 7.67 euros a megawatt-hour today, the lowest since
June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany ’s gross domestic product is forecast to have grown
by 0.9 percent in 2012, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in
the euro area, according to the median of 41 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The economy may expand by 0.8 percent in
2013, compared with a 0.1 percent drop in the 17-member currency
region, the data show.  “Even if the German economy continues to grow in 2013, and
the euro zone exits recession, the supply story will remain the
same with a low carbon price, low coal prices, good coal
profitability,” Owen-Lloyd said.  GDP in the euro area will contract 0.6 percent in the first
three months of this year, according to the median of 25 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Without positive economic data we will not see demand
recover,” Konstantin Lenz, managing director at Lenz Energy in
Berlin and a power market analyst for 10 years, said by e-mail
on Dec. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  