-- Sabic Leads Persian Gulf Rally on Oil, U.S. Bill: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-02T13:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/sabic-leads-persian-gulf-rally-on-oil-u-s-bill-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  rose the
most in three weeks, leading a gain in Persian Gulf stocks, as
crude oil surged after U.S. lawmakers passed a budget bill,
boosting the outlook for earnings growth.  Shares of the world’s largest petrochemicals maker advanced
1.4 percent, the biggest increase since Dec. 9, to 91.50 riyals
at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh . The stock was the biggest
gainer in the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the most-liquid
regional stocks, which gained 1 percent.  Industries Qatar (IQCD) ,
the second-largest petrochemicals maker in the Middle East,
climbed 2.2 percent to 158.5 riyals, the highest level since
September 2008.  Crude oil rose as much as 1.8 percent to $93.44 a barrel as
of 8:32 a.m. in New York today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. U.S. lawmakers reached a deal to avert automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that threatened growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  “Middle Eastern petrochemicals’ sector earnings are most
levered to the global growth outlook,” Digvijay Singh, a Dubai-
based analyst at VTB Capital Plc, said. These companies have a
“unique earnings profile” because margins are linked to both
oil prices and the Asian growth story, he said.  Shares of Sabic fell 6.8 percent in 2012 as crude oil
prices decreased 7.1 percent amid global growth concerns
triggered in part by  Europe ’s debt crisis. The company may post
a  14 percent decline  in full-year profit to 25 billion riyals
($6.7 billion), according to the  mean estimate  of 13 analysts on
Bloomberg. That compares with projected profit growth of 12
percent for 2013, according to the average estimate of 14
analysts on Bloomberg.  China Recovery  The bipartisan agreement in the U.S. breaks a yearlong
impasse over how to head off $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts taking effect today. A government gauge of  China ’s
manufacturing showed a third month of expansion yesterday, a
sign that the recovery in the world’s second-biggest oil
consumer will extend to this year.  Thirteen of the 14 companies in Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All
Share Petrochemical Industries Index advanced today, with
 National Industrialization Co. (NIC)  jumping 2.3 percent and Sabic
unit  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  increasing 2.9 percent.  Seventeen analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of
Sabic, while one has a hold rating on the stock, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Fourteen analysts recommend buying Industries
Qatar shares, while one says hold, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  