-- Samsung Loses Bid to Seal Sales Data in Apple Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-02T00:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/samsung-loses-bid-to-seal-sales-data-in-apple-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost a bid to
keep sales data of some of its products sealed in a U.S. patent
dispute with Apple Inc.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose yesterday denied
Samsung’s request to keep the sales figures secret while the
company appeals an earlier sealing order.  Apple won a $1.05 billion award Aug. 24 after a jury found
Samsung infringed six Apple patents on technology used in
Samsung phones and devices. Apple is awaiting a decision from
Koh on its request for additional damages against Samsung for
infringement after the iPhone maker lost its bid to block U.S.
sales on 26 of the Galaxy maker’s devices. Apple failed to
establish that consumer demand for Samsung products was driven
by technology it stole, Koh ruled.  Koh ruled on Dec. 10 that Samsung must file an exhibit
which lists the total number of units of certain Samsung
products sold during certain time periods, the judge wrote in
yesterday’s order without providing further details.  Samsung sought to delay the implementation of the order
until its appeal is heard by the Federal Circuit court.  “Samsung’s appeal involves pricing information and profit
margins,” Koh wrote. The exhibit at issue “only lists the
number of units sold in each of several recent months.”  In a separate order yesterday, Koh granted Samsung’s
request to delay the publication of a part of a document showing
per-unit operating profit for two Samsung phones, pending an
appeal. The judge denied most other requests to seal documents
from both Apple and Samsung, saying there was a lack of a
“compelling reason” that would require their sealing.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  