-- Sharma Signals India to Approve Ikea in Push for Investment
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-03T06:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/sharma-signals-india-to-approve-ikea-as-nation-seeks-investment.html
India  is poised to approve furniture
retailer Ikea’s application to open stores as the nation seeks
to lure more investment, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said.  “It should go through,” Sharma, 59, said in an interview
in his office in New Delhi yesterday. “There should not be any
doubt in anybody’s mind.”  Ikea’s proposal to invest as much as 42 billion rupees
($773 million) in outlets selling items ranging from sofas and
cutlery to hot dogs is awaiting a fresh approval from officials.
The Swedish chain has sought clarification on whether it can
sell the same types of products in India as overseas, posing a
test of the nation’s commitment to implementing policy overhauls
aimed at reviving inflows to boost a struggling economy.  “Our focus is on attracting foreign direct investment,”
Sharma said. “2012 has not been an easy year for us, and we
hope 2013 will be better because the decisions we have taken
will lead to an increase in FDI.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in January 2012
allowed full foreign ownership of stores selling a single brand.
Ikea, the world’s largest furniture retailer, is seeking to tap
demand in the second-most populous nation.  “It is our understanding that we will hear back about the
application next Monday,” Ikea spokeswoman Ylva Magnusson said
by telephone yesterday. “Until we hear back from them, we
cannot comment further.”  Spurring Growth  India’s ruling coalition in September permitted overseas
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to set up multibrand
supermarkets, part of a package of policy changes to spur  growth .
That step cost Singh his majority in parliament after some
lawmakers said family-run stores will have to close.  The prime minister mustered enough support to win votes in
the legislature in December on the plan to permit the entry of
foreign supermarkets.  Sharma said retail liberalization is now “cast in stone.”  India’s  Foreign Investment Promotion Board  first approved
Ikea’s application on Dec. 21, and it is being reconsidered
after Ikea asked for more information.  The administration opened other industries, such as
aviation, to overseas investors in September, as well as curbing
fuel subsidies to pare a  budget deficit  that has increased the
odds of a credit-rating downgrade to so-called junk status.  Shares in Jet Airways (India) Ltd. climbed as much as 6.7
percent today on reports that Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways
PJSC may purchase a 24 percent stake in the Mumbai-based company,
following the easing of aviation investment rules.  Foreign direct investment  into India fell 42 percent to
$14.8 billion in the seven months through October compared with
a year earlier. The economy may expand as little as 5.7 percent
in the fiscal year through March 2013, the weakest pace in a
decade, according to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  