-- Spain Removes Limit on Power System Debt as Soria Measures Fail
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-02T14:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/spain-removes-limit-on-power-system-debt-as-soria-measures-fail.html
Spain  ended a legal limit on the
deficit of its power system after measures by Industry Minister
Jose Manuel Soria failed to rebalance costs and revenues.  A  law  published on Dec. 31 removes the 1.5 billion-euro ($2
billion) cap on the 2012 tariff deficit and a provision making
further deficits illegal from next year. The deficit reached 4
billion euros in the first 10 months, the energy regulator says.  Soria pledged to meet this year’s cap and eliminate the
tariff deficit next year when he introduced a new tax on power
generation in September. The wrangling over power measures
divided the government when Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
vetoed Soria’s first proposal to introduce higher tax rates on
renewable generators that earn subsidized rates.  The new rules, tacked onto the end of a Royal Decree
governing the social security provisions for cleaners and
nannies, will allow the government to securitize an unlimited
amount of power-system debt through the Fade bond program.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  named Alberto Nadal, the twin
brother of his chief economic adviser Alvaro, as deputy minister
for energy in the same Dec. 28 meeting as he decided to waive
the tariff deficit cap.  In December, the Spanish parliament passed an energy law
that imposed a 7 percent tax on electricity generation from Jan.
1 to plug the deficit. The measures affect renewable and
traditional energy plants and mark the first time Spain has
taxed wind and solar-power projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  