-- Spurs Resume Pursuit of Brazil’s Damiao, Willian: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-02T06:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/spurs-resume-pursuit-of-brazil-s-damiao-willian-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Brazilian Pursuit  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas has resumed his pursuit
of Brazilian pair Leandro Damiao and Willian and wants to sign
as many as three players in this month’s transfer window, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Internacional striker Damiao was Brazil’s top goal scorer
at the 2012 Olympic Games with six goals in five appearances and
would cost about 20 million pounds ($32.6 million), while
Shakhtar Donetsk wants 17 million pounds for winger Willian, the
Mirror added.  Ferguson’s Future  Alex Ferguson  said that he plans to continue as Manchester
United manager “for a bit of time” even if his team wins the
Premier League title this season, the  Independent reported .  There’s been speculation that Ferguson, who turned 71 two
days ago, may chose to stand down at the end of the current
campaign should the Red Devils win the championship, the
newspaper added.  Arsenal Inquiry  Arsenal inquired about signing Atletico Madrid striker
Adrian Lopez, although the London club is reluctant to pay the
14 million-pound buyout clause in his contract, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  The Gunners are said to have begun formal talks with
Atletico officials about a deal in this month’s transfer window,
the  Daily Mail reported .  No Henry Return  Record goalscorer  Thierry Henry  won’t be returning to
Arsenal for a second loan spell from the  New York  Red Bulls,
according to manager  Arsene Wenger , the  Guardian reported .  “He is not ready,” the Guardian cited Wenger as saying.
“He has just come back from holiday so at the moment we are not
on that case.”  Ba Replacement  Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  is lining up West Bromwich
Albion striker  Peter Odemwingie  as a replacement for Demba Ba,
the  Sun reported .  Odemwingie, 31, has 18 months remaining on his contract and
may cost about 3 million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  