-- Stanley Fischer Takes Israel Donors on Synagogue Tour
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-01-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/stanley-fischer-takes-israel-donors-on-synagogue-tour.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  has turned an unlikely tour guide for the day.  He’s standing in the middle of a Tzedek ve-Shalom synagogue
from Suriname, reconstructed in  Jerusalem .  Fisher speaks not of economics but of history -- his own
and that of the house of worship with a sand-covered floor.  “This is impressive and beautiful and it arouses
memories,” Fischer says of the white synagogue, built in 1736
by Jews who fled from Spain and  Portugal  to Holland during the
Inquisition and later settled in Suriname in  South America . The
sand-covered floor, Fischer adds, is a mystery.  “Every time I see a synagogue, I begin to think about this
nation, wherever they go, the first thing they do is build
themselves a  community center , no matter where,” Fischer says,
referring to the Jewish people.  The 69-year-old banker, who was born in  Zambia , says that
where he grew up there were 147 seats in the synagogue in the
nearby city which his family travelled to for holidays, “which
gives you an idea how many Jews there were there.”  In 2000, when he took his children for a “roots” visit,
there were only five Jews left in the city, and to make up a
prayer quorum of 10, the community would trawl the embassies,
Fischer says.  Fischer is participating in Israel Museum’s gala as both a
guest and guide, along with other prominent figures such as  Osem
Investment Ltd. (OSEM) ’s Chairman Dan Propper and British Ambassador
Matthew Gould. It’s a rare opportunity for a personal glimpse
into the man who has modernized Israel’s central bank.  Jerusalem Transfer  The rectangular Tzedek ve-Shalom synagogue that Fischer is
speaking about ceased to function as a place of worship in the
1990s when the Jewish community of Suriname agreed to let the
museum transfer the interior to Jerusalem for restoration.  According to the museum, the community says the sand on the
floor symbolizes the Diaspora, just as the people of Israel
wandered in the desert sands before reaching the Promised Land,
so do exiled Jews living outside Israel today.  A more practical explanation traces the sand’s origin to
ancient customs prevalent in houses, churches and synagogues in
Holland, where sand served the purpose of keeping floors clean
and helping to prevent fire from spreading on the wooden
flooring.  “Of all the synagogues I have been in during my life, the
synagogue in my hometown, the synagogue where I married my wife,
and a long list of others, this is among the most beautiful,”
Fischer says.  Friendly Tour  Asked which is more fun, leading monetary policy or a
standing in as a docent, Fischer quips: “The nice part of
museum tours is that the press is friendly.”  Proceeds from the event, attended by about 500 people, will
promote the museums’ educational activities.  “To have Stan Fischer take people through the galleries
and to have our guests listen to him connect between his
personal story and what you see in the collections in the museum
is actually another way of reinforcing what we are all about,”
Israel Museum Director  James Snyder  says. “Our point is that
the whole history of material culture is a series of wondrous
connections and resonances.”  Israel Museum, Jerusalem 91710. Information: +972-2-670-
8811,  http://www.english.imjnet.org.il/HTMLs/home.aspx   Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,
 Stephanie Green’s  Scene Last Night,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris
arts and Daniel Akst on  books .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  