-- Sweden Cracks Down on Traders Ignoring Bond Rules
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-01-02T14:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/sweden-cracks-down-on-traders-ignoring-bond-rules-nordic-credit.html
Sweden ’s financial watchdog will stop
turning a blind eye to traders who have ignored a rule requiring
them to report company bond prices as the regulator seeks to
improve transparency in a growing market.  The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority will ask
corporate debt traders to follow rules similar to those adhered
to in the government and mortgage bond markets. That means they
must file trade reports including volumes as well as the
highest, lowest and closing prices, no later than 9 a.m. the
next day.  More transparency will lead to a better functioning market
and to lower costs for companies issuing debt, according to
Daniel Sachs, chief executive officer of Proventus AB, whose
Proventus  Capital Partners  invests its own and external funds in
company loans and public corporate bonds.  “One of the reasons we’re now taking a more active role is
that we’ve seen that the market has changed, there’s more
activity now,” Anna Jegnell, head of markets at the Stockholm-
based FSA, said in a telephone interview. “The reporting
requirement already exists but we’re in talks with the market on
how and when we can get it going in practice.”  The krona strengthened 0.2 percent to 8.5583 per euro as of
3:25 p.m. in  Stockholm .  Continue Growth  The outstanding bond value of non-financial Swedish
companies was about 191 billion kronor ($29 billion) at the end
of 2011, an increase of about 3 billion kronor from 2010, the
Riksbank  said Aug. 31 . Following the financial crisis, companies
have searched for alternatives to bank loans, meaning Sweden’s
corporate bond market is likely to grow, the central bank said.  “It’s in everybody’s interest that transparency in the
corporate bond market increases,” said Sachs, whose investments
include Preem/Corral and  Thomas Cook . He has urged the FSA to
step up pressure on corporate bond traders to abide by existing
rules.  Jegnell at the FSA didn’t provide a date for when dealers
must start reporting trades.  “We’ve been in dialogue with the market on reporting
corporate bond prices and volumes for some time now,” she said.
“There’s also a greater presence of smaller investors, through
related products, so the need for consumer protection is bigger
now.”  Biggest Issuers  Issuance in Sweden is dominated by some of the country’s
biggest companies, including  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Volvo AB and  Atlas
Copco AB. (ATCOA)  Smaller firms may have difficulty attracting investors
because they don’t have a  credit rating , according to the
Riksbank.  Sweden’s banks have held back credit in response to
stricter  capital requirements  in the Nordic country than those
enforced elsewhere. Nordea Bank AB, Swedbank AB, Svenska
Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB must set aside no less than 10
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets this
year. In 2015, the minimum ratio will rise to 12 percent and
compares with the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s
minimum requirement of 7 percent, due to take effect by 2019.  “The main motivator for companies now is to raise capital
at a good price and it’s largely working for the big
corporations,” Sachs said. “Over time, though, I think more
transparency in the secondary market would also be in their
interest as pricing would improve and costs would be lower if
the spreads decreased. It would also allow for longer
maturities.”  Transparency will improve if more companies list their
bonds electronically, Sachs said.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  on Dec.
10 started new platforms in Stockholm and Copenhagen, the First
North Bond Market. The new exchange has more lenient rules on
accounting and reporting standards than the regulated market.  “I hope we’re not going to get a market where the large
companies still trade over-the-counter, where there’s no
transparency, while small companies are found in a more
transparent market,” Sachs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  