-- U.K. Fee Rules, ‘Betting’ Fund, Iberdrola: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-02T13:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/u-k-hourly-fee-rules-betting-fund-iberdrola-compliance.html
U.K. financial advisers won’t be able
to charge commissions on some products under new rules designed
to make the fees paid by consumers more transparent.  Under the Financial Services Authority’s Retail
Distribution Review, set to take effect Dec. 31, advisers will
charge clients hourly fees for counsel on investments and be
subject to tougher standards for training and accreditation.  The FSA said the new rules will reduce mis-selling and
build  consumer confidence  after faith in the industry was shaken
by a number of scandals linked to improper sales of some
products. U.K. banks are repaying billions of pounds to
customers who were wrongly sold payment-protection insurance.  Financial advisers will have to clearly describe their
services as independent or restricted, the FSA said.  Independent advisers will be able to consider all types of
retail investment products which could meet the customer’s needs
and consider items from all firms across the market. A
restricted adviser will only be able to recommend certain
products, providers, or both, meaning they might only offer
items from one company, or just one type of product.  Compliance Policy  CFPB Boosts Mortgage-Disclosure Asset Threshold to $42 Million  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a
final rule increasing the asset-size exemption threshold to $42
million for lenders under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.  The change means banks, savings associations and credit
unions with assets below that limit will be exempt from
collecting, reporting and disclosing a broad range of loan data
next year, the bureau said in a statement.  China to Loosen Control on M&A, Reorganization, Journal Says  China will relax control over mergers and acquisitions as
well as company reorganizations, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing Zhuang Xinyi, vice chairman of the  China
Securities Regulatory Commission .  The Commission will also cancel and reduce approval
procedures in order to help increase efficiency in reviewing
mergers, acquisitions and reorganizations, according to the
China Securities Journal report.  Turkey’s New Capital Markets Law Merges Equity, Gold Exchanges  Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency reported details of
a new capital markets law, which merges bourses under the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  and sets out new regulations.  Among the regulatory developments, Borsa Istanbul AS is to
be incorporated and replace Istanbul Stock Exchange and Istanbul
Gold Exchange. The government will appoint Vahdettin Ertas as
the new chairman of the Capital Markets Board to assume the post
from Vedat Akgiray. After the registry of Borsa Istanbul’s
charter, ISE and Istanbul Gold Exchange will cease to exist as
legal entities.  Forty-nine percent of Borsa Istanbul is to be owned by the
Treasury, while 51 percent will be registered under its own
name, with 4 percent of capital given to current ISE members,
0.3 percent to Istanbul Gold Exchange members and 1 percent to
the Capital Markets Association of Turkey.  The new law stipulates that those who provide misleading,
false or wrong information, news stories, rumor, commentary or
reports to influence prices, values or investor decisions, or
those who publish such information, will be punished by between
two to five years of imprisonment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Approves U.S. Commodity Fund Betting on Demand From Asia  United States Commodity Funds LLC, manager of $3.4 billion
in exchange-traded securities, got approval from the U.S.
Securities & Exchange Commission to start a fund that will bet
on Asia’s demand for raw materials.  The United States Asian Commodities Basket Fund will be
listed on NYSE Arca Inc. and own futures in those commodities
where China, Japan and India combined account for at least 10
percent of global demand and are likely to be net importers, the
SEC said in a notice on its website.  Oil will have the biggest weight in the fund, at 22
percent, according to the filing. China, Japan and India account
for 19 percent of global oil demand and 5.9 percent of
production, it said. Corn, soybeans, wheat and copper will each
account for 10 percent.  Commodity assets under management were $429 billion in
October, with exchange-traded products accounting for $213
billion, Barclays Plc said in a Nov. 30 report. ETPs backed by
precious metals had $172 billion in assets, while those tracking
broad-based indexes had $29 billion, the bank said.  Brent crude oil will have a 20 percent weighting in the
fund, according to the filing. Oil on the Dubai Mercantile
Exchange will also be used, it said.  Corn, soybeans and wheat futures traded on the Chicago
Board of Trade will each account 10 percent of the fund,
according to the notice. Copper traded on the Comex in New York
will have 10 percent weighting, while gold and silver futures
will account for 5 percent each.  The fund will also invest in the London Metal Exchange zinc
and nickel contracts, raw sugar traded on ICE Futures U.S.,
platinum traded on Tokyo Commodity Exchange as well as canola
oil, palm oil, gasoil and rubber.  NYSE Arca is the electronic platform of  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   Spain’s Iberdrola, Bolivia to Meet on Seizure of Businesses  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  executives and Bolivian officials are likely
to meet soon to discuss compensation for Spain’s largest utility
after the nationalization of its Bolivian operations, Energy
Minister Juan Jose Sosa said.  Bolivian army and police seized buildings occupied by
Iberdrola on Dec. 29, hours after President  Evo Morales  ordered
the nationalization of four business units owned by the company.
The South American nation may hold talks next week with
Iberdrola in Bolivia’s capital of La Paz, Sosa said.  Morales has moved to put the telecommunications, energy and
water industries under state control since taking power in 2006.
In June, the government nationalized the Colquiri tin and zinc
mine owned by  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)   As in past takeovers, Bolivian authorities seized several
buildings from the Iberdrola units in La Paz, Argentine CN23 TV
showed. Employees didn’t oppose their entrance.  The takeover came seven months after Bolivia expropriated
assets of Spain’s  Red Electrica Corp. (REE) , which is still in the
process of being compensated by the government, and follows a
series of Spanish company takeovers by Latin American
governments.  Iberdrola was notified by Bolivia that the government has
nationalized its electricity holdings in the South American
country, according to spokesman Jose Luis Gonzalez Besada. The
units include two electricity distributors, a service company
and an investment firm tied to the power business, said a
Bolivian government official in a telephone interview from La
Paz. He asked not to be identified as he isn’t an authorized
spokesman.  Iberdrola should receive compensation after an independent
review of its assets within the next six months, Morales said in
a television broadcast.  At least 15 companies have been nationalized in Bolivia
since 2006.  For more, click here.  Sharma Signals India to Approve Ikea as Nation Seeks Investment  India is poised to approve furniture retailer Ikea’s
application to open stores as the nation seeks to lure more
investment, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said.  Ikea’s proposal to invest as much as 42 billion rupees
($773 million) in outlets selling items ranging from sofas and
cutlery to hot dogs is awaiting a fresh approval from officials.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in January 2012
allowed full foreign ownership of stores selling a single brand.  Ikea spokeswoman Ylva Magnusson said by telephone today
that the company expects to hear about the application by Jan. 7
and declined to comment further.  India’s ruling coalition in September permitted overseas
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to set up multibrand
supermarkets, part of a package of policy changes to spur
 growth . That step cost Singh his majority in parliament after
some lawmakers said family-run stores will have to close.  Sharma said retail liberalization is now “cast in stone.”  India’s Foreign Investment Promotion Board first approved
Ikea’s application on Dec. 21, and it is being reconsidered.  The administration opened other industries, such as
aviation, to overseas investors in September, as well as curbing
fuel subsidies to pare a  budget deficit  that has increased the
odds of a credit-rating downgrade to so-called junk status.  Foreign direct investment  into India fell 42 percent to
$14.8 billion in the seven months through October compared with
a year earlier.  Portugal to Inject $1.5 Billion Into Banif  Portugal’s Finance Ministry agreed to participate in the
recapitalization of  Banco Internacional do Funchal SA , the
ministry said in a statement.  The Portuguese state will subscribe 700 million euros ($928
million) of special stock and 400 million euros of capital
instruments that Banif will issue by the end of January,
according to the Finance Ministry. Banif’s Core Tier 1 will rise
to more than 10 percent, the ministry said. Special shares will
give the state the right to a “priority dividend.”  The Banif recapitalization is subject to European
Commission approval and a restructuring plan for the lender will
be presented in next few months, the ministry said.  For more, click here.  Hearings  Exchange Regulation Needs Review After Facebook, Mathisson Says  The botched initial offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  is the
catalyst that should lead to U.S. exchanges being stripped of
self-regulatory powers and their related benefits, a  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS)  executive said.  Nasdaq Stock Market’s claim of immunity from liability for
$500 million in brokerage losses stemming from technology
problems on May 18 exposes a conflict between the historical,
quasi-governmental role of exchanges and their status as profit-
seeking public companies,  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity
trading at  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , told U.S. senators in Washington last
week. Those tensions can’t be managed fairly and should spur a
regulatory overhaul of the securities market, he said.  Legislation that created the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 1934 also deemed the main venues self-regulatory
organizations, or  SROs , overseeing their member firms and
trading. Critics say the Facebook mishap shows how changes in
the structure of markets have made old regulations obsolete and
created an uneven playing field where exchanges are governed by
one set of rules and their competitors another.  “We recommend that the SRO status of the exchanges be
examined,” Mathisson said at a Senate banking subcommittee
meeting Dec. 18. The Facebook trading breakdown highlighted a
“peculiar quirk of the U.S. market structure -- that exchanges
do not have material liability for their failures. It is time
for policy makers to correct this mistake,” he said.  Exchanges have absolute immunity for actions taken as part
of their regulatory duties. The doctrine arose when exchanges
were not-for-profit organizations owned by their member firms.
The shield protects them from lawsuits related to the exercise
of powers delegated by the SEC and prevents financial losses
that could jeopardize institutions seen as vital to the  U.S.
economy .  “The concept of being an SRO is historically based on the
idea of having obligations to the market and getting certain
benefits” for living up to them, Joe Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at NYSE Euronext, said at the hearings. The
responsibilities include providing open and fair access to all
investors, publishing rules and fees, and overseeing trading,
while the economic advantages include immunity “when performing
certain of their regulatory functions” and revenue from the
sale of quotation and transaction data, he said.  SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said in October that
Congress should modernize laws built around the SRO framework.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Baer Confirmed as U.S. Justice Department Antitrust Chief  William Baer , a Washington antitrust lawyer and former
Federal Trade Commission official, was confirmed to head the
U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division.  Baer’s nomination as assistant attorney general, which had
been stalled in Congress for most of the past year, was
confirmed Dec. 31 by a Senate vote of 64-26.  Baer, a partner at Arnold & Porter LLP, 62, will become the
first fully confirmed head of the antitrust division since
former chief  Christine Varney  left in August 2011. Since then,
the division has been run by acting chiefs.  Baer, named one of the “Decade’s Most Influential
Lawyers” by the National Law Journal in 2010, is a former
director of the Federal Trade Commission’s competition bureau
and has represented corporate clients including  General Electric
Company Co. (GE) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in private
practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  