-- U.K. Manufacturing Revives as Euro Factories Struggle: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-02T13:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/u-k-manufacturing-index-unexpectedly-rises-to-15-month-high.html
U.K.  manufacturing  unexpectedly
expanded at the fastest pace in 15 months in December as
domestic demand improved, indicating some strength in the
economy at the end of 2012.  A gauge of  factory activity  rose to 51.4 from a revised
49.2 in November, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply said in London today. The median
forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a
reading of 49.1, unchanged from November’s initially reported
level. The pound stayed higher against the dollar after gaining
to its strongest level in 16 months.  The report reduces the chance the U.K. will succumb to
triple-dip recession after the economy resumed expansion in the
third quarter and tensions related to the euro-region debt
crisis eased. Still, Markit noted that companies remain
“cautious” and the Bank of England has forecast only a gradual
recovery through 2013. A separate report showed euro-area
manufacturing continued to shrink last month.  “The sector found some stability at the very end of
2012,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London . Still, “with the recession in the euro zone set
to deepen and consumers at home on course to be hit by a further
bout of relatively high inflation, 2013 is shaping up to be
another tough year for U.K. manufacturers.”  Today’s report showed that U.K. factory output increased
for a second month, with growth accelerating to a 20-month high.
The improved performance was mainly due to an improvement in
domestic demand, with the sharpest gains in consumer and partly
finished goods. Still, Markit said the increase in the index in
December “does little to change the view that the sector
contracted over the fourth quarter as a whole.”  Euro Area  In the euro area, a report from Markit showed  manufacturing
output  contracted more than initially estimated in December,
adding to signs a recession may extend into this year. A gauge
fell to 46.1 from 46.2 in November, below an initial estimate of
46.3 on Dec. 14. Indexes for Germany, France and Italy all
remained below 50 last month, the threshold that indicates
growth.  In the euro region, the sector “is still stranded well
into recessionary territory,” said Howard Archer, an economist
at Global Insight IHS in London. “Any significant recovery in
manufacturing activity still looks some way off.”  European stocks rose today, extending last year’s 13
percent  global rally , after U.S. lawmakers passed a bill that
averted spending cuts and tax increases threatening a recovery
in the world’s biggest economy. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
jumped 1.9 percent as of 12:57 p.m. in London.  10-Year Gilt  U.K. government bonds declined as the U.S. deal reduced
demand for fixed-income assets as a haven. The 10-year gilt
yield rose 13 basis points to 1.95 percent, while the pound
appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.6302, after reaching $1.6381, the
strongest level since Aug. 30, 2011.  Manufacturing in the U.S. probably returned to growth in
December, economists said before a report today. The Institute
for Supply Management’s  factory index  rose to 50.4 from 49.5,
which was the lowest since July 2009, according to the median
forecast of 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Britain’s recovery has yet to gain traction amid the
government’s budget cuts and a squeeze on credit. Data on Dec.
21 showed Britain’s economy emerged from a recession in the
third quarter with slower  growth  than previously estimated.
Today’s Markit report showed that output-price inflation
accelerated the fastest in eight months and that companies
continued to cut jobs in December, albeit at a slower pace.  ‘Cost-Cutting Mode’  “There are increasing signs of firms starting to move out
of this cost-cutting mode, though it is clear that the outlook
remains far from certain,” Markit economist Rob Dobson said.
“Business confidence among producers therefore remains fragile
and could easily be derailed.”  In Asia,  Singapore ’s economy expanded more than economists
estimated last quarter, averting a recession.  Gross domestic
product  rose an annualized 1.8 percent in the three months to
Dec. 31 from the previous period, when it contracted a revised
6.3 percent. The median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey 
was for a 1.6 percent expansion.  The World Bank last month raised its outlook for emerging
East Asia nations, citing China’s recovery, even as the export-
dependent region faces risks from  Europe . A Chinese factory
gauge yesterday showed a third month of expansion. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.6 in December, unchanged
from the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. A separate
index from HSBC and Markit on Dec. 31 rose to a 19-month high.  “There are signs that global trade flows are stabilizing
as  China  and the U.S. strengthen and the downturn in the euro
zone eases,” Markit’s Dobson said. “If the recovery in
overseas markets continues to build at the start of 2013, this
would be of major benefit to U.K. exporters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  