-- U.S. Needs Lower Deficits to Avoid Downgrade, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-02T20:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/u-s-needs-lower-deficits-to-avoid-downgrade-moody-s-says-1-.html
The U.S. budget package passed by
Congress won’t reduce deficits enough to avoid a sovereign-
rating downgrade, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The ratio of government debt to gross domestic product will
likely peak at about 80 percent in 2014 and may stay at about
that level for the rest of the decade, New York-based Moody’s
said today in a statement. The ratings company assigns the U.S.
its top Aaa ranking and has a negative outlook on the grade, as
does  Fitch Ratings .  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. rating one
step to AA+ on Aug. 5, 2011, with a negative outlook.  “Stabilization at this level would leave the government
less able to deal with future pressures from entitlement
spending or from unforeseen shocks,” Moody’s said. “Further
measures that bring about a downward debt trajectory over the
medium term are likely to be needed.”  The legislation passed by Congress averts income-tax
increases for most Americans while taxing top-earners more, yet
leaves unanswered longer-term questions for taming the federal
debt. Republicans are planning to use the need to raise the
nation’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling to try to force President
 Barack Obama  to accept cuts in entitlement programs, such as
Medicare. Congress must act as early as mid-February to prevent
a default.  “Although Moody’s believes that the debt limit will
eventually be raised and that the risk of default on Treasury
bonds is extremely low, this confluence of events adds
uncertainty to the outcome of negotiations,” the ratings
company said. “The debt trajectory resulting from this process
is likely to determine whether the Aaa rating is returned to a
stable outlook or downgraded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  