-- Unilever Doubles P&G Growth by Dominating Jakarta Stalls: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-01-03T09:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/unilever-doubles-p-g-growth-by-dominating-jakarta-stalls-retail.html
Hari Sumarno runs a small shop
selling tobacco and household sundries at the Palmerah market in
Jakarta, the bustling capital of  Indonesia , which has one of the
world’s fastest-growing economies. Palmerah is a hive of more
than 100 mom-and-pop stores, and shoppers haggle over everything
from duck eggs to flip-flops as flies buzz overhead.  The front of Sumarno’s cramped stall is plastered with
small packages of Sunsilk shampoo, Fair & Lovely skin cream,
Bango soy sauce and Rexona deodorant -- a seemingly random
assortment with a common denominator: All are Unilever brands.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-products
company, provides Sumarno with discounted goods in exchange for
the prominent placement, and company sales reps check in weekly
to make sure everything is in stock and displayed neatly.  Unilever brands  account for about 30 percent of Sumarno’s
15 million rupiah ($1,554) in daily sales, and stores like his
helped  Unilever (UNA)  Indonesia boost sales 17 percent last year,
nearly triple the growth rate of the nation’s gross domestic
product. Competing products are “in the back,” said Sumarno,
grinning as he jerks a thumb toward the dusty, unlit shelves
behind him. “You can’t fight Unilever.”  From the markets of  Southeast Asia  to the aisles of
American supercenters, that message is spreading. The Anglo-
Dutch maker of household staples such as Dove soap and Lipton
tea has accelerated its sales growth, new-product development
and presence in  emerging markets  over the past three years while
many of its rivals in the $7 trillion consumer-goods sector,
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  in particular, are struggling amid the
prolonged economic downturn.  Newfound Luster  “It’s Unilever’s moment in the sun,” said  Harold Thompson , a Deutsche Bank AG analyst who has spent a decade
following the company, which sells 400 brands in 190 countries.  Unilever Indonesia advanced 1.1 percent to 22,100 rupiah as
of the 4 p.m. close in Jakarta, following a 4.8 percent increase
yesterday. The  share price  rallied 11 percent last year,
compared with a 13 percent gain in the Jakarta Composite index.  Unilever’s newfound luster -- sales are  growing  at more
than double the rate of P&G’s -- comes courtesy of emerging
markets such as Indonesia, which comprise 55 percent of  revenue ,
up from 20 percent in 1990. That’s a higher proportion than at
peers like P&G,  France ’s  L’Oreal SA, (OR)  Swiss-based Nestle SA,
 Germany ’s Beiersdorf AG and Britain’s  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc. (RB/)  In the third quarter, Unilever’s emerging-market sales rose
12 percent, a sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit gains.  Comeback Architect  Half of Unilever’s 50 billion euros ($65 billion) in annual
 sales  come from food and drinks, one third are beauty products,
and the rest are from household items such as detergents. By
focusing its innovation and marketing firepower on fewer, bigger
projects with global appeal, Unilever is able to get products
like TRESemme shampoo and Magnum ice cream into stores in  Sao
Paulo , Mumbai and Jakarta faster than ever before. Once there,
it uses local knowledge gained over decades operating in
developing markets -- Unilever has been in Indonesia since 1933
and  India  since 1888 -- to lure shoppers to its brands.  In the decade prior to 2009, Unilever’s sales were stagnant
and its  shares  languished as the sprawling company shed brands,
factories and employees, and jumped from one grand strategy to
another. The architect of Unilever’s return to grace is Paul Polman, a Dutchman who once fancied being a doctor or a priest.  Since his recruitment in 2009 as Unilever’s first-ever
chief executive officer from outside the company, the P&G
veteran has brought an emphasis on winning market share that was
sorely lacking in the 170,000-employee company. Polman’s lofty
rhetoric about doubling Unilever’s 2009 sales to 80 billion
euros while cutting its carbon footprint in half and improving
the hygiene habits of more than a billion people -- all by 2020
-- was met with skepticism at first.  20,000 Reports  But as sales improved even in recession-wracked  Europe ,
which accounts for a quarter of Unilever’s business, investors
signed on. The shares have soared 68 percent during Polman’s
tenure and trade at a higher  price-to-earnings multiple  than
both P&G and Nestle for the first time in more than six years.  Excluding the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and
currency fluctuations, revenue increased 6.6 percent in the
first nine months of 2012, better than the previous year’s 6.5
percent and almost double 2009’s 3.5 percent. Over the past
three quarters , P&G’s sales growth  on the same basis hasn’t
topped 3 percent.  “Our business is not rocket science,” Polman said.
“There’s nothing intellectual about this. It’s about being a
little bit better every day.”  Online Blitz  Polman has cut more than 1 billion euros in costs each year
and is jettisoning excess layers of management and red tape. The
company once had 20,000 different types of financial reports,
which it’s whittled down by 90 percent.  In 2005, Unilever had 5,000 new-product projects in its
pipeline and could only bring eight of them to 10 or more
countries within a year of their debut. Last year, it cut the
pipeline to 600, with 90 of those rolled out globally inside of
12 months, he said.  “You want fewer, bigger ideas,” according to Polman, who
said he won’t even look at a new project unless it can
potentially generate at least 50 million euros in sales.  One success has been TRESemme, a shampoo acquired when
Unilever paid $3.7 billion for Alberto Culver in 2010. Polman
quickly rolled the brand out in  Brazil , but not before getting
40 big retailers behind its marketing plan, courting fashion
bloggers, and distributing 10 million free samples. Finally, a
Unilever online ad blitz lured 1 million fans to TRESemme’s
Brazilian Facebook page in just six months.  Supplier Smarts  In less than a year, TRESemme went from zero market share
to besting P&G’s Pantene in hypermarkets and drugstores. Sales
reached 150 million euros in its first 12 months. Polman aims to
repeat that launch success in India and Indonesia.  Retailers worldwide are fans because Unilever’s so-called
on-shelf availability, a measure of how well it keeps products
in stock, has risen 8 percentage points in the past three years.
That translates into higher sales for merchants, who then may
give Unilever brands more shelf space or promotion than rivals.
The world’s two biggest retailers,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Tesco Plc, (TSCO)  recently named Unilever their supplier of the year.  Polman wants to move Unilever’s personal-care products
upscale. Premium-priced shampoo and skin creams generate profit
margins as much as 8 percentage points higher than mainstream
products, he said. So he’s pushed 80 percent of his product
development staff into the field, where they can work closely
with suppliers, who he said now contribute to seven out of every
10 new ideas. He’s also put 500 million euros into a venture
fund that invests in next-generation products such as
personalized skincare treatments.  Facial Treatment  “This is a big opportunity for us to make sure that we are
able to play the top end as well as we play the mass end,” said
Chief Operating Officer Harish Manwani.  In Jakarta, that means targeting shoppers such as Fitri
Zenitia, a 34-year-old mother of three who visits the Pond’s
Institute in south Jakarta every two weeks for a $20 “Gold
Radiance” facial treatment. Since Zenitia first came to the
spa, which Unilever opened in 2010, she’s increased her monthly
spending on Pond’s face creams from 16,000 rupiah to about
500,000 rupiah.  “I’m very concerned about my hair and my face, so this is
worth it,” she said.  With 46 percent of the population living on less than $2 a
day, many Indonesians can’t afford a $10 bottle of Pond’s, so
lower-income shoppers can grab a 35 cent sachet of Fair & Lovely
cream from the Palmerah market.  “We capture all the prices,” said Maurits Lalisang,
Unilever’s Indonesian chairman, clad in a maroon-and-gold batik
patterned shirt.  “Being Indonesian, we don’t need to spend thousands on
research to understand Indonesian consumers. We live here. We
know. We tell  London  what to do, not the other way around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  