-- Vestas, Gamesa Rise After U.S. Extends Wind-Power Tax Break
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-02T18:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/vestas-gamesa-advance-after-u-s-extends-wind-power-tax-break.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest
wind-turbine maker, and  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  led gains
among European peers as the U.S. Congress approved a law
extending a tax credit for the industry.  Shares of Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas surged 6.7 percent,
the most in five weeks, to close at 34 kroner in Copenhagen.
Gamesa rose 9.5 percent, the most since August, to 1.817 euros
in  Madrid , while  Nordex SE (NDX1)  climbed 4 percent in  Frankfurt .  The U.S. House late yesterday passed a bill averting
spending cuts and tax rises that had threatened an economic
recovery. The law, already approved by the Senate, includes an
extension of the Production Tax Credit, which pays wind-farm
owners 2.2 cents for every kilowatt-hour of power they produce.  “It’s really good news for Vestas, because the American
market and how it develops is extremely important,” Chief
Marketing Officer Morten Albaek said today in a phone interview.
“It’s a good way of starting the new year.”  The U.S. Energy Information Administration  said  Dec. 19
that wind-farm installations in the country would top 12
gigawatts in 2012 as developers rushed to complete projects
before the scheduled Dec. 31 expiry of the tax credit, known as
the PTC. That would exceed the record 10 gigawatts in 2009,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Late Timing  Without an extension to the credit, installations were
forecast to plunge to 1.5 gigawatts this year, researcher
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said Nov. 13. Even with the
extension, Vestas said  today  that the “late timing” of the
announcement would lead to a “significant reduction” in
installations relative to previous years.  The PTC decision will boost orders for Vestas in the U.S.
in 2013, Albaek said, declining to estimate a figure. The
company maintains its forecast for global shipments of 5
gigawatts this year, he said.  The tax break was extended until the end of 2013, a move
that the American Wind Energy Association said may save as many
as 37,000 jobs. The last time the credit was allowed to lapse,
at the end of 2003, U.S. annual wind installations slumped 76
percent, according to AWEA data.  “Now we can continue to provide America with more clean,
affordable, home-grown energy, and keep growing a new
manufacturing sector that’s now making nearly 70 percent of our
wind turbines in the U.S.,” Rob Gramlich, interim chief
executive officer of the AWEA, said in an e-mailed statement.  Forecast Shipments  Vestas had already started preparing its U.S. factories for
a slowdown in production as the expiry of the tax credit loomed,
cutting working hours at plants in  Colorado  and forecasting a
decline in global shipments.  The extension will provide more job security for Vestas’s
U.S. employees, including the 1,100 who work at four Colorado
factories, Albaek said. It’s too early to say whether staff on
reduced hours will have their working week increased again, he
said.  Vestas last year cut its workforce in the U.S. and  Canada 
to about 2,500 from 3,400 amid plans to reduce the payroll to
about 16,000 by the end of 2013 from 22,721 in 2011.  “Wind-energy workers have been living under threat of the
PTC’s expiration for over a year and layoffs had already begun,
as companies idled factories because of a lack of orders for
2013,” the AWEA said. “Uncertain federal policies have caused
a boom-bust cycle in U.S. wind-energy development for over a
decade.”  Slow Recovery  Gamesa, which has two factories in  Pennsylvania , said that
even with the extension, the recovery in the U.S. market will be
slow because wind farms take 12 to 18 months to develop.  “It will still be nearly two years before the industry
sees significant recovery, as developers recall teams to restart
dormant projects,” the Zamudio, Spain-based company said in an
e-mail.  Nordex, a Hamburg-based turbine developer, had no growth in
U.S. orders last year and is unsure what the extension will mean
for business, Ralf Peters, a company spokesman, said by
telephone, citing competition from cheap shale gas.  “It remains to be seen in which direction the pendulum
will swing in 2013,” Peters said. “What’s clear is that the
tax-credit extension adds weight to wind.”  Nordex in 2010 opened a plant in Jonesboro,  Arkansas . It
has a production capacity of about 200 megawatts a year, which
could be extended to 750 megawatts if the company were to hire
more people, Peters said. It has about 200 employees in the U.S.  The AWEA said the deal agreed on last night by Congress
will protect all projects that begin construction in 2013, even
if they’re not completed until later.  “Companies that manufacture wind turbines and install them
sought that definition to allow for the 18 to 24 months it takes
to develop a new wind farm,” the association said. That
provision is “really positive,” according to Albaek.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  