-- Web Stocks Drive Surge on Export Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-02T21:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/web-stocks-drive-surge-on-export-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  climbed in New York to
an eight-month high, led by Internet and solar companies, as
expanding manufacturing and the U.S. budget pact burnished the
outlook for the world’s biggest exporter.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. jumped 2.9 percent to 102.01
yesterday, the highest since May 3. Online game operator  Giant
Interactive Group Inc. (GA)  surged the most in 14 months, while  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK)  soared to a five-month high.  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd. (6883)  traded at the widest  premium  over its Hong Kong shares
since September after data showed Macau casino revenue climbed
to a record last month.  The China-US gauge followed the  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI) ’s rally to a 17-month high after U.S. lawmakers passed a
bill to undo tax increases for more than 99 percent of
households and avert spending cuts that threatened a recovery in
the economy of  China ’s second-largest trading partner. Chinese
factory output grew for a third month in December, data released
Jan. 1 showed, adding to signs Asia’s largest economy is
emerging from its seven-quarter  slowdown .  “Investors are welcoming the U.S. budget deal, as it at
least temporarily removed this big hurdle in fiscal policy that
threatened global chaos in 2013,” Erik Lam, director of Asian
equity sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York, said by
phone yesterday. “People think China will be able to sustain
its growth momentum going forward into the first quarter.”  ETF Surges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., jumped 3.5 percent to a five-
month high of $41.85, after a 16 percent rally in 2012. The
China-US index added 10 percent last year. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  gained 2.5 percent to 1,462.42 yesterday, the biggest
rally since December 2011.  Giant Interactive, based in  Shanghai , soared 11 percent to
$5.98, the highest price since Sept. 9, 2011. Its American
depositary receipts gained 33 percent in 2012. Trading volume on
its ADRs was 2.6 times the daily average over the past three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Adjusted net income at Giant Interactive rose 20 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier to 342.5 million yuan
($54.5 million) as sales gained 19 percent, it said Nov. 13.  “Giant is a name that continues to gain investors’
interest in recent months as they look for higher-yield
investment,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “It paid
special and regular dividends last year and announced a share
buyback plan. The company is getting more attractive given its
steady earnings, cash flows and cash position.”  Sina Gains  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a Beijing-based provider of Chinese
digital map content to companies like Apple Inc. and  Sina Corp. (SINA) ,
rallied 8 percent to $12.25, the highest close in a month. Sina,
owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in China, climbed 4
percent to $52.27, the highest level since Nov. 15.  Youku Tudou
Inc. (YOKU) , formed out of the merger of China’s most popular video
websites, surged 7.5 percent to a seven-week high of $19.6.  ADRs of Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-largest
producer of the fuel, rose 7.7 percent to $18.39, the highest
close since May.  The Shandong, China-based company may report improved
earnings for the three months to December as supply disruptions
in Asia drive up prices,  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB Kay-Hian
Ltd., said yesterday. Yanzhou posted a net loss of 79.6 million
yuan ($12.7 million) in the third quarter because of a fall in
coal prices and a gain in selling costs.  Casino Revenue  Melco Crown, which operates gambling facilities in Macau,
the only Chinese city where casinos are legal, climbed 3.1
percent to $17.36, the highest level since October 2007. Its
ADRs, each representing three ordinary shares, traded 5 percent
above its Hong Kong stock, the highest premium since Sept. 7.  Casino revenue in Macau rose 20 percent to a record 28.2
billion patacas ($3.5 billion) in December, according to data
from the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau
yesterday. The growth compares with the 17.5 percent median
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of solar
wafers, jumped 9.7 percent to a five-month high of $1.58.  The company, based in Xinyu of Jiangxi province, said it
agreed to sell its unit LDK Anhui to Shanghai Qianjiang Group
for 25 million  yuan , in a statement issued yesterday.  Mindray Sinks  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR) , a medical devices
producer based in Shenzhen, China, tumbled 7.7 percent to a
five-month low of $30.17 in New York. Its slump was the biggest
among decliners on the Bloomberg US-China gauge.  The company said on Nov. 14 it started a voluntary recall
affecting A3/A5 Anesthesia Delivery System for sales in the
U.S., Latin America and  Australia . Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG cut his recommendation on
Mindray to neutral from outperform yesterday, citing possible
personnel restructuring in North America and negative impact of
the recall.  The  30-day volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge was
17.6 yesterday, up from 16.8 on Dec. 31, and compared with the
average of 22 over the past year.  The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse
Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that gained
U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade, increased 2
percent yesterday to 77.09 in its fifth day of gains.  Chinese equities will go up 10 to 15 percent this year,
driven by 5 to 10 percent in profit growth, and the remainder by
an expansion in stock valuation multiples, Jiong Shao, head of
China Strategy at Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan
strengthened 0.27 percent yesterday to 6.3140 versus the dollar.
The currency was little changed at 6.2303 a dollar on Dec. 31 in
Shanghai trading, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  Stock trading in mainland China has been closed from Jan. 1
and resumes tomorrow. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 3.2
percent in 2012, its smallest-ever annual advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  