-- U.S. Credit Extension May Revive Stalled Wind Industry
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-01-02T21:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-02/wind-tax-credit-extension-seen-driving-growth-trade-group-says.html
(Corrects description of credit in third paragraph.)  The one-year extension of a U.S. tax
credit for wind power includes modified terms that may revive an
industry that’s expected to stall this year.  The production tax credit was due to expire at the end of
2012 and the extension was part of yesterday’s passage of the
bill to avert the so-called fiscal cliff that would have imposed
income tax increases for most U.S. workers.  Unlike past extensions, Congress is now allowing the credit
to cover wind farms that begin construction in 2013, not just
those that go into operation. Uncertainty last year over whether
the policy would be renewed is a key reason the U.S. is expected
to install 4,800 megawatts of turbines this year, down from an
estimated 11,800 megawatts in 2012, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said in a November report.  “This extension allows the industry to reactivate
development that had been on hold since mid-year,” Tom Vinson,
senior director of federal and regulatory affairs at the
 American Wind Energy Association , said today in an interview.
“The start-construction language provides a longer period of
certainty than prior extensions.”  Delayed Recovery  The full benefits of the extension may not be felt this
year, Justin Wu, Hong Kong-based head of wind analysis at New
Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “Though too late for this year,
it will allow the U.S. market to see some recovery in 2014.”  Spain ’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the second-largest builder of U.S.
wind farms with more than 4,800 megawatts in operation, would
have pursued few new wind developments this year without the
revised language. Manufacturers and installers of  wind turbines 
had sought the revision to allow for the 18 months to 24 months
needed to develop new wind farms.  “That was pretty critical to resuming development,” Paul
Copleman, an Iberdrola spokesman, said today in an interview.
“Without that, the extension might not have had any impact this
year. We’re in a good position to get some construction
started.”  Energy developers were racing to complete work by Dec. 31
to qualify for the tax credit of 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for
power from wind farms.  “The down-to-the-wire nature of this extension meant that
many developers, rushing to finish their projects before the
2012 year-end deadline, probably had to work through the
holidays,” Wu said.  The tax credit helped make wind the largest source of new
capacity in the U.S. last year, according to New Energy Finance.  Wind energy has the potential to supply as much as 20
percent of America’s electricity by 2030, according to
projections from the U.S. Energy Department. AWEA, based in
 Washington , estimates that extending the tax credit will save as
many as 37,000 jobs, according to a  statement  yesterday after
the House passed the budget bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  