-- T. Rowe Price Closing Two High-Yield Funds to New Clients
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-30T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/t-rowe-price-closing-two-high-yield-funds-to-new-clients.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  will close
two of its junk-bond funds to new investors next month amid a
surge in demand for higher-yielding debt.  The T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund, which had $9.38 billion
of assets at the end of February, will stop accepting money from
new clients on April 30, according to a filing today with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The firm’s $2.49
billion  Institutional High Yield Fund (TRHYX)  will also close to new
customers on the same date.  Junk-bond funds took in a record $23.5 billion over the
previous 16 weeks, according to a March 23 report by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  T. Rowe Price could be forced to put new cash to
work as high-yield bonds become more expensive, thereby lowering
the yield that its funds pay to shareholders.  “Their problem is where are they going to find these
securities at reasonable prices,” said Michael Lipper, the head
of Lipper Advisory Services Inc. in Summit,  New Jersey . Closing
the funds “is the responsible thing to do,” he said.  The  High Yield Fund (PRHYX)  has generated average annual returns of
8.7 percent since it started on Dec. 31, 1984, according to T.
Rowe Price’s website. Run by Mark Vaselkiv since 1996, the fund
returned 5.1 percent return this year through yesterday, beating
51 percent of competitors with a similar investment style,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund’s net assets totaled $8.4 billion at the end of
February 2011, according to prior SEC filings. Heather McDonold,
a spokeswoman for T. Rowe Price, said the fund is closing after
heavy cash deposits from clients. She declined to provide
specifics.  “We are concerned that strong cash flows will continue for
some time and could overwhelm our ability to invest
effectively,” McDonold said.  T. Rowe Price, based in Baltimore, had $489.5 billion in
assets under management at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  