-- ‘Wrath’ Saves Earth; Julia’s Wry ‘Mirror’; Icy ‘Goon’: Movies
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n   a n d   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/-wrath-saves-earth-julia-s-wry-mirror-icy-goon-movies.html
“ Wrath of the Titans ” is a sequel
to the 2010 “ Clash of the Titans ,” which was a remake of the
1981 “ Clash of the Titans ,” the last of the storybook
spectacles whose effects, by the stop-motion specialist Ray
Harryhausen, now lie shriveling in the memory of Boomers.  The 3-D effects here are for more technologically jaded
kids, yet they nod -- consciously, I hope -- in Harryhausen’s
direction, which is to say they’re clumsy enough to have some
charm. The divine and semi-divine characters who band to save
the earth from annihilation include  Sam Worthington  (Perseus),
 Liam Neeson  (Zeus) and  Ralph Fiennes  (Hades), all retained from
the 2010 “Clash.”  The movie would be better if the actors were worse. Lines
like “O Hades, what have I done to you?” aren’t so much fun
when you know the actors trying not to look mortified by them
can handle Shakespeare. Further down in the cast are a few
Europeans who mangle their words in ways that are truer to the
B-list epics of the ‘50s and ‘60s.  The director, Jonathan Liebesman (“ The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre: The Beginning ”) seems suited to the material. It zips
along, and some of it is even (intentionally) funny. Mainly,
though, it’s a hodgepodge of references to pictures that don’t
really deserve to be remembered, and certainly won’t be by the
tweener boys it’s aimed at.  I thought I caught allusions to the 1959 “ Journey to the
Center of the Earth ” and even, once the brimstone really
started to fly, to the destruction of the temple in DeMille’s
1949 “ Samson and Delilah .” But it could just be that all
cheeseball demolition spectaculars look sort of the same.  “Wrath of the Titans,” from  Warner Bros ., is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ‘Mirror Mirror’  Julia Roberts  is easily the fairest thing of all in
“Mirror Mirror,” Tarsem Singh’s prettier than charming comic
spin on the Snow White tale.  Roberts plays the Queen (fabulously costumed by the late
Eiko Ishioka), who rarely uses magic when a cutting remark will
do. “Some would say Snow is high maintenance,” whispers the
Queen conspiratorially to the handsome, Snow-smitten Prince
(Armie Hammer).  Say ‘Cheesy’  Singh casts a campy spell over the tale, with the Queen
wrapping her big ol’ Julia Roberts smile around death orders and
servant insults. Her king long missing, Her Majesty has the run
of the castle to browbeat her toady (Nathan Lane) and obsess
over Snow’s alabaster skin.  With three writers (Marc Klein, Jason Keller and Melisa
Wallack) “Mirror Mirror” has the tonal inconsistency of a
children’s-TV anthology -- a slapstick scene for the bandit
dwarves here, a screwball love match there. Kids might think
it’s as funny as it wants to be.  For most of the picture, Snow (Lily Collins) has only to
look pale, bond with her seven small pals and swordfight the
gorgeous, often shirtless Prince.  Though the film looks a bit grainy, the vaguely Bavarian
locale is impressively wrought. Filmed mostly on sound stages,
the spooky birch woods and snow-covered landscape have an
intentional artificiality, as if the set could be hauled to the
nearest Broadway stage for a six-week transfer.  Broadway composer  Alan Menken  has already provided the
score, even if its cartoonish personality serves mostly to
lighten up the long stretches when “Mirror Mirror” drags
drags.  “Mirror Mirror,” from Relativity Media, is playing across
the country. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Goon’  Hockey occasionally breaks out during the fights in
“ Goon ,” a low-aiming “Rocky” on ice.  Based on a memoir by Canadian player Doug Smith, “Goon”
stars Seann William Scott as one of the sport’s punch-throwing
enforcers, or goons -- players recruited to liven up the games
with bloody brawls.  Likably soft-hearted if dimwitted (rather like the movie
itself), Scott’s Doug Glatt is an aimless bar bouncer “touched
by the fist of God,” as one hockey bigwig notes. He can barely
skate, but can coldcock an opponent like no one else.  Director Michael Dowse and screenwriters Evan Goldberg and
Jay Baruchel give Glatt some family drama (the disapproving dad
is played by Eugene Levy) and a troubled love story (Alison Pill
as a slutty variation on  Rocky ’s Adrian). Better is  Liev Schreiber  as the aging goon threatened by the newcomer.  “Everybody loves soldiers until they come home,”
Schreiber’s enforcer tells Doug, voicing the hockey puck wisdom
that flows through “Goon” like blood from a broken nose.  “Goon,” from Magnet Releasing, is playing in New York and
select cities. Rating: ** (Evans)       ( Craig Seligman  and  Greg Evans  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  or Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 