-- Lacker Says Fed Is ‘Really Far’ From Need for More Stimulus
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-30T13:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/lacker-says-fed-is-really-far-from-need-for-more-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he opposes any additional asset-
purchase program with the  U.S. economy  recovering and inflation
close to the Fed’s target.  “Easing moves are part of the arsenal, part of the
toolkit, and there are conditions that one could conceive of
when you would pull them out and enact them,” Lacker said in an
interview on CNBC television from Charlotte,  North Carolina . “I
think we are really far from that right now.”  Lacker’s comments reflect his decision to dissent twice
this year from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s statements
that subdued inflation and economic slack will probably warrant
exceptionally low rates through late 2014. Fed officials are
debating the need for more easing even after the policy group
upgraded its assessment of the economy at its March 13 meeting
following employment gains.  “If we get growth about what I am expecting,” which he
said was 2 percent to 3 percent this year, “I don’t see where
the rationale for further easing is going to come from,” Lacker
said.  The Richmond Fed president said he was encouraged by the
increase in job gains over the past few months, which he said
partly reflected a drop in  labor productivity . “The job market
seems to be gradually healing,” and unemployment may drop below
8 percent next year, he said.  “We are in reasonably good shape” on inflation, which may
be close to the Fed’s 2 percent target this year, he said.  The Richmond Fed leader repeated that he believed an
increase in  interest rates  is likely to be necessary some time
in 2013. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been unable to forge
unanimity on the committee since June, as the panel’s decisions
drew objection from policy makers both in favor and opposed to
more stimulus.  Lacker, 56, votes on monetary policy in 2012 as part of the
rotation among Fed bank presidents. He is a former head of
research at the Richmond Fed and became president of the bank in
August 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  