-- After Duds, Disney Takes Flight With ‘Newsies’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/after-duds-disney-takes-flight-with-newsies-review.html
If you’ve had it with choreography
as inspired as a workout at the gym, “Newsies: The Musical” is
your show.  The balletic airborne dancing provides reason enough to see
the rough boys who hawked newspapers on New York street corners
at the turn of the last century.  After the disastrous “Little Mermaid” and “Tarzan,”
this new musical by Harvey Fierstein,  Alan Menken  and Jack
Feldman represents Disney’s return to crowd-pleasing form.  The blessedly retro choreographer  Christopher Gattelli  and
a youthful company that beggars gravity with soaring leaps
punctuated by occasional back flips, capture the poetic
aspirations of an underclass whose dreams are typically ground
in the pavement like so many cigarette butts. You may be
reminded of the breathtaking moves  Jerome Robbins  gave the Jets
and Sharks in “West Side Story.”  “Newsies” concerns the Davids-versus-Goliaths strike
called by the boys. A consortium of moguls led by Joseph Pulitzer has attempted to squeeze even more money out of them by
hiking the price for 100 papers to 60 cents, from 50.  That’s the core of the story and about as close to the
facts as the Disney version goes. First presented as a film that
flopped in 1992, the story has been rewritten by Fierstein under
the assured direction of Tommy Tune-protege Jeff Calhoun.  Spunky Kids  The Newsies, led by Jeremy Jordan’s spunkily dese-dem-dose
Jack Kelly, are inexhaustible. Like the happy, hungry
pickpockets in “Oliver!” their tribulations fade in the hook
of a catchy anthem, several of which have been provided by
Menken (music) and Feldman (lyrics), augmenting their score for
the film.  Jack gains entry into the inner sanctum of his nemesis
Pulitzer (John Dossett), first in desperation and later in
triumph. There’s also the leavening effect of a blossoming
romance between Jack and a cheeky young reporter who writes
under the byline Katherine Plummer. There’s even a madam with a
heart of gold (the ebullient Capathia Jenkins) and enough
rabble-rousing gatherings to populate several companies of “Les
Miserables” and “ Billy Elliot .”  Dancing Towers  All this takes place on a stage dominated by Sven Ortel’s
superb grainy projections onto Tobin Ost’s three towers of steel
girders that -- especially as lit with urban exactitude by Jeff
Croiter -- can also dance and which help de-romanticize the
feel-good goings on,.  The towers can go only so far. “Newsies” gets syrupy
faster than I hoped for and while never less than assured, its
efforts to earn applause can come mighty close to pandering.  Fierstein is a sentimentalist at heart, and the hokiness
gets free reign.  The songs feel stamped from molds, the music predictable
and the words banal. Jess Goldstein’s pretty costumes should be
thrown into Times Square for a few hours of battering by
traffic, preferably after a rain.  This is not “The  Lion King ,” as I wrote in my review of
the show’s tryout last fall, and it’s not “Les Miz.” But that
dancing lifts everything to a very high level.  Gattelli’s true model is choreographer Agnes DeMille, who
loved working with male ensembles, the gruffer the better. She’d
have rooted for these boys, too.  At the Nederlander Theatre, 208 W. 41st St. Information:
+1-866-870-2717;  http://www.newsiesthemusical.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 