-- Mainstream Renewable Looks to China as West Lends Less
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-30T12:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/mainstream-renewable-looks-to-china-as-west-lends-less.html
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd ., an
Irish company developing 15 gigawatts of projects globally, is
tapping  China ’s clean-energy drive using loans from state banks
in tandem with equipment from Chinese manufacturers.  Mainstream obtained loans from state-run China Development
Bank Corp. to build wind farms in  Chile , said Barry Lynch, head
of procurement and project delivery at Dublin-based Mainstream.
The financing was an option accompanying Mainstream’s wind-
turbine contract with China’s  Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. (2208) , he said in an phone interview.  Lending from China, “relative to others, it is certainly a
little more competitive and business-focused to what we need,”
Lynch said. “That doesn’t mean there’s any less of a due
diligence process or any less from a governance point of view.”
He declined to give loan details or amounts.  Chinese state-backed banks signed billions of dollars in
credit facilities to help turbine manufacturers expand overseas
to combat its slowing home market. Goldwind, China’s second-
largest turbine maker, agreed to a 35 billion-yuan ($5.5
billion) financing accord with China Development Bank in
January. Sinovel Wind Group Co. also has a finance agreement
with the bank.  “Developers seeking finance for projects are attracted to
this type of arrangement because the equipment comes with
finance and securing finance is the hardest part at the
moment,” Dominic FitzPatrick, a partner at London-based law
firm Taylor Wessing LLP, said in an interview.  Solar power projects are also financed this way, he said.
The firm has been active in China for more than 15 years
assisting Chinese companies in their clean-energy expansion and
operations in  Europe .  Negotiating Finance Deal  W-Power  Ltd., a wind developer based in Sofia,  Bulgaria , is
negotiating a finance deal after it signed turbine contracts
with China Ming Yang Wind Power Group Ltd., according to
Jonathan Mann, chief executive officer of the company.  Chinese finance was cheaper as Western banks suffering in
the debt crisis attach “stronger conditions” to their loans,
Mann said.  Chinese state-backed financing of its clean energy
manufacturers drew criticism from solar-panel makers led by the
U.S. unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) , which said they were using loans to
dump panels at lower prices on overseas markets.  Complaints of this nature are wrong, according to Robert
Fenner, another partner at Taylor Wessing. The Chinese finance
is offered on a “fair market level” and the equipment is more
competitively priced, Fenner said.  ‘Powerful Combination’  “The Chinese companies have a work force paid at a much
lower level than the Western equivalent, resulting in
manufacturing costs that Europe can’t compete with,” he said.  “With the financing accompanying it, that’s a powerful
combination,” Fenner said.  “There’s not a turbine manufacturer out there that doesn’t
have either a national banking institution or export credit
agency available to be used by the customers,” Lynch said.  Western banks are still getting used to wind technology so
their loans can take longer, Lynch said. The  China Development
Bank  loans for Mainstream’s Chilean projects are non-recourse
project finance, where banks can recoup from the project’s cash
flow though not the developers, Lynch said.  The loan tenures, or maturity, are “relatively normal”
compared to Western banks, Lynch said. The company is developing
the first phase of a potential 240-megawatt project and a 34.5-
megawatt park in Chile.  “Goldwind is not a cheap turbine,” Lynch said. “We like
it because we deem their technology to be as good as or better
than the Western manufacturers,” he said. “The fact that
there’s financing available too is just a bonus.”  The company also plans to get new investors including
Chinese parties as it studies a potential listing in  Hong Kong ,
Lynch said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  