-- Exxon Retains Disputed Field With Alaska Condensate Deal
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-30T23:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/alaska-says-it-reached-deal-with-oil-field-leaseholders.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
and  BP Plc (BP/)  agreed to pump light crude oil from a dormant Alaskan
field and offer natural gas to Asian utilities in exchange for
the right to retain leases the state sought to reclaim.  Under termSs of a settlement announced yesterday, Exxon and
its partners in the Point Thomson field pledged to ship 10,000
barrels of condensate daily through the TransAlaska Pipeline
System beginning in 2016. The companies also promised to seek
overseas buyers for gas from the field that currently is too
remote from North American markets to be sold.  The deal resolved a six-year-old legal dispute that saw
successive Alaska governors attempt to kick Exxon and its
partners off the leases for failing to produce any of the
field’s 8 trillion cubic feet of gas and 200 million barrels of
condensate. Asian gas demand is growing at such a clip that
Alaskan supplies will have no trouble finding buyers, even as
rival gas producers such as Australia increase output, Governor
Sean Parnell said.  “My goal is to get Alaskan gas to  Alaska  and beyond,”
Parnell said yesterday during a meeting with reporters in
Anchorage. “Asian markets can bear Alaskan gas.”  The settlement codified a plan first submitted by the
Exxon-led group in late 2008 to tap the field by re-injecting
gas into the rock formation to boost underground pressure and
squeeze out more condensate. The companies also agreed to build
a 70,000-barrel-a-day pipeline that will connect Point Thomson
to the TransAlaska conduit.  ‘Clears the Way’  If by June 2016, Exxon and its partners fail to find enough
customers to buy gas from Point Thomson that would be chilled to
liquid form for shipment overseas on tankers, the companies
instead will expand condensate production to 20,000 or 30,000
barrels a day, according to the agreement. Condensate is a
light, liquid hydrocarbon prized by refiners for use in making
diesel and gasoline.  The companies sued Alaska six years ago after the state
revoked their leases, which date back to 1977, for failing to
commence production. A court reversed that decision in 2010. The
 oil companies  claimed the state was trying to force them to put
the Point Thomson field into production before it was
economically viable. The state appealed the lower-court ruling
to the Alaska Supreme Court.  The settlement is subject to the trial court lifting a stay
of the case. The deal doesn’t require court approval.  “This is a great first step which clears the way for BP
and the other companies to work together and find a way for
Alaska gas to compete in the world market,” John Minge, the
president of BP Alaska, said in a statement. “We have met the
governor’s initial milestones -- settling the Point Thomson
dispute and reaching agreement among the producers to move
forward.”  Condensate Project  Prior to the state’s attempt to strip Exxon and its
partners of the leases, the companies had been reluctant to
begin production at Point Thomson because of the costs required
to build a pipeline that would haul the natural gas to markets
in western  Canada  and the continental U.S. Without a pipeline
network to carry the gas away from Alaska’s northern shore along
the  Beaufort Sea , there’s no way for the companies to recoup
their investments and make a profit.  To mollify state officials, Exxon devised the $1.3 billion
condensate drilling project included in the deal announced
yesterday.  ‘Unprecedented Commitments’  “Commercializing Alaska natural-gas resources will not be
easy,” the chief executive officers of Exxon, BP and
ConocoPhillips wrote in a joint letter to Parnell.
“Unprecedented commitments of capital for gas development will
require competitive and stable fiscal terms with the state of
Alaska first be established.”  A pipeline to the port of Valdez, where the gas would be
liquefied and loaded onto tankers, would cost $20 billion to $26
billion, Tony Palmer, vice president of major projects
development for TransCanada, said in January.  The settlement envisions a pipeline from the North Slope to
Valdez that could carry 500 million cubic feet of gas a day.  Any plan to export Alaskan gas would require Energy
Department approval, said Jose Valera, a partner at the  law firm 
Mayer Brown LLP who has represented companies involved in the
liquefied-gas business.  “In all probability, there is going to be substantially
greater gas than demand in Alaska for any foreseeable period of
time,” Valera said in a telephone interview. “The decision to
allow export of Alaskan gas should be less controversial than
the decision to export gas from the lower 48” states.  The lower-court case is Exxon Mobil Corp. v. State of
Alaska, 3AN-06-13751, Alaska Superior Court, Anchorage. The
appeal is State of Alaska v. ExxonMobil, S-13730, Alaska Supreme
Court (Juneau).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  