-- All-Out Walker War Ahead as Wisconsin Board Approves Recall
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-30T21:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/all-out-walker-war-looms-as-wisconsin-recall-uncertainty-ends.html
Wisconsin (STOWI1)  Governor  Scott Walker 
will face a recall vote June 5 after officials in Madison
cleared the way for an election, and Milwaukee’s mayor declared
his candidacy.  The Government Accountability Board, meeting in the Capitol
today, unanimously found that petition signatures seeking the
recall of Walker and Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch, both
Republicans, met the standard. Walker, a 44-year-old whose
opposition to unions touched off public fury, may become the
third U.S. governor to be recalled from office.  The results mean that after a year of conflict marked by
large and noisy demonstrations, votes to unseat an unprecedented
nine lawmakers and millions in  television advertising , the state
known for progressive politics will get down to deciding whether
to throw out the governor.  Staff attorney Michael Haas, saying the examination of the
signatures was “not a task we relished,” said 900,939 were
valid, well above the 540,208 required to authorize Walker’s
ouster election. He said there was no evidence of fraud,
although 26,115 names were struck -- including  Mickey Mouse ,
Donald Duck and  Adolf Hitler .  The board, a nonpartisan panel of retired judges, took
about 20 minutes to receive and consider the recommendations
that its staff made yesterday.  A primary to determine opponents for those facing recalls
will be held May 8.  ‘Hands of the People’  In a related development, a federal judge in Madison ruled
today that parts of the law that helped spark the recall drive
are unconstitutional. U.S. District Judge William M. Conley said
the requirement that most public-employee unions recertify
annually violates constitutional guarantees of equal protection.
The judge said the law creates an unsupportable distinction
between “general employee” unions that are required to comply
and exempt “public safety” unions.  The ruling intensified a day of partisan exchanges. Walker
brought on the vote through “radical excesses and reckless use
of power,” state Democratic Party Chairman Mike Tate said in a
statement from  Milwaukee . “Wisconsin deserves an honest
discussion about her future. Today’s actions ensure that this
judgment will now be in the hands of the people.”  Angry State  Protests erupted in February 2011 after the governor and
the Republican-dominated Legislature imposed collective-
bargaining restrictions on most public employees. Labor
officials accused the state of union-busting, while Republicans
said the limits would help local governments stay solvent.  The state board already authorized recall elections against
four Republican senators -- Scott Fitzgerald, Pam Galloway, Van H. Wanggaard and Terry Moulton, to be held June 5. Galloway
subsequently resigned.  Two Republicans who supported Walker’s changes were
recalled in August.  The Friends of Scott Walker Campaign said most
Wisconsinites will stick with him.  “Voters are not prepared to reverse the tremendous
progress the governor has made by prematurely ending his term,”
the campaign said in a statement from Madison.  The recall drive may break spending records. The  Wisconsin 
Democracy Campaign projects a collective outlay of $60 million
to $80 million. By contrast, Walker and his Democratic opponent
together spent $37.4 million on their 2010 campaigns.  Motivated Voters  “Politics mobilizes and politicizes people,” said John
McAdams, a political scientist at Marquette University in
Milwaukee. “I expect turnout to be pretty high.”  The  Republican Governors Association  is running television
ads attacking Democrat Kathleen Falk, the former Dane County
executive and an announced Walker challenger.  Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat whom Walker
defeated in the 2010 governor’s race, declared his candidacy
hours after the elections board ordered the recall. Barrett, in
a statement from his office, said Walker has “divided our state
like never before.”  The Wisconsin Democratic Party has run ads linking an
investigation of former Walker aides in Milwaukee County, where
he previously served as executive, to former President  Richard Nixon  and the Watergate scandal, calling it “Walkergate.”  That inquiry has led to assertions that the aides performed
political work on government time. While Walker has said he
doesn’t believe he is a target of the investigation, he has
established a fund for legal expenses.  Only two U.S. governors have been recalled:  Gray Davis  of
 California  in 2003, and Lynn Frazier of  North Dakota  in 1921.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  