-- Allied Irish Home-Loan Arrears Triple as Economy Stays Weak
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-30T08:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/allied-irish-home-loan-arrears-triple-as-economy-remains-weak.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , 99.8
percent owned by the government, said arrears on domestic home
loans more than tripled as the economy remains weak following
the collapse of the country’s a real-estate bubble.  By value, about 11 percent of the bank’s Irish owner-
occupier mortgages were at least 90 days in arrears at the end
of December, up from 2.9 percent a year earlier, the Dublin-
based lender said in its  annual report  today. Arrears on buy-to-
let loans soared to 32 percent from 9.6 percent, it said. A
large portion of the arrears come from EBS Ltd., the smaller
Irish lender which  Allied Irish  took over last year.  Arrears are likely to rise in 2012 before falling next
year, Paul Stanley, the bank’s chief financial officer, said in
a telephone interview today. The Irish economy fell back into
recession in the fourth quarter, and  house prices  have slumped
49 percent from their 2007 peak.  The arrears figures “highlight our cautiousness still on
the banks,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with Dublin-based
 Goodbody Stockbrokers , who doesn’t have a rating on Allied
Irish.  The lender’s full-year net loss narrowed to 2.29 billion
euros ($3 billion) from 10.2 billion euros after a one-time loss
on the sale of the real-estate loans to the National Asset
Management Agency, the state’s so-called bad bank, wasn’t
repeated.  NAMA  Provisions for bad loans increased to 7.86 billion euros in
2011 from 6.02 billion euros in 2010, when the bank a lost a
further 5.97 billion euros on loans it transferred to NAMA.  Allied Irish said March 8 it is planning to eliminate 2,500
jobs, marking the biggest redundancy program in Irish banking
history. Ireland has injected 20.7 billion euros over the past
three years to bail out the bank and EBS, which it was ordered
by the government to take over in July.  Stanley said the lender is “adequately capitalized,” and
should return to profitability in 2014. The lender is its talks
on moving loss-making tracker loans out of the bank, as the
government seeks to further restructure the financial system.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  yesterday laid out
plans to defer a 3.1 billion-euro payment to the former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp.  “The deferral is a positive,” said  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “A far greater
win would be any announcement of support to remove tracker
mortgages from Irish banks’ books, which would be a significant
step in returning the banks towards profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  