-- Andresen Sees U.S. Volume Rising From Four-Year Low
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-30T14:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/andresen-sees-u-s-volume-rising-from-four-year-low.html
U.S. equities  trading , mired at the
lowest levels in at least four years, should pick up as
confidence among investors builds, according to Matthew Andresen, an executive at quantitative trading firm Headlands
Technologies Inc.  Daily  volume  may average about 7 billion shares this year,
rising about 3 percent from its level so far, said Andresen, who
ran the Island ECN that helped pioneer electronic equity trading
and was co-chief executive officer of Citadel LLC’s market-
making business until 2009. About 7.8 billion shares a day were
traded in the U.S. last year on venues from the  New York  Stock
Exchange to those run by Bats Global Markets Inc. and
alternative systems such as dark pools.  Trading has  decreased  as share swings narrowed and the
 Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility Index had its biggest
two-quarter retreat on record. Efforts by European leaders to
contain their debt crisis have muted the size of stock moves.
While the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  averaged 12 declines of 1
percent or more each quarter in 2011, such a drop has happened
only once in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The volume depends on whether we have any  macroeconomic 
calamities,” Andresen, who is co-chief executive officer of
Headlands, which has offices in Chicago and  San Francisco , said
in an interview yesterday at a Security Traders Association of
New York conference. Investors who have faced a “go-nowhere S&P
for almost  a decade  except this year” may start returning after
the index posted its biggest first-quarter advance since 1998,
he said.  Trading Trend  Trading on American  stock exchanges  has been  shrinking 
since 2009, when it averaged 9.77 billion shares a day. The
level fell to 8.52 billion in 2010 and slipped again last year
even after concerns about  Europe , the  U.S. budget deficit  and
the global economy pushed third-quarter volume to 8.73 billion
shares. The CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, reached 48 on Aug. 8,
a four-year high.  About 6.82 billion shares were traded on American venues
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P 500 
fell in each of the last three days after reaching 1,416.51 on
March 26, the highest level for the benchmark gauge since May
2008 and 9.5 percent below its record high of 1,565.15 from
2007. It has climbed 12 percent so far in 2012.  Trading on individual days may reach some of the lowest
levels in the last four years should expectations of  volatility 
continue to decrease, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive said
at the conference. The VIX averaged 18.25 this year through
yesterday, compared with 18.63 last year over the same period
and 24.20 for all of 2011.  Slow Days  “If the VIX continues to decline, we could see some days
when volume goes below 5 billion shares,” Greg Tusar, managing
director and head of Goldman Sachs Electronic Trading at the New
York-based bank, said in an interview.  The last time fewer than 5 billion shares changed hands in
a day was during the final week of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Last year also saw some of the highest
totals of all time with equity trading of 15.97 billion on
average from Aug. 4 to Aug. 10, the most ever for a five-day
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The decline in average daily volume means market makers,
who provide bids and offers across securities for investors to
trade against, must lower their costs as they seek to increase
their business, Martin Mannion, chief operating officer at
Citadel Execution Services, said on a panel at the conference.  ‘Scale Business’  “It’s become more of a scale business,” Mannion said.
“When volume and volatility decrease the ability of market
makers to profit, managing costs becomes more important,” he
said. “You have to do more to strip costs out of the
equation,” he added.  Market makers usually make more money when volume and
 volatility  rise, Andresen said.  “They’ve been Home Depot-ized,” he said on the panel.
Market makers must compete in areas such as labor, technology
and the trading industry’s equivalent of “supply chain
management,” he said. “If you’re going to compete, you’re
going to have to compete against Home Depot, Wal-Mart, Lowe’s.
It’s either scale or death.”  Stocks with smaller market values have become less liquid,
or easy to trade, Joseph Ricciardi, a managing director in
 Knight (KCG)  Capital Group Inc.’s market-making unit, said on the
panel. Knight, one of the largest U.S. market makers for
securities listed on exchanges and those unavailable on those
markets, is a so-called designated market maker at the NYSE.  Deploying Capital  “We’re deploying a lot of capital right now in the small-
cap market,” Ricciardi said. Knight is “carrying multi-day
positions” resulting from trades with retail customers instead
of unwinding its purchases or sales within minutes or hours
because there’s less trading in those companies, he said.  Institutional investors such as mutual and pension funds
that use trading algorithms to break up larger orders into
smaller pieces must rethink their choice of automated strategies
in a period of low volatility, Tusar said on the panel. They may
want to shift to algorithms that employ more passive tactics to
avoid higher costs, he said.  Retail investors are likely to benefit the most from low
volatility, Tusar said. Goldman Sachs began an equities
wholesaling business about a year ago to execute orders from
individual investors using discount brokers, he said.  Wholesalers  Discount and other brokers that cater to individual
investors often turn to wholesalers for orders that can be
traded at the market’s prevailing price. Equity wholesaling is
dominated by firms including Knight Capital Group Inc., UBS AG,
Citadel and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose market-making units execute
trades within their own walls.  The bank’s “very large diverse pool of natural buyers and
sellers” makes Goldman Sachs competitive, Tusar said.  What most worries Andresen as a provider of liquidity is
the “specter of an unpredictable regulatory action” that
affects market participants’ incentives to trade, he said. Tusar
said his chief concern is “investor confidence and interest in
the equity marketplace remaining low” for a long period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 