-- New York Drilling Ban Rulings Being Appealed, Lawyers Say
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-30T22:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/anschutz-files-appeal-notice-in-fracking-case-lawyer-says.html
A dairy farm and a Colorado
exploration company are appealing decisions by  New York  state
judges that upheld a ban on oil and gas drilling imposed by two
towns, lawyers said.  Anschutz Exploration Corp.  yesterday filed a notice of
appeal of state Supreme Court Judge Phillip Rumsey’s Feb. 21
decision to uphold the ban in the town of Dryden, said Tom West,
an attorney for the company, in a telephone interview today.
Denver-based Anschutz sued Dryden in September seeking overturn
the ban, which is aimed at stopping hydraulic fracturing, a
method of natural-gas extraction.  Cooperstown Holstein Corp., a dairy farm that challenged a
similar measure in Middlefield, New York, today filed a notice
of appeal of Judge Donald Cerio Jr.’s Feb. 25 decision upholding
that town’s ban, said Scott R. Kurkoski, an attorney
representing the farm, in a telephone interview.  The attorneys said they expect both cases to be
consolidated for appeal this year and heard by an appeals court
in  Albany . West said he also filed a  motion to renew 
consideration of the Middlefield ruling based on the discovery
of a document that he said shows that the state legislature
intended to stop municipalities from banning oil and gas
exploration in the state.  ‘Clear Intent’  “There was a clear intent to supersede municipal authority
over any aspect of oil and gas drilling or production except for
roads and taxation consistent with what we’ve been arguing in
court,” West said.  In hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, chemically treated
water is forced underground to break up rock and free trapped
gas. Environmental groups say the process threatens drinking
water supplies.  The appeals couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records. Mary Ann Sumner, Dryden’s supervisor, said the town
hasn’t received the notice. She said the town is confident the
ban will be upheld on appeal.  “It’s the right thing to do, to continue to make it clear
that local municipalities have the authority to regulate  land
use ,” Sumner said in a phone interview. “It’s the right thing
and we’re proud of our ability to defend it. We just wish we
didn’t have to.”  Moratorium on Fracking  New York placed a moratorium on fracking in 2010 while
state regulators developed environmental rules. Since then, 22
towns in the state have adopted laws to ban drilling, according
to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-systems consultant
in Ithaca, New York.  New York sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale
formation, which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S.
for about seven years, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
States from  Wyoming  to  West Virginia  with shale are encouraging
fracking even as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
studies the effects on drinking water and may adopt nationwide
regulations.  The cases are Anschutz Exploration Corp. V Dryden,
902/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Tompkins County
(Ithaca); and Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of Middlefield,
1700930/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Otsego County
(Cooperstown).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  