-- Anschutz ‘Moving Forward’ on $1 Billion Los Angeles Stadium
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-31T03:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/anschutz-moving-forward-on-1-billion-los-angeles-stadium-1-.html
Billionaire Philip Anschutz is
moving ahead with plans to build a $1 billion stadium in  Los
Angeles  and lure two National Football League teams.  Anshutz’s AEG Worldwide will release a 10,000-page
environmental-impact report next week, said Michael Roth, a
spokesman for the closely held, Los Angeles-based company. AEG
spent about $27 million preparing the report, a required step in
the approval process, and designing the 60,000-seat stadium,
named Farmers Field, Roth said.  AEG may run into new competition to build an NFL stadium.
Earvin “Magic” Johnson Jr. and Guggenheim Partners Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Walter , who agreed this week to buy the
 Los Angeles Dodgers  for $2.3 billion, spoke to the NFL about
building an arena adjacent to the baseball team’s stadium, the
Los Angeles Times reported yesterday.  “We are moving forward,” Roth said in an interview about
the AEG plan. “We have no concerns.”  AEG’s stadium proposal may be in peril if the company
doesn’t offer better terms to the NFL and football teams that
would relocate to Los Angeles, Yahoo! Sports reported yesterday.  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL in  New York , declined
to comment on the report.  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa attended a December
meeting in Denver with representatives of the NFL and AEG at
which the league’s concerns about the proposed stadium were
discussed, according to Peter Sanders, a spokesman for
Villaraigosa.  ‘Raiders and Rams’  “The mayor will continue to do everything he can to bring
an NFL team to L.A., and as he’s said before, we’re closer now
than at any time since the Raiders and Rams left but we still
have a long way to go,” Sanders said.  The Raiders, in Oakland,  California , and the Rams, of  St.
Louis , departed Los Angeles in 1995.  Anschutz proposes to finance, build and own the stadium,
controlling sponsorships,  premium  seats, parking and
concessions, according to a  report  last year from Los Angeles’s
chief legislative analyst. Generally, NFL teams keep game-day
revenue, it said.  “The deal is not very good from the standpoint of the
league or a team,” Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp Ltd. in
 Chicago , said in an interview. “As a general proposition it
doesn’t fit the model.”  Buyers are also bidding up the rights of sports teams
because they command ever-higher fees for media rights, a factor
analysts attributed to the record price bid for the Dodgers.  Roth declined to comment on talks with the NFL or specific
teams. AEG President and CEO Tim Leiweke is in regular contact
with the league and its commissioner,  Roger Goodell , Roth said.  “The league is very aware of where we stand,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  