-- AOL, AstraZeneca, Nike, Beatles, BAT: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-30T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/aol-nike-beatles-bat-ppca-intellectual-property.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) ’s patent portfolio would
be valued at about $290 million in a sale, less than a third of
the amount that shareholder Starboard Value LP has estimated it
could generate, according to patent-advisory firm  M-Cam Inc.   “That is the absolute ceiling price,” David Pratt,
president of Charlottesville, Virginia-based M-Cam, said
yesterday. “It’s worth much less than what investors have
estimated, based largely on the fact that most of AOL’s patents
are not commercially viable, or junk grade.”  AOL, based in  New York , has hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to
explore strategic options and find a buyer for its more than 800
patents. While Starboard has said the portfolio may yield more
than $1 billion in licensing income, some of AOL’s patents are
variations on existing technologies that companies, including
Google Inc., could license from others, Pratt said.  The ceiling price of $290 million for the patents reflects
a “Google-like transaction,” Pratt said, referring to the
search company’s proposed $12.5 billion purchase of Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., from which it could draw on more than
17,000 patents.  A lower valuation on AOL’s patents could hurt the company’s
chances to generate enough dollars to spur a sale of the whole
company, Pratt said.  Caroline Campbell, a spokeswoman for AOL, declined to
comment on the patents’ value.  A strategic buyer could bid a much higher price for the
patents than M-Cam’s estimate, said Erin-Michael Gill, chief
intellectual property officer for  MDB Capital Group LLC .  “There’s a difference between a pure financial value for
patents and a strategic value,” Gill said by telephone
yesterday. “A strategic buyer could bid higher because they
realize the long-term value of licensing those patents.”  Many of AOL’s patents cover Internet advertising and
communications services, and the portfolio could fetch as much
as $1 billion from a large technology company, Christopher Marlett, co-founder of Santa Monica, California-based MDB, said
last week.  AstraZeneca Wins Ruling on Extended-Release Seroquel Patent  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  won a U.S. court ruling that will help ward
off generic competition to the extended-release version of its
Seroquel antipsychotic drug until a patent expires in 2017.  U.S. District Judge Joel Pisano in Trenton, New Jersey,
ruled yesterday that four generic-drug makers, including Mylan
Inc., were infringing a patent on the medicine. The judge
rejected their arguments that the patent was invalid.  AstraZeneca, based in  London , is relying on sales of
Seroquel XR after low-cost versions of the immediate-release
version of the medicine entered the market this week. Seroquel
generated $5.83 billion in sales last year, with $1.4 billion
coming from Seroquel XR, the company said in a statement Feb. 2.  The other three generic-drug makers in the case are Anchen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corp. and Torrent
Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  The case is AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP v. Torrent
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., 10cv4971, U.S. District Court for the
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike Wins Restraining Order Against Reebok Over Tebow Jersey  Nike Inc., the world’s biggest sporting-goods company, won
a judge’s order temporarily blocking  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok
International (RBK)  from using quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on New
York Jets-related clothing.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  Manhattan  granted
Nike’s request for a temporary restraining order March 28, a day
after the Beaverton, Oregon-based company filed a lawsuit.
Reebok’s licensing agreement with the National Football League
ends March 31 and Nike is to become the official supplier of
licensed NFL apparel.  Castel blocked Reebok from manufacturing, selling or
otherwise marketing New York Jets-related apparel with the name
Tebow on it. The order doesn’t apply to Denver Broncos-related
apparel with Tebow’s name. Reebok must recall unauthorized Tebow
products, the judge ruled.  In the lawsuit, Nike claimed it, not Reebok, has rights to
use Tebow’s name. The judge scheduled a hearing for April 4 in
Manhattan federal court.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Broncos to the NFL playoffs
after taking over as the team’s starting quarterback last year.
He was traded to the Jets on March 21.  His Broncos jersey was the second-highest selling of all
NFL players last season, Nike said in the complaint  Nike said it plans to introduce its new line of uniforms
for all 32 NFL teams at an event in New York April 3.  Lauren Lamkin, an Adidas spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the ruling. Mary Remuzzi, a
Nike spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Beatles Can Block Wheelchair Maker’s Trademark, EU Court Rules  The Beatles’ Apple Corps Ltd. can block a Dutch wheelchair
manufacturer from selling “Beatle” electric mobility aids, a
European Union court ruled.  The EU’s general court rejected a lawsuit by You-Q BV that
sought to register a trademark for its Beatle wheelchairs. The
court said the Beatles name is “still synonymous with youth and
a certain counter-culture of the 1960s” and its “very positive
image of freedom, youth and mobility” would probably attract
people who need mobility aids, according to a statement from the
Luxembourg-based tribunal.  The EU’s trademark office “did not err” in refusing You-
Q’s application for a trademark because it was likely that the
company “would take unfair advantage of the repute and the
consistent selling power of Apple Corps’ trademarks,” the court
said.  Apple Corps, owned by Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr, John
Lennon’s widow Yoko Ono and the estate of George Harrison, have
defended their trademarks with decades of litigation, including
a dispute against Apple Inc. that ended in 2010, clearing the
way for distribution of Beatles’ songs such as “Ticket to
Ride” and “Drive My Car” through the Cupertino, California-
based company’s iTunes music store.  You-Q, based in Helmond, the Netherlands, isn’t trying to
profit from the Beatles trademark and is considering an appeal
to the EU’s highest court, said Gino van Roeyen, a lawyer at
Banning NV, who represented the company.  “You-Q is convinced that the public doesn’t link its
Beatle product to The Beatles,” van Roeyen said. “The decision
rests for great part on fiction.”  Apple Corps’s London office didn’t immediately respond to
two voice-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is  T-369/10  You-Q BV v. OHIM  Australia Cigarette Law Sterilizes Property Rights, BAT Says  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  said an Australian law
prohibiting the display of tobacco companies’ logos, labels and
trademarks “sterilizes” their intellectual property rights and
must be declared unconstitutional.       Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM) , BAT and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  are
challenging the validity of the Australian law and will present
their arguments against it in Canberra beginning April 17.
 Australia  is the first country in the world to ban logos on
cigarette packaging.  The Australian Constitution, like its U.S. counterpart, was
drafted recognizing the right of the state to acquire private
property for public purposes only if “full indemnification” is
provided to the former owner, Imperial Tobacco’s Australian unit
said in its submission to the court.  The tobacco companies have said they will seek billions of
dollars of damages from the Australian government should they
lose the right to their trademarks.  The companies’ “aggressive litigation against Australia
for implementing plain packaging is just another example of how
big tobacco continues to try to intimidate countries,” John
Stewart, a senior organizer with the lobby group Corporate
Accountability International, said in an e-mail.  BAT makes Dunhill, Pall Mall and Australia’s best-selling
cigarette brand, Winfield.  Philip Morris  is the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes.  At the hearing scheduled for April, the companies will ask
the High Court to declare that the plain-packaging legislation
results in acquisition of property without proper compensation
and that the law is unconstitutional.  The Australian government announced the plan to ban
branding on cigarette packs in April last year, along with a 25
percent increase in tobacco taxes and an A$85 million ($88
million) advertising campaign to combat smoking.  Cigarettes will have to be sold in dark brown packages,
with no company logos and the same font for all brands,
according to a government statement.  The law passed through the Australian Senate on Nov. 10.  The government is to give its written submissions to the
High Court by April 5.  Philip Morris is also pursuing the case in international
arbitration. The Australian proposal violates a treaty with  Hong
Kong  and may cause billions of dollars in damages, the maker of
Marlboro cigarettes said.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v. the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Australia Court Keeps 1 Percent Broadcast Royalty Cap in Place  Australia’s High Court ruled that a cap on royalties for
radio broadcast of sound recordings is constitutional,
Australia’s Music Industry News Network website  reported .  The 1968 Copyright Act set 1 percent of the gross earnings
of the broadcaster as a cap for broadcast recordings, according
to Music Industry News.  Although Australia’s government had announced plans to lift
the cap, the change wasn’t included in a final draft of
amendments to the Copyright Act, Music Industry News Reported.  PPCA , Australia’s copyright-collecting society, argued
unsuccessfully that the cap was the equivalent of an acquisition
of the property of content owners on unjust terms, according to
Music Industry News.  Canadian Receives 18-Month Sentence, Fine in Copyright Case  A 30-year-old resident of Winnipeg, Manitoba, who pleaded
guilty to two Canadian federal copyright-infringement charges
was given an 18-month sentence and a fine of C$20,000 ($20,060),
the Toronto Sun  reported .  Jonathan Donais received what officials say is one of the
harshest sentences ever imposed in  Canada  for criminal copyright
infringement, according to the newspaper.  When the police raided his home, they found 11,000 CDs and
DVDs and a burner that could duplicate 56 discs an hour,
according to the Sun.  Police tracked receipts from  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal payment
service to learn that Donais had received more than $76,000 from
buyers of his bootlegged discs of movies, TV shows, music and
software, the newspaper reported.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  McDermott Hires Fabio Marino, Three Associates for IP Group  McDermott Will & Emery LLP (1121L)  hired Fabio Marino for its
intellectual-property practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a
statement yesterday.  Marino , a litigator, joins from  San Francisco ’s  Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP (1141L) . He also previously practiced at
Boston’s  Bingham McCutchen LLP (1186L)  and the now-defunct Silicon
Valley firm Skjerven Morrill MacPherson LLP.  He has represented clients whose technologies included
computer networks, telecommunications, software engineering, e-
commerce, entertainment, computer architecture, digital circuit
design, parallel computing, 3D graphics and animation, medical
imaging and artificial intelligence.  Marino has an undergraduate degree in computer science from
the University of Pennsylvania, a master’s degree in computer
science from the  University of California  at  Los Angeles , and a
law degree from the University of California’s Hastings College
of the Law.  Joining with Marino are Judith S.H. Hom, Nitin Gambhir and
Barrington E Dyer.  Hom, who has litigated biotechnology and pharmaceutical-
related cases, has an undergraduate degree in biology and a
doctorate in pharmacology from Cornell University. She received
her law degree from the University of San Francisco.  Gambhir, a patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright
litigator, has an undergraduate and a master’s degree in
computer science from the University of California at Los
Angeles, and a law degree from Santa Clara University.  Dyer, who does patent litigation and counseling, worked as
a programmer before he became a lawyer. He has an undergraduate
degree in electrical engineering from the University of
California at Los Angeles and a law degree from Boston
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  