-- AOL Inc. Investor Starboard Urges Board to Hire Adviser o
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-30T20:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/aol-inc-investor-starboard-urges-board-to-hire-adviser-o.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  shareholder Starboard
Value LP urged the board to reduce tax liability by hiring a
financial adviser on any possible sale or breakup of business
assets or units.  Patents and legacy dial-up businesses at AOL “could
generate substantial tax liability” in any sale, Starboard
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smith  said in a letter to AOL’s
board, according to regulatory filing today. Selling off content
assets, such as MapQuest, which AOL purchased for $1.1 billion
in 1999, might bring a favorable tax outcome because of tax-loss
carryforwards, Smith wrote.  AOL, the Internet-services provider based in  New York , has
hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to explore strategic options and
find a buyer for its more than 800 patents. Starboard, which
owns a 5.2 percent stake in AOL, suggested that the board
consider the possible benefit of selling content assets in
tandem with any sale of its patents or dial-up businesses.  “In evaluating these strategic options, it is critical
that the Board carefully plan and properly assess any asset sale
or divestiture to ensure the most tax-efficient outcome,” Smith
wrote in the letter.  The company is “continuing to work on the comeback of
AOL,” Caroline Campbell, a spokeswoman for AOL, said in an e-
mailed statement in response to the letter.  “We believe strongly that all of our brands are important
to our brand portfolio,” she said. “We will continue to update
investors as we execute on our plan.”  While Starboard has said the patents may yield more than $1
billion in licensing income, M-Cam Inc., a patent advisory
company, values those assets at about $290 million.  AOL, led by CEO  Tim Armstrong , posted declining sales for
each quarter last year. The company’s revenue for the first
quarter this year is estimated to drop 4.6 percent to $526.1
million, according to analysts’ figures compiled by Bloomberg.  AOL fell 1.7 percent to $18.97 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 26 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 