-- TAP Venture Open to Greek, Italian Partners, Scoufias Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-03-30T11:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/tap-venture-open-to-greek-italian-partners-scoufias-says-1-.html
The Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP)
venture would welcome Greek and Italian partners after a Greco-
Italian pipeline was ruled out as an option for transporting
Caspian Sea gas to  Europe , Rikard Scoufias, TAP Country Manager
for  Greece  said.  “We’re open to discussing new partnerships at a
shareholder level and looking at our host countries, we’d
welcome a Greek and/or Italian partner,” Scoufias said in an
interview in Athens yesterday. The planned pipeline will cross
Greece from its border with Turkey to  Italy  via Albania.  A group led by  BP Plc (BP) , which is developing the second phase
of Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz gas field, will choose between the
Nabucco project and the South-East Europe Pipeline, or SEEP, by
the middle of this year. The winner will then compete with TAP
for rights to export Shah Deniz gas with a decision due by
mid-2013.  The group, which also includes State Oil Company of
Azerbaijan,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP) , OAO Lukoil, Naftiran
Intertrade and Turkiye Petrolleri AO, ruled out Feb. 20 using
Interconnector Turkey Greece Italy to carry Azeri gas.  ITGI, which would also cross Greece, is a venture of Greek
natural gas supplier Depa SA and Italy’s  Edison Spa. (EDN)  Greece and
Italy still consider the project to be “strategically
important”, Greek Energy Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
in a Feb. 29 interview.  Decision Maker  “The Shah Deniz consortium is the decision maker, they’ve
made a decision and they’ve continuously emphasized that it’s
unanimous and final,” Scoufias said.  “Most of TAP runs across Greece and ensuring that the
export market goes through the country will put it at the
epicenter of European  energy policy  as unlocking the so-called
Southern Corridor route is a key component of the European Union
strategy for the security and diversification of energy,” he
said.  TAP would also bring Greece 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion)
in foreign direct investment and create 2,000 direct jobs while
the participation of TAP’s shareholders, Switzerland’s  EGL AG (EGL) ,
Norway’s Statoil and Germany’s EON Ruhrgas AG, sends a strong
message abroad as to the confidence they have for investing in
Greece, he said.  Because the Shah Deniz group decided in favor of TAP over
ITGI, “the Greek government must immediately embrace the
project and facilitate its completion at the earliest possible
time under the best possible conditions for Greek interests,”
Thanos Dokos and Theodoros Tsakiris of the Athens-based Hellenic
Foundation for European and  Foreign Policy  said in a report
earlier this month.  If the consortium’s final choice is the TAP option, the
venture should also ensure that it makes gas available to
markets in the Balkans, Richard Morningstar, U.S. special envoy
for Eurasian energy issues, said in  Athens  on March 28.  Designed to Expand  While TAP will have an initial transportation capacity of
10 billion cubic meters a year for bringing Azeri gas to Italy,
the project is designed to be able to expand to 20 billion a
year as gas becomes available from in Cyprus, Israel, Iraq and
Turkmenistan, Scoufias said.  TAP has signed cooperation agreements with Plinarco Ltd.
and BH-Gas to gather support for the planned Ionian Adriatic
Pipeline that would link with TAP in Albania and then deliver
gas to Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 