-- Maple Group Extends Takeover Offer for TMX to April 30
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-30T14:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/maple-group-extends-takeover-offer-for-tmx-group-to-april-30.html
A group of Canadian banks and
pension funds extended their C$3.73 billion ($3.74 billion)
offer for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  until April 30, the sixth delay as it
pursues regulatory approvals for its plan to buy the country’s
main equities and derivatives markets.  The takeover by Maple Group Acquisition Corp. requires
approval from  Canada ’s Competition Bureau and provincial
regulators. Maple is also in talks to extend its Oct. 30
takeover accord with the Toronto Stock Exchange owner because it
doesn’t expect the deal to be done by an April 30 deadline.  “Given the current status of regulatory approvals, it is
apparent that the offer will not be completed by April 30,”
said Maple, whose 13 members include Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)   Quebec’s financial markets authority said March 15 that it
intends to approve the proposed takeover. The Ontario Securities
Commission will publish draft terms and conditions for a 30-day
public comment period before making a final decision, Maple said
March 15. The Competition Bureau said Nov. 29 that it had
“serious concerns” about the plan.  Maple, which first proposed to buy TMX in May, proposes to
buy between 70 percent and 80 percent of TMX shares in a tender
offer. The group ultimately intends to buy 100 percent of TMX
and integrate it with the Canadian Depository for Securities
Ltd. clearinghouse and Alpha Group, a bank-owned alternative
trading venue that competes with TMX.  Maple is in “active negotiations” with Alpha and CDS on
price and terms and hasn’t reached an agreement, the group said.
Maple said it will review progress of discussions with
regulators and Alpha, CDS and their owners in in the next month
in considering extending its October agreement with TMX.  “It is Maple’s current intention to further extend the
offer on or before April 30” if Maple is satisfied with
progress of talks with regulators, Alpha and CDS, the group
said. “However, there can be no assurance at this time that the
offer will be further extended.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  