-- Apple Deadlocks With Nokia on Standard for Shrunken SIM Card
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-03-30T19:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/apple-deadlocks-with-nokia-on-standards-for-shrunken-sim-cards.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s
proposals for smaller SIM cards face a second round of debate
after talks stalled following the Finnish mobile-phone company’s
threat to withhold its patents.  A two-day meeting in Sophia Antipolis,  France , to adopt a
standard from competing proposals by Apple and Nokia finished
today without reaching a decision, the  European
Telecommunications Standards Institute  said in an e-mailed
statement.  The tiny smartcards that identify wireless subscribers are
standardized to reduce industry costs and give consumers freedom
to switch handsets and networks. Smaller versions permit the
design of thinner phones. Nokia said before the meeting that it
would not permit its patents to be used in the Apple standard,
said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for the Espoo-based company.  “Generally in ETSI all of our decisions are taken by
consensus and it’s very uncommon that we have a technical
vote,” said Ultan Mulligan, an ETSI spokesman. “If they have
decided to postpone the vote, that would give them more time to
achieve consensus.”  ETSI began to develop a  standard  last year for  identity
cards  at least 25 percent to 40 percent smaller than the mini-
SIM standard, according to its website.  The decision could be made at a meeting starting May 31 in
Osaka or at a new meeting with 30 days’ notice, ETSI said in the
statement.  “We hope that this extra time will allow ETSI members to
work collaboratively on selecting the best technology solution
that meets ETSI’s pre-agreed requirements, rather than adopting
an inferior solution,” Durrant said by e-mail. The Nokia
proposal incorporates work by BlackBerry handset maker  Research
in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , he said.  Apple declined to comment, Tanya Ridd, a spokeswoman, said
by e-mail today.  Nokia closed up  2.1 percent  at 4.08 euros in Helsinki.
Apple declined  1.5 percent  to $600.52 at 3:11 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  