-- Marriott May Sell Edition Hotels to Fund Brand Expansion
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-03-30T16:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/marriott-may-sell-edition-hotels-to-fund-brand-expansion.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, may sell its three
Edition properties to fund an expansion of the boutique, luxury
brand, incoming Chief Executive Officer Arne Sorenson said.  “We already have interested buyers,” Sorenson said in an
interview yesterday at the company’s JW Marriott in downtown Los
Angeles. He will replace J.W. Marriott Jr. as CEO at the end of
the month, and Marriott will remain chairman.  The Edition brand, a joint venture with hotelier Ian Schrager, is Marriott International’s attempt to break into the
boutique segment in which  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) ’s W chain operates. Marriott, based in Bethesda, Maryland,
would continue to operate the Edition properties after they are
sold, Sorenson said.  “We’re willing to put in more money to expand Edition,”
he said.  Marriott agreed in October to buy the Clock Tower office
building near Madison Square Park in Manhattan for an Edition
hotel. The company, which mostly operates hotels without owning
properties itself, used its own money for the transaction after
little expansion since the brand was announced in 2008. Marriott
plans to have six Edition hotels by 2015.  Marriott is considering adding Edition properties in Abu
Dhabi, Bangkok and Gurgaon,  India , and may add one in  West
Hollywood ,  California , adjacent to Beverly Hills, Sorenson said.  The hotelier also is adding Courtyard and Residence Inn
hotels across its JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton property at
Anschutz Entertainment Group’s L.A. Live entertainment complex
in the city’s core.  “Downtown L.A. still has room for more Marriott brands,”
Sorenson said.  More in China  Among the company’s high-end brands, Marriott expects to
have more Ritz-Carlton properties in  China  than in the U.S.
within five to 10 years, Sorenson said. The hotelier also is
expanding its Bulgari luxury brand. It has two such hotels, in
Milan and Bali, Indonesia, and will announce a third, in  London ,
in the next few weeks, he said.  “Luxury will be a powerful long-term growth engine for us
because of the wealth” building in such countries as China,
Sorenson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  