-- Harrisburg Receiver Resigns After Calling for Probes
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-30T20:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/harrisburg-receiver-resigns-after-calling-for-federal-probes.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) ’s receiver, David Unkovic, resigned today, dealing the latest setback to the
insolvent Pennsylvania capital that has skipped payments on debt
and had a bankruptcy bid rejected.  Unkovic, 57, gave no reason for resigning, effective
immediately, in a letter to the Commonwealth Court, said Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Governor Tom Corbett. The state’s first
receiver took over Dec. 2 to devise a recovery plan. The city
defaulted on some general-obligation bonds March 15.  “His resignation is both unexpected and unfortunate,”
Harley said by telephone.  A former bond lawyer, Unkovic on March 28 sent formal
requests for state and federal investigations into “possible
illegal activities” in financing an overhaul of a trash-to-
energy incinerator that pushed the capital into insolvency. He
cited an audit released in January by the Harrisburg Authority,
which controls the plant.  Unkovic had proposed selling city assets to cover debt of
more than $300 million, five times Harrisburg’s general-fund
budget. Much of that was incurred to help pay for incinerator
work. Last week, a county judge ruled that control of the
facility should be handed to another receiver.  Ruling Prompted Call  Unkovic didn’t respond to calls for comment on his
resignation today. In an interview yesterday, he said that a
March 22 ruling by Judge Todd A. Hoover prompted him to seek
state and federal examinations of the financing.  “I was very concerned about the effect of this order by
Judge Hoover to put back the incinerator to parties who caused
the massive debt,” Unkovic said in the interview in his office.
The additional receiver probably won’t interfere with Unkovic’s
plans to sell or lease the plant, Hoover said in his ruling.  Because of the power of the state’s receivership law,
Unkovic’s resignation shouldn’t impede the plan he put in place,
said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “The bus is going to keep moving,” Schankel said by
telephone. “They’re changing drivers and how they navigate.”  Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson  said she will continue to
follow Unkovic’s plan, which was approved by the Commonwealth
Court on March 9.  Seeking Solvency  “We remain focused on the goal of eliminating the
structural deficit and returning this city to fiscal solvency,”
Thompson said in a statement. About 30 percent of Harrisburg’s
almost 50,000 residents live in poverty.  Unlike previous fiscal recovery plans, Unkovic didn’t
mandate the sale of assets. After receiving bids for the city’s
parking system, the incinerator and operations of the water and
sewer system, he said he would negotiate with creditors on any
debt that wouldn’t be covered by the transactions.  Unkovic’s resignation underscores the difficulty in dealing
with the city’s financial situation short of declaring
bankruptcy, city Controller Dan Miller said in an interview.  “Bankruptcy is imminent,” Miller said by telephone. “No
one can make this work.”  The city is barred by state law from seeking  bankruptcy
protection  until July. A federal judge cited that fact in
rejecting an attempt to file for Chapter 9 proceedings by the
City Council last year.  No Performance Bond  In 2003, the city on the Susquehanna River helped pay for
an overhaul to remedy environmental violations by the municipal
incinerator. The financing contained no performance bond to
protect against shoddy or untimely work, which Unkovic has said
was unusual.  Now operating near capacity, the plant doesn’t generate
enough revenue to pay its costs including the debt, which grew
after the first contractor, Barlow Projects Inc., was dismissed.
 Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA)  was hired to complete the work and run the
facility.  Harrisburg started skipping payments on incinerator debt in
2009. The city owes $310 million, including penalties to  Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp. (AGO)  and Dauphin County, which backed some
of the debt after the city failed to meet its obligations.  The audit cited by Unkovic said municipal officials and
advisers “knew or should have known that, at a minimum, there
was substantial risk” the plant wouldn’t produce enough revenue
to cover costs. He asked U.S. Attorney Peter J. Smith in
Harrisburg and Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly to
investigate the incinerator bond deals.  Heidi Havens, a spokeswoman for Smith, and Nils
Frederiksen, a spokesman for Kelly, declined to comment March 28
on the request for examinations of the plant’s financing.  Rejected Approach  “There’s been challenges from a number of people that I
didn’t rubber stamp the Act 47 plan from the summer,” Unkovic
said in an interview yesterday, referring to the proposal by
consultants hired under the state’s distressed cities program.
The council has rejected that approach.  “Mr. Unkovic had been serving the city well,” Councilman
Brad Koplinski said by e-mail. “He listened to every voice on
the subject and was fair and honest. He was asking the right
questions and coming to the right conclusions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 