-- Asian Stocks Post Best Quarter Since 2010 on Bernanke
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-03-30T23:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/asian-stocks-post-best-quarter-since-2010-on-bernanke.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with
the regional benchmark index capping its biggest quarterly gain
since 2010, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
accommodative monetary policy is still needed. Gains were
limited amid concern  China ’s economic slowdown is weighing on
company earnings.  Sharp Corp., which fell to a 30-year low earlier this month,
surged 27 percent this week in Tokyo after Foxconn Technology
Group agreed to buy a stake in the display maker. Toyota Motor
Corp., Asia’s biggest carmaker by market value, rose 3 percent.
 Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s largest buyer of liquefied natural
gas, gained 12 percent in Seoul after its Italian partner found
reserves in  Mozambique .  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world
No. 2 real estate company, plunged 9.8 percent in  Hong Kong 
after the firm’s co-chairmen were arrested in a corruption probe.  “You just don’t have sustainability for the markets to
reweight higher like they did three or four months ago,”  Andrew Pease , Sydney-based chief investment strategist for the Asia-
Pacific region at Russell Investment Group, which manages about
$150 billion. “You are not going to see any acceleration from
here and you may actually feel a bit of moderation” in the U.S.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.2 percent to 126.60 this
week. The measure jumped 11 percent for the first three months
this year, as U.S. economic optimism and monetary easing in
 Europe ,  Japan  and China fueled the fastest quarterly rally since
September 2010.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.7 percent this
week, taking its advance through the quarter to 19 percent, the
biggest rise among developed market benchmark indexes. It this
week recouped losses of as much as 20 percent from last year’s
quake and nuclear disaster.  Shanghai Slumps  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.5 percent while
 Singapore’s Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  rose 0.7 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index slid 0.6 percent.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index slumped 3.7 percent this week.
The gauge tumbled the most in four months on March 28 after
Societe Generale SA said Chinese corporate profits won’t grow at
all this year.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.6 percent on concern
that earnings will slow and as Sun Hung Kai dropped 9.8 percent
to HK$96.50 following the arrest of Co-chairmen Thomas and
 Raymond Kwok  by the city’s anti-corruption agency.  Measures of volatility dropped across the region this week.
The  Kospi 200 Volatility Index (VKOSPI)  touched its lowest level since
July and the Hang Seng Index Volatility Index fell to a level
not seen since August on March 27.  Accommodative Policy  The  Federal Reserve ’s Bernanke said on March 26 that while
he’s encouraged by the unemployment rate’s decline to 8.3
percent, continued accommodative monetary policy will be needed
to make further progress. Stocks gained the following day as
some investors bet Bernanke’s comments indicate further policy
easing is still under consideration.  Toyota rose 3 percent to 3,570 yen in Tokyo, while
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBH) , a surfwear company that counts the
Americas as its biggest market, increased 1.8 percent to A$2.78
in Sydney.  Fed policy makers “still have an option of doing more, but
I think it was just reinforcing the view that they are not going
to reverse policy quickly,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-
based head of investment markets research at Colonial First
State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150 billion.
“There’s going to be a lot of liquidity provided for the market
and economy. Obviously equity investors are taking it in a
positive way.”  Foxconn, Sharp  Sharp surged 27 percent to 604 yen this week in  Tokyo , the
biggest five-day gain in the MSCI Asia Index, after Foxconn
Technology and founder Terry Gou agreed to invest 133 billion
yen ($1.62 billion) in the TV maker and its display unit.  Gou’s flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. rose 8
percent to NT$114.50 through the week as it announced fourth-
quarter net income which climbed 64 percent to NT$35 billion
($1.19 billion) surpassing each of the nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, and the average of NT$26.6 billion.  Korea Gas jumped 12 percent to 43,150 won this week in
Seoul after its partner Eni SpA, an Italian oil company, found
reserves in Mozambique that may exceed those of the U.K.  Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. (1387) , a developer of underground
shopping centers in China, slumped 39 percent to 54 Hong Kong
cents in Hong Kong this week, the  steepest  five-day drop in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Underlying profit fell more than 90
percent and Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit rating two
levels to B3, six ranks below investment grade.  ‘Cautious on China’  “We are concerned about China’s macro economy and you’ve
seen some of the slowdown in growth rates in some of the
companies.” said Tim Cunningham, who helps oversee $83 billion
of assets, including Chinese stocks, at Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “We’re a little
cautious on China overall and we’ve cut back our weight.”  Of the 179 companies in the Shanghai Composite that
reported quarterly net income this week as of the market close,
almost twice as many companies missed analyst estimates as those
that exceeded them.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) , China’s biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 6.4 percent to 23.91 yuan in Shanghai after recording an
18 percent decline in second-half profit.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of clothes and toys to retailers,
slumped 10 percent to HK$17.82 in Hong Kong after saying it’s
selling 210 million shares at HK$18.62 each to boost general
working capital, which may be used for acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 