-- Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Express Scripts in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-30T09:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bank-of-america-express-scripts-deutsche-bank-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp.  won dismissal
of a lawsuit by investors in mortgage-backed bonds that said the
bank should buy back defective loans underlying more than
$1 billion in securities.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick
dismissed the complaint filed last year by Walnut Place LLC and
related entities, saying the lawsuit was “premature,”
according to a decision dated March 28.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit was accused of
making false representations and warranties about the loans
backing the bonds, according to the complaint. Walnut Place owns
about $1.4 billion in face value of the securities at issue, it
said in court papers.  Walnut Place is a pseudonym used by hedge fund Baupost
Group LLC, according to Theodore Mirvis, a Bank of America
attorney. Boston-based Baupost, founded by Seth Klarman, is the
“real plaintiff” in the case, Mirvis said at a court hearing,
according to a transcript.  Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for Baupost, said the firm’s
general policy is not to comment on specific investments,
whether the fund holds them or not.  Walnut Place had said in court papers that it was suing
because  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp., as trustee for
bondholders, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
enforce the obligation to repurchase loans.  Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said the North
Carolina-based lender was pleased with the decision. David
Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment.  “We are pleased the court recognized that BNY Mellon acted
properly in this matter,” bank spokesman Kevin Heine said in a
statement. “As we’ve said in the past, we believe that at all
times we’ve acted in accordance with our duties as trustee.”  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  Pfizer Judge Certifies Class Action in Celebrex Suits  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  lost a bid to block class-action, or group,
status for investors who sued the world’s biggest drugmaker over
claims it misled them about the prospects of two chronic pain-
relief drugs, Celebrex and Bextra.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York, who is
presiding over a series of investor suits filed in 2004,
yesterday ruled that the main class of plaintiffs will be those
who purchased stock from Oct. 31, 2000, to Oct. 19, 2005.  The stockholders claimed New York-based Pfizer and its top
officers deliberately hid or misrepresented the results of
studies that suggested the drugs may have adverse cardiovascular
effects.  “Over the past seven years, this court has become familiar
with both the parties to and the subject matter of this action,
and so believes that concentrating this litigation in this forum
would promote judicial economy,” Swain said in her 30-page
ruling.  Swain said there’s an adequate similarity of claims that
would benefit from granting the request for class-action status,
which joins individual cases and allows plaintiffs to pool
financial and legal resources.  Celebrex was linked to heart risks at high doses in
research released in November 2004, sending shares down as much
as 7.6 percent on Nov. 4, 2004. Bextra was among the drugs that
a U.S. Food and Drug Administration reviewer identified as
unsafe that month.  Swain hasn’t ruled on the merits of the lawsuit.  “We are disappointed in the court’s order and will
continue to vigorously defend the litigation,” Chris Loder, a
spokesman for Pfizer, said in an e-mail. “It is important to
note that the order does not address the underlying merits of
the litigation, which we strongly dispute.”  The cases are In Re Pfizer Inc. Securities Litigation, 04-
cv-9866, 05-MD-1688, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Wells Fargo, SEC Told to Meet to Resolve Subpoena Requests  Lawyers for  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission were ordered to meet to resolve differences
over the the agency’s subpoenas for documents related to a probe
into mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Laurel Beeler in San Francisco
rejected the SEC’s request for an order compelling the bank, the
largest U.S. home lender, to deliver documents it agreed to
produce under subpoenas dating from September, according to a
court filing yesterday. Beeler said the lawyers for the parties
should meet in person, and if that doesn’t work, file a letter
to her.  Regulators said in a March 23 filing that Wells Fargo
failed to hand over documents demanded in U.S. subpoenas and
should be forced to cooperate with a probe into its sale of
almost $60 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities.  The SEC said it’s looking into possible fraud by the San
Francisco-based company and hasn’t concluded that anyone broke
the law.  The agency asked a federal judge to compel the bank to
deliver the documents. The matter was referred to Beeler.  Marc Fagel , the head of the SEC’s office in San Francisco,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail and phone call after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the ruling.  Ancel Martinez, a Wells Fargo spokesman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  MERS Judge Sets Aside Bankruptcy Court’s Critical Ruling  Merscorp Inc., operator of the electronic-registration
system for about half of all U.S. home mortgages, got a court to
set aside a bankruptcy judge’s opinion criticizing its right to
transfer the mortgages among members.  U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert in Central Islip, New
York, vacated March 28 part of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert E.
Grossman’s February 2011 decision in the bankruptcy of Ferrel L.
Agard. Merscorp, based in Reston, Virginia, runs Mortgage
Electronic Registrations Systems, or MERS.  “The issue of whether MERS had authority to assign the
mortgage was no longer before the bankruptcy court,” Seybert
wrote. “There was no longer a live case or controversy.”  Merscorp was created in 1995 to help county officials cope
with the growing volume of mortgage transfers, the company has
said. It tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
mortgage loans on its electronic registry, allowing
participating banks to buy and sell the loans without having to
record the transfer with the county. MERS helped  Wall Street  to
quickly bundle mortgages together in securitized trusts.  “I thought it was a poor decision because it was decided
only on procedural grounds,” George E. Bassias, a lawyer for
Agard in Queens, New York, said of Seybert’s ruling in a phone
interview yesterday. “In my opinion she’s wrong on the
procedure too.”  “We have long believed that those who sought to use the In
re Agard decision against MERS were wrong to do so,” Janis
Smith, a Merscorp spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Any future
challenges to MERS’ business model will have to be done without
citing to Judge Grossman’s now vacated opinion.”  The appeals are Agard v. Select Portfolio Servicing Inc.,
11-cv-1826, and Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. v.
Agard, 11-cv-2366, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York (Central Islip). The bankruptcy case is In re Agard,
10-77338,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Express Scripts, Medco Sued by Trade Groups Over Merger Plan  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  were
sued in federal court by trade groups representing retail drug
stores and pharmacists seeking to block the companies’ proposed
merger.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores and the
National Community Pharmacists Association filed the lawsuit
yesterday in federal court in the Western District of
 Pennsylvania  saying the proposed merger violates antitrust laws.  “Retail community pharmacies throughout the United States
that provide critical services to millions of patients are
threatened with substantial, imminent and irreparable harm as a
result of this acquisition,” the groups alleged in the
complaint.  Express Scripts, based in St. Louis, agreed in July to buy
Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based Medco for $29.1 billion, saying
the deal would help consumers by giving them more power to
negotiate prices.  The companies act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies
and health-plan sponsors to manage patients’ benefits.  Express Scripts spokesman Brian Henry declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Jennifer Luddy , spokeswoman for Medco, said by
e-mail, “We stand by our recent 8K filing, in which we stated
that we expect the merger to be completed as early as the week
of April 2, 2012.”  The Federal Trade Commission, which has been conducting an
antitrust review of the proposed transaction, is expected to
rule on the case as soon as today, two people familiar with the
case told Bloomberg yesterday.  The case is National Association of Chain Stores v. Express
Scripts, 2:05-mc-02025, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Pennsylvania.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Unit Sued Over Mortgage Repurchase Claims  A  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit was sued over the sale of mortgage
bonds by investors who claim $250 million in damages and are
demanding that the bank repurchase loans underlying their
securities.  DB Structured Products Inc. breached representations made
to investors about the loans packaged and sold as securities,
according to a summons filed March 28 in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  The Deutsche Bank unit agreed to repurchase loans that
breached representations, plaintiffs RMBS Recovery Holdings 4
LLC and VP Structured Products LLC said. They sued on behalf of
all securities holders in a mortgage securitization trust.  “We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against this
action and believe it is without merit,”  Renee Calabro , a
spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The case is RMBS Recovery Holdings 4 LLC v. DB Structured
Products Inc., 650980-2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Adams Golf Sued by Investor Over $70 Million Adidas Offer  Adams Golf Inc. (ADGF) , whose golf clubs are used by players
including Tom Watson and Kenny Perry, was sued by an investor
claiming a $70 million offer for the company by  Adidas AG (ADS)  is
inadequate.  The proposed transaction represents a “paltry premium of
just 9.5 percent” over Adams Golf’s closing price on March 18,
the day before the announcement, and fails to adequately
compensate shareholders for the “significant synergies”
created by the merger, shareholder Daniel Tarsha said in the
complaint.  Adams Golf directors “have exacerbated their breaches of
fiduciary duty by agreeing to lock up the proposed transaction
with deal protection devices that preclude other bidders,”
Tarsha said in the complaint made public yesterday in  Delaware
Chancery Court (1400L) .  Adidas, the owner of the TaylorMade brand, said it would
pay $10.80 a share in cash for Plano, Texas-based Adams. The
deal, which will be financed through cash or existing credit
lines, is expected to be completed in mid-2012, Adidas said.  The deal includes provisions that prevent Adams Golf from
soliciting other bidders, gives Adidas four days to match any
competing offer and requires the company to pay Adidas a
termination fee of about 4 percent of the total offer, Tarsha
said in his complaint.  Tarsha is seeking to represent all Adams Golf shareholders
in his request for a court order barring the deal. Adams Golf
officials weren’t immediately available to comment.  The case is Tarsha v. B.H. Adams, CA7362, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-McKinsey Consultant Banki to Be Retried Over Iran Embargo  Mahmoud Reza Banki, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant
whose 2010 conviction for violating a trade embargo with Iran
was partly set aside in October, will be retried, federal
prosecutors said.  The naturalized U.S. citizen, who was born in Iran, was
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison following a jury trial in New
York. Banki was freed in November after an appeals panel
overturned convictions on three of five counts. The U.S.
appealed and the same panel in February amended the decision,
giving prosecutors the option to retry him on the three counts.  “The government has already proven and will again prove”
that Banki “committed each offense,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jason Hernandez said March 28 in papers filed in federal court
in Manhattan.  The U.S. is also seeking a restraining order on more than
$2.6 million of assets controlled by Banki.  “Courts in this circuit have regularly imposed restraining
orders to ensure that the forfeiture penalty mandated by
numerous criminal statutes will not be frustrated by dissipation
of the defendant’s assets,” Hernandez said.  The defendant, who has a doctorate in chemical engineering
from Princeton University, was originally accused of running a
“hawala” or “value-transfer” business that essentially moved
money to residents of Iran from 2006 to 2009 in violation of the
U.S. embargo.  The appeals panel in October reversed three counts and sent
them back for possible retrial. Those charges include conspiring
to violate the Iran trade embargo, violating the embargo and
operating an unlicensed money-transmitting business.  Defense lawyers had argued Banki didn’t violate the law
because he got the money from his family and reported the funds
to the U.S. government.  Christine Chung, a lawyer for Banki, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at her office seeking comment
on the filing by prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Banki, 1:10-cr-00008, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Australia Cigarette Law Sterilizes Property Rights, BAT Says  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  said an Australian law
prohibiting the display of tobacco companies’ logos, labels and
trademarks “sterilizes” their intellectual property rights and
must be declared unconstitutional.  “The Commonwealth has assumed control over a substantial
aspect of the plaintiff’s property, business, goodwill and
reputation,” the cigarette maker said in a March 26  filing  to
the High Court of  Australia .  BAT,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc (IMT)  are challenging the validity of the Australian law and
will present their arguments against it in Canberra beginning
April 17. Australia is the first country in the world to ban
logos on cigarette packaging, with the law slated to go into
effect in December.  The Australian Constitution, like its U.S. counterpart, was
drafted recognizing the right of the state to acquire private
property for public purposes only if “full indemnification” is
provided to the former owner, rather than with the view based on
the feudal notion that all property ultimately belonged to the
sovereign, Imperial Tobacco’s Australian unit said in its
submission to the court.  The tobacco companies have said they will seek billions of
dollars of damages from the Australian government should they
lose the right to their trademarks.  At the hearing scheduled for April, the companies will ask
the High Court to declare that the plain-packaging legislation
results in acquisition of property without proper compensation
and that the law is unconstitutional, according to the filing
posted on the court’s website.  The Australian government announced the plan to ban
branding on cigarette packs in April last year, along with a 25
percent increase in tobacco taxes and an A$85 million ($88
million) advertising campaign to combat smoking.  “We won’t be bullied by tobacco companies threatening
litigation and we are prepared to fight them if they do,” then-
Health Minister Nicola Roxon said after the passage of the law.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Telefonica Loses Fight on 152 Million-Euro EU Antitrust Fine  Telefonica SA (TEF)  lost a court challenge to a 152 million-euro
($202 million) antitrust fine by European Union regulators.  The EU’s General Court rejected the appeal by  Spain ’s
biggest phone company and said the European Commission “rightly
held that Telefonica had abused its dominant position” over the
Spanish Internet market, according to a statement. The court
also backed regulators’ view that deliberately underpricing
wholesale services to hurt rivals, called “margin squeeze,”
was a form of monopoly abuse.  Telefonica was fined by the commission in 2007 for abusing
its monopoly over broadband Internet access in Spain by charging
wholesale rates that were too close to retail prices between
2001 and 2006. Regulators said this prevented rivals from making
a profit.  Telefonica will appeal the ruling to the region’s highest
tribunal and is in “complete and profound disagreement” with
yesterday’s decision, it said in an e-mailed statement. The
company “scrupulously abided by the telecommunications
regulations imposed” by Spanish regulators.  The EU antitrust agency said the judgments “are important
because they confirm the commission’s methodology for
determining the existence of a margin squeeze and the
commission’s power to intervene” in monopoly abuse cases in
regulated markets, such as telecommunications, according to a
statement published on its website.  The court said Telefonica must have been aware that
compliance with Spanish rules didn’t prevent the EU from
applying its own competition rules and that the Madrid-based
company was allowed to increase its prices at any time.  The case is  T-336/07  Telefonica and Telefonica de Espana v.
Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 