-- Banks Face New Regulators in Disputes Over Dodd-Frank Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-30T19:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/banks-face-new-regulators-in-disputes-over-dodd-frank-rules-1-.html
A U.S. Senate agreement has
inserted new voices into the debate on the future of the Dodd-
Frank Act.  Lawmakers last night confirmed four regulatory nominees,
including  Thomas Hoenig  and Jeremiah O. Norton as directors on
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board and Thomas J. Curry as
comptroller of the currency. The four, along with dozens of
other federal appointees, were confirmed unanimously without a
vote on the Senate floor under the agreement between the White
House and Republicans.  Although the lawmakers did not reach an agreement to
confirm Martin J. Gruenberg as chairman and Hoenig as vice
chairman, the board confirmations add new voices to the debate
over the implementation of a financial overhaul that includes
the so-called Volcker rule, as well as oversight of a banking
system that still faces threats from the European sovereign debt
crisis.  “It is vital that we have strong leaders in place at our
financial regulators as we continue our economic recovery,
continue implementation of the Wall Street Reform Act, and are
faced with challenges from the crisis in  Europe ,” Senate
Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat,
said in a statement.  Hoenig, a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City ; Norton, a former Treasury Department official under
President  George W. Bush ; and Curry, who has been serving as an
FDIC board director, will play roles as regulators finalize a
large swath of rules required by the 2010 financial regulatory
overhaul. They will also complete the five-member FDIC board,
where terms last six years. The comptroller holds a seat on the
board, as does the director of the consumer bureau.  ‘Important Step’  “This is an important step as the FDIC continues to
respond to a number of challenging issues and continues with the
rulemaking process,” said Gruenberg, who was confirmed
yesterday to another term on the FDIC board, where he will
remain acting chairman.  The decision to approve Gruenberg and Hoenig without giving
them the top posts was part of the deal to act on the
nominations, said a Senate leadership aide who requested
anonymity. Gruenberg will continue to serve as acting chairman
while long-term appointments for chairman and vice chairman can
be made after the presidential election, the person said.  ‘Playing Politics’  “When you have acting appointments, they don’t carry as
much weight or as much power,” said Kevin Jacques, a former
Treasury Department economist who is now a finance professor at
Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea,  Ohio . “This is not the time
for Congress to be playing politics with some very important
positions,” he said, arguing that there are “hundreds of banks
on the problem bank list” and too much significant regulatory
work to be done.  “If that’s what they needed to do to move at least a
portion of the nominations through, then that’s what they did,”
said Michael Stevens, senior executive vice president at the
Conference of State Bank Supervisors, who said he’s not
concerned Gruenberg’s lesser title takes away from the FDIC’s
reach. “We have clear leadership, and we have a board with the
full authority to act.”  A top item on the regulators’ agenda is a rule banning
banks trading with their own funds, also known as proprietary
trading, required by the law. Regulators released a draft
proposal of that so-called Volcker rule, so named because it was
proposed by former Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
last year and are currently working on the final version. The
rule also restricts bank investments in hedge and private equity
funds.  Chief Concern  Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , through comment letters
and dozens of closed-door meetings with regulators, have made
clear that the Volcker rule is one of their chief concerns.
Regulators have begun the process of sifting through the more
than 17,000 comment letters filed by February as they attempt to
finalize the rule. The FDIC and OCC are among five agencies with
jurisdiction over the rule.  The impact of the new entrants into the debate remains an
open question, said  Brian Gardner , a Washington analyst at Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Inc. Curry has not been an outspoken member of
the FDIC board, and Norton, who fills former Chairman  Sheila Bair ’s vacated seat expiring in July 2013, offered little
indication of his views in his confirmation hearing, Gardner
said. Hoenig, 65, may be the regulator to watch after telling
lawmakers in November that big banks shouldn’t get bailouts,
according to Gardner.  Republican Backing  Both advocated by Republicans, Hoenig and Norton, a former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker, join the agency as it takes on
broader responsibility for systemically important financial
firms, including resolution authority under Dodd-Frank. The
agency’s power to disband firms that pose a risk to the
financial system will give Hoenig a new platform, Gardner said.  “He’s highly critical of the concept of too big to fail,”
Gardner, a former congressional aide, said in a telephone
interview. “He could be a leader in the regulatory community on
this idea of downsizing the biggest banks.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said last night that the nominees were confirmed in
exchange for assurances from President  Barack Obama  that there
would be no appointments while the Senate is out of session
during the congressional recess.  Logjam Broken  The nominees were confirmed unanimously under the
agreement, along with dozens of other nominees for positions
across the federal government, including at the Treasury
Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  The deal puts an end to months of speculation over when or
if Republicans would approve nominees in the wake of Obama’s
January recess appointment of former Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  as director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau.  “I’m glad that the Senate was able to set aside partisan
politics and approve these individuals,” said Johnson, the
committee chairman.  Stevens, of the bank supervisors group, said he expects the
new board to be effective. “We are so much better off by having
a fully confirmed board at the FDIC,” he said, predicting the
new board will be powerful and “incredibly effective, given
their mix of backgrounds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  