-- BNY Mellon Must Face Fund’s Lawsuit on Foreign Exchange Charges
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bank-of-new-york-mellon-must-face-fraud-contract-breach-suit.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  must
face a Los Angeles pension fund’s lawsuit accusing the bank of
overcharging for foreign exchange transactions, a judge ruled.  While U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco 
yesterday threw out allegations under the  California  False
Claims Act, he refused the bank’s request to toss claims of
breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, unfair business
practices and fraud by concealment. He dismissed those same
claims another Los Angeles pension fund and funds in  San Diego 
and Stanislaus counties and said they could be refiled in courts
in those locations.  The funds said in a complaint filed last year that New
York-based  BNY Mellon  said it would use “best practices” when
executing foreign exchange transactions to give its clients the
highest price when in fact it used the least advantageous prices
and secretly profited from the difference.  “We are pleased that this federal court has vindicated our
position and dismissed the most serious claims against us,”
Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, said in an e-mailed
statement. “By rejecting completely all claims made under the
California False Claims Act, which mirrors the federal False
Claims Act, the court has essentially reduced this dispute to a
basic breach of contract case and removed any legal basis to
seek significant financial penalties. We will vigorously defend
the remaining claims against us.”  The case is In Re  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  False
Claims Act Foreign Exchange Litigation, 11-5683, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  