-- Baoshan Steel Profit Falls to 2 1/2-Year Low on Weak Auto Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-30T13:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/baoshan-steel-profit-falls-to-2-1-2-year-low-on-weak-auto-demand.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, posted its lowest quarterly
profit in more than two years amid high  iron ore  prices and
slowing demand from automakers and builders.  Net income fell 55 percent to 1.04 billion yuan ($165
million) in the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31 from 2.29 billion
yuan a year earlier, based on Baoshan’s full-year earnings
 reported  today in Shanghai. The profit is the lowest since the
second quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baoshan, which supplies half of China’s automobile steel
market, is facing slowing demand after the government last year
halted incentives and imposed restrictions on vehicle purchases
to reduce traffic. Steelmakers in  China , the world’s biggest
producer, incurred a combined loss in the fourth quarter as
tighter credit and housing curbs reined in consumption,
according to the China Iron and Steel Association.  “We see moderate recovery in steel demand and stable iron
ore prices this year,” Sarah Wang, an analyst with  Masterlink
Securities Corp. (2856)  in Shanghai, said before the earnings
announcement. “It can’t be worse than the fourth quarter for
the steelmakers.”  Full-year profit fell 43 percent to 7.36 billion yuan,
Baoshan said. The company had announced a preliminary profit of
7.3 billion yuan on Jan. 13.  Baoshan advanced 0.4 percent to close at 4.77 yuan before
the earnings announcement, compared with the 0.5 percent gain in
the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index.  Falling Demand  “Steel demand dropped drastically in 2011, further
squeezing profits as prices of raw materials, including iron
ore, steel scraps and coke continued climbing,” Baoshan said in
the statement. “We’ll focus on the development of high-quality
carbon steel products and strengthen cost management to make
sure that we remain the best-performing company in the domestic
 steel industry .”  Imported iron ore prices gained 28 percent last year from a
year ago, Baoshan said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pared China’s annual economic growth
target to 7.5 percent this month, compared with a goal of 8
percent over the past seven years, to lessen reliance on
investment and exports and increase the role of domestic
consumption. That shift is slowing steel production growth, said
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s third-biggest iron ore exporter.  Short of Target  China’s vehicle sales this year will probably miss their 8
percent growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel
costs curb buying, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said March 20.
Total vehicle deliveries may fail to increase by even 5 percent,
he said.  Still, Baosteel Group Corp., Baoshan’s state-owned parent,
expects that the government’s efforts to encourage spending may
boost China’s car sales this year, spurring demand for
automobile steel to rise faster than last year, Baosteel
Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said March 5.  Baoshan aims to complete on April 1 the sale of its
unprofitable stainless steel and specialty steel units to its
parent for 45.2 billion yuan, in a move to boost profitability,
it said today.  The stainless steel unit, China’s second-biggest producer
of the rust-proof alloy, had a loss of 1.1 billion yuan last
year and the special steel unit incurred a loss of 531 million
yuan, Baoshan said last month.  “The proposed plan to spin off the stainless steel sector
is also good news to investors,” Masterlink’s Wang said.  Baoshan aims to sell 24.25 million metric tons of steel
products this year, down from 25.8 million tons in 2011, the
company said today. Revenue is expected to decline to 216
billion yuan from 222.9 billion yuan, Baoshan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  