-- Barclays Robinson Expects Dollar to Gain, No Fed QE3
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-30T08:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/barclays-is-relatively-bullish-on-u-s-economy-robinson-says.html
The dollar will outperform the yen
and euro on prospects recovery in the world’s largest economy
will drive up U.S. bond yields, said  Paul Robinson , London-based
global head of foreign-exchange research at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   U.S. data released this month have shown that payrolls
gained last month, retail sales rose in February and consumer
confidence remained near a one-year high in March, easing
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will conduct a third round of
so-called quantitative easing, or QE3. The economy will grow at
least 2 percent every quarter over the next 12 months, economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We don’t expect QE3,” Robinson told reporters in
Singapore today. “What we are likely to see is U.S. dollar
prospects improve relative to the other major currencies.”  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 82.11 yen as of 9:10 a.m. in
 London  from the close in  New York  yesterday, while it weakened
0.3 percent to $1.3338 per euro. The dollar may climb to 90 yen
over the next six months and may rise to $1.2 per euro in the
coming 12 months, Robinson said.  Two-year Treasury  yields  climbed to 0.41 percent on March
15, the highest since July, and stood at 0.34 percent today.
Analysts forecast the rates may advance to 0.73 percent by the
end of June next year.  Robinson recommended buying Canada’s dollar against the
Swiss franc because the North American nation benefits from
improvement in the U.S. economy and higher commodities prices.  “The Bank of Canada will be reasonably comfortable with
the strengthening Canadian dollar while the  U.S. economy  is
doing OK,” he said. “Switzerland desperately needs looser
monetary policy.”  The Canadian dollar lost 0.5 percent to 90.47 Swiss
centimes today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  