-- BOE to Keep Bond-Buying Plan on Hold Amid Split, Economis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/boe-to-maintain-bond-buying-plan-amid-divisions-economists-say.html
Bank of England  policy makers will
maintain the size of their bond-buying program next week amid a
split over whether the economy needs more stimulus, economists
forecast.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  will hold the target at 325 billion pounds ($521
billion) on April 5, according to all 39 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . They will also leave their key  interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent, said all 53 economists in a
separate  poll .  Divisions have emerged as a surge in oil prices threatens
to stoke an inflation rate now in its third year above target
while Europe’s debt turmoil hurts demand.  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  kept up their push for more stimulus this month after
officials voted to increase the asset-purchase ceiling by 50
billion pounds in February. The majority favored waiting to
monitor the risks to the outlook. The current round of purchases
is due to end in May.  “The Bank of England is clearly very much in ‘wait-and-
see’ mode,” said  Howard Archer , chief U.K. and European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “On both the growth
and inflation fronts there is considerable uncertainty at the
moment. It is very possible that unchanged monetary policy will
be the name of the game for the rest of 2012 and some
considerable time beyond.”  Posen and Miles, who favoured a larger dose of stimulus
than their colleagues in February, sought to increase asset
purchases by 25 billion pounds to 350 billion pounds this month,
according to the minutes of the March 7-8 meeting. The remaining
MPC members voted to keep the target unchanged. They were
unanimous on keeping their  benchmark interest rate  unchanged.  Risks  While policy makers highlighted upside risks to  inflation 
from rising  oil prices  and wage settlements in the minutes, they
also said there were “significant risks to economic activity
that might result in inflation falling materially below” their
2 percent target in the medium term. Consumer-price gains slowed
to a 15-month low of 3.4 percent in February from a peak of 5.2
percent in September and the central bank has projected the rate
will fall to its target this year.  Government data this week showed the U.K. economy  shrank 
more than previously estimated in the fourth quarter. Real
household disposable income fell 1.2 percent last year, the
biggest drop since 1977.  Still, policy maker Martin Weale has said there may be
“more persistence” to inflation, while Bank of England Chief
Economist Spencer Dale said on March 20 that it may not slow as
fast this year as forecast due to rising energy costs. Brent
crude oil has risen 20 percent in the past six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  