-- BofA’s Merrill Sued by Dexia Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-30T16:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bofa-s-merrill-sued-by-dexia-over-mortgage-securities.html
Two units of  Bank of America Corp. ,
the second-largest U.S. bank, were sued separately by two
European banks over more than $900 million in mortgage backed
securities the bank sold.  Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg,  Germany ’s biggest state-owned
lender, sued Countrywide Financial over $455 million in
securities.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , based in Brussels, sued Merrill Lynch over
$527 million in securities. Both suits were filed in  New York 
State Supreme Court.  “The Countrywide defendants’ representations in the
offering materials were recklessly or knowingly false when made,
and caused plaintiffs to believe that the Countrywide RMBS that
they purchased were safe investments,” the Stuttgart-based bank
wrote in its suit.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that, once burst, helped push the
U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. The market for
mortgage-backed securities peaked at $2.3 trillion in 2007.  Dexia said in its suit that Merrill Lynch made similar
misrepresentations concerning the securities the Belgian bank
invested in.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
suits.  The biggest U.S. bank is New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   The cases are is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 651001/2012, and Dexia SA/NV v.
Merrill Lynch & Co., 651000/2012, New York Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 