-- BOK’s Dollar Holdings Fell to 60.5% of FX Assets in 2011
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-30T04:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bok-s-dollar-holdings-fell-to-60-5-of-fx-assets-in-2011.html
South Korea , Asia’s fourth-largest
economy, pared the share of dollars in its foreign-exchange
reserves to the lowest level since the global financial crisis
erupted in 2007.  Dollar holdings dropped to 60.5 percent of foreign-
exchange reserves at the end of last year from 63.7 percent in
2010, the central bank said in its annual report for 2011
released today.  The drop underscores a shift among reserve managers to
diversify assets, with China’s yuan and  Australia ’s dollar among
the beneficiaries. South Korea’s government earlier this year
announced plans to invest in Chinese equities as well as bonds
as the yuan’s international role increases.  “The move to diversify reserves away from U.S. dollars and
the euro accelerated last year, largely on weaker fiscal
fundamentals and subdued economic conditions in developed
markets,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in Singapore, said in an e-mail. “At the same time, it
marked a move into gold, and bonds of stable emerging-market
economies, particularly those with better longer-term prospects
and currency appreciation potential.”  The central bank boosted the proportion of equity
investments to 5.4 percent last year from 3.8 percent, it said.
Holdings of foreign government bonds rose to 36.8 percent from
35.8 percent in 2010, the BOK said.  Confidence in Dollar  While the proportion of dollar holdings declined to the
lowest since 2007, when the central bank began to disclose
details about its asset portfolio, the change doesn’t reflect a
lack of confidence in the currency, Kang Sung Kyung, a director
at the bank’s Reserve Management Group, told reporters in Seoul
today  Other currencies held by the BOK include the euro, yen,
pound, Canadian and Australian dollars, Kang said. The central
bank holds  government bonds  issued mostly by the U.S.,  Japan ,
 Canada , Australia, the U.K., Germany and France, he said.  Foreign-exchange reserves climbed by $4.46 billion to a
record $315.8 billion at the end of February as the euro and
pound strengthened against the dollar and the central bank made
gains by managing assets, according to a central bank statement
on March 5.  Choo Heung Sik, the director general of the Reserve
Management Group, said in an interview in January that the yuan
“has the potential to become a key reserve currency in the long
term and thus we are building a channel to invest there.”  The BOK said that month it received approval from the
People’s Bank of  China  to buy bonds and obtained a license as a
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor, or QFII.  “Central banks need to look for higher returns,” said
 Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .
“Their sterilization programs used to mop up liquidity is
creating the pressure for them to look for assets with better
returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  