-- BP Sells Forties at Two-Month Low; Two More April Lots Dropped
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-03-30T16:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bp-sells-forties-at-two-month-low-two-more-april-lots-dropped.html
BP Plc sold  North Sea   Forties (EUCSFORT)  at
the biggest discount to Dated Brent in two months, while Royal
Dutch Shell Plc failed to buy a shipment of the blend at the
highest premium in nearly two weeks. There’s a 10-day gap
between the loading dates of the two cargoes.  Two more cargoes of Forties crude for loading in April were
dropped, bringing total cancellations for next month to three
shipments, according to four people with knowledge of the export
program. No bids or offers were made for Russian Urals in Europe
for the second day.  North Sea  BP sold Forties for loading on April 10 to April 12 to
Trafigura Beheer BV at a discount of 40 cents a barrel to  Dated
Brent (EUCRBRDT) , the lowest since Jan. 26, according to a Bloomberg survey
of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts trading window. The
grade was last sold at a premium of 5 cents on March 23.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc was unable to buy at 50 cents a
barrel more than Dated Brent for April 20 to April 26 loading,
compared with its bid at a discount of 40 cents yesterday for an
April 15 to April 20 shipment, the survey showed.  Reported North Sea trading typically occurs during the
Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Before the
session, Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 5 cents a barrel
less than Dated Brent, compared with a premium of 10 cents
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for May settlement traded at $123.14 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, up from $123 yesterday. The June contract was at
$122.33, a discount of 81 cents to May.  The consignments with parcel numbers F0415 and F0418 were
removed from the program, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is confidential. Each lot is
for 600,000 barrels.  At the same time, cargo F0411 was delayed by 14 days to
begin loading on April 28, the people said. Shell was the owner
of the three cargoes.  Total SA is preparing to drill two emergency wells at its
Elgin platform in the U.K. North Sea as it leaks natural gas for
a sixth day.  About 200,000 cubic meters of gas a day, equivalent to
about 1,200 barrels of oil, is escaping, Philippe Guys, Total’s
managing director for U.K. exploration and production, told
reporters today in Aberdeen,  Scotland . The fuel is probably
leaking above water and the source is a rock formation above the
producing reservoir of the field.  Mediterranean/Urals  Urals (EUCSURNW)  was at $3.60 a barrel less than Dated Brent in
northwest Europe today, unchanged from the previous session,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO Rosneft sold seven Urals crude cargoes via a tender for
loading in April from the Baltic Sea port of Primorsk to Vitol
Group, Total SA, Shell and BP Plc, two traders who participate
in the market said.  Vitol won three cargoes, Shell got two consignments, Total
and BP received one lot each, the people said, declining to be
identified because the information is confidential.  OAO Surgutneftegas issued a tender to sell one 135,000
metric-ton cargo of Urals crude for April 14 to April 15 loading
from the port of Novorossiysk on the  Black Sea , according to two
traders involved in the region’s oil market. The tender closes
April 2.  West Africa  Nigeria ’s benchmark  Qua Iboe (AFCSQUA1)  blend was at a premium of
$2.67 a barrel to Dated Brent, down 3 cents from yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  