-- BP Says U.S. Withholding Evidence of Extent of Oil Spill
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-03-30T17:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bp-says-u-s-withholding-evidence-of-extent-of-oil-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said the U.S. government is
withholding evidence that would show the oil spill from the
Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico was smaller than claimed.  BP has identified 10,000 documents, out of more than 80,000
the government sought to suppress, that relate to estimates of
the April 2010 spill, the London-based oil producer said in a
filing yesterday in federal court in New Orleans. The U.S.
estimated in August 2010 that 4.9 million barrels of oil, plus
or minus 10 percent, spilled into the Gulf after a rig exploded.  “Despite the United States’ declaration that it was
‘ground truth,’ the Aug. 2 estimate was in fact the fourth
official estimate” to be released, BP said in the court filing.  BP said March 2 it would pay at least $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and injuries. A magistrate judge in  New Orleans  today
predicted a multiphase trial over liability for the spill will
still go forward.  David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, declined to comment
immediately on the filing. Wyn Hornbuckle, a U.S. Justice
Department spokesman, also declined to comment.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Feb. 28 that the
U.S. has a “strong” case over liability for the explosion that
ripped through the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, killing 11
workers and triggering the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Potential Fines  BP may face as much as $17.6 billion in civil pollution
fines under the U.S. Clean Water Act, based on the government’s
estimate of barrels spilled.  “The United States is using a privilege intended to
protect discussions and deliberations in advance of policy
determinations to shield documents reflecting discussions and
deliberations concerning a factual issue, the amount of oil
discharged,” BP said.  The law provides for fines of as much as $1,100 for each
barrel of oil spilled as a result of simple negligence, often
described as a failure to exercise ordinary care. The maximum
fine will increase to $4,300 a barrel if BP or the other
defendants are found to have been grossly negligent, meaning a
conscious action or omission caused the spill.  BP said “fundamental fairness” requires the disclosure of
documents that may help it in its defense.  “It is the  United States  that has brought this case,
seeking large monetary penalties against BP,” the  oil company 
said. “When the government seeks relief, it is fundamentally
unfair to allow it to evade discovery.”  ‘Going Forward’  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan expects the liability
case to proceed, she told lawyers for BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Venier, Switzerland-based owner of the Deepwater Horizon drill
rig that exploded; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which supplied cement
for the rig, as well as attorneys for the federal and several
state governments.  “I think we’re going forward with the remainder” of the
liability case over the explosion, and then the government’s
environmental claims will be heard in a separate phase of the
trial on “source control” for the  oil spill , Shushan said at a
hearing today. “That’s my position and I’m sticking to it.”  “We’d be very interested in smoking out who wants to go
forward and why?” BP attorney Rob Gasaway told Shushan.  Closed-Door Meeting  Shushan’s job is to make recommendations on evidentiary
issues in the case to U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is
overseeing the consolidated spill litigation. Barbier is
scheduled to hold a closed-door meeting with lawyers for the
parties May 3 to discuss how to proceed with the case.  The accord BP reached this month with businesses and
individuals is to be paid from a $20 billion trust set up in
2010 for victims. BP has set aside $37 billion to cover spill
costs.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  