-- BP Workers Can’t Sue Retirement Plan Over Spill Loss, Judge Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bp-workers-can-t-sue-retirement-plan-managers-judge-rules.html
BP Plc employees can’t sue managers
of the company’s retirement savings plan over losses related to
the 2010  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Keith Ellison  in Houston yesterday
threw out least eight employee lawsuits that sought to recover
millions of dollars in losses that BP’s employee retirement
plans allegedly suffered from the largest offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The suits questioned plan managers’ investments in
BP’s shares.  “Examining the fluctuations in BP’s stock price suggests
that plaintiffs’ losses were only temporary,” Ellison wrote in
his 42-page ruling. “BP’s steady revenue stream and expansive
worldwide operations belie plaintiffs’ contention that the
Deepwater Horizon explosion and subsequent spill were a threat
to the viability of the company going forward.”  BP officials said today the U.S. government is withholding
evidence that would show the spill was smaller than claimed. BP
disputes the government’s estimates that that about 4.9 million
barrels of oil spilled into the Gulf after a rig exploded.  U.S. Environmental Claims  The London-based company is facing litigation over its
handling of the Macondo well off the coast of  Louisiana ,
including environmental claims by the federal government and
several states, which could result in as much as $17.6 billion
in fines. Earlier this month, it agreed to pay at least $7.8
billion to settle private plaintiffs’ claims related to economic
loss, property damage and personal injuries.  Guy Potvin, a BP’s spokesman, declined to comment on
yesterday’s ruling. Ron Kravitz, co-lead counsel for the BP
employees in the lawsuits, said in a telephone interview,
“We’re reviewing our options on behalf of the participants in
the BP plans.”  The workers’ consolidated suits alleged BP retirement-plan
managers should have known the company’s stock was an
“imprudent investment” given BP’s safety and compliance record
before the Macondo spill. The cases were brought under the
federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or  ERISA .  ‘Complete Discretion’  BP employees have “complete discretion whether to invest
in the BP stock fund” and plan managers can’t be held liable
for employees’ own investment decisions, the company’s lawyers
countered in their court filings in the case.  Ellison concluded that BP employees couldn’t produce enough
evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the retirement plans’
managers to justify taking their claims to trial.  “Plaintiffs allegations are insufficient to demonstrate
that the alleged fiduciaries should have considered the long-
term viability of BP’s operations at risk,” the judge wrote.  Ellison last month allowed holders of BP American
depositary receipts to pursue claims alleging violations of U.S.
securities law. He dismissed claims by investors who bought
ordinary shares of London-based BP.  Last year, Ellison also dismissed some lawsuits brought by
institutional investors against BP’s board and managers over the
company’s losses from the spill. The judge found the claims
should be filed in U.K. courts because BP is based there.  The ERISA case is In re  BP Plc (BP/)  Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  