-- Brazil Real Heads for Worst Month Since November
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-30T16:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/brazil-real-heads-for-worst-month-since-november-on-intervention.html
(Corrects yesterday’s closing level in second paragraph.)  Brazil ’s real headed for its
biggest monthly loss since November as government measures to
curb the currency’s appreciation and concern the global recovery
will falter sapped demand for Brazilian assets.  The real lost 5.8 percent in March, the worst performer
among emerging-market currencies. It rose 0.1 percent to 1.8201
at 9:54 a.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.8214 yesterday, and has gained
2.5 percent this quarter.  Brazil’s real underperformed major and emerging-market
currencies this month as the government expanded taxes and
stepped up interventions in the foreign-exchange market to
protect exporters from what President  Dilma Rousseff  called a
“monetary tsunami” created by developed nations seeking to
undervalue their currencies. Signs of slowing growth in  China 
and European debt concern also weighed on the real, said Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at Banco West LB do Brasil.  “There are signs that the measures are beginning to take
effect, inflows are diminishing,” Folchini said by phone from
Sao Paulo. “The fears about China and  Europe  are helping the
government to execute its strategy of having a stronger
dollar.”  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 9.51 percent. It plunged 97 basis points this quarter
as the central bank accelerated the pace of interest-rate cuts
with a 75 basis-point reduction on March 7 that exceeded the
majority of analysts’ forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  