-- Brazilian Real Posts Monthly Decline on Measures
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-04-02T13:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/brazil-real-posts-worst-monthly-loss-since-november-on-measures.html
(Corrects first paragraph of story first published March 30
to show loss was the biggest since September.)  Brazil ’s real dropped, extending
its biggest monthly loss since September, as government measures
to curb the currency’s appreciation and concern the global
recovery will falter sapped demand for Brazilian assets.  The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.8268 per  U.S. dollar  today
in Sao Paulo, bringing its decline in March to 6 percent, the
worst performer among all global currencies.  The real weakened this month as the government expanded
taxes and stepped up interventions in the foreign-exchange
market to protect exporters from what President  Dilma Rousseff 
called a “monetary tsunami” created by developed nations
seeking to undervalue their currencies. Slowing growth in  China 
and concern about Europe’s credit crisis also weighed on the
real, said Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at Banco West LB
do Brasil.  “There are signs that the measures are beginning to take
effect, inflows are diminishing,” Folchini said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . “The fears about China and Europe are helping the
government to execute its strategy of having a stronger
dollar.”  Demand for reais waned this month after the government
expanded a 6 percent so-called IOF tax on foreign loans and
bonds by local companies and the central bank stepped up dollar
purchases to weaken the currency.  The real has risen 27 percent since the end of 2008, the
second-best performer among emerging-market currencies in that
period after the Chilean peso.  Selic Rate  The central bank reduced the overnight lending rate 75
basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, on March 7 to 9.75
percent, more than the median 50-basis point forecast by a
majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The larger cut was
a sign to analysts at Nomura Securities International Inc. and
ICAP do Brasil CTVM that policy makers also were trying to stem
inflows by reducing the attractiveness of Brazilian bonds.  Policy makers in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  are adopting an
“expansionary policy” to shore up economic growth in a move
that is causing a jump in capital inflows to  emerging markets ,
Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini said in Senate
testimony March 2.  Brazil’s real has consistently traded near the 1.80 level
since March 19 as investors drop it in favor of other emerging-
market currencies such as the Indian rupee and South African
rand, said Ilan Solot, a London-based strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman.  “I think 1.80 is taken to be the new 1.70, and all signs
at this stage are that investors are not willing to pick a fight
with the central bank,” Solot said in a telephone interview.
“There are other places to be long.”  Interest-Rate Futures  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 was little changed at 9.53 percent. It
plunged 95 basis points this quarter as the central bank
accelerated the pace of interest-rate cuts.  Policy makers have cut the benchmark rate, known as Selic,
by 275 basis points since August to 9.75 percent. They see a
“high probability” of  interest rates  declining to levels just
above the record low 8.75 percent, according to minutes of their
March 6-7 meeting, released March 15.  Yields tumbled this month as traders wagered the central
bank will try to use other measures to tame inflation in order
to keep interest rates low, Folchini said.  “The government’s goals are employment and growth,”
Folchini said. “The government is going to do everything to not
have to raise rates.”  Brazil’s central bank said March 29 it expects gross
domestic product to expand 3.5 percent in 2012, following a 2.7
percent expansion last year and 7.5 percent in 2010.  -- With assistance from Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo. Editors:
Richard Richtmyer, Brendan Walsh  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  