-- British Airways Parent IAG Wins EU Approval for BMI Takeover
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-30T17:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/british-airways-parent-iag-gets-eu-antitrust-approval-to-buy-bmi.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG won
European Union antitrust approval to purchase  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit in a deal that will boost its position at London’s
capacity-constrained  Heathrow airport .  IAG, which agreed in December to buy BMI for 172.5 million
pounds ($275 million), will cede 14 takeoff and landing slots at
Heathrow to rivals out of the 56 controlled by BMI and connect
passengers to competing long-haul flights there in order to
maintain competition, the European Commission said today.  “It’s a price worth paying and, if anything, makes
integrating BMI somewhat easier in the short-term as there’s
less pressure to find a profitable use for all of its slots,”
said  Douglas McNeill , a transport analyst at Charles Stanley in
London who recommends buying IAG stock.  Opponents of the merger who include Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd. and Scottish lawmakers say it will give BA a monopoly on
flights to  Scotland  and northern  England  from Heathrow, which
operates at 99 percent of capacity, making slots expensive and
tough to come by. Lufthansa Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said March 20 that the deal was vital to save BMI jobs.  ‘Competitive Dynamics’  “The commission could clear this transaction in the first
phase given the commitments package offered by IAG,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a statement.
“The competitive dynamics will be maintained so as to ensure
choice and quality of air services for passengers.”  IAG, or International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
formed in January 2011 from a merger of BA and  Spain ’s Iberia,
gained 0.2 percent to 178.9 pence in  London  today prior to the
announcement and has added 21 percent so far in 2012. Lufthansa
advanced 1.6 percent today and is up 14 percent this year.  “This is good for U.K. business and U.K. consumers,” IAG
CEO Willie Walsh said today in a statement. “More British jobs
will be saved than if BMI had closed. BA will consult with BMI
staff and their unions as soon as possible.”  Virgin Atlantic said it was “incredible” that such an
important transaction was approved without more scrutiny, and
that it would study the ruling and review all available options.  “The last-minute remedies offered this week by British
Airways were not shared with the industry and they have not been
subject to a detailed assessment,” it said in a statement.  April Completion  Ireland’s  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the biggest European
discount airline, said in a statement that the EU ruling
continued a sequence of “discriminatory” decisions that have
seen acquisitions by flag carriers “rubber-stamped” while its
own bid for Dublin-based  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  was blocked.  London-based IAG said the deal is likely to be completed
around April 20, with BMI’s Heathrow operation integrated into
BA in the following months. The slots will allow expansion of
services to growth markets in  Asia  and  Latin America , it said.  Lufthansa’s Franz said in a statement that he also welcomed
the decision and that a sale to IAG is “the one solution which
offers future prospects to BMI and its employees.”  Following the merger IAG will gain 42 daily slots pairs,
giving it control of 51 percent in total. Lufthansa and  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Europe ’s biggest airline, have a greater share
of capacity at their own respective hubs.  Restructuring costs will be around 100 million pounds over
three years and the remedy agreed with the EU doesn’t affect
IAG’s plans to increase the 2015 operating profit target of 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) by 100 million euros, it said.  Slot Surrender  BA and BMI overlap on 12 Heathrow routes, according to
research from Credit Suisse, the same number of slots that IAG
initially offered to surrender, according to today’s statement.  Of the 14 given up, seven are to be used for flights to
Edinburgh and/or Aberdeen and five for services to those
destinations or Nice, Cairo, Moscow or  Riyadh  in  Saudi Arabia ,
IAG said. Two other slot pairs will be leased to Russian carrier
 OAO Transaero Airlines (TEAR) , also to be used for services to Moscow.  Under the agreement with the EU, other airlines will be
able to apply for seats on the integrated BA/BMI short-haul
network for their transfer passengers, according to IAG.  McNeill at  Charles Stanley  said it’s not clear that other
airlines will be willing to commence new Scottish services,
though Declan Kearney, a spokesman at Aer Lingus, said by
telephone that the Irish carrier has “made no secret” of its
interest in expanding at Heathrow.  “It’s hard to see anybody else starting services to
Scotland from Heathrow,” Mcneill said. “BMI couldn’t make any
money doing it, so it’s hard to see a commercial case.”  Forced Purchase  In addition to the Heathrow business,  Castle Donington ,
England-based BMI has two other units, a short-haul regional
operation based in Aberdeen, Scotland, and low-cost BMIbaby.
Lufthansa is seeking to offload both separately, and IAG will
get a “significant price reduction” if BMIbaby isn’t sold.  “With respect BMI Regional and BMIbaby, both businesses
have attracted interest from potential buyers and discussions
continue,” BMI said in an e-mailed statement.”  Lufthansa acquired BMI in 2009 after founder  Michael Bishop 
exercised an option to sell his controlling stake. Since then
the Cologne-based company has cut jobs and grounded planes as it
struggled to stem losses at the unit.  CEO Franz is reversing an expansion strategy pursued by
predecessor  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  in order to focus on Lufthansa’s
namesake brand, and said on March 15 that the company will no
longer prop up unprofitable operations.  Lufthansa said yesterday it would sell bonds exchangeable
for shares of JetBlue Airways Corp. in a move that paves the way
for the disposal of its stake in the New-York based carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Luxembourg at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  