-- Brzezinski Says Romney Lacks Foreign Policy ‘Grasp’ (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-03-30T21:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/brzezinski-says-romney-lacks-foreign-policy-grasp-transcript-.html
Zbigniew Brzezinski, a former
Democratic national security adviser, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt,”
airing this weekend, that Republican presidential front-runner
Mitt Romney lacks a grasp of foreign policy and would return the
U.S. to the policies of George W. Bush.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former National Security
Adviser to President Carter, Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski. Thank you
for coming in the studios, Zbig. Your new book is called
“ Strategic Vision : America and the Crisis of Global Power.”  I get the impression in your book - you suggest that
America’s role as a global superpower is in the balance and say
a vigorous America is really indispensable. I get the
impression, though, that you’re pessimistic, that you think the
country is becoming intrinsically weaker, and you’re worried
whether we’ll be prepared for those challenges.  ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI: Yes, I am. I have to admit I am. I’m
not a fatalist. I’m not convinced it has to be so bad. I think
we can avoid it. But I am a little pessimistic about our ability
to marshal our national will to set a course and to make the
necessary compromises, as well as sacrifices. So that makes me
worried. But I also don’t think anyone else is going to replace
us.  HUNT: Well, what - let me get that - what are the two or
three things you’d like to see America do, if you can simplify
like that, that would - that would make you more optimistic?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, first of all, I think we have to get our
financial system under control, because it really is out of
control, that it is to say, enormous transactions take place all
the time with relatively little supervision and driven very much
by speculative greed, so that the money that gets transformed
and transmitted doesn’t really end up subject to effective
national control for national purposes. We are creating enormous
fortunes, totally unrelated, for example, to  job creation .  Secondly, we have, I think, a sociopolitical crisis in
terms of our values. I’m worried about the fact that an
increasing number of young Americans are born without family
structures, without family frameworks and shared ambitions. That
I think is dangerous. There is a kind of self-indulgence in our
society, which I think in the long run is damaging.  And, thirdly, America in the world has become more
isolated. We have had a foreign policy over the last decade or
so which plunged us into military engagements, which
increasingly were viewed by the world as unilateral, self-
serving, and on top of it, not very successful.  HUNT: For all of your concerns about America, you don’t,
for instance, see  China  becoming an equal global superpower in
25 years.  BRZEZINSKI: No, I don’t. Now, conceivably in 50 years, but
who knows where we’ll be in 50 years? No, I think - and this is
also a worry of mine - if America doesn’t recover, doesn’t re-
establish its appeal, its legitimacy internationally, we’re
going to slide into a more chaotic world. That is to say, we’ll
have a lot of turmoil, a lot of sort of conflict, but not global
wars for hegemony, but more sporadic violence. And that will be
very destructive, too.  HUNT: You were an early supporter of  Barack Obama , 2007,
during the primary. He’s obviously disappointing you. What went
wrong?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, he hasn’t obviously disappointed me, in
the sense that I think on some fundamental issues he has been
right. And I think his sense of what this new century’s about is
fundamentally correct, namely, it’s not going to be a century
dominated by a single hegemony. That is finished. The era of
struggle for global supremacy is over. The world is now too
complicated and too much alive. So I’ve written a great deal
about what I call the global political awakening, and he
understands that.  My disappointment comes not so much in terms of his
understanding, but his ability to set a firm course of action
and to, in effect, combine his tendency to sermonize with his
capacity to strategize, and strategize means setting clear goals
and then assertively -  HUNT: And he hasn’t done that enough?  BRZEZINSKI: - pursuing them. And he hasn’t done that.  HUNT: As you know,  Hillary Clinton  is stepping down as
secretary of state -  BRZEZINSKI: No, I don’t know that.  HUNT: Well, she says she is. She says she’s going to step
down as secretary of state at year end. Who would be in your
short list of who would be a good secretary of state to succeed
her?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, I would think, of course,  John Kerry 
comes first to mind. I think, for example, Chuck Hagel would be
awfully good. I’m sure there are other people I could think of
if you give me a couple more minutes. And I’m worried that I’ve
already said too much, because my friends may be offended in
some cases.  (LAUGHTER)  HUNT:  Mitt Romney , you’ve heard the Republican - he’s the
certain nominee, really. He’s going to run against Obama. He has
been very critical of Obama’s foreign policy. What kind of a
foreign policy would we get under Mitt Romney?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, if we take seriously what he has been
saying in the course of the campaign, we have every reason to be
very worried. I mean, his comments, for example, on  Iran , which
poses a very serious challenge to the  United States , are just so
casual and at the same time so militant that one has to wonder
whether he’ll feel bound by what he said in the course of the
campaign.  I have a sense he doesn’t really have a broad grasp of what
is unique about this century, how it differs from the preceding
one. He probably subscribes to the notions articulated by his
Republican predecessor, George Bush II -  HUNT: So it would be a reprise of the  George W. Bush 
administration foreign policy?  BRZEZINSKI: Yeah. You know - well, he seems to have a lot
of people around him from that administration who are generally
described as neocons.  HUNT: Let me talk - you mentioned Iran, and you have
written very strongly that an Israeli attack on Iran to take out
the nuclear facilities would really be a cataclysm. What could
and what should the Obama administration be doing now to
pressure or persuade Netanyahu and Barak not to attack?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, first of all, I think we shouldn’t take
the position that the issue is Iran versus  Israel  or Israel
versus Iran or, for that matter, Israel plus America versus
Iran. The issue is really Iran and the international community,
the challenge that Iran is posing to the Non-Proliferation
Treaty.  But that also means that the international community has to
address the issue, and we should be in the forefront of that,
and the issue should focus on the implementation of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty by Iran, no less, but no more.  I’m afraid we are being pushed into a position in which in
the course of the negotiations that are about to open we’ll
essentially give Iran the choice of either a humiliating
capitulation in which they’re not even allowed to have what NPT
allows, but have to be much more restricted, which they’ll
reject, or essentially strangulation economically, in which case
they may be even tempted to lash out. In neither case will we
get an agreement.  I think we have to be patient in pursuing that agreement
and reinforce it publicly with a statement that the United
States would view any threat emanating from Iran at any country
in the  Persian Gulf , including Israel, as a threat directed
against the United States. We did that. We have done that
successfully in protecting  South Korea  and  Japan  from  North
Korea .  HUNT: Same model for the  Middle East ?  BRZEZINSKI: We did the same thing for decades in  Europe 
against the  Soviet Union . We have deterred the would-be nuclear
threats, but we didn’t preempt and go to war in a preventive
attack, which, of course, would have produced disasters then. An
attack on Iran will produce disasters now.  HUNT: You mentioned the economic strangulation. What do you
think are the odds today of an attack on Iran?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, I think clearly Netanyahu and Barak,
according to the New York Times and other papers, seem to be
dedicated to doing that, but I think they would like to maneuver
us into a situation in which we feel we have to support them and
in which then the Iranians in responding to the attack will
retaliate mostly against us, because that’s where they can be
most effective.  HUNT: Dr. Brzezinski, another fascinating book. Thank you
very much for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610805.56910.2.1.99.7.96>#  #<734998.263818.2.1.99.7.25>#
 