-- Brzezinski Says Romney Lacks ‘Grasp’ of Foreign Policy
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/brzezinski-says-romney-lacks-grasp-of-foreign-policy.html
A former Democratic national
security adviser assailed Republican presidential front-runner
 Mitt Romney  for lacking a grasp of foreign policy and said the
former Massachusetts governor would return the U.S. to the
policies of George W. Bush.  “If we take seriously what he has been saying in the
course of the campaign, we have every reason to be very
worried,” former U.S. National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt,” airing this weekend. “He
probably subscribes to the notions articulated by his Republican
predecessor,” George W. Bush, Brzezinski said.  Romney is surrounding himself with advisers from the Bush
administration, and he doesn’t display a “broad grasp of what
is unique about this century, how it differs from the preceding
one,” said Brzezinski, who was President  Jimmy Carter ’s
national security adviser.  In Brzezinski’s view, the best candidate to succeed
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in a second term for Obama
would be Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry,
a Massachusetts Democrat and former presidential nominee. Chuck Hagel, a former Senate Republican from  Nebraska , also would be
“awfully good,” he said.  Romney has faced criticism from Republican rivals as well
as Democrats for comments such as his description this week of
 Russia  as “without question, our number-one geopolitical foe.”  Campaign Advisers  His campaign advisers have included Robert Joseph, a former
White House and State Department official under Bush who helped
coordinate a white paper on what the  Bush administration  said
was Saddam Hussein’s “quest for nuclear weapons.” No evidence
of an Iraqi nuclear weapons program was found after the U.S.
invaded  Iraq  in 2003.  Romney’s comments on Iran, Brzezinski said, “are just so
casual, and at the same time so militant, that one has to wonder
whether he’ll feel bound by what he said in the course of the
campaign.”  Brzezinski, an early supporter of then-candidate Barack Obama, also said he’s been disappointed by what he said is the
president’s failure to capitalize on his understanding of
foreign policy.  Brzezinski, author of the book “Strategic Vision: America
and the Crisis of Global Power,” published in January, said the
U.S. in recent decades has missed opportunities to generate the
political will and make the necessary sacrifices to avoid a
slide into what he says would be a chaotic world marred by
sporadic violence.  Sermons, Strategy  Obama hasn’t been able “to set a firm course of action and
to, in effect, combine his tendency to sermonize with his
capacity to strategize,” Brzezinski, who now serves as a
counselor and trustee for the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy research
organization, said in the interview.  Iran ’s nuclear program is one area in which Obama is being
backed into a corner, Brzezinski said.  Israeli officials have said time is running out for
diplomacy or financial sanctions before it’s too late to use a
military strike that might prevent Iran from developing the
ability to build a nuclear weapon. Iran says it’s pursuing
nuclear power solely to generate electricity and for medical
research.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  appear to be trying to “maneuver us into a
situation in which we feel we have to support them,” risking
Iranian retaliation against U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf
region, Brzezinski said.  Patience on Iran  The U.S. should “be patient in pursuing” an agreement
with Iran, while extending its nuclear deterrence pledge to
Israel and Persian Gulf nations, the former national security
adviser said.  “We have done that successfully in protecting  South Korea 
and  Japan  from  North Korea ,” he said. “We did the same thing
for decades in  Europe  against the Soviet Union. We have deterred
the would-be nuclear threats, but we didn’t preempt and go to
war in a preventive attack.”  A pre-emptive attack on Iran to stop its nuclear program
“will produce disasters now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  