-- Bunds Set for 2nd Weekly Gain Before Ministers’ Bailout Talks
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-30T09:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/bunds-head-for-second-weekly-gain-before-finance-ministers-meet.html
German bunds headed for a second
weekly gain amid concern euro-area finance ministers meeting in
Copenhagen to discuss increasing bailout funds for troubled
 member states  will struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Benchmark German yields were within a basis point of a two-
week low as a European report showed consumer-price inflation
slowed less than economists estimated in March. Germany’s
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said governments are poised
to agree on a firewall of about 800 billion euros ($1.07
trillion). Spanish bonds rose as the government prepares to
present its budget a day after workers walked out over changes
to labor rules.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty, which benefits bunds,”
said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “Everybody’s looking at the Spanish
budget, which will have some brutal austerity measures, but the
big unknown for the market is the implementation risk.”  Germany’s 10-year yield was little changed at 1.80 percent
at 10 a.m.  London  time, having declined six basis points this
week. The yield dropped to 1.796 percent yesterday, the lowest
since March 13. The 2 percent bond maturing in January 2022
traded at 101.755.  Spanish 10-year bonds advanced, pushing the yield down four
basis points to 5.42 percent. The yield on similar-maturity
Italian debt slid six basis points to 5.15 percent.  Balancing Act  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said the euro area
may let its temporary and permanent bailout funds operate
alongside each other to bolster the fight against the sovereign-
debt crisis. Policy makers are trying to strike a balance
between meeting international demands for a more powerful war
chest and opposition in donor countries led by  Germany  to
providing additional aid for underperforming economies on the
region’s fringes.  The market is expecting the fund to range between 700
billion euros and 940 billion euros, Graham-Taylor said.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro region fell to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in February, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. While that is the lowest rate since August, it was above
the 2.5 percent pace forecast by economists, according to the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  German  retail sales  unexpectedly fell for a second month in
February, a separate report showed today. Adjusted for inflation
and seasonal swings, sales fell 1.1 percent from January, when
they slid 1.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said in
Wiesbaden.  ‘Absolutely Convinced’  Bunds have returned 0.2 percent in 2012 according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Portuguese bonds returned 14
percent, the most of 26 sovereign markets tracked by the
indexes.  Spanish Finance Minister Luis de Guindos said  Spain ’s
budget and reforms will reassure investors and ministers.  “We’re absolutely convinced, with these reforms and
budget, that we’re on the right track to return to a recovery
and leave our problems behind of the past years,” de Guindos
told reporters in Copenhagen today.  Volatility on  Finland ’s bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by the Netherlands, according to measures of
10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default
swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 