-- Calderon Would-Be Successors Suffer Lack of Incumbent Stature
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-03-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/calderon-would-be-successors-suffer-lack-of-incumbent-stature.html
Mexico ’s three presidential
candidates will try to convince an increasingly apathetic
electorate they can win a drug war that has claimed more than
47,000 lives since 2006 as they start campaigning today ahead of
the July 1 election.  Three years after the U.S. Defense Department said Mexico
could become a failed state amid mounting violence, none of the
candidates has put forth a decisive strategy for curbing the
nation’s drug gangs, said Standard & Poor’s analyst Lisa Schineller. That stands in contrast with outgoing President
Felipe Calderon, who has maintained a policy of confronting the
cartels, she said.  “Do I see any of these three candidates risking all of the
political capital needed to reform the institutions to improve
the security situation?,” Carlos Ramirez, a Washington-based
political analyst for Mexico with Eurasia Group, said in a phone
interview. “I’d say no.”  Calderon, 49, who is barred by law from seeking a second
term, sent troops to fight cartels days after taking office in
2006 and hasn’t let up even as the death toll soars and his
popularity has declined. That has earned him comparisons with
former Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe , who turned the tide in
a 40-year war with Marxist guerillas, according to Ricardo de la
Pena, who heads the Grupo Economistas Asociados-ISA survey
company.  Voter Apathy  The number of Mexicans who say they are interested in
politics has shrunk to 10 percent, compared with 16 percent
before campaigning started at the beginning of 2006, when the
last election was held, according to Mexico City-based pollster
Consulta Mitofsky. About 59 percent of 71 million registered
voters cast ballots in 2006.  “There’s a sense that none of the candidates can resolve
the problems we have, and for that reason none are generating
great expectations,” Leon Felipe Maldonado, Mitofsky’s project
director, said in a March 26 interview.  Ahead of the start of campaigning today, when candidates
will be allowed to advertise on television, Enrique Pena Nieto
of the opposition  Institutional Revolutionary Party  is leading
the race with 39.1 percent support, according to a March 22-25
survey by Mitofsky. Josefina Vazquez Mota of Calderon’s  National
Action Party  garnered 23.5 percent support, while  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who lost the 2006 vote by less than a percentage
point, had 18.5 percent. The poll of 1,000 people had a margin
of error was plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Investor Relief  Investors are relieved that no candidate is proposing a
shift from free-market policies, as they anticipated Lopez
Obrador would do if he had won the last election. Interest in
the election may also rise as campaigning gets into full swing,
said Roy Campos, who heads Mitofsky.  Voter turnout will be high in July as all the candidates
are strong, Fernando Turner and Macario Schettino, campaign
officials for Lopez Obrador and Vazquez Mota respectively, said
in interviews over the past two weeks.  The peso has rallied 8.8 percent this year, the most among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg and compared with an
average drop of 4.8 percent before elections in 2006 and 2000.
Mexican peso bonds have handed investors dollar-based returns of
11.7 percent this year, compared with losses of 3.9 percent in
the first half of 2006, according to statistics from Bank of
America Corp.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2021 have declined 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, this year to 6.28
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
similar maturity Brazilian debt dropped 16 basis points in 2012
to 11.16 percent over the same period.  The benchmark IPC stock index has gained 5.5 percent over
the same period, compared with a 14.3 rise by  Brazil ’s Bovespa.  Relative Calm  The past four elections in Mexico, a country of 112 million
people, were marred by allegations of vote rigging, an
assassination, mass protests and computer vote count failures --
all within the context of growth that averaged 2 percent over
the past decade. By contrast,  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy is expected to grow 3.5 percent this year with the
possibility of “positive surprises” after recent production
and consumption data beat forecasts, Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said in a March 8 interview.  The relative calm of the campaign belies the many
challenges awaiting Mexico’s next president. Those include
reversing a seven-year decline in oil production by state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos  and boosting growth to the 6 percent central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens says will help lift an estimated
52 million people out of poverty.  Whoever wins will also have to deal with drug gangs such as
the Zetas, who are increasingly targeting bystanders and
resorting to methods like decapitating their victims and leaving
warning signs on corpses.  Nostalgia for PRI  Nostalgia for the relative peace that prevailed when the
PRI was in power for seven decades until 2000 may boost support
for Pena Nieto even if resignation prevails.  “I doubt anyone can put a stop to the drug lords,” said
Jesus Diaz, a Mexico City taxi dispatcher who will vote for Pena
Nieto. “The PRI was the only party that could make pacts with
cartels and stop the violence.”  Pena Nieto’s rivals have alleged that a comeback for the
PRI would reignite corruption that blossomed during the party’s
rule. Still fresh in the minds of voters is the arrest and
extradition to the U.S. of former PRI Governor Mario Villanueva
in 2010 on drug charges.  Pena Nieto said in a Bloomberg interview in November that
his party has no ties to drug trafficking gangs, calling such
accusations “nonsense” and “propaganda” from rivals.  He has repeatedly stated his commitment to fighting
organized crime, while questioning the current strategy which
has led to so many deaths, his campaign team said in an e-mailed
comment yesterday.  Corruption Concerns  That may not be enough to appease investors, said
Schineller in an interview from  New York .  “A question in the market has been, with a return to the
PRI governance, would they try to go back to a presumably old
way of arrangements and agreements to limit the more egregious
behavior” of the cartels, Schineller said.  Pena Nieto says he would aim to reduce the role of the
military in the fight against organized crime and instead “at
least” double the size of the police force. Vazquez Mota, 51,
says she will focus on re-training prosecutors to stop judicial
system abuses, while Lopez Obrador, 58, has pledged to pull the
army off the streets within  six months  of taking office.  Mexico is “under sustained assault” from drug cartels,
the U.S. Joint Forces Command said in a December 2008 report
that listed the nation along with  Pakistan  as at risk of
collapse. In 2010, the same organization, which was created to
improve coordination among the military services and disbanded
in August, said stability in Mexico was central to U.S.
security, without repeating the failed state warning.  Escalating Violence  Since 2010 the violence has escalated, claiming 12,903
lives in the first nine months of last year, up 11 percent from
the year-earlier period, according to the Attorney General’s
Office. The killings leaped 70 percent in 2010 from 2009.  The mounting death toll helped reduce Calderon’s approval
rating to 53 percent this month from an average of 62 percent in
2007, according to Mitofsky. That’s lower than all of his three
previous predecessors when they left office, according to the
pollster.  “The level of violence in this country has a lot of people
demoralized,” Ramirez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 