-- Camargo Correa Bids $3.3 Billion for Remaining 67% of Cimpor
-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 2012-03-30T23:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/camargo-correa-bids-3-3-billion-for-rest-of-portugal-s-cimpor.html
Camargo Correa SA, a Brazilian
cement producer and the biggest investor in  Cimpor-Cimentos de
Portugal SGPS SA , offered 2.48 billion euros ($3.31 billion) to
buy the 67 percent of the Portuguese company it doesn’t already
own.  Camargo Correa, through its Intercement Austria subsidiary,
bid 5.50 euros a share for outstanding stock in Lisbon-based
Cimpor, Intercement said in a filing with the Portuguese
securities regulator today.  The offer is a 10 percent premium to Cimpor’s closing price
of  5 euros  today in Lisbon. Cimpor,  Portugal ’s largest cement
producer, gained 1.4 percent earlier today, after Portuguese
newspaper Jornal de Negocios reported Camargo Correa was
preparing a bid.  Camargo Correa and rival Votorantim Cimentos SA, both
closely held and based in  Sao Paulo , bought stakes separately in
Cimpor in early 2010. Their actions helped derail a hostile bid
for the Portuguese company by Brazilian steelmaker  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , or CSN.  Camargo Correa said it seeks control as well as the
creation of “a coherent and stable shareholder structure” in
Cimpor and aims to combine its South American and Angolan
operations with the company, which does business on four
continents. While it may buy all of Cimpor’s shares, Camargo
Correa said it doesn’t currently intend to end the Portuguese
company’s stock-market listing.  Shareholders’ Accord  A Cimpor spokeswoman didn’t answer her mobile phone after
business hours and didn’t immediately respond to a text message.  Portuguese state-owned bank Caixa Geral de Depositos SA
said in a separate statement today it would sell its 9.6 percent
stake to Camargo Correa, provided Caixa and Votorantim agree to
end a shareholders’ accord.  Camargo Correa, which has a 33 percent stake, and
Votorantim, which has 21 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, held talks last October about buying the rest of
Cimpor and dividing its assets, people familiar with the
negotiations said at the time. Camargo would keep Cimpor’s
Brazilian plants and Votorantim would take the rest, they said.  Votorantim doesn’t plan to top the offer for Cimpor, while
it may consider buying a stake in the cement maker and teaming
up with Camargo Correa to take control, according to two people
familiar with the matter. Votorantim may buy Caixa’s stake under
its right of first refusal or decide to sell its existing stake,
they said.  In a statement, Votorantim said it will analyze Camargo
Correa’s offer and evaluate “all alternatives.”  Brazil  accounted for 30 percent of Cimpor’s revenue last
year, overtaking the Iberian peninsula as the company’s biggest
source of sales. Cimpor also has operations in the  Middle East ,
 Africa  and  Asia .  Brazilian infrastructure spending is increasing as the
country prepares to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and the 2016
Olympics. The government has said infrastructure investment of
140 billion reais ($77 billion) will be needed for the two
events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Silver in New York at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  