-- Canada January Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/canada-january-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment, earnings, and hours report for January
released by  Statistics Canada .  In January, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $888.89, up 0.6% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings rose 2.0%.  The 2.0% increase in earnings during the 12 months to January
reflects a number of factors, such as wage growth and changes in
the composition of employment by industry, occupation and level
of job experience.  Average hours worked per week can also contribute to changes
in earnings. In January, the year-over-year growth in weekly
earnings was dampened by a decline in hours worked. January was
the the third consecutive month of year-over-year declines in
hours worked. Non-farm payroll employees worked 32.9 hours per
week on average in January, down from 33.0 hours a year earlier.
Compared with December 2011, average weekly hours were up 0.1
hours from 32.8 hours.  Year-over-year change in average weekly hours and average weekly
earnings  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced the
national average of 2.0% in five of  Canada ’s largest industrial
sectors: retail trade; construction; wholesale trade; public
administration; and manufacturing.  Year-over-year change in average weekly earnings in the 10
largest sectors, January 2011 to January 2012  In retail trade, average weekly earnings were $523.72, up
5.6% in the 12 months to January. Among the largest retail
industries, clothing stores; electronic and appliances stores;
gasoline stations; and sporting goods, hobby and musical
instrument stores had the highest growth.  Average weekly earnings in construction increased 3.1% to
$1,105.70, with notable growth in residential building
construction; and among foundation, structure and building
exterior contractors and other specialty trade contractors.  Year-over-year growth in earnings was also above the national
average in wholesale trade, up 2.5% to $1,069.98 in January. The
greatest increases were in wholesaler-distributors of
miscellaneous products (e.g., recyclables, metals, agriculture
supplies); motor vehicle and parts; building materials and
supplies; and personal and household goods.  Average weekly earnings in public administration were up 2.4%
to $1,129.42, with above-average growth in local, municipal and
regional public administration.  In manufacturing, earnings increased by 2.3% to $1,008.63,
led by increases in the manufacturing of paper, non-metallic
mineral products, furniture, food, miscellaneous products (e.g.,
medical and office supplies as well as toys), and printing and
related services.  Earnings’ growth in some smaller sectors also surpassed the
national average. From January 2011 to January 2012, earnings
increased in the two highest-paying industries: mining,
quarrying and oil and gas extraction, where they rose 8.2% to
$1,842.59, and utilities, where they increased 4.3% to $1,686.56.  Average weekly earnings in health care and social assistance
fell 1.7% to $800.39 in the 12 months to January, with the
decline occurring in social assistance, hospitals and ambulatory
health care services.  Average weekly earnings rise in every province  Average weekly earnings’ growth was above the national
average in seven provinces in the 12 months to January, with the
highest growth in Newfoundland and Labrador. Prince  Edward
Island , along with the two largest provinces ( Quebec  and
Ontario), had the lowest rates of growth.  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings by province,
January 2011 to January 2012  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings were
$919.86 in January, up 6.2% from 12 months earlier. Earnings in
this province have been higher than the national average since
September 2011.  In Alberta, average weekly earnings increased 3.5% to
$1,065.46. This remained the highest level of earnings among the
provinces, and was 20% higher than the national average in
January.  In British Columbia, average weekly earnings rose 3.2% to
$859.54, while in  Nova Scotia , they increased by 2.9% to $779.92.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were $907.44, up
2.7% in the 12 months to January. Earnings in the province have
exceeded the national average since August 2011 (see the
“Provincial profile” section of this release).  The lowest year-over-year growth occurred in Ontario, where
average weekly earnings were $903.22, up 0.6%. Year-over-year
earnings growth in this province has been less than 2.0% since
June 2011.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  From December to January, total non-farm payroll employment
declined by 1,700. There were decreases in transportation and
warehousing; “other services;” accommodation and food services;
and utilities. These declines were offset by gains in
manufacturing; professional, scientific and technical services;
construction; educational services; and wholesale trade.  On a year-over-year basis, the number of non-farm payroll
employees rose by 1.5% (+229,600), with the highest rate of
growth in mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction (+5.7%);
professional, scientific and technical services (+4.3%);
construction (+3.9%); and accommodation and food services
(+2.9%).  Provincial profile: Saskatchewan  From time to time, this release profiles an industrial sector
or a province with a notable trend in employment, earnings or
hours. This month, the focus is on Saskatchewan. This province
has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country, and has
seen higher-than-average growth in non-farm payroll employment
and average weekly earnings over the past two years.  In January, there were 458,800 non-farm payroll employees in
Saskatchewan, which represents 3.0% of the national total.
Between January 2011 and January 2012, payroll employment
increased 2.8% (+12,400), the second-fastest provincial growth
rate after  Alberta  and nearly double the national rate of 1.5%.  During the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, non-farm
payroll employment in Saskatchewan did not follow the national
trend. Between August 2008 and August 2009, payroll employment
in the province edged up by 0.4%, compared with a decline of
2.8% nationally. Payroll employment levels in Saskatchewan
continued to increase, with an average growth of 2.7% in 2010
and 2011.  Non-farm payroll employment in Saskatchewan, January 2008 to
January 2012  In the 12 months to January 2012, payroll job gains in
Saskatchewan were widespread across goods and services
industries. The largest increases were in professional,
scientific and technical services; manufacturing; transportation
and warehousing; “other services;” and construction.  Average weekly earnings in Saskatchewan increased by 2.7% in
the 12 months to January to $907.44. This is the third highest
level of earnings of all provinces. Earnings in Saskatchewan
have been higher than the national average since August 2011.
This is the first period with earnings consistently above the
national average since 2001, the first year for which comparable
data are available.  In the 12 months to January 2012, the increase in earnings
among the larger sectors was above the provincial average in
professional, scientific and technical services; mining,
quarrying and oil and gas extraction; accommodation and food
services; educational services; construction; and administrative
and support services.  Compared with the national average, Saskatchewan has a higher
share of non-farm payroll employees working in mining, quarrying
and oil and gas extraction; educational services; health care
and social assistance as well as public administration. These
sectors, which are generally higher paying, are a factor in
Saskatchewan’s high average earnings.  Weekly hours worked among employees in Saskatchewan averaged
32.7 hours in January, below the national average of 32.9 hours.
In the 12 months to January, average weekly hours declined 0.9%
in Saskatchewan, from 33.0 hours to 32.7 hours.  Note to readers  In March of every year, as part of the regularly scheduled
year-end review of the Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours
(SEPH), seasonally adjusted data are revised using the latest
seasonal factors.  In addition, as part of the annual review, there were
revisions to a small number of industries for the 2001 to 2011
period. These revisions affect both unadjusted and seasonally
adjusted estimates. As a result, all estimates were revised
historically back to 2001. These revised estimates are now
available on CANSIM.  SEPH is a business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its
key objective is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of
earnings, the number of jobs and hours worked by detailed
industry at the national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from its
monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household survey
whose main objective is to divide the working-age population
into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed (including
the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour force. This
survey is the official source for the unemployment rate and
collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all
those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industrial Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude businesses
that could not be classified to a NAICS code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total weekly
earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  