-- Canadian Oil Boom Reverberates in Offices as Returns Rise
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-30T14:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/canadian-oil-boom-reverberates-in-offices-as-returns-rise.html
Bank of Nova Scotia  may have found
the perfect time to sell Scotia Plaza, a Toronto office complex
that’s expected to fetch as much as C$1.5 billion ($1.5
billion), a record for  Canada .  Office vacancies are falling in Toronto and the rest of
Canada amid economic growth led by the oil and natural-gas
industries. Investor interest in commercial property is rising
after the total return on real estate climbed almost 16 percent
last year, the most since 2006 and outpacing gains in the U.S.,
according to the REALpac/IPD Canada Annual Property Index.  Low vacancies and increasing demand are pushing developers
to build 8.9 million square feet (827,000 square meters) of
office space in Canada, the most since the first quarter of
2010, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  Calgary, the center of the
energy business in Canada, is leading the way with more than 3
million square feet under construction.  “They have had a commodities-fueled boom across the
country,”  Dan Fasulo , managing director at property-research
firm Real Capital Analytics Inc. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “The fundamentals of the property markets
are in very good shape.”  Office property values probably will rise 20 percent this
year in Calgary and about 10 percent in Toronto and  Vancouver  as
low vacancies help landlords raise rents, according to estimates
by  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) ’s Boston-based Property and Portfolio
Research Inc.  Montreal  values are expected to gain 4 percent.  Boost to REITs  The increase in rents and occupancies has helped Canadian
real estate investment trusts. The 13-member  S&P/TSX Capped REIT
Index (SPRTRE)  had a total return of 13 percent in the 12 months through
March 29. Canadian REITs are likely to have strong returns in
2012 as well, said Heather Kirk, an analyst at National Bank
Financial.  “The key Canadian office markets are doing very well,”
she said in a telephone interview from Montreal. “The demand is
very robust right now.”  Canadian REITs are estimated to have a total return of 15
percent to 25 percent this year, partly because of low and
falling vacancies, limited new construction and demand from
investors for income-producing securities, according to a Feb.
29 report by CIBC World Markets Inc. analysts led by Alex Avery.
The REITs gained 22 percent last year, including reinvestment of
dividends.  Smaller U.S. Return  The total return for U.S. commercial real estate in 2011
was 14 percent, according to the National Council of Real Estate
Investment Fiduciaries, a trade group for institutional
investors based in Chicago. U.S. commercial-property prices rose
1.9 percent in January from a year earlier, according to the
CoStar National Composite Index.  In Canada, the top-performing REITs this year have been
 Artis Real Estate Investment Trust (AX-U) , an owner of office,
industrial and retail properties, and  Boardwalk REIT (BEI-U) , which
focuses on apartments. Both companies’ shares have gained 14
percent since the beginning of 2012.  Scotia Plaza, which has 2 million square feet, mainly in
its 68-story main tower, is worth C$1.3 billion to C$1.5
billion, said Robin White, a broker and executive vice president
at real estate services firm Avison Young Inc. in Toronto. The
complex, whose tenants include Scotiabank and law firm Borden
Ladner Gervais LLP, also includes a 27-story tower completed in
1951. Both buildings are for sale.  Record-Breaking Deal  “It is poised to break all the records,” said  John
Andrew , a real estate professor at Queen’s University in
Kingston, Ontario.  Commercial values are rising as demand for housing in
Canada has been supported by some of the lowest  mortgage rates 
in decades, fueling purchases even as  home prices  rise close to
records. Canada’s biggest banks are tightening lending standards
for condominium builders at the urging of regulators, requesting
higher pre-sales and deposits as policy makers warn the Toronto
and Vancouver markets are overheating.  Policy makers including Finance Minister Jim Flaherty have
warned about the risks of record consumer debt and soaring
housing prices that some investors say may be inflating a condo
bubble in Toronto and Vancouver. Canadian housing prices may
fall as much as 3 percent over the next year,  Home Capital Group
Inc. (HCG)  President Martin Reid said this week.  Oil Industry  Commercial demand is strongest in Calgary, which has been
subject to the volatility in the oil industry. Calgary led the
nation’s biggest commercial property markets with a total return
of 22 percent, which includes income and gains in property
values, according to the REALpac/IPD Canada Annual Property
Index, according to a Feb. 16 statement from London-based
Investment Property Databank Ltd. REALpac is an association of
institutional investors.  Vancouver was second, gaining more than 15 percent last
year.  “We do not see the current success of the Canadian markets
as a bubble,” John Affleck, international economist at Property
and Portfolio Research, said in a telephone interview. “We
think it’s justified and we think it’s likely to continue.”  Downtown Calgary’s vacancy rate plummeted to 3 percent in
the fourth quarter from 9.7 percent a year earlier, according to
data from brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. Asking rents in the
Calgary area rose 5 percent to C$23.93 as 9.1 million square
feet of space was leased last year.  Oil Futures Rise  Rising oil prices are helping boost Calgary’s economy. Oil
futures have gained 4 percent to $103.32 a barrel this year
through March 29 amid concern European and U.S. sanctions
against Iran will lead to military conflict in the  Middle East ,
home to more than half the world’s oil.  A dependence on commodities, however, make both Calgary and
office properties across Canada vulnerable to a downturn.  “Calgary tends to be a bit of a boom-bust town,” Bill Argeropoulos, vice president and director of research for Canada
at Avison Young, said in a telephone interview. “Right now it’s
riding a wave of development and good growth.”  Gross domestic product  grew  at a 1.8 percent annualized
pace in the fourth quarter after a 4.2 percent rate in the third
quarter, according to  Statistics Canada . The country’s GDP grew
2.5 percent in 2011, boosted partly by mining and oil and gas
production, according to the Ottawa-based agency.  Demand for commercial property remains strong even as the
economy’s growth slows. Large, well-leased properties such as
Scotia Plaza in Toronto rarely come on the market as owners hold
on to properties. Scotia Plaza is 99.5 percent leased, Andrew
Chornenky, a spokesman for Scotiabank, wrote in an e-mail.
Scotiabank occupies 61 percent of the property, he said.  Limited Size  The Canadian commercial-property market is “relatively
small,” making it difficult for investors to enter and
establish a large footprint in the country, said Colin Johnston,
a president at  Altus Group Ltd (AIF) ., a Toronto-based real estate
data and information firm.  A group of developers, including Ivanhoe Cambridge, the
real estate arm of Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec,
Canada’s largest pension- fund manager , is building a 40-story,
850,000-square-foot tower in downtown Calgary. The building,
with an estimated cost of C$500 million, already has a tenant --
 Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. (ATH)  -- that will lease 27 percent of the
space, Arthur Lloyd, executive vice president of the western
region for Ivanhoe, said in a telephone interview. Steel and
concrete for the tower has been ordered, he said.  ‘Can’t Get It’  The developers last year finished a 1.1 million-square-
foot, 49-story tower as part of the same project.  “The problem that tenants are starting to bump into is
they need room for expansion and they can’t get it,” Lloyd said
of the Calgary market. “There’s just a shortage of physical
space.”  Projects also are planned in Toronto, the nation’s
financial center, which has almost 2 million square feet under
construction, according to CBRE. Toronto’s vacancy rate was 6.7
percent in the fourth quarter, down from 7.8 percent a year
earlier, and asking rents gained 3.2 percent, according to
Cushman. That compares with a 9.1 percent vacancy rate in
 Manhattan .  British Columbia Investment Management Corp., a Victoria,
British Columbia-based pension and institutional fund manager,
opened a 650,000-square-foot office tower last year in Toronto
as part of its C$800 million Southcore Financial Centre complex,
which also will include another office tower and hotel, both
scheduled to open in 2014.  Bremner Tower  The second office building, to be called Bremner Tower, is
“well on its way” to being 50 percent leased, Mary Garden,
vice president of real estate at British Columbia Investment,
which has a Canadian portfolio valued at C$14.4 billion.  “In a market like Toronto, we would not proceed with a
project on spec,” Garden said in a telephone interview,
referring to speculative development started without tenants
lined up. “As soon as we hit the 40 percent level, we were
comfortable to proceed with the building.”  Supply of new buildings is “in check” and the
construction taking place will not lead to a supply glut, said
Michael Missaghie, a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments, a
Canadian investment company with C$7 billion under management.  Most developers don’t go ahead with projects “in a major
way anymore” without having some tenants committed for their
buildings, said Johnston of Altus.  No Sector Immune  The biggest risk for investors in Canadian commercial real
estate is a lack of economic growth, according to Andrew, the
Queen’s University professor.  “No sector of real estate is immune from that,” he said.  In January, the  Bank of Canada  forecast about 2 percent
growth for 2012. The country’s economy is cooling as the strong
Canadian dollar hurts exports.  Real estate investment trusts, along with pension funds,
are large holders of property in Canada. REITs accounted for
more than 31 percent of acquisitions last year, up from less
than 16 percent in 2010, according to CBRE. Commercial real
estate deals totaled C$23.6 billion in 2011, a 21 percent
increase from the prior year.  Pension funds may be among the investors pursuing Scotia
Plaza, said White of Avison Young. Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board, the country’s second-biggest pension fund, may
consider bidding for the property, Chief Executive Officer David Denison said in a February interview.  The main Scotia Plaza skyscraper at 40 King St. West is the
second tallest in Canada, after the 72-story First Canadian
Place in Toronto. The building was completed in 1988.  “It’s a marquee asset,” Andrew of Queen’s University said
of Scotia Plaza. “It’ll be over a billion, no question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  