-- Canada Jan. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/canada-jan-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Jan. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product edged up 0.1% in January after
increasing 0.5% in December 2011. Gains in manufacturing were
partly offset by a decline in oil and gas extraction in January.  Real gross domestic product edges up in January  Increases were also posted in the finance and insurance
sector, utilities, wholesale trade, some tourism-related
industries and the public sector (education, health and public
administration combined). Decreases were recorded in forestry
and logging, arts, entertainment and recreation as well as in
construction.  Manufacturing output continues to rise  Manufacturing increased for a fifth consecutive month in
January, up 0.7%. Durable goods production grew 0.8% mainly
because of increased output in fabricated metal products,
transportation equipment and wood products. There was a decline
in primary metal manufacturing, partly the result of a labour
dispute at an aluminum smelter in  Quebec . Non-durable goods
manufacturing advanced 0.6% on the strength of chemical and food
production. Paper and tobacco manufacturing decreased.  Manufacturing output continues to increase  Oil and gas extraction falls  Oil and gas extraction declined 0.9% as a notable decrease in
natural gas extraction outweighed the gain in crude petroleum
production. Storage of natural gas increased significantly in
December and January. Support activities for mining and oil and
gas extraction rose 1.8% on the strength of rigging services.
Mining excluding oil and gas extraction grew 0.4% mostly as a
result of increased output at coal mines.  The finance and insurance sector is up  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.4%, mainly as a
result of an increase in management activity for mutual funds,
residential mortgages and business loans. The output of
insurance carriers was also up.  Wholesale trade increases while retail trade is flat  Wholesale trade increased 0.3% on the strength of the
wholesaling of petroleum products, motor vehicles and farm
products.  Retail trade was unchanged in January. Gains at motor
vehicles and parts dealers as well as general merchandise stores
(which include department stores) were offset by declines in
building materials stores, food and beverage stores, and
electronics and appliances stores. Excluding new car dealers,
retail trade declined 0.5%.  Construction and home resale market down  Construction edged down 0.1% as the decline in residential
building construction more than offset the gain in non-
residential building construction. Most types of residential
building construction declined in January. In non-residential
building construction, gains in industrial and commercial
buildings outweighed a decline in institutional buildings.  Engineering and repair work was unchanged in January as the
increase in engineering construction was offset by a decline in
repair work.  After four consecutive monthly increases, the output of real
estate agents and brokers declined 3.1% in January as activity
in the home resale market decreased.  Other industries  The utilities sector was up 1.1% as the demand for
electricity increased, following three consecutive monthly
declines mostly due to unseasonably warm weather.  Some tourism-related industries, such as accommodation and
food services as well as air transportation, grew in January, in
parallel with an increase in the number of overnight travellers
to  Canada .  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) edged up 0.1%. In contrast, forestry
and logging as well as the arts, entertainment and recreation
sector declined.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data at
basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions have
been made back to January 2011. For more information about
monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic accounts
module on our website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  