-- Chavez Threatens to Seize Banks, Companies That Finance Unrest
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-03-30T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/chavez-threatens-to-seize-banks-companies-that-finance-foes-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that he may decree the seizure of banks and companies
financing any attempt by the opposition to foment unrest during
this year’s elections.  Chavez, speaking yesterday during a nationwide broadcast on
television and radio after returning from Cuba on March 28
following radiation therapy, said that the government will act
“firmly” against any opposition attempt to violate the
constitution. His opponents, headed by candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski, may attempt to disregard the election
results, he said.  “I have a list of private banks that are financing the
opposition’s destabilizing plans,” Chavez, 57, said. “It
wouldn’t be bad at all to issue a decree and bring those firms
under state control. Large national and some international
companies that earn more than enough money here.”  Chavez, who is battling an undisclosed cancer that has
prompted him to shuttle between Cuba and Caracas for treatment
and to undergo three operations since June, said that opinion
polls show he enjoys “a significant advantage” in the contest
and that the opposition, along with international allies, will
try to provoke the armed forces and his followers.  The self-declared socialist revolutionary said that he
plans to return to Cuba tomorrow to continue with his radiation
therapy.  Polls have shown a large discrepancy between voter
preference for Chavez andCapriles, with results ranging from a
statistical tie to a 30 percentage point lead by the president
with about six months before the elections. Chavez seeks to
extend his 13-year rule until 2019.  Past Seizures  Chavez, who didn’t name any banks or companies, has seized
billions of dollars in assets from foreign firms since 2006 as
part of his plan to install a socialist state in  Venezuela  and
bring the economy under government control.  As a result, the government faces about 20 arbitration
cases after failing to reach compensation agreements with firms
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Owens-Illinois
Inc. (OI)   Chavez said his government won’t accept “acts of violence”
like in 2002 and 2003 when he was briefly overthrown in a coup
and he resisted a 2-month general strike that paralyzed oil
production and the economy.  Chavez said he expects the opposition to say there was
fraud during the elections. He said the U.S., which he calls
“the empire,” would back his foes.  “I’m making a list of actions for my government to take in
the event that we see other episodes of violence,” Chavez said.
“If they dare to try something, they’ll regret it for the rest
of their lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  