-- Chelsea Plans Bid for Real Madrid’s De Maria, Sun Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-30T09:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/chelsea-plans-bid-for-real-madrid-s-de-maria-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Chelsea’s Bid  Chelsea may take advantage of a contract dispute between
Angel  Di Maria  and Real Madrid to make a 35 million-pounds ($56
million) offer for the Argentina national team forward, the  Sun
reported .  Di Maria rejected a 70,000-pounds-a-week offer from the
Spanish league leader and is looking to get 80,000 pounds and
double his current pay, the Sun said.  Blues Raid  Three former Chelsea managers are plotting moves to sign
some of the team’s current talent, the  Mirror reported .  Anzhi Makhachkala coach Guus Hiddink wants to take Fernando Torres to Russia, Paris Saint-Germain’s Carlo Ancelotti
wants to be reunited with defender  Ashley Cole  and Real Madrid,
which is coached by  Jose Mourinho , is keen to bring in Raul Meireles, the newspaper said.  Rodgers Targeted  Tottenham is targeting Swansea’s Brendan Rodgers as the
replacement should  Harry Redknapp  quit to become England’s head
coach, the  Sun reported .  Tottenham chairman  Daniel Levy  is also considering
Everton’s David Moyes but prefers the style of soccer Rodgers
has his Swansea team playing, the Sun said.  Modric for City?  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini will make Tottenham
midfielder Luka Modric one of his top transfer targets during
the offseason, the  Daily Mail reported.   Chelsea failed to buy the Croatian last summer as Spurs
chairman Daniel Levy rejected a series of offers.  Reunited  Sunderland manager Martin O’Neill is pondering offers for
Gabriel Agbonlahor and Richard Dunne from former club Aston
Villa, the  Mirror reported .  Agbonlahor may be sold as Villa tries to raise funds and
O’Neill could pay 7 million pounds for the forward, the Mirror
said. Dunne, who O’Neill signed from  Manchester City , is
entering the closing stages of his career and the Sunderland
manager is monitoring the defender’s contractual situation, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the London sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  