-- Chilean Policy Makers Were Unanimous on March Rate Decision
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-30T11:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/chilean-policy-makers-were-unanimous-on-march-rate-decision-1-.html
Chilean policy makers were
unanimous in their decision to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged this month, saying inflation may fall into the target
range later than previously thought, minutes of the meeting
showed.  All 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had expected the
bank to keep its key rate at 5 percent on March 15 for a second
straight month. Policy makers didn’t discuss raising rates, with
one saying there was no evidence of a sustained demand slowdown,
according to the minutes published on the bank’s website today.  “All the board members expressed their concern about the
inflation outlook and highlighted the rebound in various
measures of underlying inflation,” policy makers said. “They
also highlighted increases in short-term inflation expectations.
However, they also agreed that the risks from the external
scenario remained significant.”  The third-highest borrowing costs among major Latin
American rate-setting countries hasn’t curbed inflation or
economic growth in the top copper-producing nation. Policy
makers are unlikely to repeat January’s rate cut anytime soon as
copper prices rally and the labor market operates close to full
employment, economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote yesterday.  Inflationary Pressures  “If the recent dissemination of inflationary pressures
does not abate soon, the central bank may be pushed to adopt a
hawkish bias,” Ramos, a Latin America economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note e-mailed to investors
yesterday. “A number of demand and supply side indicators show
the economy performed at a very strong level in February.”  Retail sales surged a faster-than-forecast 12.4 percent in
February from last year as industrial production, which includes
mining, manufacturing and utilities, expanded 6.4 percent after
contracting in January, the National Statistics Institute said
yesterday.  Monthly inflation , which exceeded estimates at 0.4 percent
in February, will accelerate to 0.5 percent in March, the
highest level since December, according to the median estimate
of 58 traders and investors polled March 27 by the central bank.  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 487.1 per  U.S. dollar 
at 8:46 a.m. Santiago time from 489.83 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 