-- China to Cut Import Duties on Fuels, Consumer Products
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-30T13:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-to-cut-import-duties-on-fuels-consumer-products.html
China will cut  import duties  on
energy sources and  consumer goods  as the government seeks to
ease resource bottlenecks and stimulate consumption, the State
Council said.  Tariffs will also be cut on components needed by industries
that are of strategic importance, the Cabinet meeting led by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  on March 28 decided, according to a  statement 
posted on the government’s website today that didn’t give
details.  China faces bottlenecks in resources and energy supply
after surging economic growth over the past decade turned the
nation into the world’s largest energy consumer and the biggest
emitter of  greenhouse gases . The government also pledged to
narrow the gap between imports and exports.  “With constraints on resources and the environment
intensifying, and as people’s living conditions improve,  China 
needs to put more emphasis on increasing imports as it maintains
stable export growth,” the State Council said in the statement.  Minister of Industry and Information Technology Miao Wei
said earlier this week in Seoul that China will seek to buy oil
from more countries to meet demand caused by the nation’s
growth, according to a China News Service report.  Import Credit  China will encourage banks to offer import credit services
and insurers to roll out more products to help companies buy
products oversees, and will broaden financing channels for
importers, the Cabinet said. It also pledged to improve cross-
border yuan trade settlement.  China had its largest  trade deficit  since at least 1989 in
February as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil damped exports and
imports rebounded after a week-long holiday. Government
officials forecast the country will still see a surplus for the
full year.  This year’s surplus may be about $150 billion, Bi Jiyao and
Zhang Yi, researchers with the National Development and Reform
Commission, wrote in an article this month. That compares with
last year’s surplus of $155.14 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  