-- China Communications to Run $3.2 Billion of Roads, Bridges
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-30T11:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-communications-to-run-3-2-billion-of-roads-bridges-1-.html
China Communications Construction
Co. (1800) , the nation’s biggest builder by market value, plans to more
than double the assets of a unit managing toll-roads and bridges
to shield earnings from swings in construction demand.  The company plans to boost its investment unit’s net assets
to 20 billion yuan ($3.2 billion) by 2015 from 9 billion yuan at
the end of 2011, Chairman Zhou Jichang said in an interview in
Hong Kong yesterday. The unit will also run facilities such as
ports and business parks, rather than just building them.  The push for operations deals at home and overseas will
help the Beijing-based company offset fluctuations in Chinese
construction caused by state policy, Zhou said. The  company ,
which helped build the new San Francisco Bay Bridge, has said
orders growth may drop to 9 percent this year from 11 percent
last year as the government eases stimulus measures.  “Orders slow immediately if the government tightens
monetary policy,” Zhou said. “We must address this situation
and reduce the impact.”  The builder expects the investment unit to account for 20
percent of profit by 2015 and 40 percent in the long term, he
said. It generated 1 billion yuan of profit last year, or about
8.5 percent of total earnings, he said.  China  has pared its
economic expansion target to 7.5 percent this year from the 8
percent goal in place since 2005.  The company, which also operates China’s largest fleet of
dredgers and builds port cranes, raised 5 billion yuan in a
Shanghai share sale earlier this month. That was 75 percent less
than a previously announced target.  The Shanghai stock rose 0.5 percent to 5.57 yuan at the
close. That’s 3.1 percent more than the share sale price. In
Hong Kong, the  builder  rose 4.4 percent to HK$7.79, extending
gains this year to 28 percent.  Overseas Projects  The company will open a unit based in Hong Kong later this
year to help win investment deals overseas, Zhou said. The
 company  has already won building contracts in the  Middle East ,
 Africa  and  Asia . It is seeking to enter markets including  South
America ,  Russia  and Eastern Europe, he said.  The company’s operating assets in China include the  Beijing
Capital Airport expressway , Chenglingji New Port on the  Yangtze
River  in Yueyang, and the Liancheng Bridge in Xiangtan,  Hunan
province . Such deals are often awarded as build-operate-transfer
agreements, where a private operator runs an asset for a number
of years and collects fees before handing it to the government.  “This is a new business model for us,” Zhou said. “In
the past, we bid for building projects with low margins, now
it’s different. We invest, so you must give me the whole
project.”  The  company  also said earlier this week it plans to issue
as much as 12 billion yuan of bonds with maturities of five to
15 years. Zhou didn’t give any further details on the timing of
the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  