-- China Sprouts Gargantuan Music Complexes: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-sprouts-gargantuan-music-complexes-interview.html
You may not know this, but Paul Andreu is very big in China.  The French architect, who made news when part of a terminal
ceiling at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport collapsed, had
better luck in Beijing and  Shanghai .  Andreu’s gargantuan culture centers stun the eye in
Victoria Newhouse’s lucidly written, splendidly illustrated
“Site and Sound: The Architecture and Acoustics of New Opera
Houses and Concert Halls.”  The immense petal-like shapes of the Shanghai Dongfang
Yishu Zhongxin look like they may yet sprout a glass bug late
one night.  There is more than China in Newhouse’s illuminating survey.
Her global tour includes  Los Angeles , Paris, New York and Oslo,
before concluding with newer projects by Zaha Hadid in Baku,
 Azerbaijan , and Herzog & de Meuron’s Elbe Philharmonie in
Hamburg.  These complexes devoted to music are our era’s expression
of wealth and power, she writes. In that respect, they have
replaced museums, which multiplied like mad in the last two
decades.  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in
 New York .  Hoelterhoff: It’s odd that the Chinese are obsessively
building opera houses when western opera isn’t part of their
tradition.  Newhouse: There are a number of issues, first of all the
Cultural Revolution, which wiped out everything connected with
western music. So they really had to start from scratch in the
late ‘70s when that was over.  Empty Halls  Hoelterhoff: These palaces glitter at night in your photos,
but aren’t they often empty?  Newhouse: The Chinese have no tradition of buying tickets.
Anybody with the means of buying tickets expects to get tickets
free, either because their company has contributed some money or
simply because of who they are.  One of the big problems in  China  today -- and it’s not
unlike the West -- is finding money for programs. And then they
don’t always know what to program.  Hoelterhoff: So many seem surrounded by lethal highways.  Newhouse: Which they call boulevards, but they are not.
Also, there is no marketing. If the place isn’t in the center of
Beijing, say, people don’t know what might be playing. Shanghai
is a little different because of its western connection.  Odious Ott  Hoelterhoff: Do the cities compete for bizarre and big?  Newhouse: When Beijing started to plan the mega theater
because of the Olympics, Shanghai immediately commissioned the
same French architect, Paul Andreu, to do their grand theater
because they didn’t want to be outdone by Beijing.  Hoelterhoff: I was amazed to see that  Carlos Ott  of the
reviled Bastille Opera in Paris has built a 540,000-square-foot
theater in Hangzhou. How do these guys get these jobs?  Newhouse: You have to remember that in China everything is
political. It’s a dictatorship and so if some big official sees
something in Paris, they can order it up back home.  Hoelterhoff: How do you explain so many new buildings
devoted to opera and music?  Newhouse: What’s happening with concert halls and opera
houses today is like what was happening when I started writing
about museums in the early 1980s: It’s an explosion.  When the Pompidou opened in 1977, nobody went to museums. I
mean, it’s hard to imagine that today right? Museums were dark,
musty, fusty places and look at what’s happened? Lines around
the block.  So maybe these halls will attract their audiences. Concert
halls today are certainly more visually appealing.  Hamburg Philharmonie  Hoelterhoff: They actually invite you in. Look at the great
redo of  Lincoln Center .  Newhouse: It is much more user-friendly, much more
accessible instead of being isolated from the sidewalks around
it. It now connects with the pedestrian areas. That cafe inside
Tully Hall is a great place to have a cup of coffee.  Hoelterhoff: My hometown of Hamburg is building one of the
most gorgeous halls, the Elbe Philharmonie on the harbor. How is
it coming along?  Newhouse: I think they’re now up to three or four times the
original estimate. It’s been a nightmare.  Hoelterhoff: What happened?  Newhouse: It was originally designed to sit on top of a
1960s warehouse. And they discovered very, very quickly that it
wasn’t strong enough to hold everything they were going to build
on top of it.  They had to add hundreds of pylons to make the place
structurally secure. Then they ran into technical problems with
the acoustics and had to redo the walls.  Hoelterhoff: It seems to be taking forever. That brings me
back to China: Those buildings go up overnight.  Bottom Line  Newhouse: Between the time that I left Shanghai in early
2010, and late last year, they had opened another concert hall
that I hadn’t even heard about when I was in the city. It’s
right under one of the main squares.  The average longevity of any building in China is a maximum
30 years.  Zaha Hadid ’s Guangzhou Opera house is already being
restored. It was so badly constructed that cladding panels have
fallen off.  Hoelterhoff: Beyond Gehry’s marvelous Disney Hall and New
World Center in Miami, it seems Americans are more timid in
their architecture.  Newhouse: I think the bottom line rules and so people are
always terrified to spend a little bit more money to experiment.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 