-- China Repo Rate Rises to One-Month High Before Public Holiday
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-30T08:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-repo-rate-rises-to-one-month-high-before-public-holiday.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose to a one-month high on speculation financial institutions
are hoarding cash before the end of the month.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of cash availability
in the financial system, climbed for a fourth day this week
ahead of a three-day public holiday that starts on April 2.  “Liquidity typically gets tighter toward month-end as
people need money for their reporting or regulatory purposes,”
said  Matthew Huang , a rates strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd.
in Singapore. Still, rates are “at very muted levels and don’t
show any signs of stress in the money market,” he said.  The  repo rate  increased 20 basis points today and 74 basis
points this week to 3.71 percent as of 4:40 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
the highest level since Feb. 27, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The gauge slid 189 basis points, or 1.89 percentage points,
this quarter, the most in a year, as the People’s Bank of China
reduced banks’ reserve requirements twice since December to
support a slowing economy.  China’s manufacturing index dropped to 50.8 in March from
51 a month earlier, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts in a Bloomberg survey before statistics bureau data due
on April 1. Fifty is the dividing line between contraction and
expansion.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged on March 5 to fine-tune policies
and “appropriately adjust” credit to support growth along a
“tortuous” road to recovery for the global economy. Central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the following week that the
nation has scope to lower banks’ reserve requirements further.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis point to 3.14
today, extending this quarter’s advance to 22 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 