-- China’s Hu Visits Cambodia as Asean Leaders Eye Sea Disputes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-30T03:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-s-hu-visits-cambodia-as-asean-leaders-eye-sea-disputes.html
President Hu Jintao today becomes
the first Chinese head of state to visit  Cambodia  in 12 years,
in a trip days before Southeast Asian leaders gather for talks
that may touch on territorial disputes in the  South China Sea .  Hu’s visit, which lasts until April 2, will deepen ties
between Cambodia and  China , its largest investor, the official
Xinhua news agency reported March 27, citing the country’s
ambassador in  Phnom Penh , the capital. China appreciates
Cambodia’s support on core interests, the report said, adding
that China opposes outside interference on the South China Sea.  “Cambodians will not want to upset the Chinese by pushing
the South China Sea on the agenda of the Asean meeting,” said
Ian Storey, a senior fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asia
Studies in  Singapore . In the past two years, previous hosts
Vietnam and Indonesia “really pushed the issue, so that
momentum will slow under a Cambodian chairmanship,” he said.  Vietnam and the Philippines have pushed the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  to take a common position
regarding territorial disputes in the South China Sea, where
Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  are searching for oil
and gas. Cambodia holds the bloc’s rotating chairmanship.  The South China Sea contains oil reserves that may total as
much as 213 billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited
in 2008 by the U.S. Energy Information Agency. China used patrol
boats last year to disrupt hydrocarbon survey activities in
waters it claims, chasing away a ship working for  Forum Energy
Plc (FEP)  off the Philippines and slicing cables of a survey vessel
doing work for Vietnam.  The Philippines said in January it’s ready to host a summit
to help resolve territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
China must meet with the countries claiming part of the sea
“under the guidance” of Asean as soon as possible, Foreign
Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario said on Jan. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  