-- China’s Stocks Advance, Capping Best Quarterly Gain in a Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-30T07:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-bank-earnings-policy-outlook.html
China’s stocks  rose, capping the
benchmark index’s biggest quarterly gain in a year, on better-
than-estimated earnings from banks and speculation the
government will help companies weather the slowing economy.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585)  jumped 1.7 percent, pacing an
advance for cement producers, after the Shanghai Securities News
said the government will control new investment in cement
capacity.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  led a gauge of financial companies to the biggest
gain among industry groups after the lenders profit growth in
the fourth quarter. PetroChina Co., the biggest energy producer,
slipped after net income missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 10.63 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,262.79 at the close, paring this week’s losses to
3.7 percent. It’s up 2.9 percent since Dec. 31, posting the
biggest  quarterly gain  in a year. Still, the index has dropped 8
percent from this year’s high on March 2 on concern the world’s
second-biggest economy is stalling as the government’s property
curbs and tight monetary policies reduce profits.  “The market’s recent losses are quite big and we expect
some bargain hunting at this level to support a rebound,” said
Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“We are still in a poor earnings season and the market may need
to digest more bad earnings.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.5 percent to 2,454.58 today. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.4 percent in  New York 
yesterday. China’s markets will be closed from April 2 to April
4 for public holidays.  Controlling Capacity  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, gained 1.7
percent to 15.78 yuan. Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. added
0.4 percent to 9.35 yuan.  China will increase financial support for cement industry
consolidation, the Shanghai Securities News reported today,
citing Liu Ming, an official at the National Development and
Reform Commission. The nation currently has 2.9 billion tons of
cement capacity and 2.1 billion tons of production, it said.  The nation’s state broadcaster,  China Central Television ,
reported last week that authorities may increase punishments for
over production of rare earths. China will also push the
formation of large rare-earth enterprises and also announce
requirements for entering the industry, CCTV reported March 20,
citing the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology .  A gauge of  financial stocks  including banks and developers
in the CSI 300 added 1.5 percent, the most among 10 industry
groups.  Bank Earnings  ICBC, the nation’s biggest lender, rose 1.2 percent to 4.33
yuan after reporting a 17 percent increase in net income to 44.4
billion yuan ($7 billion). That compared with the 43.4 billion-
yuan average estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Bank
of China , the fourth biggest, gained 2.1 percent to 2.98 yuan
after it posted an 11 percent increase to 27.9 billion yuan.  Chinese listed companies are required to release their
annual results from Jan. 1 to April 30. Five-hundred and fifty-
six companies in the Shanghai Composite have released annual
earnings, posting average profit growth of 14 percent, which
trails analyst estimates by 2 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of 38
percent in the previous year.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. led gains for developers for a
second day, rising 4.5 percent to 11.29 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) 
climbed 3.5 percent to 5.99 yuan.  Rate Outlook  Chinese property developers’ “comfort” under current
tightening and confidence in a stable outlook suggests the
toughest time for the industry is over, Citigroup Inc’s Hong
Kong-based analysts led by Oscar Choi said in a report dated
yesterday. The central government may also give local
governments flexibility to fine-tune policy, they said.  Economists are split on whether China will cut benchmark
 interest rates  this year, ahead of a manufacturing report that
will give the latest reading on the slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy.  Nine of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey that closed
today say one-year borrowing costs will fall, with six seeing a
decline in the deposit rate. Analysts unanimously predict lower
bank reserve requirements, with a median estimate of three 50-
basis point reductions.  China ’s statistics bureau and logistics federation is due
to release a manufacturing index for March on April 1. The gauge
may drop to 50.6 from 51 last month, according to the median
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The number of 50
is the dividing line for expansion and contraction.  Alcohol Purchase Ban  PetroChina lost 0.2 percent to 9.69 yuan after net income
dropped 5 percent to 133 billion yuan last year, compared with a
mean estimate of 138 billion yuan in a survey of 20 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  A measure of consumer staples stocks retreated 1.8 percent
today, adding to a 6.6 percent slump this week, after Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said on March 27 governments will be banned from
using public funds to buy “high-end” alcohol.  Kweichow Moutai, China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor
by market value, tumbled 2.1 percent to 196.96, sliding 7.1
percent this week. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second largest, lost
2.9 percent to 32.84 yuan, adding to an 8.1 percent weekly drop.  The  Shanghai  Composite fell 6.8 percent this month after
Premier Wen Jiabao announced March 5 a lower economic growth
target for China and Societe Generale SA said in a March 27
report that corporate profits won’t grow at all this year.  The 14-day relative strength measure for the gauge,
measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a
specified time period, was at 29.2 yesterday. Readings below 30
indicate it may be poised to rise. Thirty-day  volatility  on the
Shanghai Composite was at 17.5 today, its highest since March 2.
About 7.4 billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday,
or 16 percent lower than the daily average this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is reacting to slower earnings growth or
declines at some companies, which was caused by the government’s
monetary tightening last year,” said Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst in Lisle,  Illinois  at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
which manages $700 million of assets including Chinese stocks.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  