-- Co-Pilot Who Landed JetBlue Plane Was Voted ‘Most Understanding’
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-30T18:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/co-pilot-who-landed-jetblue-plane-was-voted-most-understanding-.html
The  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JLBU)  co-pilot
who locked his ranting captain out of the cockpit this week was
voted his high-school’s “most understanding” senior and, his
father said, wouldn’t like being called a hero.  Jason Dowd, 41, doesn’t think he did anything special March
27 when he diverted the plane to a safe landing, Lewis Dowd said
in an interview today.  “You do what you have to do, and I guess that was part of
his job,” said Lewis Dowd, 82. “There are a lot of good
people, a lot of level-headed people out there. He did the right
thing.”  There was no answer this morning at Jason Dowd’s home in
Salem,  Ohio (STOOH1) , about 25 miles (40 kilometers) southwest of
Youngstown. Perry Township Police Chief Michael Emigh, who was
patrolling the neighborhood, said that he spoke with the family
last night and that Dowd, who is married with 5- and 3-year-old
children, wouldn’t be available for comment today.  He might not like being called hero, but he deserves it
anyway, said Tim Palcho, chief instructor at  Kent State
University  in Ohio, where Dowd earned an aerospace technology
degree.  Dowd went “above and beyond” on March 27, Palcho in a
telephone interview today.  “He did his job, and he did it well,” Palcho said.  ‘Leap of Faith’  The elder Dowd said he spoke with his son by phone last
night in  New York  and that he was told not to say much.  Capt. Clayton Osbon, charged March 28 with interfering with
a flight crew, was tackled by passengers as he pounded on the
cockpit door after leaving and then demanding to be let back in,
according to an FBI affidavit.  Dowd became concerned about Osbon’s behavior shortly after
the flight to  Las Vegas  left New York, according to the filing.  The captain yelled over the radio at air-traffic
controllers and rambled about religion, according to the FBI.
The co-pilot “became really worried” when Osbon said “we need
to take a leap of faith” and “We’re not going to Vegas,” the
FBI said in the affidavit.  Lewis Dowd said his son has flown before with Osbon, though
he had no other details. Jason Dowd has been flying with JetBlue
for seven or eight years, his father said.  Dowd is licensed to fly the Airbus SAS A320 and the Embaer
SA EMB-190, according to records on the FAA’s website. He also
received a license as a flight instructor, the records showed.  Ready Shoveler  Helen Beachler, 79, who lives across the street from the
one-story home in Salem,  Ohio , where Dowd grew up, said she
wasn’t surprised by his actions. Dowd always tried to be helpful
and often volunteered to shovel her driveway, Beachler said.  “I knew he could do it,” Beachler said. “He’s a smart
boy.”  Dowd attended Salem High School, where he ran track and
cross-country, was a member of the band, a science lab aide and
voted “most understanding” boy of his senior class in 1990,
according to the high-school yearbook.  Lewis Dowd said his son decided in college he wanted to be
a pilot. He graduated from Kent State in 1995 with a major in
aerospace technology and a concentration in aerospace flight
technology, Emily Vincent, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  Dowd received flight training at the university in
emergency situations such as engine failures, though nothing
like the one he encountered, Palcho said.  John Paul Tolson, a neighbor of Dowd’s in Salem, a city of
about 12,000, said he knew Dowd from block picnics.  “It was unbelievable to think a guy who lives right down
the street had a role in this,” Tolson, 63, said in a telephone
interview. “Small-town pride.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  