-- Collective Brands Said to Seek Final Bids by End of April
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/collective-brands-said-to-seek-final-bids-by-end-of-april.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) , the owner
of the Payless ShoeSource chain, is seeking final offers at the
end of April from retailers including  Brown Shoe Co. (BWS)  and  South
Korea ’s E-Land Group, said two people familiar with the matter.  While no final bids have been made, Collective Brands
expects to receive bids that value it at $20 to $22 a share,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private. The  price range  is higher than
Collective Brands anticipated in August, when the company
disclosed its strategic review, said the people.  Collective Brands, which also markets Saucony and Sperry
Top-Sider shoes, has been working with Perella Weinberg Partners
LP and Kurt Salmon to explore strategic options. Last month, the
company shrank the pool of potential buyers to about 10, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. A price of $22 a
share would value Topeka, Kansas-based Collective Brands at
$1.33 billion based on its shares outstanding as of Jan. 28.  The Korean-language Maeil Business Newspaper reported that
E-Land was preparing a $1.8 billion joint bid. E-Land has
indicated to Collective Brands it will put in a solo bid to
acquire the whole company and hasn’t give a price, said one of
the people.  Brown Shoe also has indicated it will bid, most likely with
Cerberus Capital Management LP, said one of the people. Other
private-equity firms, including Golden Gate Capital Corp. and
 Leonard Green  & Partners LP, are looking to bid for all or parts
of the company, said the people.  E-Land Interest  “E-Land seeks to buy Collective Brands,” Ro Byung Gyoo, a
spokesman for E-Land Group, said by phone yesterday. He declined
to give details of the offer, including its price.  Peggy Reilly Tharp, a spokeswoman for St. Louis-based Brown
Shoe, didn’t return telephone and e-mail requests for comment.
Michael Gennaro, chief operating officer and spokesman for Los
Angeles-based Leonard Green, didn’t return telephone and e-mail
requests for comment. Spokesmen for Collective Brands, San
Francisco-based Golden Gate and New York-based Cerberus declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  