-- Companies Seeking to Block Rivals’ Patent Use Face U.S. Review
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-30T21:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/companies-seeking-to-block-rivals-patent-use-face-u-s-review.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
is examining the legality of companies seeking to prevent rivals
from using patents that cover industry-standard technology, the
agency’s chairman said.  The trade commission is “looking at” the issue, said
Chairman Jon Leibowitz, who declined to comment on whether the
agency has begun a formal investigation. Leibowitz, who spoke
today at a Washington antitrust conference, didn’t specify which
industry’s technology is under review.  The  Justice Department  previously disclosed a similar
review related to the smartphone market, saying it is examining
whether companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will try to improperly
use patents to seek court orders to block competitors from using
technology that has become standard in an industry. The Justice
Department and FTC both enforce antitrust laws.  The FTC wants “to make sure that companies can’t engage in
licensing that is supposed to be worked out and then hold up
that innovation” from being used by others, Leibowitz said at
an  American Bar Association ’s panel discussion.  Industry-standard technology helps ensure that products --
such as mobile phone antennas and global-positioning system
software -- work together. Companies that develop such standards
pledge to license inventions covering them on reasonable terms.  Some companies in previous cases have initially agreed to
license a patent at a reasonable fee only to pressure rivals
later for higher royalties when the technology becomes part of a
sought-after feature on a product, Leibowitz said.  Justice Department Concerns  The FTC shares the concern of the European Commission and
the Justice Department that companies may be inappropriately
seeking court orders to block rivals’ use of patents for common
technology, he said. The EC also has said it’s monitoring
whether smartphone companies are improperly using patents to
seek court orders.  Last month, the Justice Department and EC announced their
concern about patent practices after both approved  Mountain
View , California-based Google’s $12.5 billion purchase of
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  Google’s Android software is the
most popular platform for mobile phones, while Motorola
Mobility, which made the first commercially available wireless
phone in the 1980s, now makes devices that run on Android.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPhone, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which
has struggled to win consumer acceptance of its Windows Phone
mobile operating system, have pledged not to seek court bans on
the use of industry-standard technology.  Motorola Mobility has said that Microsoft and Apple are
raising the issue with antitrust agencies because the companies,
with their history in computers, are new to the phone market and
have fewer patents that cover industry standards.  Mixed Record  Patents give their owner the right to exclude others from
using the invention. Regulators have few powers in limiting
those rights unless there are allegations of fraud or improper
behavior.  Leibowitz said that the FTC has the power to act against
companies that seek to deceive rivals over licensing industry-
standard patents.  The agency has a mixed record on challenging key patents.  In 2005, it forced  Unocal Corp. (UCL)  to stop asserting patents
on a gasoline blend as a condition of approval for getting
bought by  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  The agency had accused Unocal of
misleading California regulators into adopting a formula they
thought was in the public domain.  The FTC lost a case in 2008 against  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer
of computer-memory chips, after an appeals court rejected
antitrust claims related to how the company obtained its
patents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  