-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Rose on Autos
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-february-on-autos.html
Consumer spending  probably climbed
in February as an improving job market prompted Americans to buy
more cars, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent, the most in five months, after
a 0.2 percent gain in January, according to the median estimate
of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may
show consumer sentiment held near a one-year high, restrained by
higher gasoline prices.  Households may be poised to take a more active role in the
expansion as the biggest payroll gains since 2006 underpin
confidence and boost paychecks. Strengthening employment may
also provide the means to weather rising fuel costs as gasoline
approaches $4 a gallon.  “Consumers do seem to have some decent income growth, so
that’s positive for consumer spending,” said  Nigel Gault , chief
U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “Overall, the gas drag this year is not as
important as it was last year. The recovery is less vulnerable
to being blown off course.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.8 percent.  The same report will probably show incomes advanced 0.4
percent following January’s 0.3 percent gain, according to the
survey median.  Auto Sales  Cars last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors
Co. Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a  15 million  annual rate,
the strongest since February 2008, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Consumer spending grew at a 2.1 percent annual rate last
quarter, compared with a 1.7 percent pace in the previous three
months, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 3 percent pace from
October through December.  More income and a strengthening labor market are giving
households the means to purchase big-ticket items, benefiting
companies like motor-home maker  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO)   “We’re beginning to see positive signs that the economy is
improving,” Randy Potts, chief executive officer of the Forest
City, Iowa-based company, said on a March 15 conference call.
“ Consumer confidence  has been trending higher and the jobless
rate is improving.”  Investors are optimistic about retailers’ prospects. The
 Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Retailing Index has increased
18 percent since the end of last year compared with a 12 percent
gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  Higher gasoline prices may have put an end to a six-month
run of gains in consumer sentiment. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final March  confidence index  fell
to 74.5 from 75.3 the previous month, the survey median showed.
That would be the first monthly decline since August.  The price of a gallon of regular  unleaded gas  was $3.92 as
of March 28, up 64 cents since the end of last year, according
to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  