-- Consumers in U.S. Boost Spending as Confidence Rises
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-03-30T16:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
Americans increased their spending
by the most in seven months as an improving labor market boosted
confidence, adding to evidence the world’s largest economy is
gaining strength.  Purchases climbed 0.8 percent in February, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington, exceeding the 0.6
percent median gain forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final
index of  consumer sentiment  rose to 76.2, the highest since
February 2011, from 75.3 last month.  Employment gains are helping sustain the consumer spending
that accounts for 70 percent of the economy, lifting sales at
companies such as Nike Inc. Another report today showed business
activity held near a 10-month high, indicating that the  U.S.
economy  is weathering rising fuel costs.  “Consumer spending is going to hold its ground,” said
Chris Christopher Jr., a senior principal economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . Economists at IHS
were the second-best forecasters of personal spending in the two
years through February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“There seems to be a positive feedback between better
employment numbers and spending,” Christopher said.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
 barometer , which measures business activity across the U.S.,
fell to 62.2 from 64 in February. Readings greater than 50
signal growth. Economists forecast the gauge would fall to 63,
according to the median of 58 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Stock Rally  Stocks rose, extending the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s
biggest first-quarter advance since 1998.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.4 percent to 1,408.7 at 12:38 p.m.
in  New York . The benchmark gauge has rallied 12 percent this
year, gaining for a second straight quarter. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note slipped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.14 percent.  Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company, is among
those seeing improving demand.  “There is some stability easing back into the broader
marketplace as  consumer confidence  moves higher in some parts of
the world,” Chief Executive Officer Mark G. Parker said in a
March 22 conference call.  The Beaverton, Oregon-based company this month reported
third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates as sales
gained in  North America . The maker of Air Jordan basketball
shoes has been using new products to lure consumers who are
spending more on athletic gear across the industry. The strategy
helped boost Nike’s third-quarter sales 17 percent to $2.15
billion in North America, the company’s largest market.  Europe, Japan  Other reports today showed inflation rose less than
forecast in  Europe  and  Japan ’s industrial production
unexpectedly declined, undercutting signs of an economic rebound
in the first quarter.  The inflation  rate  in the 17-nation euro region fell to 2.6
percent this month from 2.7 percent in February, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in an initial
estimate. While that is the lowest rate since August, it was
above the 2.5 percent pace forecast by economists, according to
the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Japan’s factory output in February slid 1.2 percent from
the previous month, the Trade Ministry said, after a 1.9 percent
gain in January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for a 1.3 percent increase.  More Active Role  American households may be poised to take a more active
role in the expansion as the biggest payroll gains since 2006
underpin confidence. While wages are climbing, other forms of
income like interest receipts are lagging behind, raising the
risk that higher fuel costs will limit gains in  consumer
spending .  Today’s Commerce Department report showed U.S.  incomes 
climbed 0.2 percent for a second month after January’s gain was
revised down, sending the saving rate to a more than two-year
low. Incomes were projected to increase 0.4 percent, according
to the Bloomberg survey median.  Adjusted for inflation, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, consumer spending increased
0.5 percent, the most in five months.  Income after taxes and adjusted for inflation declined 0.1
percent in February, the third decrease in the past four months.
The decline combined with the jump in spending pushed the saving
rate down to 3.7 percent, the lowest level since August 2009,
from 4.3 percent in January.  Saving More  While the saving rate has declined, Americans are still
putting more money away then they did before the onset of the
18-month recession in December 2007. The saving rate that month
was 2.6 percent, and it rose as high as 8.3 percent in May 2008.  A firming labor market is helping household sentiment. The
jobless rate held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
February, according to data from the Labor Department.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index last week reached the
second-highest level in four years. Over the past three weeks,
at least 30 percent of households said they had a favorable view
of the buying climate, the longest stretch since early 2008.  While job gains are lifting Americans’ spirits,  higher
gasoline  prices remain a concern. The price of a gallon of
regular unleaded gas was $3.93 as of March 29, up 65 cents since
the end of last year, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
automobile association.  Energy Prices  “Higher energy prices would probably slow growth, at least
in the short run,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said March 21. Rising fuel costs create “short-term inflation
pressures, and moreover, they act as a tax on household
purchasing power and reduce consumption spending, and that also
is a drag on the economy.”  Today’s report showed the Fed’s preferred price gauge,
which is tied to consumer spending patterns, climbed 0.3 in
February from the prior month. It was up 2.3 percent from the
same time last year. Fed policy makers set a goal to keep
inflation at around 2 percent when they met in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  