-- Credit Suisse Opened Volatility Bets to Small Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-03-30T14:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/credit-suisse-opened-volatility-bets-to-small-investors.html
Michael Gamble, a 67-year-old
retiree, doubled down on a volatility exchange-traded note
backed by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  last week as it declined to a
record low price.  “When it started to fall, I bought more because I couldn’t
believe how low it was going,” he said in a telephone
interview. “I didn’t realize I was playing with a hand
grenade.”  Gamble, who lives in Frisco,  Texas , didn’t know the product
was trading at a premium to its targeted value, a rare event for
ETNs, or that institutional investors were selling the notes
short on a bet they would fall. The note tumbled by more than 50
percent on March 22 and March 23, costing Gamble about $20,000.  The crash calls attention to the way many ETNs, which are
more complex and risky than exchange-traded funds, open the door
to markets where individual investors normally can’t venture
without brokerage approval. It also may sour small investors on
exchange-traded products, an industry that has grown to almost
$1.2 trillion in U.S. assets because of the popularity of low-
cost ETFs.  “ETPs are one of the great success stories of marketing by
creating a new name and new brand,” said Mercer Bullard, an
associate professor of law at the  University of Mississippi  and
founder of the advocacy group Fund Democracy Inc. “Now the non-
fund ETPs are undermining the ETF brand.”  SEC Probe  Credit Suisse stopped issuing new notes on Feb. 21 after
the market value more than quadrupled from the end of 2011,
unhinging the share price from the index it tracked, the S&P 500
VIX Short-Term Futures Index. The price quickly developed a
premium over the notes’ targeted value that peaked at 89 percent
on March 21.  Hours before the bank said it would resume issuing new
shares, the ETN’s price began falling on March 22 even as the
index was rising. By the end of March 23, the premium had
collapsed to 6.9 percent as the notes tumbled.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing
the price gyrations involving the Credit Suisse  VelocityShares
Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in
 Washington , declined to comment. Credit Suisse is cooperating
with regulatory authorities, said  Katherine Herring , a
spokeswoman for the Zurich-based bank.  Training Session  The investigation comes as the SEC is beefing up its
ability to regulate exchange-traded products. Agency
investigators will hold an intensive training session on ETFs
next week,  Bruce Karpati , co-head of the asset-management unit
of the SEC’s enforcement division, said at a securities law
event today in New York.  The SEC also hired Barry Pershkow, former counsel at ETF
provider Proshares Advisors LLC, in January to advise the staff
on ETF-related matters.  ETNs, with about $17.3 billion, have benefited from an
association with ETFs, a product that offers a different set of
promises. While some ETFs also offer access to markets that are
impossible for most retail investors to reach directly, they are
more tightly regulated.  ‘Regulatory Problem’  “It’s likely that anything called ‘exchange-traded’ will
be viewed as operating under the same set of rules,” Bullard
said. “If they’re not, we have a regulatory problem.”  The Credit Suisse note, which trades under the ticker
symbol TVIX, is an unsecured debt instrument designed to provide
about twice the daily return of an index that gauges
expectations for volatility in U.S. stocks. It is one of at
least 25 U.S. ETNs linked in some way to stock market
volatility, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Had Gamble sought to invest in options on volatility
futures himself, he would have faced hurdles, said Brian Lenart,
chief executive officer of BDL Compliance Consulting and former
head of compliance at Marsh & McLennan Securities. He’d have
been required to fill out an options agreement and be approved
by a registered options principal, a brokerage employee with a
Series 4 securities license.  The complexity of the strategies an investor is able to
employ is up to the discretion of the options principal,
generally the firm’s head of compliance. Granting permission for
more complex strategies tends to be difficult, Lenart said.  Complex Strategies  “I try to imagine, ‘How is this going to sound in a
hearing?’” Lenart said in a telephone interview from his
Chicago office. “If an investor comes in and has a blown-up
option-futures strategy, almost any panel is going to rule for
that customer.”  With TVIX available via a mouse click at an online
brokerage, Gamble faced none of those obstacles.  “I guess there’s a little bit of blame on both sides,”
Gamble said. “But if something is trading that way, there
should be a way to tell people about it.”  David Nadig, director of research at San Francisco-based
ETF research firm Index Universe LLC, said his company advocates
“gates in front of exchange-traded products that mirror the
rules regarding access to the underlying markets.”  “That could have solved the majority of problems if TVIX
investors had to sign all the disclosures necessary for
investing in volatility futures,” Nadig said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Reputational Hazard’  “This thing is going to create a reputational hazard for
issuers of ETNs,” he said, referring to the price gyrations. He
said he didn’t think problems in the ETN field would hurt
providers of traditional ETFs.  Brokers are required to make sure a product is suitable for
customers. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
brokerage industry’s self-regulator, issued a  notice  in January
warning brokers about complex products, including those linked
to stock market volatility.  “We have been closely looking at the events and trading
around TVIX,” George Smaragdis, a spokesman for Washington-
based Finra, said in an e-mailed statement.  Self-directed investors like Gamble won’t get the benefit
of a broker’s warnings.  “Working with a discount firm with no broker is the risk
customers take,” Mark Astarita, a founder of law firm Beam &
Astarita LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“They’re on their own.”  ETF Growth  Astarita is a securities attorney who represents brokerage
firms in arbitration proceedings conducted by Finra.  Restricting eligibility to the most complicated products
may save some investors from missteps, and annoy others.  Exchange-traded products have grown popular, in part, for
giving individuals easy, cheap access to areas of the market
once restricted to institutions.  ETNs, while comparatively small, can attract significant
interest from investors. The  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN  was among the 10 fastest growing exchange-traded
products in the world in the first two months of 2012, gathering
$1.1 billion in new assets, according to New York-based
BlackRock Inc., the industry’s largest provider. The largest ETN
is the JPMorgan Alerian MLP Index ETN at $4 billion.  For investors in the Credit Suisse ETN who didn’t pay
enough attention, the freedom to access a complex market
backfired after the Zurich bank ran into size limits on the
derivative positions it took to ensure it could match TVIX’s
targeted return.  Natural Gas Note  Issuers typically stop adding shares when they reach a
limit on their derivative positions that is either imposed
internally or by an exchange or regulator, according to Samuel Lee, an analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  The price of the  iPath Dow Jones-UBS Natural Gas Total
Return Sub-Index ETN , a note issued by London-based Barclays
Plc, followed a similar trajectory over the past eight weeks,
rising to a premium as high as 134 percent over its indicative
value before falling to a premium of 56 percent over six trading
days.  ETFs also have whipsawed investors. The Market Vectors
Egypt Index ETF traded at a premium as high as 28 percent in
March 2011 when the Cairo Stock Exchange was forced to close
during the country’s uprising. The shutdown prevented the fund
from buying or selling its underlying stocks.  U.S. Natural Gas Fund (UNG) , another ETF, suspended the creation
of new shares in August 2009 when it reached limits set by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission on futures positions. Its
premium reached 19 percent.  Lacking Protections  Exchange-traded funds, which first appeared in 1989, offer
investors a convenient way to invest in all or part of a market
by tracking an index. Unlike index mutual funds, they trade on
an exchange throughout the day, like stocks.  ETNs, introduced by Barclays in 2006, can offer advantages
over ETFs, including lower taxes. They also lack protections
built in to ETFs.  In the U.S., ETFs are governed by the Investment Company
Act of 1940 that also covers mutual funds. They are stand-alone
companies that own the underlying securities, and they elect
fund boards whose members are legally bound to look after the
interests of shareholders.  ETNs, by contrast, are unsecured debt securities registered
under the  Securities Act  of 1933 and typically issued by a bank.
The issuer promises to redeem the notes at the value of the
index investors seek to track. If the issuer goes bankrupt, ETN
investors are put in line with other creditors and may lose all
or part of their money.  ‘Embraced by Retail’  The 1940 Act also standardizes prospectus disclosures,
making total costs easier to see, Nadig said. ETN issuers can
write pricing supplements to the documents “in any way they
like,” which can make expected returns difficult to calculate,
he said.  “These products weren’t necessarily intended for retail,”
said Rudy Aguilera, chief investment officer at  Orlando ,
Florida-based Ironclad Investments LLC, “but were certainly
embraced by retail.”  Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat of  Rhode Island , said
yesterday he was monitoring the issue surrounding ETNs. Reed
held a hearing in October that examined whether exchange-traded
products posed risks to financial markets and investors.  “I think this market deserves more attention from both
domestic and foreign regulators and I plan to hold another
hearing on ETFs and related issues in the near future,” Reed
said in an e-mailed statement.  Massachusetts’ chief securities regulator is also
conducting an investigation into the Credit Suisse ETN.  In a letter to the bank on March 23, William F. Galvin,
secretary of the commonwealth, demanded information about
investors and the firm’s decision to resume issuing shares. The
price of the ETN began falling hours before Credit Suisse
announced that decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  