-- TD Bank to Beat Rivals on Service in New York City, Masrani Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-03-30T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/td-bank-to-beat-rivals-on-service-in-new-york-city-masrani-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  plans to beat
competitors on service and extend store hours in its bid to
become the third-largest lender by branches in  New York City ,
said U.S. consumer banking chief Bharat Masrani.  “The only sustainable competitive position to be in
banking is through service and convenience,” Masrani said in an
interview yesterday in New York. “You can’t get there through
price or through product, because it will be matched.”  TD Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender, said it will open
its 90th New York branch next month in Brooklyn and plans to add
about 50 more within four years. The Toronto-based bank said
that would make it the third-biggest in New York after  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  TD currently ranks fifth by
branches, according to Chief Executive Officer Edmund Clark.  Clark, 64, said last month that New York’s deposit base is
about $750 billion, compared with C$1 trillion ($1 trillion) for
all of Canada.  Toronto-Dominion, which keeps some of its U.S. “stores”
open seven days a week, dubs itself “America’s Most Convenient
Bank.” The stores feature coin-counting machines, offer piggy
banks for children and provide water bowls and treats for dogs.  “It’s not as easy as saying, ‘Why not open for seven
days?’ for your competition,” said Masrani, 55, who became head
of U.S. consumer operations in 2007. “It takes a particular
business model. It takes flawless execution. It takes people.
All those things have to work.”  Toronto-Dominion, with more branches in the U.S. than in
 Canada , has a training campus in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, where
employees are taught to “wow” their customers.  Masrani joined Toronto-Dominion in 1987 and held management
positions including chief risk officer. He was charged by the
bank in 2002 to help exit about C$11 billion in corporate loans,
which he reduced ahead of schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 