-- Danske to Tap $2.7 Billion From Central Bank Lifeline
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-03-30T08:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/danske-bank-will-tap-2-7-billion-from-central-bank-facility-1-.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Denmark ’s biggest
lender, said it will draw 15 billion kroner ($2.7 billion) from
the central bank’s first offering of three-year loans today as
policy makers try to drag the Nordic economy out of recession.  Danske will use assets from its bond portfolio as
collateral for the loan, the Copenhagen-based lender said today
by e-mail.  Denmark’s banks have faced  higher funding costs  than their
rivals elsewhere in Scandinavia since the failure of
 Amagerbanken A/S (AMAG)  in February last year triggered senior creditor
losses. Lenders in the Nordic country, which sank into a
 recession  in the second half of 2011, need the central bank’s
cash to help them repay 146 billion kroner in state-backed debt
due next year.  “We have from a purely commercial point of view decided to
use the central bank’s new facility,” Chief Risk Officer Peter
Rostrup-Nielsen said in the statement. “Danske Bank has
recently obtained liquidity via senior debt and covered bond
sales, which underlines the bank’s strong liquidity position.”  The Danish central bank, which opens the facility today,
first published its decision to provide the loans on Dec. 8,
following a similar announcement from the  European Central Bank 
the same day. The Frankfurt-based ECB has injected more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into  Europe ’s banks since
December in an effort to stem the region’s debt crisis.  ‘Cheap Money’  “This is cheap money and Danske faces no reputational risk
by doing this,” Claus Groen Therp, an analyst at Enskilda
Securities in Copenhagen, said by phone.  Danske  rose  as much as 4 percent in Copenhagen trading,
making it today’s second-biggest gainer in the Stoxx Europe 600
index. The shares advanced 3.05 kroner, or 3.4 percent, to 93.05
kroner at 9:12 a.m. in the Danish capital.  Denmark’s central bank uses monetary policy to maintain the
krone’s peg to the euro. It plans to hold a second offering of
the three-year loans at the end of September. Governor Nils Bernstein yesterday encouraged Denmark’s banks to draw on the
facility.  “From the central bank’s perspective, we have nothing
against using it if there is a good business reason,” Bernstein
said at an annual gathering hosted by the Danish Mortgage
Bankers’ Federation in Copenhagen.  Benchmark Rate  Banks tapping the facility will pay the central bank’s
benchmark lending rate, at 0.7 percent since December. The
central bank has said it may add a premium to the rate should
financial markets improve.  Denmark is struggling to emerge from a housing bubble that
burst in 2007, triggering a regional banking crisis that choked
lending.  House prices  will have slumped 25 percent by next year
since the crisis started, the government-backed Economic Council
said in November.  Danish banks will tap a total of 116 billion kroner from
the three-year facility, according to a Bloomberg poll published
March 20.  Denmark’s economy entered a recession in the third quarter
of last year as investments and  government spending  shrank,
according to revised data published today by the national
statistics agency. Gross domestic product contracted 0.1 percent
both the third and fourth quarters of last year,  Statistics
Denmark  said, citing revised quarterly data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  