-- Deutsche Bank Hires Citigroup Equity-Derivatives Executive Simon
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-30T15:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/deutsche-bank-hires-citigroup-equity-derivatives-executive-simon.html
Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG hired former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  managing director Jonathan Simon as Derek Bandeen, Citigroup’s equities head, overhauls the unit to halt a
revenue slide, two people with knowledge of the move said.  Simon resigned from New York-based Citigroup this week and
will join Deutsche Bank, the biggest bank in Europe, as a
managing director in equity-derivative sales, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the move hasn’t been
publicly announced. He will start working for Deutsche Bank in
about three months, one of the people said.  Citigroup has said the equity-derivatives business is
partly to blame for a plunge of more than 70 percent in equity-
trading revenue for both the third and fourth quarters of 2011.
Bandeen promoted Daniel Keegan and Simon Yates to new global
roles this month and hired ex-Citadel LLC executive James Boyle
to head equity derivatives in Asia.  Simon will report to Ted Wasserman, Deutsche Bank’s head of
New York flow equity-derivative sales, and will cover hedge
funds and asset managers, according to one of the people. Equity
derivatives are contracts whose values are based on underlying
securities, such as common stock.  Simon joined Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, in
2004 from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  after working for Credit
Suisse Group AG and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the person said.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on the move. Renee Calabro, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank, also declined to comment. Simon didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail messages.  -- Editors: Steve Dickson, Dan Kraut  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 