-- Dewani Wins U.K. Extradition Delay on Wife Murder Charge
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-03-30T11:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/dewani-wins-u-k-extradition-delay-on-wife-murder-charge.html
Shrien Dewani won a ruling delaying
proceedings to send him to  South Africa  to face trial on charges
he murdered his wife, with two London judges saying a lower
court hadn’t sufficiently considered his mental health.  “It would be unjust and oppressive to order his
extradition,” Judge John Thomas  said in a ruling today ,
returning the case to Westminster Magistrates’ Court for a
further hearing. “It is plainly in the interests of justice
that the appellant be tried in South Africa as soon as he is
fit.”  The U.K.’s Home Secretary, Theresa May, signed an
extradition order in September allowing him to be extradited to
South Africa for trial. Dewani, a British citizen, wasn’t
present in court.  South Africa wants to try Dewani for the murder of his wife
Anni in  Cape Town  in November 2010. Anni Dewani was killed after
a taxi she and her husband were traveling in was carjacked in
Gugulethu, near the city. South African prosecutors allege her
husband arranged the murder.  “There have been a lot of delays which have been very
painful for us,” Ami Denborg, Anni Dewani’s sister, said
outside the court. “We just want him to get better now so he
can finally go to South Africa and tell us what happened. We
just want to know the truth.”  Dewani’s lawyer has argued his client can’t be extradited
because he is suffering from severe post-traumatic stress
disorder and depression.  Clear Name  His family said that Dewani maintains his innocence.  He “is determined to return to South Africa to clear his
name and seek justice for his wife Anni,” the family said in a
statement e-mailed by his lawyer, Andrew Katzen. “The  High
Court  has confirmed that extradition now would be ‘unjust and
oppressive.’ Shrien can only go to South Africa when he is well
enough and when his personal safety can be guaranteed.”  The case is: Dewani v. Government of The Republic Of South
Africa, CO/9406/2011  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  