-- Disney, DeNA Form Partnership to Develop Social Games
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-03-30T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/disney-dena-form-partnership-to-develop-social-games.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, will team up with  DeNA Co. (2432)  to
offer social games featuring the U.S. company’s characters.  The games will be introduced globally through DeNA’s Mobage
social-gaming platform, Burbank, California-based Disney’s  Japan 
unit and Tokyo-based DeNA said in a statement today. The first
game, called Disney Party, was introduced in Japan this week,
they said.  Disney is trying to expand in Japan and began offering its
Disney Mobile service using  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) ’s network in
February, after starting a similar service with  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
in 2008. Disney and DeNA will introduce the game Disney Fantasy
Quest in Japan in April and a title based on Marvel Comics
characters this summer, the companies said in today’s statement.  Localized versions of the three games will be introduced as
smartphone apps on Mobage networks in  North America ,  Europe ,
 China  and South Korea after July, and the two companies are
considering developing additional titles for the worldwide
market, they said. They also plan to extend the partnership
beyond games to Disney movies, TV shows and smartphone apps, the
companies said.  Mobage has more than 35 million users in Japan, according
to today’s statement. DeNA generated  sales  of more than $1.3
billion in the year ended March 2011, according to the company.  DeNA, Japan’s biggest social-network website operator, fell
2 percent to 2,293 yen at the close in Tokyo trading before the
announcement. The stock has declined 0.7 percent this year
compared with the 17 percent gain in the Topix Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  