-- The Era of Big Box Retail Dominance Is Coming to an End
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-03-30T14:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/the-era-of-big-box-retail-dominance-is-coming-to-an-end.html
When  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  said yesterday it
was closing 50 big stores and opening 100 smaller ones, the
world’s largest electronics retailer was adjusting to reality:
The era of big-box retail dominance is coming to an end.  The new mantra is small box. While Best Buy,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  are still opening large stores, all
are putting increasing emphasis on smaller ones. Best Buy plans
to double the number of its smaller Best Buy Mobile stores by
2016. Wal-Mart is building as many as 100 small-format stores
this year, while Target is opening five CityTarget locations.  After 50 years of putting mom and pops out of business,
big-box retail is having a mid-life crisis. A slow economy has
hurt same-store sales, narrowing margins at big stores.
Meanwhile, consumers, armed with price-comparison technology,
are visiting more stores seeking deals or exclusive merchandise
rather than making one-stop, fill-the-cart excursions.  “We’re undergoing a seismic shift,” said Natalie Berg, an
analyst with Planet Retail in  London . “People are still cutting
back. People are buying more products online so there is a real
case for downsizing stores.”  Big-box retailers essentially come in two flavors: so-
called category killers such as Best Buy that focus on one type
of merchandise, and discounters like Wal-Mart and Target, which
sell a broader range of goods.  Declining Sales  Since the recession, big-box retailers have struggled.
Until its third fiscal quarter last year, Wal-Mart had posted
eight consecutive quarters of declining sales at stores open
more than 12 months. Best Buy posted five straight quarters of
profit decline before reporting a $2.6 billion loss on March 29,
while analysts forecast declining same-store sales and profit
for Target this year.  Since June 2009, when the recession officially ended, Wal-
Mart shares have advanced 26 percent and Best Buy has dropped 28
percent, both trailing the 39 percent gain for the 32-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index. Target shares gained 48
percent in that time.  Big-box retail was born in 1962. That’s the year that Wal-
Mart, K-Mart and Target all opened their first large  discount
stores . As they grew, the new big boxes began offering broad
selection and low prices to a growing population of suburbanites
who had left the cities in their new cars, searching for their
piece of the American Dream.  Big boxes boomed in the go-go 1990s. Fueled by an inflated
stock market and loose credit, Americans expanded farther into
the suburbs and filled their new homes with appliances and
 consumer goods , said John Lupo, a retired Wal-Mart executive who
now sits on the board of AB Electrolux. The housing boom
propelled the big-box retailers into the new millennium. Then
came the crash and consumers pulled back.  Conspiring Forces  Other forces are conspiring against the big-box model.  Baby
Boomers  no longer have kids at home and don’t need to stock up
on food and packaged goods. Their kids are marrying later and
delaying having their own children, meaning fewer are buying
houses that need to be updated and furnished.  “Right now you have a trough in the need for big-box
retail,” said Bryan Gildenberg, an analyst with the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm Kantar Retail.  Hence the rush to open smaller stores. By 2016, Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy plans to have as many as 800 Mobile
Stores, up from 305 now. It’s part of Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Dunn ’s plan to generate revenue from warranties,
accessories and connections between phones, tablets and other
electronics.  The increasing emphasis on smaller stores still leaves room
for big stores, according to Dunn.  Anytime, Anywhere  “We see those stores as an important part of a network in
conjunction with our small-box stores, our online capabilities
and our on-phone capabilities that allow customers to reach us
anytime, anywhere, anyhow they choose,” he said in a telephone
interview. “While I don’t see this as a decline of the big
boxes, the multi-channel approach that we are taking will
require less square footage.”  Wal-Mart, which is based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , is also
sticking with big stores. While the company aims to add at least
three times as many Neighborhood Markets as in 2011, it plans to
add up to 150 supercenters, compared with 122 last year.  “The supercenter is still what works best for us,” said
Deisha Galberth Barnett, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman. “We will
continue to work to grow the presence of supercenters.”  Shoppers’ stampede online is also hurting big-box chains.
The biggest beneficiary of that shift is  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which
is grabbing market share from Wal-Mart, Best Buy and Target.  Online Purchases  “The biggest challenge for big boxes is increasing
 consumer confidence  in making online purchases,” said  Matt
Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri ,
who rates Best Buy and Wal-Mart as buys. “Best Buy is arguably
more exposed than the Wal-Marts of the world that are heavy in
the food, apparel and consumables category. In the case of
consumer electronics, it comes down to price.”  If Best Buy and its big-box ilk are to survive, they’ll
have to evolve and do a better job of integrating their brick-
and-mortar locations with their Web stores, Arnold said.  “While big-box retailers are struggling, they aren’t going
away,” Arnold said in a telephone interview.  “They are
shifting to smaller formats and investing in online retailing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  