-- Hedge Funds Register, FSA Anti-Bribery, CFPB: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-30T12:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/hedge-funds-register-fsa-anti-bribery-survey-cfpb-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will oversee hundreds more private advisers at  hedge
funds  and private equity firms than it first predicted,
expanding the reach of one of the most controversial
requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The managers of such investment funds face a deadline today
to register with the SEC. The agency expects to receive about
1,300 registration applications, according to SEC spokeswoman
Judith Burns. That is about a 70 percent increase from the 750
advisers the agency said as recently as July that it expected to
register. Burns didn’t explain why the number is higher than the
agency estimated earlier.  The 2010 financial regulatory overhaul included the
registration provision for hedge fund and private equity
advisers so the SEC could have a better understanding of what
had been an opaque corner of finance. The surge in registrations
reflects the gaps in the SEC’s knowledge of the sector, said
 Cornelius Hurley , the director of the Morin Center for Banking
and Financial Law at  Boston University (43751MF) .  The SEC hasn’t hired new staff to specifically focus on
reviewing the registration applications, though the office that
conducts examinations has made 60 additional hires during the
past 18 months.  The SEC completed the registration rule in June. Greenlight
Capital Inc., BlackRock Capital Management Inc. and Paulson &
Co. Inc. are among the hedge funds that are already registered
with the SEC.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Regulators May Win Powers to Ban Proposed Securities  European Union regulators may win powers to ban new
financial instruments before they are sold, as part of an
overhaul of the region’s market rules.  Such “precautionary” bans would be justified if a
security “gives rise to significant investor protection
concerns or poses a serious threat to the orderly functioning
and integrity of financial markets,” according to a report by
 Markus Ferber , the lawmaker leading work on the measures in the
 European Parliament .  Ferber is seeking to bolster last year’s EU plans to revamp
the region’s market legislation, known as Mifid. He is also
backing calls from other lawmakers in the parliament for high-
frequency traders to face punitive fees when they create market
volatility by placing excessive numbers of canceled orders.  For more, click here.  Danish FSA Says Stricter Bank Writedown Rules Effective April 1  Denmark’s  Financial Supervisory Authority  said stricter
standards for booking impairments will become effective from
April 1, meaning banks in the Nordic country will need to take
account of the changes in their first-half reports.  “The central pillar of the new rules is that loans to
troubled property clients in the future need to be written down
to the value of the property,” the Copenhagen-based FSA said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The same applies to loans, in
which particularly risky business methods are applied,” such as
transactions in which distressed loans are transferred, the
regulator said.  Volcker Rule May Raise Fuel Costs, Cut Fuel Output, IHS Says  The Volcker rule will raise U.S. electricity costs and cut
oil and natural gas  output  by crimping the ability of energy
companies to hedge their risks,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  said yesterday in a
bank-funded report.  Investment in natural gas production would fall by $7.5
billion a year as companies, unable to manage their price risks,
curtail spending on exploration, according to the report from a
team of analysts. Refineries may close, fuel prices rise, and
182,000 jobs could be lost.  The rule, named for ex-Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul
Volcker , seeks to prevent deposit-taking firms from making bets
with their own capital and limits their investment in hedge
funds. Rules proposed in October may curb market-making and
constrain the ability of banks to provide commodity firms with
risk management and intermediation services, IHS said.  The report was commissioned by New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which, according to the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, is the third-largest derivatives dealer among U.S.
banks.  U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan
Stanley have been pressing regulators to scale back the draft of
the proprietary trading rule issued in October.  FSB Publishes Results of Consultation on Systemic Banks  The Financial Stability Board published responses to draft
rules on data to be reported by systemically important banks.  The responses were received after the FSB published Oct. 6
the consultative document “on a Common Template for Global
Systemically Important Banks” and set Nov. 6 as a deadline for
comments. The organization received 28 responses, including
comments from “national and international banking associations,
FSB said in a statement.  FSB will bring associations together for a  workshop  on May
12 to discuss the topic of systemically important banks, it said
in the statement.  Compliance Action  Brevan Howard Asked RBS to Change Libor, Fired Banker Says  Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP, a $33 billion hedge
fund, asked  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  to change the  London 
interbank offered rate five years ago, according to a trader
suing the lender for wrongful dismissal.  ‘‘Brevan Howard telephoned on 20 Aug. 2007 to ask the
defendant to change the Libor rate,’’ Tan Chi Min, a trader
fired by the bank for allegedly trying to manipulate the rate,
said in court papers filed March 23 with the Singapore High
Court. The bank ‘‘received this request without objection,’’
according to the document. The hedge fund isn’t a party in the
suit and isn’t being sued for wrongdoing.  Scott Nygaard, listed as head of short-term markets finance
on an  RBS website , knew about the call from Brevan Howard, Tan
said in his filing. No further facts or particulars supporting
Tan’s allegation were given in the court papers.  Regulators around the globe are probing whether banks
colluded to manipulate rates including Libor, the basis for $360
trillion of securities worldwide. RBS has  ‘‘substantial and
credible”  defenses to claims it tried to rig interest rates,
the Edinburgh-based bank said in its annual report March 9.  Suresh Nair, an attorney at  Straits Law Practice LLC (817823L)  in
Singapore who represents Tan, declined to elaborate further on
the fired trader’s claims about Brevan Howard. Nygaard, who
remains an RBS employee, declined to comment. Patricia Choo, a
Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, as well as officials at London-
based Brevan Howard declined to comment on the case.  For more, click here.  Commerzbank to Set Up Bad Bank in Move to Wind Down Eurohypo  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, will wind
down its Eurohypo unit and refrain from acquisitions for two
years to meet revised European Commission conditions following
its bailout during the credit crisis.  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, will transfer all of
Eurohypo’s public finance business and most of its commercial-
property unit to a new entity called Non-Core Assets, which will
be wound down over time, the lender said today. Only a portion
of the commercial real-estate financing in Germany, the U.K.,
France and Poland capped at 25 billion euros ($33 billion),
including a maximum of 5 billion euros of annual new business,
will gradually be transferred to Commerzbank.  The lender will have to cut its balance sheet to 600
billion euros by the end of this year and hold off on making
acquisitions until the end of March 2014 under terms of the new
deal. The commission had previously instructed Commerzbank to
sell Eurohypo, which proved difficult in the midst of the
European sovereign-debt crisis.  Investment Banks May Face U.K. FSA Enforcement on Bribery Rules  The U.K. finance regulator found that almost half of the
investment banks it recently visited didn’t adequately assess
the risk of employees paying bribes and most hadn’t taken
account of its anti-corruption rules.  The firms, which included eight global investment banks and
seven smaller firms, were visited by the Financial Services
Authority starting in August last year and scrutinized on how
well prepared they were to prevent employees from paying bribes,
the regulator said in a  report  yesterday. The FSA found that
some of the firms “still had significant work to do” to update
their compliance procedures. It didn’t name the firms.  Only two of the banks had started or carried out internal
audits on corruption controls, the regulator said. After
conducting the review, the agency is considering whether to ask
some of the investment banks to improve their bribery systems
and controls or fine them.  In the U.K., a new bribery law took effect in July which is
one of the strictest in the world. Under the law, companies must
prove they have adequate controls to prevent corruption in order
to defend themselves if a bribe is paid on their behalf anywhere
in the world, even if company officials didn’t know.  SEC Said to Review Credit Suisse Exchange-Traded Note  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigators are
reviewing a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  exchange-traded note that
became unhinged from its benchmark and whipsawed investors, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , which seeks
to provide twice the daily return of the VIX volatility index,
climbed almost 90 percent above its  asset value  after the
Zurich-based bank stopped issuing shares in February. The value
of the note, which had risen to almost $700 million from about
$163 million at the end of 2011,  plunged last week  when Credit
Suisse said it would begin creating shares again.  The review by the SEC’s enforcement division comes amid
heightened scrutiny of exchange-traded funds and notes, which
had about $1.2 trillion in assets at the end of February,
according to the  ETF Industry Association . The European
Commission said March 22 that it is examining potential
“conflicts of interest” affecting the securities.  The price swings in the VelocityShares ETN highlight the
risk posed by disruptions in supply and demand of the notes.
Because the notes are normally pegged to underlying assets such
as stocks, bonds and indexes, sponsors can create or redeem
shares to offset price distortions caused when investors buy and
sell them.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment, as did
Credit Suisse spokeswoman Sofia Rehman in London. The person who
confirmed the probe was under way asked not to be identified
because the inquiry isn’t public.  Special Section: Copenhagen Meeting  BOE’s Tucker, ECB’s Praet Participate in Copenhagen Conference  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said minimum
financial-stability standards in  Europe  may not be enough to
prevent future crises and regulators need to have the power to
toughen rules in some cases.  Tucker made the remarks in an article written for a
conference European finance ministers in Copenhagen yesterday.
“Those who frame the micro regulatory rules are not
clairvoyant. Sometimes supervisors will for example need tougher
requirements for a while to head off exuberance that threatens
to tip over, once a bubble bursts, into instability,” he said
in the prepared remarks.  Tucker also said that because of the inevitability of local
credit booms, the euro area needs a “regime of macroprudential
policy at the level of national authorities.”  Separately at the Copenhagen conference,  European Central
Bank  Executive Board member Peter Praet said euro-area finance
ministers should quickly approve the combining of the region’s
two bailout funds, the  European Stability Mechanism  and the
European Financial Stability Facility, in order to expand
emergency resources.  Praet made the statement in an article prepared for a
seminar yesterday.  Euro-area finance chiefs will probably decide at a meeting
in Copenhagen today to run the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion)
permanent ESM alongside the temporary EFSF, increasing the size
of the firewall, a European official told reporters in Brussels
March 28. The funds are designed to aid member states locked out
of financial markets because of concerns about their debts,
helping to stem contagion.  Praet said the debt crisis “is not over” and the
responsibility for resolving it “lies with the euro-area
governments, not with the central bank.”  Barnier Seeks June Publication of Bank Crisis Resolution Plans  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that he will seek to present proposals on winding
down failed banks by the time of a summit of Group of 20 nations
in June.  The plans will include writing down a failing lender’s
creditors and shareholders, Barnier told reporters in Copenhagen
today. Writing down a bank’s creditors “must be an option” for
regulators, Barnier said.  Separately, Barnier said he will today publish a
consultation document on plans for winding down failing banks.
The European Commission will seek views on the measures, which
include writing down a failing lender’s creditors, for the next
few weeks, he said.  Euro Finance Chiefs to Discuss Mersch ECB Candidacy  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss candidates
including Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch for a vacancy on the European
Central Bank’s Executive Board during a meeting in Copenhagen
today, though a decision may not be reached, Slovak Finance
Minister Peter Kazimir told reporters. For more, click here.  Europe to Cap Rescue Lending at 800 Billion Euros, Fekter Says  Euro-area governments agreed to cap overall rescue lending
at 800 billion euros ($1.1 trillion), rejecting calls for even
bigger defenses against the debt crisis, Austrian Finance
Minister Maria Fekter said.  About 300 billion euros in already pledged loans will go
along with 500 billion euros in the planned permanent rescue
fund to build the backstop, Fekter said. Funds remaining in the
temporary rescue fund would be used only to get the permanent
fund up to its target, she said.  Interviews/Hearings/Speeches  William Isaac Says MF Global Wasn’t Well Regulated  William Isaac, chairman of  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and a former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., talked about
the investigation into  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s bankruptcy.  Isaac, who spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop,” also discussed the outlook for U.S. banks.  For the video, click here.  Bachus Says ‘Legal Cloud of Legitimacy’ Hangs Over CFPB  House Financial Services Committee  Chairman Spencer Bachus,
an Alabama Republican, said President Barack Obama’s use of the
recess appointment to install Richard Cordray as the first head
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau “casts a legal
cloud of legitimacy” over the agency.  Bachus delivered the opening statement of the committee’s
hearing to receive the  semi-annual report  of CFPB. Cordray said
“reasonable rules” can have a “positive influence on
financial innovation,” according to his prepared opening
remarks.  The report explains the consolidation in the CFPB of
consumer protection tasks that had been spread among federal
agencies. It also discusses the agency’s mandate, under the
Dodd-Frank Act, “to reduce outdated, unnecessary or unduly
burdensome regulations.”  Levitt Says Goldman Board Selection a Correct Move  Former Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Arthur
Levitt  said  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s appointment of a senior
independent director is “a step in the right direction.”
Levitt is an adviser to Goldman Sachs and a member of the board
of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg Radio.  He talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  