-- Temasek Hires ST Telemedia’s Lee as President, General Counsel
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-30T00:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/temasek-hires-st-telemedia-s-lee-as-president-general-counsel.html
Temasek Holdings (TMSK)  Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said it appointed Lee Theng Kiat, head of its Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte unit, as
president and general counsel, effective April 1.  “As general counsel of Temasek he will be a key member of
our senior leadership, both in our portfolio and investment
decisions, and in developing our bench strength for the
future,” Temasek said in an e-mailed statement today.  Lee, 59, will be the  third president  after John Cryan,
president of Europe, and Gregory Curl, who is currently the
president and head of  Latin America .  Temasek has faced changes at the top since the middle of
2009, when it parted ways with former  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  head
Charles “Chip” Goodyear, who was going to replace  Ho Ching  as
the chief executive officer, over differences in strategy. Simon Israel, also a former Temasek executive director and president,
retired from his executive and board roles in July, while former
president Hsieh Fu Hua stepped down in October.  The firm, which managed S$193 billion ($153 billion) as of
March 31, 2011, named Hsieh as president in 2010, along with
Israel and Curl, once a candidate for CEO of Bank of America
Corp.  “Lee Theng Kiat has been a general counsel in his early
career, and brings with him many years of cross border
investment and business experience,” Temasek said in today’s
statement.  Lee worked in Singapore’s legal services for eight years
before joining  Singapore Technologies (STE)  Pte, according to ST
Telemedia’s  website . Under his helm at ST Telemedia, the firm
expanded in Asia, the Americas and Europe.  ST Telemedia owns stakes in technology and
telecommunications firms including Eircom Group Ltd., Ireland’s
biggest phone company, and  StarHub Ltd. (STH)  in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  