-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Best Start in 20 Years
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-30T22:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/emerging-stocks-rise-as-icbc-quanta-ease-profit-concerns.html
Emerging stocks rose, capping the
benchmark index’s strongest first quarter in 20 years, as
resilient U.S. growth boosted global optimism and  Europe 
committed funding to ease the sovereign credit crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.9 percent to
1,041.45 at the close in  New York , nearly erasing the
benchmark’s weekly loss. The MSCI gauge has jumped 14 percent
since the end of 2011, the best first quarter since 1992, as
 information technology  and industrial companies led gains. The
measure of equities from 21 emerging countries trades for 10.3
times estimated earnings, below the 11.4 average ratio over the
past five years, and the 12.3 level for  developed-nation stocks .  U.S. consumers increased spending in February by the most
in seven months, showing the largest part of the country’s
economy is strengthening, after employers capped the best six
months of employment gains since 2006, pushing the jobless rate
to a three-year low. European leaders today agreed to fresh
rescue lending that put the size of a firewall to contain the
continent’s sovereign debt woes at 800 billion euros. Earlier
this month,  Greece ’s private creditors agreed to a debt swap
that paved the way for a bailout.  “Going into this year, with the Europe situation
deteriorating, many people looked at  emerging markets  as too
much” of a risky play, Andres Garcia, global market strategist
who helps oversee $323 billion in assets at JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s mutual funds division, said by phone from New York. “Even
though they have seen a significant rally since October or
November of last year, the valuation story is still at
reasonable levels.”  The MSCI gauge fell to an eight-week low yesterday as
profit from Chinese companies including  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) 
trailed estimates. Its 3.5 percent decline in March was the
worst monthly performance since November.  Health Care, Energy  The emerging-market measure’s advance today ended a two-day
slide, as health care and consumer staples companies led gains.
 Brazil Pharma SA (BPHA3)  rose 5.4 percent to a record high in  Sao Paulo .
 United Co. Rusal (RUALR) , the world’s largest aluminum producer, surged
3.4 percent, pushing  Russia ’s benchmark Micex index higher.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  Bank of China
Ltd.  each advanced 1.6 percent in  Hong Kong  after reporting that
profit rose.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.6 percent, cutting its rise this
year to 14 percent, still the best quarterly performance since
the third quarter of 2010.  Mexico ’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  benchmark advanced 1
percent as central bank minutes published today showed policy
makers are considering cutting  interest rates . The gauge’s 3.1
percent advance this week is the strongest since the five days
ended Dec. 2.  ETF Rises  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index (EEM)  exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
rose 0.7 percent to $42.95, for gains this quarter of 13
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging  Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 1.8 percent to 26.09.  ICBC reported a 17 percent increase in  net income  in the
fourth quarter and the Bank of  China  posted an 11 percent profit
increase.  Emerging-market stock funds took in $25.6 billion in the
first quarter through March 28, the best start to a year since
2006, according to EPFR Global. In the same period last year,
investors pulled $23.7 billion from emerging-market funds.  OAO Transneft (TRNFP) , Russia’s national oil-pipeline operator,
gained 3.3 percent and the Micex jumped 1.5 percent. The
benchmark for Russian equities has gained 8.2 percent this year,
after a 17 percent slide in 2011.  Turkish Shares  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a state-run Turkish bank, added
2.4 percent in Istanbul. Halkbank, as the lender is known, was
raised to buy from hold at Deutsche Bank AG.  Global Yatirim
Holding AS (GLYHO) , a group with interests in financial services and
energy, jumped 3.4 percent after saying it received preliminary
bids for the sale of minority stakes in its energy unit. The
nation’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 1.4 percent, boosting its
gain this year to 22 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong gained 1 percent. The BSE India  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, advanced 2 percent, pushing its three-month
advance to 13 percent, for the first quarterly gain in five.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s largest contract maker of
laptops, surged 6.9 percent in Taipei to the highest since April
2002, after reporting that fourth quarter net income more than
doubled.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 338 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The measure has  declined  from
426 basis points on Dec. 30, and averaged 363 basis points over
the past 12 months before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  