-- Enphase IPO Raises Half of Goal After Shares Price at Bottom
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-30T20:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/enphase-ipo-raises-half-of-target-after-shares-price-at-bottom.html
Enphase Energy Inc. (ENPH) , the largest
provider of microinverters for solar panels, raised $51.1
million in its initial public offering, about half of what it
initially sought.  The company sold 8.97 million shares at $6 each according
to a  filing , the bottom of its expected range. Existing backers
agreed to buy 2.5 million of the shares.  Enphase reduced the  price range  March 28 to $6 to $7, from
an earlier range of $10 to $12. The company, based in Petaluma,
 California , said it was seeking to raise as much as $100 million
when it initially filed to go public in June.  Proceeds will fund expansion into new countries in  Europe 
and  Asia  and technology improvements, Paul Nahi, Enphase’s chief
executive officer, said today by telephone. That may include
improvements to the company’s networking system that lets
customers monitor performance of their solar panels.  The shares began trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol ENPH and climbed 22 percent to $7.34 at the
close in  New York . That gives it a  market value  of $274 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Enphase makes  microinverters  that convert the direct
current produced by solar panels into alternating current that
is routed to the grid. Solar farms typically connect multiple
panels to one, large inverter, while Enphase’s smaller products
are designed to be wired to a single panel. The company says
this increases efficiency.  Industry Transition  “We own this transition to microinverters, which is
changing the solar industry,” Nahi said. “This is a $7 billion
industry of which we did $150 million last year.”  The company’s revenue more than doubled to $149.5 million
last year, while net losses widened 48 percent to $32.3 million,
according to the filing. Enphase has sold more than 1.7 million
microinverters since commercial shipments began in mid-2008.  The company has about a 30 percent share of the North
American market for residential solar systems and 18 percent for
commercial rooftop projects, Nahi said.  Enphase is the first of three renewable energy companies
planning to go public in the U.S. in the next month. Enerkem
Inc., a Canadian producer of ethanol and chemicals from trash,
is expected to price its offering April 3, and the solar-thermal
developer BrightSource Energy Inc. is set to follow on April 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Competition  Conventional inverter suppliers  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) ,
 Power-One Inc. (PWER)  and SunPower Corp. are expected to introduce
microinverter products this year, Enphase said in its filing.
Other competitors include  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Advanced Energy
Industries Inc. (AEIS)   Companies that have already invested in Enphase agreed to
buy about 28 percent of the shares that were offered. The hedge
fund Third Point LLC now holds 16 percent of the inverter maker.
RockPort Capital Partners LLC owns 12.1 percent, Madrone Capital
Partners LP owns 12.9 percent and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers has an 11.7 percent stake.  The underwriters, which include  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , have an option to purchase
an additional 1.35 million shares to cover over-allotments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  