-- EPA Agrees to Dismiss Well Contamination Case Against Range
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-30T20:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/epa-agrees-to-dismiss-well-contamination-case-against-range-2-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency agreed to end a lawsuit that would’ve forced  Range
Resources Corp. (RRC)  to fix natural-gas wells the government said
were contaminating water in Parker County,  Texas .  The agency withdrew an administrative order yesterday and
joined with Range seeking dismissal of the case in a filing
today in federal court in  Dallas . The government wants to
“shift the agency’s focus in this particular case away from
litigation” and instead test water wells in the area, the
agency said in a statement.  EPA ordered Range to fix leaks in the area in 2010, saying
state regulators at the Texas Railroad Commission weren’t acting
fast enough after residents complained of gas in their water
wells. Range, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, said gas was already
present in local water and its operations weren’t the cause.  Range uses hydraulic fracturing in Texas’s  Barnett Shale ,
shooting water, chemicals and sand underground to get oil and
gas from dense rock formations. Environmental groups, including
the  Natural Resources Defense Council , say the technique known
as fracking can contaminate local water supplies.  The EPA said in 2010 that the wells were fractured; it
didn’t say whether fracking caused the gas leaks.  “It is very important for people who live in that
community to trust that their environment, safety and health is
protected,” Matt Pitzarella, a Range spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. “We believe this withdrawal will help.”  Sampling Water Wells  The decision is “a vindication of the science-based
processes at the Railroad Commission,” Barry Smitherman,
chairman of the three-member state agency, said in a statement.  Range will sample 20 private water wells in the area each
three months for a year and turn over the results to the federal
government, according to a letter provided by the EPA. Range may
also turn over data it got from state regulators. Pitzarella
said the company had already committed to doing those tests
before the EPA withdrew its order.  The EPA is conducting a nationwide study to determine if
gas drilling and fracking contribute to water contamination.  On March 15, the agency said gas found in 11 water wells in
Dimock,  Pennsylvania , didn’t pose a health risk, a finding three
scientists questioned after reviewing the results and seeing
elevated methane levels.  The agency agreed with Wyoming state regulators on March 8
to conduct more tests at a site in Pavillion, where initial
results found evidence that fracking contributed to water
pollution. State regulators and industry officials questioned
those initial results.  Range rose 2.1 percent to $58.14 at the close in  New York .  The case is U.S. v. Range Production Co., 11:-cv-00116,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  