-- Mercator Board Resigns Over Sale to Rival Agrokor
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-30T14:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/mercator-board-resigns-over-disputed-sale-to-agrokor-sta-says.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d.’s
management board, including Chief Executive Officer Ziga Debeljak, offered to step down in six months because of the
disputed sale to a Balkan competitor. Its shares surged.  The resignation was first reported by the STA newswire,
which cited Debeljak as saying that the main reason for the
Ljubljana-based board’s departure was a disagreement with the
owners about a sale to  Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d.  Slovenia’s largest retail chain faces “its toughest year”
as the Balkan economy teeters on the brink of recession and
consumers hold back their spending, Debeljak has warned.  The
dispute over Agrokor’s effort to take over Mercator has been
plagued by opposition in Slovenia and led to the December
resignation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. Chief Executive
Officer Bozo Jasovic.  “Certain events in the past and current year have, due to
different views on certain elements of the sale of the company
to its biggest competitor, resulted in a mutually diminished
level of trust between the management board and certain
important shareholders,” the board said in a regulatory
 statement  today.  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR)  Group d.d., Slovenia’s biggest beverage
maker, and domestic banks had held talks to sell their joint 52
percent stake in the chain to Agrokor, Croatia’s largest
privately owned company. The sale fell through last month after
Agrokor withdrew a bid that valued Mercator at 832 million euros
($1.11 billion).  New Momentum?  “This means the sale process could again gain momentum,”
Saso Stanovnik, head of research at brokerage Alta Invest d.d.
in Ljubljana, said in a note to clients. “We hope this conflict
between the management and the owners will be resolved soon,
otherwise business results could further deteriorate.”  Mercator shares soared 9.6 percent to close at 137 euros
today, gaining the most in a year and valuing the company at 516
million euros. The stock has still slumped 25 percent since a
high in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  