-- Tesco Drops After Morgan Stanley Downgrades Stock: London Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-03-30T07:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/tesco-drops-after-morgan-stanley-downgrades-stock-london-mover.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest
supermarket company, fell in London trading after Morgan Stanley
cast doubt on the retailer’s ability to revive earnings growth
and cut its recommendation on the shares to “underweight.”  Tesco will struggle to improve profitability in its
domestic market over the next three years because of investment
that’s needed in areas such as staffing, private-label goods and
store ambience, Morgan Stanley analysts led by Edouard Aubin
wrote in a note released after markets closed yesterday.  The shares dropped as much as 1.1 percent, extending
yesterday’s 2.6 percent decline. They were down 0.3 percent at
327.25 pence as of 8:43 a.m., the  fourth-biggest  drop in the
U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  and the fourth day of declines.  Having cut spending over the last five years to protect
earnings, the retailer now requires a “reset” of its U.K.
business, without which it will continue to lag behind
competitors, the analyst wrote.  “Until it is prepared to take short-term pain for long-
term gain, we think it will underperform,” Aubin wrote. “We
believe a true reset is unlikely any time soon.”  Tesco, which is based in Cheshunt,  England , introduced
coupons and promotions on fuel and vowed to boost spending on
 customer service  after saying in January that slowing sales
growth at home would lead to “minimal” profit increases in the
year through February 2013. Shoppers have decamped to both
upscale chains such as Waitrose Ltd. and discounters including
Iceland Foods Ltd. and Aldi. Bigger competitors  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda and J Sainsbury have also gained market share.  Tesco has been downgraded at least 10 times since shares
slumped 16 percent on Jan. 12. There are currently 12 “buy”
 recommendations , 18 “holds” and five “sells” for a consensus
rating of 3.43 out of 5, the lowest since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  