-- EU Officials Praise Spain Budget, Urge Speedy Implementation
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-03-31T08:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/eu-officials-praise-spain-s-budget-urge-speedy-implementation.html
European officials praised Spain’s
2012 budget measures and urged Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
government to implement them without delay.  “The unambiguous commitment of the Spanish government to
the target of 3 percent fiscal deficit in 2013 is indeed of
paramount importance,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said in Copenhagen yesterday. “I expect
this will be substantiated soon by a convincing path of fiscal
consolidation” along with economic reforms to put Spain on a
“more sustainable growth model.”  Spain, under threat of falling victim to the region’s debt
crisis, pledged to raise taxes and slash spending to achieve 27
billion euros ($36 billion) in deficit cuts as it tries to trim
its budget gap by a third.  “We will assess the budget proposal,” European Central
Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen told reporters in
Copenhagen. “It’s preferable that new measures can be enacted
as soon as possible, maybe through emergency legislation.”  The 2012 spending plan seeks to reduce the budget gap to
5.3 percent of gross domestic product from 8.5 percent in 2011,
the largest reduction in at least three decades.  Deficit Target  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the
government is looking at shortening the parliamentary process
necessary to approve the budget.  “Independently of what the ECB member says,”  Spain  will
implement the measures “logically, as soon as possible,” de
Guindos said in Copenhagen.  Rajoy riled EU partners on March 2 when he said he’d raised
Spain’s deficit target to 5.8 percent of GDP from the 4.4
percent initially pledged. Earlier he had attended a ceremony to
sign the fiscal pact treaty aimed at ending the debt crisis by
enforcing budget discipline. EU allies pushed back and got Spain
to agree on March 12 to a 5.3 percent goal.  “If we would have uncertainty growing due to the fact that
people did not perceive that Spain was going in the right
direction, that would have brought us back to where we were a
couple of months ago,” Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said today before the second day of talks in Copenhagen. “So, I
think it was crucial that they presented a budget that upholds
the 3 percent target.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond has risen more than 50
basis points since March 2 as a deepening economic slump
compounded a bigger-than-forecast shortfall last year. The
additional austerity measures announced today may fuel a second
 recession  since 2009 that’s left the country with the euro-
region’s highest jobless rate at more than 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Copenhagen at  areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  