-- EU Regulators Probing Derivatives Linked to Tokyo Rate
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-30T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/eu-regulators-probing-derivatives-linked-to-tokyo-rate.html
European Union regulators are
probing companies involved in trading derivatives tied to the
Tokyo interbank offered rate, the region’s antitrust chief said,
adding to existing inquiries into two other interbank loan
rates.  The European Commission started investigations last year
into companies that may have violated antitrust rules by
colluding on products linked to Euribor, Libor and specific
currencies, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  “Any confirmed manipulation of these rates would imply a
very significant cost to the European economy,” Almunia said in
remarks prepared for a Washington speech today. “Asymmetrical
information can bring large benefits to certain market players
who have strong incentives” to keep markets opaque in spite of
regulatory efforts.  Almunia has made financial markets one of his  priorities 
and said today that he would monitor them with “special care.”
In April, he began a probe into  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other investment banks over
agreements in the market for credit-default swaps that may harm
competition. He also vetoed Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE
Euronext’s (NYX)  plan to create the world’s biggest exchange after
concluding the merger would hurt competition.  In the telecommunications industry, Almunia said, he is
still considering whether to open a formal investigation into
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) ’s licensing of standard-
essential patents “to help bring more clarity into this area.”
Apple Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have filed complaints with the EU
over Motorola Mobility, which is being bought by Google Inc.  Shutting Out  Regulators are wary of telecommunications companies
shutting out competitors as new technology is rolled out,
Almunia said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and four other European
communications companies were questioned this year by the EU on
talks over technology standards.  The EU may also take further steps in coming months on
investigations over pharmaceutical-patent settlements, Almunia
said. The EU opened a probe into  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Novartis
AG in October and is also investigating Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. and its Cephalon Inc. unit over possible efforts
to hinder introduction of generic medicines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 