-- Bondholder Losses Debated by EU to Avoid Bank Rescues
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-30T15:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/eu-s-barnier-seeks-views-on-writedown-plan-for-crisis-hit-banks.html
The European Union will seek views
on the order in which unsecured senior bondholders and other
creditors at failing banks should be forced to take losses as
part of plans to end taxpayer bailouts of financial firms.  The EU may opt to place banks’ longer-term senior unsecured
debt in the firing line for losses ahead of shorter-term senior
claims, according to a consultation document  published  on the
EU’s website. Liabilities with a maturity of less than one month
may be entirely protected from forced losses, the paper says.  Writing down a bank’s creditors “must be an option” for
regulators,  Michel Barnier , the EU commissioner for internal
market and services, told reporters today in Copenhagen.
“There’s a big international consensus on the principle.”  Global regulators have called for so-called bail-in powers
to write down bank creditors as part of a set of measures to
prevent lenders from becoming too big to fail. Banks including
Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have warned that
writedowns for senior bondholders may make it more expensive for
lenders to attract funding.  Barnier put the plans on ice last year on concerns that
they could worsen the region’s fiscal crisis by making it more
expensive for lenders to attract funding.  Senior Bondholders  “The commission really should just get on and publish the
final proposals,” Syed Kamall, a U.K. conservative member of
the European Parliament, said by telephone today. Rules for
resolving a cross-border bank “should’ve been among the first
proposals from the commission following the financial crisis,”
he said.  Under the plans, senior debtholders would face losses after
shareholders and holders of subordinated debt had their
investments wiped out. Writedowns may also be applied to bank’s
derivatives counterparties, the document says.  Barnier is considering forcing lenders to issue at least 10
percent of their debt in securities that would be eligible for
bail-ins, the document says. It also sets out alternative
scenarios for debt that could be eligible for writedowns.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
will seek views on the measures during the next month.  The commissioner said he would aim to present a draft law
on winding down failed banks, including the plans for creditor
writedowns, by a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in June.  The proposals will also include requirements for national 
governments to set up so-called "resolution funds," financed by 
banks, to cover costs from failing lenders, Barnier said.  ‘Tricky Debate’  The commission has yet to determine what protection should
be granted to bank debt that is issued before the bail-in law
comes into effect, the document says.  The Danish government, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency through June and is hosting a meeting of the bloc’s
finance chiefs that concludes tomorrow, also urged the European
Commission to present a proposal on failed banks before July.  “There is a tricky debate on timing when it comes to this
proposal. But since the debate has been around for quite some
time, I think that the time is just about to mature and I do
hope that the commission will make it before the Danish
presidency is over,” Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager 
told reporters today in Copenhagen. Ministers will discuss the
plans tomorrow, she said.  Sweden ’s finance minister Anders Borg said that it was
imperative that governments be allowed to use public money to
support crisis-hit lenders if they feel it’s the best option.  “We will be pushing for an absolute line when it comes to
the ability to put common stock into a bank,” Borg told
reporters. “If other features are there, we could also accept
bail-ins,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Copenhagen at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Copenhagen at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  