-- Europe Moves to Bolster Firewall to Protect Spain, Italy
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-30T08:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/europe-moves-to-bolster-firewall-to-protect-spain-italy.html
European governments moved to
bolster their rescue funds, seeking to shield Spain and  Italy 
from the fallout of the debt crisis without alienating bailout-
weary voters in wealthy countries.  Finance ministers neared an agreement to run the temporary
and permanent funds in parallel until mid-2013, potentially
raising the upper limit on emergency lending to 940 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion). Amounts immediately available would range
between 340 billion euros and 640 billion euros.  “I can imagine that both instruments run in parallel so
that automatically we have a higher sum overall,” Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters before a meeting of
European finance ministers in Copenhagen today.  European policy makers are trying to strike a balance
between meeting international demands for a more powerful war
chest and opposition in donor countries led by  Germany  to
providing additional aid for underperforming economies on the
region’s fringes.  Today’s step will lift the maximum aid sum from 500 billion
euros. It involves running the 500 billion-euro permanent
European Stability Mechanism alongside the 200 billion euros
committed by the temporary fund to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal ,
according to a draft statement prepared for the meeting.  Extra Capacity  Beyond that, the temporary fund’s unused 240 billion euros
could be tapped until mid-2013 “in exceptional circumstances
following a unanimous decision of euro-area heads of state or
government notably in case the ESM capacity would prove
insufficient,” according to the draft dated March 23 and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Today’s meeting will deal with the conditions for deploying
that extra sum, making changes in the draft statement possible.
Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen called a 940 billion-
euro firewall “too high and now we are looking for a result
which we and other countries would accept.”  European officials wheeled out a variety of figures --
including bilateral loans to  Greece  in 2010, loans from a now-
defunct centrally managed fund and the  European Central Bank ’s
cash infusion to banks -- to defuse international criticism of
 Europe ’s response to the two-year-old crisis.  Adding up loans promised since 2010 with sums available
under the permanent fund starting in July, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  put the size of the firewall at 800
billion euros. His number omitted the unused portion of the
temporary fund.  ECB’s Efforts  The ECB’s bank lending and bond-buying brings the total to
2 trillion euros, according to one official’s calculations.
Inhibitions about treading on the ECB’s independence have often
prevented European leaders from mentioning the central bank’s
and governments’ contributions in the same breath.  In his own twist on the numbers, Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said a conversion into dollars makes them more
impressive. “The market reaction to these is to the dollar
amounts so anything that gets you $1 trillion looks like a
serious firewall,” he told reporters.  Much of the credit for the lessening of market tensions
goes to the more than 1 trillion euros pumped into the financial
system by the ECB since December. Ten-year bond yields in Spain,
for example, have fallen to 5.44 percent from 6.70 percent on
Nov. 25.  ‘Fragility’  Stronger government-financed defenses would come after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, the dominant crisis-
fighting power, this week warned of “fragility” in Portugal
and Spain. It would also be designed to lure the rest of the
world into putting more money into the International Monetary
Fund’s arsenal.  The language in the draft also emphasizes the political
hurdles to tapping the unused parts of the temporary fund, the
 European Financial Stability Facility . Merkel or any other euro-
area government leader could exercise a veto.  In a sign of the political sensitivities, the draft doesn’t
spell out the 940 billion-euro figure. It puts the total
capacity at 700 billion euros from mid-2012 to mid-2013 and
relegates the possible use of the EFSF’s remaining 240 billion
euros to a footnote.  An increase in the aid ceiling wouldn’t make the entire sum
available upfront. It would require a capital call in an
emergency to mobilize the ESM’s entire 500 billion euros before
it is fully capitalized in mid-2014.  Spanish Budget  Spain ’s battle against its deficit is another focal point
today. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s three-month-old
government will present its budget, after first tearing up the
2012 deficit target, and then bowing to European demands for
further cuts.  The Spanish government vowed to stick to its labor overhaul
yesterday, defying the first general strike since Rajoy took
office. He has warned voters to expect a “very austere”
budget.  “Spain is in a difficult situation, but it has also
strengths,” European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said. It needs “to improve the sustainability of
public finances and to boost reforms that will help economy
grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Copenhagen at  jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Copenhagen at  jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  