-- European Stocks Advance as Ministers Meet on Rescue Funds
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-03-30T07:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/european-stock-futures-climb-as-ministers-meet-on-rescue.html
European (SXXP)  stocks rose as euro-area
finance ministers meet to discuss boosting the region’s rescue
funds and investors await a report that may show spending by
American consumers increased. U.S. index futures climbed and
Asian shares fluctuated.  Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA advanced as it began talks with China’s
Citic Securities Co. to sell its CLSA brokerage unit.  Meyer
Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  and  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  climbed after HSBC
Holdings Plc raised its recommendations on the stocks.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.6 percent to 262.41 at
8:29 a.m. in  London . The gauge has rallied 7.3 percent this year
as the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) to the region’s lenders and U.S. economic data topped
forecasts. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
in June advanced 0.4 percent today, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index rose 0.1 percent.  “The U.S. recovery is now sustainable and, of course,
 Europe  is still at pains but northern Europe remains one of the
stronger areas in terms of growth,” said Larry Hatheway, a
London-based economist and asset-allocation strategist at UBS
AG. He spoke to Linda Yueh and  Mark Barton  in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The Stoxx 600 fell 1.3 percent yesterday, the most in three
weeks, as S&P said Greece may have to restructure its debt again
and more Americans than forecast filed claims for jobless
benefits.  Financial Firewall  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said late
yesterday in Copenhagen that governments will agree on a
firewall of about 800 billion euros ($1.1 trillion). That sum
includes the 500 billion-euro permanent rescue fund and bailouts
already in place for Ireland, Portugal and  Greece ’s second
rescue package, he said.  While ministers are nearing an agreement to raise the limit
on rescue funds to 940 billion euros until mid-2013, the amount
they will be able to deploy immediately to protect Spain and
Italy will range between 340 billion euros and 640 billion
euros.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will today unveil the
most austere budget since before the nation’s return to
democracy in 1978, risking a deeper recession in a bid to avoid
succumbing to the debt crisis. Budget details will be released
by about 2 p.m. in Madrid after the weekly Cabinet meeting.  U.S. Consumers  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  probably climbed in February
as an improving job market prompted Americans to buy more cars,
economists said before a Commerce Department report today at
8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent, the most in five months, after
a 0.2 percent gain in January, according to the median estimate
of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Separately, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final March  confidence  index fell to 74.5 from 75.3 the previous
month, the median forecast in another survey showed.  Credit Agricole  rose 1.2 percent to 4.67 euros after its
corporate and investment banking unit entered exclusive talks
with Citic Securities, China’s largest broker by market value,
to sell the remaining 80.1 percent stake in its CLSA brokerage
unit.  Meyer Burger Technology added 1.4 percent to 14.80 Swiss
francs after HSBC raised its recommendation on the shares to
neutral, the equivalent of hold, from underweight, the
equivalent of sell.  HeidelbergCement (HEI)  advanced 2.6 percent to 44.67 euros after
HSBC upgraded the stock to overweight from neutral, meaning that
investors should hold more shares than is represented in
benchmark indexes.  Commerzbank AG rose 2.1 percent to 1.90 euros. Germany’s
second-largest lender plans to set up a so-called bad bank to
liquidate its Eurohypo AG public-finance and commercial-property
unit over the coming years, Handelsblatt reported, citing
unidentified people in the finance industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  