-- Euro Spat Erupts as Fekter Upstages Juncker at Crisis Talks
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-30T18:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/euro-spat-erupts-as-juncker-upstaged-by-fekter-at-crisis-meeting.html
A euro-area finance ministers’
meeting to bolster  Europe ’s crisis-fighting efforts was thrown
into confusion as a spat between Luxembourg and  Austria  erupted
over who got to brief journalists first on the outcome.  Jean-Claude Juncker , 57, who chairs the meetings, abruptly
cancelled a press conference in Copenhagen today after Austria’s
Maria Fekter stole the Luxembourg prime minister’s thunder and
signalled to reporters that the group had limited new bailout
lending to 500 billion euros ($667 billion).  “There was no point in having a press conference, because
the Austrian finance minister announced it,” Juncker told
reporters as he hustled into an elevator after the meeting.
“I’m against babbling, so I wanted to make a point today,” he
said in an interview later in the day.  Fekter, 56, apologized. The timing of her appearance
“wasn’t optimal,” ministry spokesman Gregor Schuetze said.
Asked after today’s meeting if the spat had been patched up,
Fekter said: “Yes.”  Ministers agreed to cap fresh rescue lending after a
Germany-led coalition opposed a further expansion of the anti-
crisis firewall. Adding the 300 billion euros already committed
to  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , ministers put the overall size
of the firewall at 800 billion euros. In a statement, they ruled
out using the 240 billion euros left in the temporary rescue
fund to go beyond that.  “This sum is important considering the involvement of the
 International Monetary Fund  as well as the discussions at the G-
20,” Fekter said. “Joint participation depends on what Europe
does -- and Europe has now fixed this sum clearly.”  About an hour later, reporters who had gathered in the main
press auditorium to await Juncker watched as staff removed his
name from the podium. The briefing was then called off.  “Juncker was a little upset,” Fekter’s spokesman Schuetze
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Copenhagen at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Copenhagen at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  