-- Europe Inflation Slows Less Than Forecast on Energy Costs
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-30T09:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/europe-inflation-slows-less-than-forecast-on-energy-costs.html
European inflation  slowed less than
economists forecast in March as rising energy costs countered
the effects of a cooling economy.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro region fell to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in February, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. While that is the lowest rate since August, it was above
the 2.5 percent pace forecast by economists, according to the
median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The economy may struggle to gather strength as budget cuts
and rising  oil prices  erode  consumer spending  and company
investment. Retail sales in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
unexpectedly declined for a second month in February. While the
 European Central Bank (EURR002W)  cut its key interest rate twice to a
record low in the fourth quarter, the bank said on March 8 that
short-term risks to price stability have moved to the upside.  “The chances of inflation falling durably below the ECB’s
target have clearly dwindled,” said Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “Interest rates will
likely remain on hold next week, and in the coming months.”  Euro-region inflation may average about 2.4 percent this
year and 1.6 percent in 2013,  the ECB  said on March 8. The
Frankfurt-based central bank, which earlier this month left its
benchmark rate at 1 percent, aims to keep annual gains in
consumer prices just below 2 percent.  Rescue-Fund Firewall  European stocks extended the biggest first-quarter advance
since 2006 and the euro gained while  default risk  fell as euro-
area finance ministers met to increase the region’s rescue-fund
firewall. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.7 percent as of
10:30 a.m. in  London . The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3337
against the dollar.  Tensions in the  Middle East  are driving up energy costs,
draining the  purchasing power  of companies and consumers. Oil
prices are up 6 percent over the past two months, bringing
annual gains to 1.8 percent.  German retail  sales  fell 1.1 percent in February from the
prior month, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
had forecast a 1.1 percent gain, a Bloomberg survey showed.  German companies may have more room to pass on higher costs
with the economy projected to grow 0.6 percent this year, while
gross domestic product in euro-area economies from  Spain  to
 Italy  is seen declining, according to European Commission
forecasts. Germany’s IG Metall labor union representing some 3.6
million workers has demanded 6.5 percent more pay.  Economic Rebound  In  Japan , industrial production unexpectedly dropped in
February, undercutting signs of an economic rebound in the first
quarter as policy makers assess whether to apply further
stimulus. Factory output slid 1.2 percent from the previous
month, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The jobless rate
fell to 4.5 percent and consumer prices excluding fresh food
unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent, government reports showed.  In the U.S., the final reading for the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan measure of consumer sentiment for
this month is due and Canada will report gross domestic product
for January.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on March 13 that
the ECB will “react if inflation pressures arise” in Europe.  “We are constantly alert to threats to medium-term  price
stability ,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on March 26.
“Euro-area citizens can be certain that our objective is
delivering price stability over the medium term and that we have
all the necessary tools to achieve it.”  The statistics office is scheduled to release a breakdown
of March consumer prices next month. Euro-area  core inflation ,
which excludes volatile costs such as energy, held at 1.5
percent in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  