-- Europe Eyes Bigger IMF War Chest as Firewall Tops $1 Tril
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-31T13:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/euro-area-caps-bailout-fund-at-800-billion-euros.html
European governments called for a
bigger global financial emergency fund after engineering a
firewall to fight the region’s debt crisis that tops the
symbolic $1 trillion mark.  Euro-area finance ministers decided yesterday that 500
billion euros ($667 billion) in fresh money would go along with
300 billion euros already committed to create an 800 billion-
euro defense against the two-year-old turmoil.  Europe  is counting on those sums, plus the  European Central
Bank ’s extra lending and bond-buying programs, to demonstrate
that it is on the road back to stability and encourage Group of
20 economies to bulk up the International Monetary Fund’s anti-
crisis coffers at an April 19-20 meeting.  “Europe is aware of its responsibility for the
international economy,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters today after a two-day meeting of
European finance officials in Copenhagen. “If the IMF takes
precautions to prevent possible contagion or threats to the
world economy, then Europe for its part will make a decisive
contribution.”  While welcomed by European central bankers, the firewall
decision stopped short of a bolder step mooted before the
meeting as a German-led coalition of creditor countries rebelled
against imposing further burdens on bailout-weary taxpayers.  Permanent Fund  As flagged by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the rich
countries no longer insisted on deducting sums pledged and
disbursed by the temporary rescue fund from the 500 billion
euros to be wielded by the permanent fund, the European
Stability Mechanism.  Those countries refused to go further, tossing out a
proposal to make the money left in the temporary fund fully
available. Instead, that 240 billion-euro sum will be used only
to get the ESM up to full capacity during its two-year buildup
starting in July.  The total would be too little to cope with an emergency in
Italy or Spain, which have combined gross borrowing needs of 800
billion euros in the next three years, or to deal with
additional bank recapitalizations, said Malcolm Barr, an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .  Europe’s move “is likely to be a disappointment not only
to some within the euro area, but also to those outside who
wanted to see ‘the color of European money’ before being
prepared to commit more resources to the IMF,” Barr said in an
e-mailed note.  Rebutting Criticism  European officials wheeled out a variety of numbers --
including bilateral loans to  Greece  in 2010, loans from a now-
defunct centrally managed fund and the ECB’s 1 trillion-euro
cash infusion to banks -- to rebut international criticism of
Europe’s response to the crisis.  Finance ministers also agreed to get the ESM up to full
capacity by mid-2014, two years earlier than planned.
Governments will pay in two installments of capital this year,
two more in 2013 and the final tranche in the first half of
2014.  Some countries might be stretched to meet that timetable.
Schaeuble said yesterday “some member states said this morning
they have difficulties paying these two tranches already this
year.” He labelled the payment schedule a “recommendation.”  Dollar Conversion  In his own twist on the mathematics, Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said a conversion into dollars makes them more
impressive. “The market reaction to these is to the dollar
amounts so anything that gets you $1 trillion looks like a
serious firewall,” he told reporters.  To underscore the point, the dollar figure was featured in
the ministers’ declaration, in an effort to show emerging
countries such as China and  Brazil  that Europe is on top of the
crisis and unlock more IMF support.  In a statement in  Washington , IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said Europe’s upgraded strategy will “support
the IMF’s efforts to increase its available resources for the
benefit of all our members.”  Market Tensions  Euro-region national central banks plan to steer 150
billion euros to the IMF as a downpayment toward other countries
chipping in. That sum was left out of Europe’s firewall
calculation because it would be managed by the global powers
that run the Washington-based IMF.  An IMF boost is “not for Europe, it’s not a specific fund
or specific account for Europe,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said. “It is a recognition that in general for the
world economy the IMF needs to have more resources.”  Much of the credit for the lessening of European market
tensions goes to the ECB’s unprecedented three-year loans to
banks since December. Ten-year bond yields in  Spain , for
example, have fallen to 5.35 percent from 6.70 percent on Nov.
25.  A warning that rescue programs alone won’t restore Europe
to economic health came from Jens Weidmann, a Merkel aide in the
early stages of the debt crisis who became head of  Germany ’s
central bank last year.  Political leaders “shouldn’t succumb to the illusion that
firewalls can reach the sky, because sooner or later we’ll get
to the limits of credibility,” Weidmann said. “You can only
solve the crisis by tackling the causes. Firewalls won’t solve
the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Copenhagen at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  