-- Europe Delays ECB Nomination as France Resists Backing Mersch
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/europe-delays-ecb-nomination-as-france-resists-backing-mersch.html
Euro-area finance ministers put off
a decision on filling an upcoming vacancy on the European
Central Bank’s Executive Board as  France  resisted endorsing the
front-running candidate, Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch.  “We need time,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
told reporters yesterday at a meeting of the finance ministers
in Copenhagen. “We need a global accord” that includes
decisions on posts such as chairman of euro finance meetings and
the head of the European Stability Mechanism, he said.  Mersch,  Europe ’s longest-serving central banker since the
euro was introduced, is running against rival candidates from
 Spain  and Slovenia. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said Jan.
20 that his country wants Spain, the region’s fourth-largest
economy, to stay represented on the ECB board.  A decision on the post will be delayed until mid-April,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters
yesterday. He called Mersch the “best candidate ever proposed”
and said “the French government can’t yet signal approval, even
though approval is in the air.”  Asked whether he's confident that Mersch will be appointed,
Juncker told reporters yesterday that ``the point is that I
said I will step down and that has paved the way for Mr. 
Mersch.''  Spain said it won’t pull its nominee, Antonio Sainz de
Vicuna, head of legal services at the ECB. The third candidate
is Mitja Gaspari, the former head of Slovenia’s central bank.  Inflation Hawk  The candidates are vying for the post being vacated by
Spain’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo at the end of May.  Mersch, 62, is the only central banker still in office
since the euro was introduced in 1999. As Luxembourg’s
representative on the ECB’s wider policy-setting council, he
earned a reputation as an inflation hawk.  With the ECB now run by  Mario Draghi  of Italy and Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  of Portugal, northern countries back
Luxembourg’s candidate as a way of arresting a perceived shift
of power toward southern Europe.  Luxembourg, the European Union’s richest country in per
capita terms, is one of four euro-region nations to emerge from
two years of fighting the debt crisis with its top AAA credit
rating intact.  “For the balance of the board, it’s important to see if
the four AAA rated countries are sufficiently represented,”
Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager of the Netherlands, also top-
rated, said on March 7.  AAA Rating  Mersch’s arrival would leave two AAA countries, Luxembourg
and Germany, with board representation. The remaining seats are
held by  Italy , Portugal, France and Belgium. The six board
members are joined once a month in Frankfurt by the 17 heads of
national central banks for the monetary assessment.  Finance ministers can settle the nomination via
teleconference, Juncker said. The nominee would face a European
Parliament hearing and non-binding vote before starting an
eight-year term on June 1. The parliament has no power to block
ECB appointments and has never issued a negative recommendation.  Mersch’s appointment would raise expectations that Juncker
will step down as the chairman of euro finance meetings. Germany
is angling to win that job for its Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , with opposition coming from southern countries upset
with his handling of bailout politics. A German in that role
would likely bar  Germany ’s Klaus Regling, manager of the
temporary rescue fund, from running the permanent fund to be set
up in July.  France has set its sights on the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development presidency when the term of its
current president,  Thomas Mirow  of Germany, ends later this
year.  “It’s a bit of a merry-go-round,” Baroin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Copenhagen at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Copenhagen at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  