-- Euro Poised to Strengthen, Citigroup’s Englander Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-30T14:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/euro-poised-to-strengthen-citigroup-s-englander-says-tom-keene.html
The euro will strengthen against
the dollar in the coming months as investor focus moves to the
U.S. and the potential for additional stimulus, according to
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Steven Englander.  “The euro is going to drift upwards,” Englander, head of
Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in New York, said
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance,” with
Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “As the market becomes convinced
that Europe is determined not to allow the tail risk to be the
dominant force in determining where the euro goes, focus is
going to shift back to the U.S.”  European governments capped fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros ($666 billion), after a Germany-led coalition
opposed further expansion. Adding the 300 billion euros already
committed to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , euro-area finance
ministers put the total size of the firewall at 800 billion
euros.  “However inelegant and clumsy the process has been,”
Englander said, “the Europeans are showing that determination
to hold the euro zone together and prevent the sovereign crisis
from spiraling out of hand.”  The euro advanced 0.3 percent against the greenback to
$1.3341 at 10:16 a.m. in  New York . It has strengthened 2.3
percent against the dollar in the first quarter.  ‘A Miracle’  That the euro is trading as strong as it is “has to be
viewed as something of a miracle,” he said. “We have been
through so many ups and downs, the euro should have died 10
times by now.”  The euro has been supported this week by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments on March 26, according to
Englander. Bernanke said that “continued accommodative
policies” will be needed to see further improvement in the
 unemployment rate , increasing speculation of additional monetary
stimulus.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  was 8.3 percent in February,
down from 10 percent in December 2009. The rate is forecast to
remain steady in March when figures are released April 6,
according to 31 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Bernanke’s comments this week suggested the economy isn’t
quite as strong as the market was thinking going into the
quarter-end,” Englander said. “The need for stimulus certainly
seems to be upmost on his mind, and typically that is dollar
negative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  