-- European Stocks Retreat for Second Week After S&P Warning
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/european-stocks-retreat-for-second-week-after-s-p-warning.html
European stocks  fell for a second
week as  Standard & Poor’s  said Greece may have to restructure
its debt again and a European Central Bank policy maker said a
bigger firewall will not solve the fiscal crisis.  Lenders and oil companies led the drop, with  Banca Popolare
di Milano Scarl (PMI)  slumping 14 percent and  Total SA (FP)  losing 6.1
percent.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  plunged 18 percent after the U.K. bus
and train operator said its bus business faced “challenging
trading conditions.”  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , Italy’s biggest defense
company, rallied 15 percent after forecasting a return to profit
in 2012.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 0.9 percent to 263.32
this past week, even after jumping 1 percent on March 30. The
benchmark measure  climbed 7.7 percent in the first quarter , its
best performance during the first three months of the year since
2006, as the ECB disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in
three-year loans to the region’s financial institutions and U.S.
economic reports beat estimates.  “The markets started the first quarter with a dash, but
the finish seems to be a lumbered one as liquidity fuel dries
out,” said  Manish Singh , the London-based head of investment at
Crossbridge Capital, which has more than $2 billion under
management. “The same old worries still linger -- slowing gross
domestic product growth in  Europe  and a likelihood of Europe’s
sovereign stresses flaring again. However, the selloff in the
market is more a case of lack of buyers than eagerness to
sell.”  National benchmark indexes dropped in 15 out of 18 western-
European markets this past week.  France ’s CAC 40 Index and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 1.5 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
Index decreased 1 percent.  Greece’s Debt Restructuring  Greece  will probably have to restructure its debt again,
 Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings at S&P, said at an
event on March 28.  There may be “down the road, I’m not predicting today
when, another restructuring of the outstanding debt,” he said.
“At that time, maybe the official creditors need to come into
the boat.”  Euro-area finance ministers, meeting in Copenhagen on March
30, set the maximum lending capacity of the proposed European
Stability Mechanism at 500 billion euros ($667 billion) and the
combined lending limit of the ESM and the temporary fund -- the
European Financial Stability Facility -- at 700 billion euros.  Euro-Area Firewall  In addition to the 102 billion euros already paid to
support current rescue programs, the new limit takes the total
size of the firewall to 800 billion euros, the Eurogroup said in
a  statement .  “Robust firewalls have been established,” the ministers
said in the statement. “This comprehensive strategy has paid
off and led to a significant improvement in market conditions.”  ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said on March 28
that increasing the rescue funds’ capacity won’t solve the debt
crisis.  “Just like the ‘Tower of Babel,’ the wall of money will
never reach heaven,” he said in a speech at  Chatham House  in
 London . “If we continue to make it higher and higher, we will,
in fact, run into more worldly constraints,” which might
include setting “incentives that lead to new problems in the
future.”  A gauge of lenders was the worst performer of the 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  this past week, slumping 3.4
percent.  Banca Popolare di Milano , the oldest Italian
cooperative bank, plunged 14 percent after posting a net loss of
614 million euros in 2011 after a goodwill writedown of 336
million euros in the fourth quarter. The lender made a profit in
2010.  Monte dei Paschi  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  tumbled 11 percent
after posting a record loss of 4.99 billion euros in its fourth
quarter.  Italy’s third-largest lender  took 4.5 billion euros of
writedowns for acquisitions including its purchase of Banca
Antonveneta in 2007.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the  Mediterranean nation’s
biggest lender , slid 17 percent. Spain’s Banco Sabadell SA lost
9 percent.  Total declined 6.1 percent as  Europe’s third-largest oil
company  sought to stop a gas leak on its Elgin platform in the
U.K.  North Sea . The rig supplied more than 1 percent of
Britain’s gas last year, according to the Department of Energy
and Climate Change.  Petroplus Holdings AG, formerly Europe’s largest
independent oil refiner, plunged 71 percent this past week after
saying that it plans to delist its shares in May. The company
also said a Swiss court granted it bankruptcy proceedings for
six months until Sept. 27, with the company’s stock expected to
stop trading on May 11.  FirstGroup Plummets  FirstGroup slumped 18 percent, its biggest weekly retreat
in three years.  The company  predicted operating profit at its
bus unit of about 8 percent of sales in the financial year
ending 2013. That compared with analysts’ estimates of about 12
percent, Bank of America Corp. said in a note on March 29.  Finmeccanica surged 15 percent after it forecast a return
to profit this year after posting a net loss of 2.35 billion
euros for 2011. Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi said that
he sees no more exceptional losses in the future. The company
forecast earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of
about 1.1 billion euros in 2012, higher than the average analyst
estimate of 935 million euros.  Separately,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported that Hitachi Ltd. has
held advanced talks with Finmeccanica to buy 50 percent of
AnsaldoBreda SpA and 29 percent of Ansaldo STS SpA.  The mean daily volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx
600 this past week was 3.6 percent lower than the average over
the last 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of option prices on the
Euro Stoxx 50 index, rose 4.1 percent this past week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  