-- Everstone-Backed ReGen May Raise Funds by April, IPO Next Year
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-30T07:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/everstone-backed-regen-may-raise-funds-by-april-ipo-next-year.html
ReGen Powertech Pvt., the second-
biggest Indian supplier of  wind turbines , is in talks to raise 2
billion rupees ($39 million) from two private-equity investors.  The company expects to close the deal by April 15, Managing
Director Madhusudan Khemka said in an interview in Chennai
yesterday. ReGen is also considering an initial public offering
in 12 to 15 months, he said.  India , the third-biggest wind market, is attracting
investments as the cost of wind power closes in to that of coal-
based electricity amid a surge in the price of fossil-fuel
imports. Developers’ bids in auctions for coal-fired power
stations have ranged from $49 to $78 a megawatt-hour, against
tariffs for wind farms of $66 to $105 a megawatt-hour, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bought a majority stake in Mumbai-
based ReNew Wind Power Pvt. for $200 million in September.
Morgan Stanley may invest $200 million in Continuum Energy Pte.,
the Times of India reported this month.  ReGen, which has orders to build 4,300 megawatts of wind
capacity, is seeking funds to buy sites for new farms and to
invest in power distribution infrastructure for its projects,
Khemka said.  In December, the company raised 600 million rupees from the
private equity arm of  Infrastructure Development Finance Co. (IDFC)  and
400 million rupees from MCap Fund Advisors. In 2007, Everstone
Capital Advisors Pvt., started by two former Goldman Sachs
executives, invested 550 million rupees in ReGen, which has a
turbine technology partnership with  Germany ’s Vensys Energy AG,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  