-- Mexican Peso Posts Best Quarter Since ‘93 on U.S. Growth
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-30T21:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/mexican-peso-heads-for-best-quarter-since-93-on-u-s-growth.html
Mexico ’s peso posted its best
quarter on record as the currency benefits from an improving
outlook for the  U.S. economy , the chief destination for the
Latin American country’s exports.  The peso surged 8.8 percent this quarter to 12.8107 per
 U.S. dollar  as of 3 p.m. in Mexico City, erasing most of last
year’s 11.4 percent slide and outperforming all other major
currencies. It declined 0.1 percent today. The quarterly advance
is the most since the government reset the peso in 1993.  With stronger growth in the U.S. economy, “it seems like
Mexico is in a sweet spot” as the peso outperforms emerging-
market peers, said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
 Consumer spending  in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of Mexico’s
exports, rose in February by the most in seven months, Commerce
Department figures showed today.  “For that greater alignment with the U.S., Mexico stands
to benefit the most and to outperform  emerging markets  in the
context of a stronger dollar,” Cattan-Naslausky said in a
telephone interview. “One of the reasons that the currency is
performing well is that Mexico remains balanced in terms of
inflation growth.”  Mexico’s central bank directors were unanimous in their
decision announced March 16 to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record-low 4.5 percent, according to the minutes
of the meeting published today. A majority of the five members
of the board of policy makers said inflationary risks in Mexico
have declined, according to the minutes.  Mexican Inflation  Annual inflation eased to 3.87 percent last month after
breaching the 4 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target
range in January.  Most of the central bank board members agreed that “if
current favorable conditions in the inflation outlook are
consolidated, it may be advisable to adjust to the downside the
reference interest rate,” according to the minutes.  The minutes show that a majority of the members “would
like to cut rates, but the conditions are not there yet,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc,
said by phone. An appreciation of the peso to 12 per U.S. dollar
or an additional round of economic stimulus from U.S. policy
makers will likely prompt Banco de Mexico to lower rates, Tuesta
said.  U.S. consumer confidence rose to a one-year high in March
while jobless claims fell to the lowest since February 2008,
helping fuel demand for Mexican goods that lifted its exports to
a record in the first two months of the year.  Economic Growth  The expansion in the world’s biggest economy will quicken
to 2.2 percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2011, according to
the median estimate of 72 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Mexico’s economy may grow as much as 4 percent after expanding
3.9 percent in 2011,  Banco de Mexico  Governor Agustin Carstens
said March 23 during an interview in Mexico City.  Yields on Mexican inflation-linked peso bonds maturing in
December 2013 fell the most in three weeks, dropping three basis
points to 1.71 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The securities tied to consumer-price increases may be
rallying as investors bet that a cut in the  reference rate  could
lead to faster inflation in the future, according to Tuesta.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.47 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.24
centavo to 130.53 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  