-- Expedia Files Antitrust Complaint Against Google With EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-30T19:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/expedia-files-european-union-antitrust-complaint-against-google.html
Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  filed an antitrust
complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  with European Union regulators,
adding to earlier grievances brought against the world’s largest
search-engine operator by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The complaint by the online travel company “details
specific business and search practices by Google that constitute
a violation of European Union competition and consumer
protection laws,” Expedia said in a statement, which didn’t
provide specifics of the allegations.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  “We haven’t yet seen the complaint, but we’ve been working
to explain how our business works, cooperating with the European
Commission since this investigation began,” Al Verney, a Google
spokesman based in Brussels, said in an e-mail statement.
“We’re happy to discuss any concerns the Commission might
have.”  Google  introduced  a flight-search service last year that
“excludes any link to online travel agencies,” which hampers
customers’ comparison shopping, an outside counsel for Bellevue,
Washington-based Expedia told a U.S. Senate subcommittee in
September. Google’s actions strayed from a commitment it made to
U.S. regulators to gain approval to buy ITA Software Inc., he
said.  “Strong action is needed by the European Commission to
restore a fair and competitive marketplace in online search that
respects consumers’ rights,” Expedia said in the statement.  The European Commission received the complaint today,
spokesman Antoine Colombani said in a telephone interview.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, may
decide next month on whether to proceed with a case against
Google, he told CNBC in an interview today. The EU is
investigating claims Google discriminated against other services
in its search results and stopped some websites from accepting
rival ads. Microsoft and shopping-comparison site Foundem are
among companies that asked for a review of Google’s actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 