-- MF Global Trustee to Return $685 Million to Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-30T23:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/mf-global-trustee-to-return-685-million-to-customers.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s plan to distribute
$685 million drew criticism from the trustee for its parent and
objections from the defunct brokerage’s customers.  Louis Freeh , the trustee for bankrupt  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) , said in court papers filed today that there is a
“disconnect” on estimates of what is missing from customer
accounts and the amounts to be paid. Customers of the failed
brokerage also filed objections to the distributions in court
papers today.  MF Global Inc. is seeking a bankruptcy judge’s permission
to distribute another $685 million to customers, which would
bring them from 72 percent to about 80 percent of what they’re
owed for funds missing from their segregated accounts. A trustee
for the brokerage unit in a case under the Securities Investor
Protection Act, James Giddens, has estimated there is a $1.6
billion shortfall in what they’re owed.  “There appears to be a growing disconnect between the SIPA
trustee’s position on the amount of alleged ‘missing’ customer
property and what the facts support,” lawyers for Freeh wrote
in the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Freeh cited an estimate from the CME Group Inc. that the
missing funds total $500 million to $600 million. CME, the
world’s largest futures exchange, had auditing authority over
the failed brokerage.  Liquidation  MF Global Holdings filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy
on Oct. 31 with debt of almost $40 billion after making $6.3
billion in bets on sovereign debt and getting margin calls. Its
operating unit, MF Global Inc., was put into liquidation under
SIPA. Giddens oversees that liquidation to repay customers,
while Freeh oversees the wind-down of the parent company to
repay creditors including JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We stand by our gap number,”  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman
for Giddens, said in a statement.  The planned distribution is for “customers who suffered
when MF Global failed” and the trustee will do all in his power
to make the distribution despite the opposition, Jarrell said.  A group of six individuals and two funds calling themselves
“Certain MF Global Inc. Claimants” objected to the
distribution, saying there wasn’t enough information disclosed.
The distribution would differ from past ones because it calls
for customers to agree to certain conditions. What those
conditions are, and whether the trustee might require a release
from lawsuits, isn’t known, the group said.  Claim Releases  A group calling itself the “Commodities Customers” also
objected, saying the conditions could force them to give up
claims against third parties.  By requiring a release, Giddens would “coerce futures
account customers of MFGI to assign to him their claims against
third parties as a condition to receive disbursements of their
own money,” lawyers for the group wrote.  Freeh said Giddens is in the best position to determine
whether $1.6 billion or $500 million to $600 million is missing,
and that he needs to explain whether the assets are actually
missing, or whether some have been identified and are outside of
his control. Freeh also said there’s been a lack of progress in
distributing securities customers’ property, which is treated
differently from that of commodity customers.  An updated report giving more information to customers and
creditors is needed, Freeh said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  