-- Finland’s Katainen ‘Quite Sure’ IMF Will Top Up Europe Aid Fund
-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e ,   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-30T18:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/finland-s-katainen-quite-sure-imf-will-top-up-europe-aid-fund.html
Finnish Prime Jyrki Katainen said
he’s confident the  International Monetary Fund  will top up
Europe’s $1 trillion dollar rescue funds.  “I’m quite sure the IMF will increase the firewall,”
Katainen said in an interview with Bloomberg TV in  London  today.
“I am eager to await how much the IMF is ready to do.”  Even though European governments today capped fresh lending
at 500 billion euros ($667 billion) after a Germany-led
coalition opposed a further increase of the region’s aid
package, the “firewall is high enough” and “credible,”
Katainen said.  Policy makers are trying to strike a balance between
meeting international demands for a more powerful war chest to
shield Italy and  Spain , and opposition in donor countries to
providing additional aid for underperforming economies on the
currency bloc’s fringes.  Adding the 300 billion euros already committed to  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  since 2010, euro-area finance ministers put
the total size of the firewall at 800 billion euros. In a
statement, they ruled out using the 240 billion euros left in
the temporary rescue fund to go beyond that.  Katainen said further boosting the funds would start
“causing harm to the countries” as “markets are sensing that
liabilities are too much for some countries; then it doesn’t
help anybody.”  Firewall Calculation  Euro-region national central banks plan to steer 150
billion euros to the IMF as a down-payment toward other
countries chipping in. That sum was left out of Europe’s
firewall calculation because it would be managed by the global
powers that run the Washington-based IMF.  Asked what would happen if the IMF doesn’t come up with
further funds, Katainen said that he would “hope for instance
that the U.K. could participate.” For now the “British
government has not been asked yet.”  Katainen also called on countries in southern  Europe  to
proceed with austerity measures and structural changes to help
them regain competitiveness and boost economic growth.  “If southern European countries don’t have better
competitiveness, then nothing will really change,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  