-- Fitch Blasts S&P Ratings on Credit Suisse Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-30T22:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/fitch-blasts-s-p-ratings-on-credit-suisse-mortgage-securities.html
Ratings being assigned by Standard
& Poor’s in a $730 million mortgage-bond deal by  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  are too high, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “While asked to provide feedback on the transaction, Fitch
was ultimately not asked to rate the deal due to the agency’s
more conservative credit stance,” the New York-based ratings
firm said today in an e-mailed statement.  The so-called credit enhancement, or protection for
investors against defaults on the underlying loans, on top-rated
classes totals 8 percent, compared with the 9.75 percent that
Fitch would demand even when considering the “high quality
mortgage collateral,” the firm said. Fitch also expressed
concern about the “appraisal process” of  MetLife Inc. (MET) ’s home-
loan unit, which it said made 82 percent of the mortgages.  Rating companies have stepped up their public criticism of
competitors’ grades on securitized debt after investors and
lawmakers accused them of lowering standards to win business as
issuers practiced so-called ratings shopping during the credit
boom. A report by a Senate panel last year, after the bubble
began to burst in 2007, sparking a global financial crisis,
described the industry as engaging in “a race to the bottom.”  Jack Grone, a spokesman in  New York  for Credit Suisse, and
 John Calagna , a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, declined
to comment.  “The market benefits from a diversity of opinions on
credit risk,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘Seasoned’ Jumbo Mortgages  S&P is assigning AAA ratings to $682.6 million of the bonds
being sold by Credit Suisse, which are backed mostly by
“seasoned” so-called jumbo prime mortgages, according to a
statement today by that New York-based rating company. Other
portions of the transaction are also getting inflated rankings,
Fitch said. The loans are eight months old on average, with
balances averaging $880,756 each, Fitch said in a report.  DBRS Ltd. also graded the transaction, which settled today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “DBRS rated the transaction in accordance with its
published methodologies,” Catherine Chiarot, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based DBRS, said in an e-mail.  Fitch said its concern that the deal’s investor protections
aren’t strong enough stemmed in part from the results of reviews
of appraisals that suggested MetLife’s property valuations are
unsound. Due diligence showed 8.4 percent of the pool was loans
made by the insurer “whose original values could not be
supported by secondary appraisal tools,” Fitch said.  Loss Rates  MetLife said in January that it was shutting its home
mortgage-origination operation, costing the company at least $90
million and most of the 4,300 employees at the unit their jobs.  Reviews of the insurer’s “underwriting guidelines and
third-party due diligence resulted in more conservative
assumptions being applied to loss rates on certain loans” by
DBRS, according to a report today by that company.  Chimera Investment Corp. (CIM) , the New York-based real estate
investment trust, was expected to buy the junior classes of the
transaction, according to the Fitch report. Credit Suisse wasn’t
expected to retain any of the debt, Fitch said.  Chimera “took an active part in the asset selection
process,” according to the report. A unit of Credit Suisse
bought the mortgages not originated by MetLife from other
lenders led by Quicken Loans Inc. and PHH Corp. under a program
in which it acquires debt on a loan-by-loan basis, DBRS said.  Annaly Capital  Jay Diamond, a spokesman for Annaly Capital Management
Inc., which manages Chimera, declined to immediately comment.  Notes backed by older loans or existing bonds have
represented most of the new U.S. residential-mortgage securities
without government backing since the market froze in 2008.
Transactions last year totaled $20.6 billion, according to
 newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert.  Issuance of so-called non-agency securities tied to new
home loans, typically considered those less than a year old,
totals approximately $1.6 billion since 2008, compared with a
peak of about $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006, according to
data from Bloomberg and newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  Redwood Trust Inc., the sole issuer of new-loan bonds since
the market seized, sold securities backed by about $325 million
of mortgages on March 27. Fitch and Kroll Bond Rating Agency
graded those notes, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s Investors Service in a report this month described
as “inappropriate” the rankings granted by S&P and DBRS to a
subprime auto-debt securitization. In 2010, S&P said that it saw
risks in jumbo home-loan bonds given top grades by Moody’s.
Fitch criticized a mortgage-servicing deal ranked by S&P and
DBRS last year.  After S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA grade in August,
borrowing costs for the government fell to record lows and
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said S&P erred and the
nation should be rated “quadruple-A.”  A survey of 1,031 Bloomberg subscribers last year found
that 67 percent backed the downgrade, though 35 percent said the
grades given by rating firms aren’t reliable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  