-- Flaherty Bets on Oil in Budget as Canada Cuts 12,000 Jobs
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/flaherty-bets-on-oil-in-budget-as-canada-cuts-12-000-jobs.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is betting  oil companies  such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and
Enbridge Inc. will boost the world’s 10th largest economy out of
a sluggish recovery.  Flaherty released a 2012  fiscal plan  yesterday that pledges
to expedite the environmental review of Enbridge’s Northern
Gateway pipeline, which would move crude from  Alberta ’s  oil
sands  to  Asia , capitalizing on demand for natural resources. The
measure comes in a budget that includes the firing of 12,000
government workers and defers defense spending to eliminate a
deficit by 2015.  “ We want to be with the emerging economies,” Flaherty
told reporters in Ottawa. “We want to be with the economies of
Asia and  South America  that are growing.”  Since winning a parliamentary majority in last year’s
elections, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative
government has pledged to bolster Canada’s long-term finances
and take steps to support  economic growth , in part by developing
the country’s resource wealth and encouraging business
investment.  Flaherty’s budget forecasts Canada’s growth will slow to
2.1 percent this year from 2.5 percent in 2011, before
accelerating to 2.4 percent in the next three years. Canada
averaged annual growth of 3.1 percent in the decade before the
global recession.  Policy makers, including Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , have urged Canadian businesses to take over from
indebted households and boost investment to sustain the economic
expansion. Yesterday’s budget includes measures to encourage
research and innovation and speed immigration for skilled
workers.  Flaherty, in his seventh fiscal plan, announced spending
cuts totaling C$21 billion ($21 billion) over the next five
years that will help reduce the country’s deficits by a
cumulative C$18.4 billion. The budget released in Ottawa kept
Flaherty’s 2015-16 timetable for a return to surplus.  “The Canadian economy is running pretty well, so they’re
just fine-tuning the engine to make sure it runs well,” said
 Craig Wright , chief economist of Royal Bank of  Canada .  Recent data have shown weakening  jobs growth , prompting
Flaherty to boost employment insurance benefits in regions with
high unemployment rates. More generous jobless payments will
cost the government C$2.7 billion over six years, according to
the budget.  To encourage investments in resources, Flaherty’s plan
seeks to expedite energy projects by consolidating the agencies
that conduct environmental reviews, setting hard deadlines on
the process and allowing provincial agencies to study smaller
projects in a bid to reduce duplication.  Alberta, home to the world’s third largest pool of oil
reserves and Canada’s lowest unemployment rate, is working to
increase capacity to transport crude amid opposition from
environmental groups as companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Suncor invest about C$20 billion annually in the oil sands.  The government began hearings in January on Enbridge’s
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline, which has become a
flashpoint between environmentalists and Harper’s government.
Regulators have received more than 4,000 requests by individuals
to testify at public hearings.  Environmental and aboriginal groups say the project will
increase the risk of an  oil spill  off the coast of British
Columbia. The regulatory panel has said it plans to complete the
review by the end of 2013.  An improving fiscal outlook allowed the federal government
to limit cuts to federal  government spending . Canada’s deficit
in the fiscal year ending this month will come in at C$24.9
billion, less than the C$31 billion projected in Flaherty’s last
 update  in November, because of faster-than-projected growth.  Departmental spending cuts, which don’t include transfers
to individuals or provinces, will total C$5.2 billion annually
when fully implemented. The departments of defense and health
and public safety face the biggest reductions. The government
had said it was considering cuts of as much as C$8 billion.  Federal  employment  will fall by 19,200, or 4.8 percent of
the total, including 7,200 positions to be cut by expected
attrition.  Growth in program spending, projected at C$245.3 billion
next year, will average 2.1 percent over the next five years,
reducing it as a share of GDP to 12.8 percent by 2016, its
lowest since 2005. Total spending, including public debt
charges, is projected to grow 1.2 percent to C$276.1 billion in
the 2012-13 fiscal year. The federal debt as a share of output
is forecast to rise to 34.4 percent in the next fiscal year
before falling 28.5 percent in 2016-17.  “This is the furthest thing from an austerity budget,”
said Catherine Swift, president of the Canadian Federation of
Independent Business. “Program spending continues to rise every
year simply at a lower rate.”  Revenue is forecast to grow by an average 4.7 percent over
the past five years.  The plan forecasts deficits of C$21.1 billion in the year
starting April 1, C$10.2 billion in 2013-14, and C$1.3 billion
in 2014-15. Surpluses of C$3.4 billion in 2015-16 and C$7.8
billion in 2016-17 are projected.  To secure the country’s finances into next decade, Flaherty
pledged to introduce legislation raising the eligibility for the
Old Age Security pension to 67 from 65. The changes start in
2023, with a six-year phase-in. The plan also gives Canadians
the option to defer payments until later years in exchange for
higher benefits.  Deferred defense spending will save about C$2.9 billion
over the next five years, with the elimination of tax credits
and what the budget calls “loopholes” raising C$1.7 billion.  Among the measures to bolster business spending, Flaherty
is setting aside C$400 million for venture capital funding,
increasing support for business research and providing
additional cash for university infrastructure. Measures to boost
employment and growth will total C$3.7 billion over five years.  Even with a shrinking deficit, the government will issue a
net C$97 billion of bonds next year, up from C$94 billion. The
government will add an auction of 10-year bonds while reducing
the amount of Treasury Bills it sells.  The government also announced it will stop production of
the penny this year, as each one-cent coin costs 1.6 cents to
make. The measure will save C$11 million a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  