-- Ford Bets Glass Roof Will Reverse 63% Lincoln Sales Drop
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-03-30T16:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/ford-bets-glass-roof-will-reverse-63-lincoln-sales-drop.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , determined to lift
the lid on Lincoln sales, is popping the top on the newest model
in its luxury line: The MKZ sedan arriving later this year will
feature a retractable glass roof.  Lincoln will demonstrate its heavenly view at the New York
auto show April 4. At the push of a button, the 15-square-foot
glass roof will recede over the MKZ’s rear window, said C.J.
O’Donnell, the brand’s marketing manager. The two-foot by two-
and-a-half foot void that’s created is the biggest opening of
any glass roof in the car business, he said, and part of a trend
of moon roofs being replaced by so-called panoramic roofs.  “People are in a place today where they want to bring the
outside in,” O’Donnell said in an interview. “There’s a trend
in architecture and design of increasing natural light in
offices, homes, restaurants, hotels. Now that’s being translated
into the vehicle.”  Ford figures a glass ceiling will finally help Lincoln
break through. The lagging luxury line, whose buyers average 65
years old, has seen sales slide 63 percent since peaking in
1990. As  Lincoln  attempts to attract younger, wealthier buyers
with seven new models by 2015, retractable glass roofs will
become “a signature design element,” O’Donnell said.  Maybach to Fiat  The humble sunroof has been morphing over the past decade
into a vast, glassy expanse. Panoramic roofs can be found on
vehicles from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s $423,500 Maybach 62 to a $15,500 Fiat
500 to  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s new taxi. Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford says more than 80 percent of buyers of the Lincoln MKS
sedan choose a dual-panel moon roof with glass over both the
front and back seats.  Driving the desire for greater transparency overhead are
modern car designs that, for aesthetics and safety, have pulled
door lines higher, creating a “tank-like feeling,” said  Dave Sullivan , product analyst at AutoPacific Inc. in Troy, Michigan.  “Panoramic roofs have really opened up the cabin and take
away that feeling of claustrophobia,” Sullivan said. “People
love the open-air feeling.”  As soon as Lincoln unveiled a concept of its glass-roofed
MKZ at the Detroit auto show in January, John Thomas’s phone
began ringing. The Detroit-based vice president of business
development at auto supplier Webasto AG was deluged with calls
from other automakers interested in the roof the Stockdorf,
Germany-based company had developed for Lincoln.  ‘Big Buzz’  “There was a big buzz around town after the Detroit motor
show,” Thomas said in an interview. “They all wanted the
scuttlebutt on that roof. Business has been phenomenal.”  Convertibles always have offered the ultimate open-air
experience. Yet when the top is up, the sun no longer shines
inside the cabin. Plus, convertibles are a $5,000 to $6,000
option, while panoramic roofs run $1,500 to $2,500, Thomas said.
Traditional sunroofs cost $700 to $1,100 and have declined in
popularity as demand for panoramic roofs soared, Thomas said.  “Panoramic roofs are taking off with almost every”
automaker, Thomas said. “They’re looking for ways to bring more
light and openness into the vehicle.”  It’s also a high-margin option for automakers, driving up
transaction prices and profits, said Joe Langley, an analyst
with auto researcher LMC Automotive in Troy,  Michigan .  “If you offer a panoramic roof as an option, you can get
quite a premium,” said Langley, who added that “glass and
technology” are the most common options automakers are offering
now to boost margins.  Available Option  Lincoln will offer its retractable glass roof as an option
on the MKZ so that it can still have a lower-priced model to
advertise, O’Donnell said. (The  2012 MKZ  starts at $34,755.) He
declined to give the option price for the glass roof, though he
expects most MKZ buyers will choose it.  “We think there will be good demand for this feature,” he
said. “This is a good business opportunity for us.”  Ford said today on its  website  it’s investing $1.3 billion
and hiring 1,000 workers at the factory in Hermosillo,  Mexico ,
that will produce the new MKZ alongside the Ford Fusion sedan.  Glass roofs got their start in  Europe , on models such as
the Peugeot 5008 and Opel Astra. There is a key cultural
difference: Europeans prefer their roofs sealed shut, while
Americans expect them to open, Thomas said.  “Fixed glass roofs have not been successful here like they
have in  France ,” Thomas said. “We expect them to open when
it’s nice out. To Americans, it’s like a fishbowl effect: People
feel trapped if they can’t open their roof.”  To make sure the MKZ roof was water-tight, Lincoln deluged
test models with thousands of gallons of water, while an
engineer inside used a pen light to look for leaks, O’Donnell
said.  SPF 100  “We tested that roof for over 14 months under the worst
monsoon conditions,” O’Donnell said. “The roof also has an SPF
factor of 100, so there’s no reason to worry about getting
sunburned.”  To reduce noise, an air dam deploys when the roof opens to
deflect the wind. When the car reaches 40 miles (64 km) per
hour, 8 inches of the roof slides forward to mitigate the noise.  The roof also is designed to withstand a rollover, with a
high-strength aluminum and boron steel frame that is built into
the structure of the car, O’Donnell said. The roof is made of
tempered safety glass that is 5 millimeters thick to cut noise.  The “Achilles’ heel” of glass roofs is that they add
weight, which reduces gas mileage, said AutoPacific’s Sullivan.
Some automakers are working with polycarbonate glazing instead
of glass, which can cut weight by 50 percent. Toyota’s Prius V
wagon has an optional two-panel moon roof made of polycarbonate
plastic.  “The next big thing is to go to polycarbonate materials
for the roof,” Sullivan said.  Small-Car Start  Small cars, such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s redesigned Beetle, are
going glassy to try to attract buyers turned off by cramped
spaces, LMC’s Langley said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s (BMW)  Mini
subcompact has offered a panoramic roof since its 2002 debut.  “The best way to get people who don’t want to be in small
cars is to introduce more light,” Langley said. “You can get
into a Mini with a panoramic roof and it feels more open than a
larger car like a Dodge Challenger or a Chevy Camaro.”  The latest converts to glass are car designers, who have
traditionally taken more pride in how they bend the metal.  “We’re doing a lot of interesting things with glass now,”
said John Cafaro, exterior designer of the 2013 Chevy Impala
debuting at the  New York show  next week. “It’s definitely a
trend: glass as a sculptural tool.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  