-- France to Study Ban on Syngenta Pesticide on Bee Research
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-30T15:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/france-to-study-withdrawing-syngenta-pesticide-after-bee-study.html
France’s  Agriculture Ministry  asked
the country’s food-security and environment agency to study
revoking approval of  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s Cruiser insecticide, after
new research on the pesticide’s toxicity to honeybees.  The ministry previously said it would start a procedure to
withdraw approval for Cruiser, whose active ingredient is the
chemical thiamethoxam, in case new science raised questions
about the insecticide, according to a  statement  on the
government’s website late yesterday.  Honeybees fed a dose of thiamethoxam were about twice as
likely as untreated bees to die away from the hive, suggesting
the chemical interfered with the insects’ ability to find their
way home, according to a study led by Mickael Henry of France’s
National Institute for Agricultural Research, or INRA, published
in the journal Science yesterday.  “If the new scientific data are confirmed, the
authorization to market Cruiser would be withdrawn,” the
ministry wrote.  Cruiser has been used on millions of hectares of corn and
rapeseed in  Europe  in the past four years without reported
incidents of bee mortality, according to Mark Titterington, a
spokesman for Syngenta.  “If used correctly, no bee mortality is reported,”
Titterington said by phone. “We have a 10-year registration and
unless that changes we have no concern.”  France is the European Union’s largest agricultural
producer, and the 27-nation bloc’s largest grower of wheat,
rapeseed, corn and sugar beets. Cruiser can be used to coat the
seeds of crops ranging from barley to zucchini, according to the
Syngenta website.  Field Research  The ministry said it asked INRA and the Association of
Agricultural Technical Coordination to speed up field research
to assess whether the results of the study can be replicated in
real-life conditions.  The INRA study “appears to have exposed bees to a
concentration level 30 times greater than the average
concentration of thiamethoxam measured in nectar in the field,
of rapeseed treated with thiamethoxam,” Titterington said.  The French researchers said they fed honeybees a non-lethal
dose of the insecticide similar to levels found in the field.  France  also said it will ask the European Commission and
the European Food Safety Authority to look into the study and if
appropriate adjust the framework for evaluating pesticides’
effect on bees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  