-- French Police Arrest 19 Islamic Radicals, Sarkozy Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-30T14:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/french-police-arrest-19-islamic-radicals-sarkozy-says-1-.html
Just over a week after killing a
self-declared jihadist who murdered seven people in the Toulouse
area, French police arrested 19 people involved in radical
Islamist networks across the country.  “These arrests are linked to the world of a certain sort
of radical Islam,” President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in an
interview today with Europe1 radio.  Kalashnikov automatic weapons were found in the homes of
some of those arrested, he said, adding that there may be
additional raids across the country. Sarkozy said the arrests
aren’t related to Mohamed Merah, who murdered three soldiers,
and slayed three children and a French-Israeli teacher at a
Jewish school in a nine-day shooting spree this month.  Sarkozy, who faces an election in 23 days, has sought in
recent days to show he’s tough on security issues.  France 
yesterday decided to deny visas to four Islamic preachers who
had been invited to an Islamic conference next month.  “What must be understood is that the trauma of Montauban
and Toulouse is profound for our country, a little -- I don’t
want to compare the horrors -- a little like the trauma that
followed in the  United States  and in  New York  after the
September 11, 2001 attacks,” he told Europe 1.  The arrests took place in and around cities including
Paris, Marseille, Nice, Nantes and Toulouse, Agence France-
Presse reported, citing the police.  Opposition Left Front candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon called
the comparison of the shootings in the Toulouse area to the
attacks on Sept. 11 as “totally disproportionate,” AFP said.  Narrowing Poll Gap  Sarkozy has narrowed the gap in support against Socialist
candidate  Francois Hollande  in the decisive second round of the
presidential election.  Sarkozy would get 47 percent of the votes if a run off were
held now, compared with 53 percent for Hollande, according to a
CSA poll for BFM TV, 20 Minutes newspaper and RMC radio
yesterday. That leaves a six-point gap, down from eight points a
week earlier and the smallest yet seen for the second round.  French voters chose their president for the coming five
years in two sets of votes scheduled for April 22 and May 6.
Sarkozy leads in the first round by a 30-to-26 margin, up from
30-to28 a week ago, the CSA poll showed.  Hollande has consistently led Sarkozy in second-round polls
since he declared his candidacy last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  