-- FX Concepts’s Taylor Exits Bets on Commodity Currencies
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-30T16:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/fx-concepts-s-taylor-exits-bets-on-commodity-currencies.html
John Taylor , founder of the
currency hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, said he is ending bets that
commodity-based currencies will appreciate as slowing Asia
growth damps metal prices.  “If you look at Australia or  South Africa , these
currencies have come under a lot of pressure as commodity prices
in general, copper, steel, iron and iron ore, have been heading
lower,”  Taylor said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” China’s growth “is headed
in the wrong direction. Imports of certain critical material are
going down, and prices are going down on the products that it
imports. It just doesn’t look healthy.”  China, the biggest trading partner of  Australia , lowered
its annual economic growth target on March 5 to 7.5 percent, the
lowest level in seven years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped
demand for the nation’s exports. An 8 percent goal had been in
place since 2005.  The Australian dollar decreased 0.1 percent to $1.0373 at
12:27 p.m. in  New York  after touching a two-month low of $1.0305
yesterday. The Aussie was poised for a 1.6 percent gain versus
the U.S. currency in the first quarter after climbing 5.7
percent in the last three months of 2011. South Africa’s rand
appreciated 0.7 percent to 7.6565 versus the dollar, extending
its quarterly advance to 5.7 percent.  Avoiding Asia  FX Concepts is “pretty much” avoiding purchases of all
Asian currencies expect the Japanese yen, said New York-based
Taylor, who manages about $4.5 billion in assets. “We are
looking to buy yen where as we are looking to stay short on
things like Korea and  Malaysia .” A short is a bet an asset will
decline in value.  Taylor and other foreign-exchange traders, facing lower
volatility and record-low  interest rates  in developed countries,
are purchasing so-called frontier currencies of such countries
as Kazakhstan, Nigeria and Peru.  “Places like Kazakhstan and Nigeria have looked much more
positive,” Taylor said. “The problem in frontier markets is
it’s hard to get in and even harder to get out, so you can’t put
too much into it. A Peru or Kazakhstan is safer than Nigeria or
a Ukraine.”  Countries rich in commodities or with high growth rates are
attracting investors after Europe’s debt crisis prompted them to
seek the safety of the dollar and yen in 2011.  Frontier Investments  Investec Asset Management Ltd., which trades currencies of
nations from Colombia to Uganda, said this month that demand for
assets in so-called frontier markets increased in the past six
months. Cambridge Strategy (Asset Management) Ltd. invested in
the Nigerian naira from December to February. Adrian Lee &
Partners, a money manager, will add positions in currencies
including  Kazakhstan ’s tenge and the Kenyan shilling by the end
of the second quarter.  Taylor is also betting on the currencies of Mexico and
Canada, which are poised to benefit from improving U.S. growth
and consumer spending.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the
last three months of 2011, the most in more than a year and the
same as previously estimated, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday in  Washington .  Taylor expects the yen to rebound versus the dollar over
the next few weeks after dropping 1.5 percent in March.  “The yen is an interesting side-line,” Taylor said. “It
obviously will be hurt by a slowing  China , but some much of the
yen is based on the flows in and out of the country for
investment reasons. Over the last seven to 10 years, the yen is
often weak in the month of March and then in the month of April
it starts to strengthen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  