-- Galloway Beats Labour in U.K. Parliament Election Upset
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-30T08:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/galloway-returns-to-u-k-parliament-after-special-election-win.html
George Galloway, who was expelled
from the U.K. Labour Party under Prime Minister  Tony Blair  over
his opposition to the  Iraq  War, was unexpectedly re-elected to
the House of Commons in a special election in northern  England .  Galloway, running for the Respect Party, took 56 percent of
the vote in yesterday’s election in the Bradford West district.
He beat Labour, the main opposition party in the Commons, which
previously held the seat, into second place. Labour’s candidate,
Imran Hussain, took 25 percent. Jackie Whiteley of Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives came third with 8.4
percent.  Bradford West had the third highest proportion of Muslim
residents of any electoral district at the time of the 2001
census, at 37.6 percent. Galloway, who was expelled from Labour
in 2003, took  Bethnal Green  and Bow in east London, the second
most Muslim constituency, from the party on an anti-war ticket
in 2005. He failed to win a seat in the Commons in 2010.  In his victory speech, Galloway described the result as the
“Bradford Spring,” and said Labour “must stop imagining that
working people and poor people have no option but to support
them if they hate the Tory and Liberal Democrat coalition
partners.”  Bookmakers Ladbrokes Plc said Galloway, who started the
campaign as a 33-1 outsider, had created such an upset it faced
payouts of as much as 100,000 pounds ($160,000), the biggest
ever for a British special election.  ‘Bandwagon’  Labour deputy leader  Harriet Harman  said the party
campaigned hard in Bradford but was overtaken by the Galloway
“bandwagon.”  “It’s a very disappointing result indeed,” she told BBC
Radio 4. “Twice as many people voted for Respect as voted for
Labour. There’s a particular issue in Bradford, and we’ve got to
understand it.”  Labour had enjoyed a poll boost nationally following the
government’s March 21 budget, which cut the top rate of income
tax and froze allowances for pensioners, drawing Labour
accusations that the only beneficiaries were millionaires.  William Hill Plc responded to the election result by
cutting the odds of Miliband quitting as Labour leader before
the next election.  Galloway’s appeal to Muslims is based on his vocal
opposition to the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In the run-up to the
attack, he expressed support for  Saddam Hussein  and called on
British troops to refuse to obey orders.  With debating skills honed on the floor of the House of
Commons, in 2005 he saw off accusations from the U.S. Senate
Committee on  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that he had been given
the right to buy oil from Iraq in return for his support for
Saddam.  The Bradford seat became vacant when Marsha Singh, who won
the district for Labour in the 2010 general election with 45
percent of the vote, retired at the start of March due to ill
health.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  