-- Galp Drops as Investors Agree on Plans for Eni’s Stake Sale
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-30T16:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/galp-drops-as-investors-agree-on-plans-for-eni-s-stake-sale-2-.html
Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  fell to the
lowest in two months in Lisbon trading after shareholders agreed
on a proposal for  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  to sell a stake, paving the
way for an exit from the largest Portuguese oil company.  Galp  dropped  3.2 percent to 12.34 euros, the lowest price
since Jan. 31. The stock has advanced 8.4 percent this year,
valuing Galp at 10.2 billion euros ($13.6 billion).  Eni, one of Galp’s two largest shareholders, agreed to sell
a 5 percent stake to Amorim Energia BV for an undisclosed price
within 150 days, it said in a statement yesterday. Eni’s 33
percent holding was valued at 3.5 billion euros at yesterday’s
close. Amorim, controlled by billionaire Americo Amorim and
part-owned by  Angola ’s Sonangol EP, also holds 33 percent.  Eni Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in February
he was ready to sell the stake as his company didn’t want to
remain a minority investor. The Italian company plans to divest
another holding of as much as 18 percent, or 20 percent if
convertible bonds are issued. The accord gives Amorim the option
to preempt stock sales or choose a buyer, and allows Caixa Geral
de Depositos SA to offload its 1 percent as Eni sells.  Under a previous shareholder agreement, which was valid
until March 2014, Eni had to get permission for a sale from
Amorim and Caixa Geral. Eni last year dropped a plan to sell the
stake to Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Earlier Accord Scrapped  “This agreement is positive as it allows Eni to sell its
stake in Galp without having to wait until the end of the
shareholders’ agreement in 2014,” Dominique Patry, an analyst
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, said today. “Eni will not
benefit from any premium related to its controlling stake in the
company, as Scaroni originally wanted to achieve.”  Eni advanced 0.9 percent to 17.59 euros in Milan trading,
bringing its gain for the year to 9.9 percent.  Galp explores for, produces and refines oil and gas. It has
90 percent of its 2.9 billion barrels of oil reserves in Brazil
and plans to invest 1.2 billion euros a year from 2013 to 2016
to expand exploration. In July, Galp raised its 2020 output
target after “exceptional” progress in  Brazil , forecasting
production of more than 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Eni, based in Rome, had been discussing selling part of its
Galp stake to Sonangol, a person with knowledge of the matter
said in March. Eni wasn’t planning to divest all its holding
because the  Portuguese government  doesn’t want the African
country to have too much control, the person said, declining to
be identified before a deal was reached.  Angola, a former Portuguese colony, became sub-Saharan
Africa’s second-largest oil producer following the development
of offshore fields in the past 10 years, giving state-controlled
producer Sonangol cash to make investments overseas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 