-- Gap Calls Hit Decade High Before Same-Store Sales Report
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-30T16:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/gap-calls-hit-decade-high-before-same-store-sales-report.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  options traders are the
most bullish in a decade, betting the biggest U.S. apparel chain
will keep climbing after reaching a 10-year high.  The number of outstanding  calls  to buy the San Francisco-
based retailer versus puts to sell rose to 2.55-to-1 and touched
2.71-to-1 on March 26, the highest level since October 2001,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gap’s shares reached
$26.87 on March 26, the highest price since August 2001, and
gained 41 percent this year through yesterday.  Investors are betting Gap’s report on monthly same-store
sales, scheduled for April 5, will lift its stock for the third
straight time. U.S. retail sales rose in February by the most in
five months,  consumer confidence  is approaching a four-year high
and record cotton crops are exceeding demand by the most in more
than two decades, bringing down prices for clothes sellers.
Analysts raised their full-year profit projections by 4 percent
since the end of January.  “February was a big surprise when they announced the
positive comp, and indications so far for March look pretty
good,” Connor Browne, who oversees more than $3 billion as co-
manager of the Thornburg Value Fund in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico ,
said in a phone interview yesterday. Thornburg  owned  10.6
million shares of Gap at year-end, Bloomberg data show. “We’re
additionally excited about the possibility of higher margins in
the back half of this year on lower cotton prices.”  Gap’s Rally  Gap posted the second-biggest  rally  among the 32 members of
the S&P 500 Retailing Index since the index’s low on Oct. 3.
Analysts increased their earnings-per-share forecasts for the
company’s fiscal year to $1.82, according to the average
projection compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock has increased this year as consumer confidence
reached the second-highest level in four years last week as more
Americans said it was a good time to shop, according to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed yesterday.  This month’s comparable-store sales for the Gap brand are
projected to rise by 4.4 percent, according to analysts surveyed
by Retail Metrics Inc. Shares of the retailer advanced after the
last two same-store sales releases, jumping 11 percent on Feb.
2, the most since November 2008, and advancing 7.2 percent on
March 1, as the results beat estimates.  Record Cotton Crops  Record cotton crops from  India  to  Brazil  are driving prices
lower, helping bring down input costs for retailers. Gap is
“fairly confident that average unit costs will improve in the
second half,” the company’s Chief Financial Officer Sabrina Simmons said on a Feb. 23 conference call.  Moody’s Investors Service boosted its outlook on the U.S.
apparel industry to positive from stable on March 29 based on
lower cotton costs, according to a report from the ratings
company. Operating income is likely to rise as much as 8 percent
this year, with the strongest growth in the second half, from a
previous forecast of as low as 3 percent, analysts led by Scott Tuhy wrote in the report.  Ownership of  calls  almost tripled since the Jan. 20 options
expiration to 105,200 as of March 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. During that time, put open interest grew 23
percent to 35,414, the data show.  Since the last expiration on March 16, all five contracts
with the biggest increases in ownership were bullish, with April
$27 calls, 3.4 percent above yesterday’s close, adding 12,109
options from 543, the data show.  Gap doesn’t comment on moves in its stock, according to
spokeswoman Edie Kissko.  Eroding Reputation  The company is struggling with an eroding brand reputation
and turnover in its management team, said  Laura Champine , a
specialty retail analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in New York.  “There’s been major long-term damage to the brand after
years of fashion misses,” Champine, who began coverage of the
stock with a sell recommendation on March 26, said in a phone
interview. “Recent management changes, including the January
departure of  Tom Wyatt , create significant uncertainty.”  Gap, which has franchise stores from  Kazakhstan  to  South
Korea , is introducing its first spring collection from its New
York-based creative hub for product and marketing, after
shifting it from  San Francisco  last year, and shaking up the
leadership of that team in an effort to boost sales. Tom Wyatt
resigned as president of the company’s Old Navy chain in January
after leading the apparel retailer for more than three years.  VIX, VStoxx  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , rose 0.2 percent to 15.51 at 12:42 p.m. in New York
today after touching its lowest level since June 2007 on March
26. Its European counterpart, the VStoxx Index, fell 11 percent
to 22.55 today.  Traders are bidding up the cost of bullish options on Gap.
Contracts betting on a 10 percent gain had an  implied
volatility , the key gauge of options prices, of 30.49 yesterday,
while the measure for puts protecting against a 10 percent drop
was 35.19, according to data on 30-day options compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio between the two values rose 17 percent
since its low on Feb. 28 and on March 23 reached 0.88, close to
its highest level since August, the data show.  “People aren’t paying up for puts because they are not
worried about the downside, while overall sentiment is so
bullish,” Herb Kurlan, president of VT Brokers LLC, a San
Francisco-based introducing broker specializing in futures and
options, said in a March 28 phone interview. “Right now it
seems like smooth sailing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  