-- GasLog Falls After Pricing Shares Below Marketed Range
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-03-30T21:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/gaslog-raises-329-million-pricing-ipo-below-marketed-range.html
GasLog Ltd. (GLOG) , the liquefied natural
gas shipping company based in  Monte Carlo ,  Monaco , fell 11
percent on its first day of trading, after pricing its U.S.
initial public offering below the marketed range.  The shares dropped to $12.41 at the close in  New York . The
company sold 23.5 million shares for $14 each to raise $329
million, according to a statement today. Gaslog, based in Monte
Carlo, Monaco, had earlier offered them for $16 to $18 apiece.  GasLog, which owns and operates a fleet of ships that
transport LNG, completed its IPO after hiring costs for vessels
set a record. Large, modern LNG carriers will earn $147,000 a
day on average this year, according to the median of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as of last week. An additional
100 LNG carriers will be needed by 2016, as liquefaction
capacity expands 38 percent, according to GasLog’s prospectus.  An increase in orders for LNG carriers raises the risk that
daily rates for the vessels will decline, according to ICAP
Shipping International Ltd. Contracts to build 50 of the tankers
were signed at shipyards in 2011, compared with 12 a year
earlier, Simon Newman, head of tanker research at the London-
based shipbroker, said last week at a conference in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  ‘Same Side of Boat’  “If we’re not careful, everybody’s going to jump to the
same side of the boat and it’s going to sink,” he said. “It’s
getting a little bit risky.”  The shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol GLOG. The midpoint of the IPO range valued GasLog at
$1.07 billion, or 16 times last year’s sales. That compares with
an average of 2.3 for a basket of marine transportation peers,
according to Bloomberg data. LNG shipper  Golar LNG Ltd. (GLNG)  is
valued at 9.7 times sales, while oil and petroleum transporter
 Teekay Corp. (TK)  trades at 1.2 times sales.  Revenue at GasLog surged 67 percent to $66.5 million last
year, while costs almost doubled, regulatory filings show. Net
income increased 43 percent to $13.7 million. The company plans
to use proceeds from the sale to fund the construction of eight
new carriers and for general corporate purposes. Four of the
ships have been chartered to exploration company  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and two to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and UBS AG managed the offering. Chief Executive Officer
Peter Livanos will remain the company’s biggest shareholder
after the IPO, the prospectus shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  