-- Gazprom Shifts EU Gas Supply Away From Ukraine Amid Dispute
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-03-30T14:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/gazprom-shifts-eu-gas-supply-away-from-ukraine-amid-dispute-1-.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s state-run gas
exporter and producer, began rerouting some supplies to Europe
through the Nord Stream pipeline and another across Belarus as
it tries to end reliance on  Ukraine  after disputes over prices.  “We are at the start of a big move to redistribute gas
transit volumes from Ukraine to our Beltransgas unit and new
undersea pipelines,”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a Gazprom spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, is acting on a
pledge to halt dependence on Ukraine to deliver the fuel to the
European Union, where Russia is the biggest single supplier.
Arguments over the cost of gas sold to Ukraine led to periodic
halts in supply to  Europe  during the past six years.  Ukraine, which has typically carried as much as 80 percent
of Russian gas westwards, so far failed to win an agreement in
negotiations over price cuts it’s seeking from Gazprom.  The Russian company accused Ukraine of siphoning off gas
destined for Europe during a cold snap last month after the
Moscow-based exporter failed to fully meet demand for increased
volumes from EU buyers. Ukraine’s state-run energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy has denied the allegation.  Taking Control  Russian gas transited through Ukraine has fallen by half
because of weakening European demand, Vadym Chuprun, Naftogaz’s
deputy chief executive officer, said today. Daily flows fell by
about 180 million cubic meters on March 28 and as much 200
million cubic meters by late yesterday, Chuprun told reporters
today in Kiev. Ukraine’s state energy company had planned to
ship 400 million cubic meters of Russian gas, he said.  Gazprom last year gained control of Belarusian national gas
pipeline operator Beltransgaz, which served as a lesser route
for Russian gas flows to Europe. Since last year, Russian gas
has also flowed to Germany directly under the  Baltic Sea  through
the Nord Stream pipeline, which Gazprom plans to expand.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  urged Gazprom to build
the South Stream pipeline through the  Black Sea  to the EU,
starting this December. The link will be the second direct gas
supply route from Russia, bypassing Ukraine and Belarus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  