-- Gazprom Dividend May Be Higher Than Expected on Profit Jump
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-03-30T09:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/gazprom-dividend-may-be-higher-than-expected-on-profit-correct-.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  Russia ’s natural-gas
exporter, may pay a record dividend of 220 billion rubles ($7.5
billion) for last year, higher than budgeted, after gains in
European prices more than doubled profit.  The payout of 9.29 rubles a share is based on net income of
880 billion rubles under Russian accounting standards, which
Gazprom  reported  late yesterday, and company guidance of 25
percent of profit for dividends, according to Bloomberg
estimates. It implies a yield of about 5.1 percent.  “Excellent results, translating into higher than we
expected dividends,” Lev Snykov, a partner at Greenwich Capital
in Moscow, said by phone. “This is a very important baby step
toward improved corporate governance.”  Gazprom shares rose as much as 2.6 percent in Moscow and
traded up 2.5 percent at 181.41 rubles at 1:33 p.m., the biggest
gain since Feb. 24.  State-controlled Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer,
budgeted 199 billion rubles for dividends at its Dec. 20 board
meeting, while cutting investments for 2012 by 39 percent to 777
billion rubles. The plan signals a change in policy that
benefits investors,  Ronald Smith , director of oil and gas
research at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said at the time.  ‘More Powerful Catalyst’  The company’s highest previous dividend was 3.85 rubles for
2010. Gazprom allocated 25 percent of profit to dividends in
this year’s budget, the same as last year, Chief Financial
Officer Andrey Kruglov said on Feb. 1.  Export prices rose about 27 percent last year, tracking
crude oil rates with a time lag, according to a company
presentation in February. Gazprom hasn’t yet reported full-year
earnings to international accounting standards.  “We like the dividend, but a meaningful reduction in
 capital expenditures  would be a much more powerful catalyst,
which appears unlikely for now,”  Oleg Maximov , Alex Fak and
 Valery Nesterov , analysts at Troika Dialog, said today.  Gazprom pencils in a “conservative” investment program
initially and revises it after reviewing first-half results,
Kruglov said last month. The spending plan soared 56 percent
last year to 1.28 trillion rubles from the initial budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  