-- GE’s Immelt to Remain Neutral in Presidential Campaign
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-30T18:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/ge-s-immelt-to-remain-neutral-in-presidential-campaign.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt , who is also an outside
economic adviser to President  Barack Obama , is pushing back on a
report that he’s disenchanted with the administration’s economic
policies and privately rooting for Republican presidential
hopeful  Mitt Romney  in this year’s election, according to a
company official.  “The story is nonsense,” said  Andrew Williams , a company
spokesman. “Jeff has said many times that the president is a
good partner to work with on the jobs council. Jeff has also
said that the president is a good listener and has been highly
engaged with the council and its work. He still believes that
today.”  Williams said Immelt, a Republican, declined to comment.  According to a March 19 Fox Business Network report that
ran in the New York Post, Immelt is privately backing Romney and
his “displeasure with the president’s economic policies is real
and palpable in private settings.”  The story, citing anonymous individuals and containing no
quotes from Immelt, says the GE chief is dismayed by Obama’s
“fat-cat bashing, left-leaning economic agenda of taxing
businesses and entrepreneurs to pay for government bloat.”  Asked about the charges in the article, Williams directed
questions back to his statement. Williams wouldn’t say whether
Immelt will vote for Obama or who Immelt is supporting, only
that “he is not going to endorse anybody in this election.”  No Campaign Contributions  While Immelt has contributed to Democratic and Republican
candidates and their parties in the past, so far he hasn’t
donated to Obama or Romney in this election cycle, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  In 2007, Immelt contributed $2,300 to Romney’s primary
campaign, according to the Washington-based research group that
tracks campaign giving. He gave the same amount to former New
York City Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , another 2008 Republican primary
contender, and Senator  John McCain , who went on to become the
party’s nominee.  Immelt also gave $2,300 to Obama’s 2008 Democratic primary
opponent, former New York senator  Hillary Clinton , who is now
the U.S. secretary of state.  Obama named Immelt to head his Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness last year. Its mission is to offer “non-
partisan advice” on how to strengthen the  U.S. economy  and
ensure competitiveness while creating “jobs, opportunity and
prosperity for the American people,” according to the executive
order that created the panel.  “Our competitiveness has eroded over the past decades,”
Immelt wrote in the panel’s 72-page Jan. 17 report prescribing
how the U.S. can recover its global economic edge.  “We have
lost ground in metrics ranging from education to infrastructure
to export.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  