-- German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fell a Second Month in February
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/german-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-a-second-month-in-february.html
German retail sales unexpectedly
declined for a second month in February as rising energy prices
sapped household purchasing power.  Sales (GRFRIAMM) , adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, fell 1.1
percent from January, when they declined 1.2 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 1.1 percent, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Sales rose 1.7 percent from a year
ago.  German  consumer confidence  will decline for the first time
in seven months in April as rising energy costs bite and the
region’s sovereign debt crisis persists, market research company
 GfK SE (GFK)  predicted this week. Still, unemployment fell to a fresh
two-decade low of 6.7 percent this month and business confidence
unexpectedly rose to an eight-month high.  “Weak retail sales data shouldn’t be overestimated,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at Nord LB in Hanover. “The labor
market is in excellent shape, inflation will come down and
robust wage increases lie ahead. Going forward, private
consumption will support the economy markedly.”  IG Metall ,  Europe ’s biggest trade union representing 3.6
million workers, is demanding a 6.5 percent wage increase.  With the debt crisis damping demand for German exports,
economic growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year from 3
percent last year before accelerating to 1.8 percent in 2013,
according to the Bundesbank.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, forecast unchanged
earnings this year after the debt crisis contributed to a 13
percent drop in fourth-quarter profit.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) ’s Chief Executive Officer Claus-Dietrich Lahrs
said in an interview on March 14 that “the first 2 1/2 months
of 2012 have been very satisfactory.” Operating profit may rise
by more than 10 percent this year as revenue increases, the
Metzingen, Germany-based luxury clothing maker said. 