-- Gilts Extend Second Weekly Gain as Consumer Confidence Declines
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-30T15:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/gilts-extend-second-weekly-gain-as-consumer-confidence-declines.html
U.K. gilts gained for a second week
after an industry report showed  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
worsened this month, boosting the appeal of fixed-income assets.  Ten-year bonds  pared their first quarterly loss in a year
as the data added to concern the economic recovery is stalling.
U.K. government securities stayed higher after a report showed
inflation in the euro area slowed. The pound strengthened to a
four-month high against the dollar and was little changed versus
the euro as European finance ministers started a two-day meeting
in Copenhagen to discuss boosting the region’s bailout funds.  “Until we see signs of life in the economy and an
improvement in risk appetite, gilts will remain supported,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Activity is pretty stagnant.”  The yield on the  10-year gilt  was 2.20 percent at
4:48 p.m. London time, trimming this year’s increase to 17 basis
points. The 4 percent bond due March 2022 was at 115.97.  An index of U.K. consumer sentiment dropped to minus 31
from minus 29 in February, GfK NOP Ltd. said. The median
estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey  of economists was for no
change.  Inflation (ECCPEMUY)  in the euro region slowed to 2.6 percent in
March from 2.7 percent the prior month, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate.  Weekly Gain  U.K. government bonds rose this week as reports showed
 house prices  dropped in March and the economy contracted more
than initially estimated in the fourth quarter, fueling
speculation the central bank will consider more asset purchases.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
yesterday predicted the U.K. economy will contract 0.4 percent
in the first quarter, before growing by 5 percent in the
following three months.  Policy makers haven’t made a decision on whether more so-
called  quantitative easing  will be needed,  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  said on March 27. The Monetary Policy
Committee raised the plan’s ceiling by 50 billion pounds ($79.9
billion) in February to 325 billion pounds and will complete the
additional purchases by May.  Gilts have handed investors a 4.4 percent return in the
past six months, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
securities have been boosted as investors sought a haven from
the European debt crisis.  The pound climbed 0.2 percent to $1.5982 after rising to
$1.6036, the strongest since Nov. 14. That’s above its 200-day
moving average of $1.5851. The U.K. currency traded little
changed at 83.40 pence per euro.  Sterling has strengthened 0.5 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro appreciated 0.4 percent,
and the dollar declined 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  