-- Global Payments Trades Halted as Card Firms Probe Breach
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-30T20:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/global-payments-trades-halted-as-card-firms-probe-breach.html
     March 30 (Bloomberg) -- Global Payments Inc., the
transaction processor that plunged today on a report that
account data may have been compromised, said it detected a
possible breach weeks ago and told federal authorities.  “In early March 2012, the company determined card data may
have been accessed,” the Atlanta-based firm said today in a
statement four hours after its shares were halted, without
specifying how many accounts may be affected. “The company
promptly notified appropriate industry parties to allow them to
minimize potential cardholder impact. The company is continuing
its investigation into this matter.”  Global Payments’s stock  plunged  as much as 13.7 percent,
and was down 9 percent when its trading was stopped, after the
Wall Street Journal reported the firm was hit by a security
breach that may have put 50,000 cardholders at risk. A separate
report on  krebsonsecurity.com , which tracks cybercrimes, said
more than 10 million accounts may have been affected by an
incident in the payment industry.  Amy Corn, a spokeswoman for Global Payments, declined to
comment beyond its statement. Shares of the firm, led by Chief
Executive Officer Paul Garcia, had climbed 10 percent this year
through yesterday -- a gain that was erased by today’s drop.  The company “identified and self-reported unauthorized
access into a portion of its processing system,” according to
its statement. “It immediately engaged external experts in
information technology forensics and contacted federal  law
enforcement .”  ‘Inconvenienced’ Cardholders  Visa Inc. (V)  slipped 0.8 percent, and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  fell 1.8
percent. The companies, which rank as the world’s biggest
payments networks, said in statements that their own systems
weren’t breached. An event at a third-party entity may affect
data from all major card brands, San Francisco-based Visa said.
Neither firm specified how many customers may be affected.  “MasterCard is concerned whenever there is any possibility
that cardholders could be inconvenienced and we continue to both
monitor this event and take steps to safeguard account
information,” the Purchase, New York-based firm said.  The report on krebsonsecurity.com, run by former Washington
Post journalist Brian Krebs, prompted MasterCard’s statement
before the Wall Street Journal identified Global Payments. Krebs
cited unidentified people in the financial industry in
estimating that more than 10 million accounts may be involved.  Bigger Incident  That figure is dwarfed by the theft of 130 million credit-
and debit-card records years ago from  Heartland Payment Systems
Inc. (HPY)  and other companies, said David Koning, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co., in a note to clients today. That case led
to the sentencing of a Miami computer hacker in 2010.  While Heartland’s costs from the incident amounted to about
$147 million, the firm didn’t lose merchant customers as a
result and its stock has since regained losses, Koning wrote.
The Princeton, New Jersey-based company has climbed 120 percent
since the end of 2009. The breach reported today “is in no way
related to Heartland,” the firm said in a statement.  “You hear about a breach and you think to yourself, ‘Well
how big could this really be?’” Koning said in an interview.
“That creates uncertainty across the whole ecosystem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 