-- Global Payments Trades Halted as Card Firms Probe Breach
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-03-30T19:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/global-payments-trades-halt-as-card-industry-probes-data-breach.html
     March 30 (Bloomberg) -- Global Payments Inc., the
electronic-transaction processor, had trading halted as the
credit-card industry investigated a data breach that affected
firms including  Visa Inc. (V)  and MasterCard Inc.  Global Payments dropped 9.1 percent to $47.50 when  trading 
was halted in New York, after earlier plunging more than 13
percent. The Wall Street Journal reported that the Atlanta-based
firm was hit by a security breach that may have put 50,000
cardholders at risk. MasterCard slipped 1 percent to $424 at
3:11 p.m. Visa fell 0.6 percent to $118.29.  Visa and MasterCard, the largest payments networks, said in
statements that account data may have been compromised at a
third-party “entity” and that their own systems weren’t
breached. The event may affect data from all major card brands,
San Francisco-based Visa said. Neither firm specified how many
customers may be affected.  “The incident is currently the subject of an ongoing
forensic review by an independent data-security organization,”
said Purchase, New York-based  MasterCard (MA) , adding that card
issuers and law enforcement were also notified. “MasterCard is
concerned whenever there is any possibility that cardholders
could be inconvenienced and we continue to both monitor this
event and take steps to safeguard account information.”  Global Payments’s chief executive officer, Paul Garcia,
didn’t respond to a message seeking comment. The company’s stock
had climbed 10 percent this year through yesterday -- a gain
that was erased by today’s plunge.  Bigger Incident  Brian Krebs’s  krebsonsecurity.com , which tracks cybercrimes
and potential threats, reported the breach earlier today,
prompting MasterCard’s statement before the Wall Street Journal
identified Global Payments. More than 10 million card numbers
may have been compromised, Krebs wrote, citing unidentified
people in the financial industry.  That figure is dwarfed by the theft of 130 million credit-
and debit-card records years ago from  Heartland Payment Systems
Inc. (HPY)  and other companies, said David Koning, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co., in a note to clients today. That case led
to the sentencing of a Miami computer hacker in 2010.  While Heartland’s costs from the incident amounted to about
$147 million, the firm didn’t lose merchant customers as a
result and its stock has since regained initial losses, Koning
wrote. The Princeton, New Jersey-based company’s shares have
climbed 120 percent since the end of 2009. The breach reported
today “is in no way related to Heartland,” the firm said in a
statement.  “You hear about a breach and you think to yourself, ‘Well
how big could this really be?’” Koning said in an interview.
“That creates uncertainty across the whole ecosystem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 