-- Great Lakes States Agree to Streamline Freshwater Wind Projects
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-30T16:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/great-lakes-states-agree-to-streamline-freshwater-wind-projects.html
The White House and five of the
eight states that border the  Great Lakes  today agreed to
streamline the approval process for offshore wind farms in the
region.  Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota,  New York  and Pennsylvania,
will coordinate reviews of proposed projects, Nancy Sutley, who
chairs the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said
today on a conference call.  “This will eliminate some red tape,” Sutley said. “It
will encourage development of clean, American-made energy.”  Not a single offshore wind turbine has been installed in
the U.S., as regulatory hurdles and legal challenges made
financing projects difficult.  The U.S. Energy Department estimates the strong, steady
breezes that cross the Great Lakes may provide as much as 742
gigawatts of power-producing capacity, or about a fifth of total
potential U.S. wind energy, said Daniel Poneman, deputy
secretary of the agency.  “There are a number of state and federal agencies that
need to review projects and we want to harmonize that process,”
Poneman said. “Our purpose is to bring down the cost so it can
compete with traditional sources of energy.”  There are no Great Lakes offshore wind projects seeking
review, Sutley said. States have sought federal help to
coordinate future permitting processes, she said. There have
been no discussions with  Canada , which shares borders with four
of the Great Lakes, she said.  Lake Erie  Energy Development Corp. (EDC)  and Freshwater Wind LLC
proposed installing five, 4-megawatt turbines from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in the lake off Ohio about 7 miles (11 kilometers)
from shore.  Ohio, Wisconsin and Indiana didn’t sign the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  