-- Greenberg Urges Judge to Let $25 Billion Claim Go Ahead
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-30T03:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/greenberg-urges-judge-to-let-25-billion-claim-go-ahead.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the ex-
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive officer, asked
a judge to allow him to pursue his lawsuit seeking $25 billion
from the U.S. over terms of the company’s 2008 bailout.  Greenberg’s Starr International Co., in a filing yesterday
in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington , argued that
the company has the right to seek compensation for itself and
all AIG shareholders for what it alleges was an illegal taking
of property by the government during the 2008 financial crisis.  “These unprecedented actions represented an extraordinary
exercise of governmental power,”  David Boies , Greenberg’s
lawyer, wrote in the filing. “There is no basis for dismissing
this case at this preliminary stage.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  on March 1 urged the court to
dismiss the case, arguing Starr International lacks the
authority to sue and has no claim. The department said AIG
agreed to the bailout and Starr International shouldn’t be
allowed in a court case to “rewrite” the insurer’s rescue
agreement and make American taxpayers pay $25 billion more.  Starr International sued the government on Nov. 21, calling
the public assumption of 80 percent of AIG stock in September
2008 a violation of the constitutional rights of shareholders to
due process and equal protection of the law.  Fairness Opinions  Starr, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time of the
bailout, alleges that while the U.S. got so-called fairness
opinions from banks on exchanging two groups of preferred stock,
it failed to get such an opinion in exchanging a block of
preferred stock for 562.9 million shares “for virtually
nothing,” according to the complaint.  AIG was added as a “nominal” defendant in the case,
meaning the company would be bound by any judgment.  The claims court handles cases against the federal
government for money, including claims that the U.S. took
private property for public use without just compensation in
violation of the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Also on Nov. 21, Starr sued the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York , saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning
$85 billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms to banks
in a “backdoor bailout.”  AIG almost collapsed after bets tied to the housing market
soured, and the bailout was revised at least four times before
reaching $182 billion.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v.  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  