-- Groupon Reports ‘Material Weakness,’ Restates Quarterly Revenue
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/groupon-discloses-material-weakness-lower-quarterly-revenue.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the largest provider
of daily deals online, reported a “material weakness” in its
financial controls and said fourth-quarter results were worse
than previously stated because of higher refunds to merchants.  The revisions reduced revenue in the period by $14.3
million to $492.2 million, the Chicago-based company said
yesterday in a regulatory filing. Groupon had reported $506.5
million last month.  The announcement marks another setback for Groupon, which
has struggled to get its financial statements in order since
filing for an initial public offering in June. Two months after
its prospectus, the company abandoned a controversial accounting
method for operating income after a review by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Groupon then restated 2010 results in
September because it had counted the total amount of its daily-
deal sales as revenue, including fees paid to merchants.  “This feeds some of the negative sentiment around their
disclosure,” said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York , who has an equalweight rating on Groupon
shares.  Groupon  shares  fell 5.9 percent to $17.29 in extended
trading yesterday after the announcement. The stock, down 8.1
percent since the IPO in November, had climbed 3.8 percent
earlier in the day.  ‘Wildly Profitable’  Groupon also stumbled ahead of its IPO when Chairman Eric Lefkofsky said the company is “going to be wildly profitable”
in an interview with Bloomberg News. In July, the company
updated its IPO filing, asking investors to disregard those
comments because they didn’t accurately or completely reflect
his views.  The changes announced yesterday are “are primarily related 
to an increase to the company’s refund reserve accrual,” leading
to higher reimbursement rates, Groupon said. In response to the
conclusion that the company’s internal controls contained a
material weakness, Groupon said it’s been working for several
months with an accounting firm and will report on the
effectiveness of those controls by the end of the year. While
Groupon’s independent auditor is Ernst & Young LLP, the company
said it’s working with a different accounting firm.  The auditors are at fault for not identifying problems with
the financial controls earlier, said  Herman Leung , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in  San Francisco .  Lack of Controls?  “This should have been highlighted by the auditors,” said
Leung, who has a neutral rating on shares of Groupon and doesn’t
own the stock. “The business is growing so fast that it sounds
like they don’t have the proper financial controls to deal with
the growth.”  Charlie Perkins , a spokesman for New York-based Ernst &
Young, declined to comment on the earnings restatement.  Groupon said the revision accounts for an increase in
higher-priced deals, which are more likely to be refunded by
customers. Last year the company began Groupon Reserve, a
service for upscale deals such as a five-course meal at  Santa
Monica , California-based restaurant Whist for $99.  The higher refunds widened Groupon’s net loss by $22.6
million, or 4 cents a share.  Groupon pioneered the daily-deal market, where consumers
buy discounts on restaurant meals, nail-salon packages and other
services.  Groupon (GRPN)  splits the revenue from the offers with
merchants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  