-- Micex Jumps First Time in Four Days on Fund Inflows, Higher Oil
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-30T15:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/micex-jumps-first-time-in-4-days-on-fund-inflows-oil-rusal-up.html
The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced for the
first time in four days as international investors opted for
Russian shares over Chinese and Brazilian stocks and prices
climbed for oil, the country’s main export.  The 30-stock Micex jumped 1.5 percent to 1,517.34 in Moscow
by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, trimming this week’s loss to
1.5 percent. United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, jumped as much as 8.4 percent before closing 3.4
percent higher. OAO Transneft, the national oil-pipeline
operator, and crude producer  OAO Gazprom Neft (SIBN)  each gained at
least 3 percent.  Russian funds attracted a net $203 million of new money
last week, an increase of $72 million from the previous period,
while emerging-market funds as a whole saw outflows of $127
million,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, said in a research note, citing EPFR Global data.  “The reason for the reversal is very clearly  China  growth
concerns,” Weafer said. Chinese officials are struggling to
reverse a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy and a
manufacturing index to be released this weekend may remain close
to the dividing line between expansion and contraction, a median
estimate of 50.8 in a survey of economists shows.  Russian stocks rebounded after yesterday’s decline to their
lowest level in more than two months as commodity prices slumped
amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will deteriorate and curb bets
for riskier assets.  Norilsk, Gazprom  Oil advanced in  New York , heading for a second quarterly
gain, after reports showed that U.S. consumer sentiment and
spending gained and euro-finance ministers agreed to boost
rescue funds. Crude for May delivery gained as much as 0.9
percent to $103.69 a barrel.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , a producer of coal for steelmakers, climbed 3.1
percent to 268.60 rubles, rebounding after yesterday’s 6.1
percent retreat. The company said yesterday it is seeking
waivers from lenders because it will probably breach debt
covenants for 2011 on account falling coal prices.  OAO Gazprom, supplier of a quarter of Europe’s natural gas,
increased 2.3 percent to 181.08 rubles. The state-run company
and partners, including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , said today they
had recouped $24.5 billion of investment in their Sakhalin-2
venture off  Russia ’s Pacific coast and are now sharing profits
with the government.  Copper, set for the biggest quarterly gain since 2010, rose
in New York on signs of U.S. economic expansion.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, rallied 1 percent to 5,400 rubles.  The Micex is up 8.2 percent this year, posting a second
quarterly gain. That compares with a 12 percent advance for
 Brazil ’s Bovespa Index, 13 percent for the BSE India Sensitive
Index and 2.1 percent for China’s Shanghai Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  