-- Micron Agrees to Settle Oracle Suit, Boosting Quarterly Loss
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-03-30T21:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/micron-agrees-to-settle-oracle-lawsuit-adding-to-quarterly-loss.html
Micron Technology Inc., the largest
U.S. maker of computer memory, agreed to settle a lawsuit with
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  over chip prices, increasing its second-quarter
loss by $58 million.  The suit claimed that Micron conspired to increase prices
for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, from 1998 to at least
2002, the company said yesterday in a statement. The deal widens
Micron’s previously reported quarterly loss to $282 million, or
29 cents a share. Sales in the period, which ended March 1, are
now $2.01 billion, compared with the original $2.07 billion.  Oracle sued Micron in 2010, alleging it overcharged Sun
Microsystems, which Oracle  acquired . The case was partly based
on a 2002 U.S. Justice Department investigation of price fixing
in the memory-chip industry that led to claims against four
companies and 16 people who had been fined as much as $731
million. Micron cooperated with U.S. officials in exchange for
not being charged with a crime, according to Oracle’s complaint.  The memory manufacturers “conspired to control production
capacity, raise prices or slow their decline, allocate
customers, and otherwise unlawfully overcharge their DRAM
customers,” Oracle said in its complaint.  Even before the settlement, Boise, Idaho-based Micron had
reported its third consecutive loss in the quarter. A glut of
memory-chip production has sent prices tumbling, making it
harder for Micron and its  competitors  to stay profitable.  Elpida Bankruptcy  Micron  shares  fell 33 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $8.10 at
the close in New York trading. The stock has climbed 29 percent
this year.  The picture may improve if the bankruptcy of  Japan ’s Elpida
Memory Inc. reduces industry output, according toAlex Gauna, an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco .  Two of Micron’s rivals in memory chips said they are
considering bids for Elpida assets.  South Korea ’s Hynix
Semiconductor Inc., the second biggest producer of computer
memory behind Samsung Electronics Co., submitted an initial
proposal for Elpida, according to a regulatory filing.  Toshiba Corp. is also considering a bid, a senior executive
for the Tokyo-based company said yesterday, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  The settlement with Oracle couldn’t be independently
confirmed in federal court in Oakland,  California .  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment, as did Micron’s
Daniel Francisco.  Sun Purchase  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , acquired
Sun for $7.4 billion in January 2010, vaulting the company into
the computer-hardware business.  Oracle’s hardware sales missed analysts’ projections last
quarter as the company sacrificed volume for higher-margin
products. Oracle has been emphasizing sales of large systems for
data processing, at the expense of Sun’s less expensive gear.  “Next fiscal year our hardware business should be a growth
story,” Oracle Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  told
analysts last week on a conference call.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) ,
10-04340, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  