-- Highway Bill Hinges on Resolving Disputes on Spending
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-30T15:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/highway-bill-hinges-on-resolving-disputes-on-spending.html
Congress was able to avert a
disaster for construction jobs and a Federal Highway
Administration shutdown. This week’s wrangling to get that far
was only a taste of what’s to come.  Before the House and the Senate can pass a long-term
transportation bill, lawmakers will have to overcome differences
over how much to spend, how many years to fund and how to pay
for somewhere between $109 billion and $260 billion for
highways, bridges and transit.  Waiting in the wings is a diverse coalition of interests
that includes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, retailers such as  JC
Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the construction industry and
the Laborers’ International Union of  North America .  “A program that has traditionally enjoyed strong
bipartisan support is being used as a means to advance political
instead of policy objectives,” Peter Ruane, president and chief
executive officer of the American Road and Transportation
Builders Association, and Stephen Sandherr, chief executive
officer of Associated General Contractors of America, said in a
statement.  House and Senate lawmakers voted yesterday to extend U.S.
highway programs through June 30, averting for the next three
months a shutdown of construction projects and the furlough of
3,500 federal-government workers. President  Barack Obama  signed
the legislation into law today,  Josh Earnest , a White House
spokesman, said in a statement. That headed off the lapse of
federal highway programs tomorrow.  Road Projects  “The president was pleased that Congress acted to prevent
construction workers from having to go off the job because of a
lapse of funding,” Earnest said. “However, we encourage
Congress to act in a bipartisan fashion on a longer term
extension.”  Road projects in every U.S. state would have been affected
if Congress failed to act. The U.S. would have been forced to
stop collecting all but 4.3 cents of the 18.4 cents-per-gallon
federal tax on gasoline, putting further strain on the Highway
Trust Fund, which pays for highway and transit projects.  Most Democrats said a vote on a two-year, $109 billion
highway plan, passed by the Senate March 14 and blocked in the
House, would give states and localities more certainty.  Democrats took to the Senate floor repeatedly to denounce
the House’s inability to pass a long-term bill. Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, made clerks record her “no”
vote after the Senate’s voice vote to pass the extension, after
telling Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  that she would
block any future short-term extension.  ‘Not Benign’  Barbara Boxer , the sponsor of the Senate bill, vowed to
campaign throughout the two-week congressional recess to talk
about how states can’t commit to major projects because of the
uncertainty over long-term policy. The three-month extension
will cost the construction industry about 100,000 jobs, she
said.  “These extensions are not benign, these extensions are
dangerous,” said Boxer, a California Democrat. “We will make
sure the American people know the truth.”  When House leaders attempted to move a five-year, $260
billion measure to the floor in February, they faced a rebellion
from Tea Party-backed lawmakers, who said the bill spent too
much, and members from city and suburban districts,  who didn’t
like cuts to mass transit systems.  Yesterday, House Speaker  John Boehner  indicated he wanted
to make sure increased spending is backed by revenue from
expanded offshore energy production.  “When we get back, we will move quickly to move a highway
bill with our energy initiatives and ship it over to the United
States Senate,” said Boehner, an Ohio Republican.  Live Within Means  Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican,
responded to Democrats’ pleas to take up the Senate’s bipartisan
bill with a warning that the House would want to change highway
policy before agreeing to a bill. Streamlining federal approval
of projects might save enough so a lower spending level won’t
matter, he said.  “Will we spend less money? Yes,” Shuster said. “We have
to live within our means.”  There also may be a discussion on earmarks, the practice of
lawmakers designating U.S. money for specific roads, bridges and
transit projects. House leaders say their bill is clean. The
Senate measure locks into law past spending allocations,
rewarding states that had a lot of earmarks when the last long-
term bill passed in 2005, Representative David Dreier, a
California Republican, said at a March 28 hearing.  “The era of the biggest gorilla walking off with the most
bananas is over,”  House Transportation  and Infrastructure
Committee Chairman  John Mica , a Florida Republican, said on the
floor yesterday.  Fund Almost Insolvent  Congress’s struggles to agree on a multiyear bill have
drawn out so long that the  Highway Trust Fund , which pays for
highway and mass transit projects, is almost insolvent. Its
highway account may be unable to meet its obligations as soon as
October, the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials said Jan. 31 in a report analyzing
 Congressional Budget Office  data.  The fund’s finances have declined as cars have become more
fuel-efficient and Americans drive less because of higher
gasoline prices, according to the U.S. Transportation
Department.  “Our members are growing increasingly frustrated that
Congress seems incapable of passing critical legislation that
improves the flow of commerce and promotes economic growth,”
Ruane and Sandherr, leaders of the two largest U.S.  construction
industry  groups said.  The Senate bill is S. 1813 and the House bills are H.R. 7
and H.R. 4281.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  