-- Millennial Media Gain May Spur Mobile-Technology IPOs
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/millennial-media-gain-may-spur-mobile-technology-ipos.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM) , a seller of
advertising space on mobile devices, almost doubled in its first
day of trading, a sign investors have a growing appetite for
providers of mobile services.  The Baltimore-based company lets advertisers target
consumers through smartphone and tablet applications. The
initial public offering is seen as a barometer for interest in
other would-be IPOs that rely on mobile technology.  Companies such as the music provider Spotify Ltd., payment
service Square Inc., location-sharing site  Foursquare Labs Inc. ,
storage provider Dropbox Inc. and tablet-application maker
Flipboard Inc. all may benefit from the buzz and push ahead with
their own public offerings, said  Tom Taulli , an IPO consultant
in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “If you wanted to go public, you could get an IPO off the
ground pretty easily,” he said.  Millennial Media (MM)  advanced 92 percent to $25 yesterday in
its trading debut. The company had sold 10.2 million shares at
$13 apiece in the IPO on March 28, pricing above its offering
range of $9 to $11 each.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs & Co. and Barclays Plc led
the deal, with assistance from Allen & Co. and Stifel Financial
Corp. The shares are trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol MM.  Facebook’s Ad Push  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which filed for its own IPO last month, also
stands to benefit from demand for mobile services. The company
began placing ads in the smartphone version of its software this
month, aiming to make money from its 425 million mobile users.  “When people see a mobile advertising company is being
received so well, it makes people more excited about the
Facebook IPO,” said  Eric Jackson , founder of Ironfire Capital
LLC, a Naples, Florida-based hedge fund.  Other mobile-ad companies will get a boost as well, said
 Matt Murphy , a partner at  Kleiner Perkins  Caufield & Byers, a
venture firm in  Menlo Park , California. “Investors have
tremendous demand,” he said.  Aiming to capitalize on the trend, Kleiner Perkins recently
funded a stealth mobile-ad startup. It’s also a backer of  InMobi 
and SessionM, two other companies in the field.  SessionM was started by Lars Albright, a co-founder of
Quattro Wireless, which served as the basis for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
mobile-ad push. Apple acquired Quattro in 2010.  Opening Doors  Millennial Media’s success could make an IPO a viable
opportunity for more companies, said  Albright , chief executive
officer of the Boston-based company.  “It opens up more options for businesses that can gain
scale,” he said. “It shows there’s potential for an IPO.”  Before Millennial Media’s IPO, the most-successful mobile-
ad providers got acquired by companies such as Apple,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Nokia Oyj. Google bought AdMob for about $700 million
in 2010, several months after Apple’s acquisition of Quattro.  U.S. mobile-advertising spending reached $1.45 billion in
2011, up from $769.6 million in 2010, according to EMarketer
Inc. This year, advertisers are expected to increase their
mobile spending to $2.61 billion, the research firm said.  The money raised in the IPO should help Millennial Media
take on its larger rival, Google.  “They now have the money to hire more sales people, expand
internationally,” said Karsten Weide, an analyst at Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  Google’s share of the mobile display-ad market rose to an
estimated 24 percent in 2011, from 19 percent in 2010, IDC said
in December. Millennial Media climbed to 17 percent from 15
percent, while Apple saw its share decline to 15 percent from 19
percent, IDC said.  Now investors are watching to see how Millennial Media’s
stock holds up, said Noah Elkin, an analyst at New York-based
EMarketer.  “Assuming that the stock performs well, it will be
somewhat of a barometer for startups in the mobile-ad space,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  