-- ImmunoGen Shares Rise After Drug Delays Cancer Worsening
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-30T20:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/immunogen-rises-after-drug-delays-cancer-worsening-in-study.html
ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  rose the most in a
month after partner  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said a breast cancer drug
delayed the disease worsening in a patient study.  ImmunoGen climbed 4.7 percent to $14.39 at the close of
trading in  New York , its biggest one-day gain since Feb. 23. The
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company has gained 62 percent in
the past 12 months.  Patients who received the medicine, T-DM1, lived
“significantly” longer without their disease progressing
compared with those who received a combination of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb and Roche’s Xeloda, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in a statement today. Roche is
developing T-DM1 with technology it licensed from ImmunoGen.  The trial hasn’t been running long enough to show whether
the drug also extended women’s lives, Roche said. Roche said it
plans to apply for regulatory approval for T-DM1, also known as
trastuzumab emtansine, in  Europe  and the U.S. this year.  “This lends further credibility to Roche’s ability to
protect and increase its breast cancer revenues despite the
likely appearance of biosimilar Herceptin,” analysts led by
Mark Purcell at Barclays Capital wrote in a note today.  Biosimilars are lower-cost versions of complex drugs made
from living organisms.  The treatment combines Roche’s Herceptin, which brought in
$6 billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
with an older chemotherapy.  T-DM1 is a so-called “armed antibody” that combines
Herceptin with DM1, which is derived from an old chemotherapy
medicine called maytansine. That drug was found to be too toxic
for patients in clinical trials two decades ago. ImmunoGen’s
technology enabled chemists to fuse DM1 to Herceptin in such a
way that it isn’t activated until Herceptin shepherds it
directly to the cancer cell.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rejected a request in
2010 to accelerate the regulatory process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  