-- Indonesian Parliament Approves Conditional Fuel-Price Rise
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i ,   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-03-31T15:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/indonesia-girds-for-protests-as-yudhoyono-seeks-fuel-price-rise.html
Indonesia ’s parliament gave the
government conditional authority to raise fuel prices, after
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party dropped its
push for an April 1 increase.  Lawmakers voted 356 to 82 in favor of a proposal by the
Democrats to allow an increase if the Indonesia Crude Price, or
ICP, exceeds the budget assumption of $105 a barrel by 15
percent over a six-month period, Speaker of the House Marzuki Alie said after the 14 ½-hour session ended at about 1:30 a.m.
Two opposition parties walked out on the proceedings.  The deliberations took place as about 12,000 demonstrators
clashed with police in front of the parliament building last
night, and a police-estimated 81,000 rallied across the country
in the biggest public protests since the government raised fuel
prices in 2008.  Soaring food and fuel costs in the world’s fourth-most-
populous nation contributed to riots that led to the ousting in
1998 of the dictator Suharto, then  Asia ’s longest-reigning ruler.
This week’s protests underline the balancing act Yudhoyono must
undertake as he seeks to curb a subsidy bill that threatens to
sap funds from health, education and transport programs needed
for boosting investment and growth.  About 200 people rallied in front of the presidential
palace and there’s no sign any larger protests will take place
in Jakarta today, Rikwanto, a spokesman for the Jakarta police,
said in a mobile-phone text message.  Earlier Proposal  Yudhoyono’s administration had proposed to increase the
price of subsidized gasoline and diesel by 33 percent to 6,000
rupiah (65 U.S. cents) per liter effective April 1. Finance
Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said the government agreed with
today’s vote, adding that parliament’s approval is strategic to
fiscal sustainability in the long run.  The government may not raise the fuel price in the “near
term” as crude hasn’t exceeded the threshold allowed by
parliament, said Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at
the  finance ministry . Yudhoyono will hold a meeting with his
cabinet tonight to discuss parliament’s decision, Julian Aldrin Pasha, a presidential spokesman, said in a mobile-phone text
message.  The six-month average of the ICP was $113.7 a barrel, or 8
percent above the assumption, as of Feb. 29, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on data from the Energy and Mineral
Resources Ministry.  ‘Bad Impact’  Parliament also approved the 2012 economic growth
assumption of 6.5 percent, inflation target of 6.8 percent,
exchange rate of 9,000 rupiah per  U.S. dollar  and crude oil
sales at 930,000 barrels per day, Martowardojo said.  Maintaining subsidies “would have a really bad impact” on
growth by causing the  fiscal deficit  to exceed the legal limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product, forcing cuts in more
productive spending, National Economic Committee Vice Chairman M.
Chatib Basri said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
 Hong Kong  on March 23.  Yudhoyono said in a press conference tonight the government
may cut spending in order to keep the budget within the limit.  Yudhoyono, re-elected in 2009 for a second five-year term,
has pledged to increase spending on roads, seaports and airports
to help deliver growth of at least 6.6 percent by the end of
2014. Yesterday’s protests would be the biggest since 2008, when
Indonesia last raised fuel prices, according to Dodi Ambardi, a
political analyst at Yogyakarta-based Gadjah Mada University,
and Nico Harjanto, a public policy analyst at the Jakarta-based
Rajawali Foundation.  Under Pressure  Indonesia is under pressure to show progress in containing
its  budget deficit , as it seeks a credit rating boost from
 Standard & Poor’s  to complete its return to investment grade
after losing the status in the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.
Officials from S&P visited the country this week after raising
the nation’s bonds to BB+ a year ago.  “I’m hopeful that S&P will raise Indonesia’s rating within
this year, which will bring in foreign investors again,” Ezra Nazula, Jakarta-based head of fixed income who helps manage 24
trillion rupiah at PT Manulife Asset Management, said in a March
20 interview. “It will be a plus point for Indonesia if the
government can show that they are willing to increase the fuel
prices and reduce the subsidies’ burden on the budget.”  Indonesia’s state oil company  PT Pertamina (PERT)  sells subsidized
petrol at retail stations for 4,500 rupiah a liter (about $1.85
a gallon). Non-subsidized high-octane gasoline costs as much as
10,000 rupiah a liter ($4.13 a gallon).  Gasoline in  India , which is not subsidized, costs 65.64
rupees ($1.28) a liter ($4.84 a gallon) in  New Delhi . Diesel,
which is subsidized, is sold at 40.91 rupees a liter ($3.03 a
gallon), according to  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) ’s website.  Regular gasoline at U.S. pumps, averaged nationwide, cost
$3.921 on March 28, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring club. Diesel cost $4.147 a gallon as of March 26,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  