-- IPOs Suffer Slow Start as Facebook Readies Sale
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-03-30T16:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/ipos-suffer-slow-start-as-facebook-readies-sale-to-spur-rebound.html
In a year heralding the landmark
initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , share sales got off to
a slow start.  While more companies tapped equity markets in March, IPOs
globally raised $16.2 billion in the first quarter, the least
since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That kept the
backlog of deals in the U.S. near the highest in more than a
decade, according to  Renaissance Capital LLC .  Investors are still smarting after losing money last year
on IPOs from  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  to Glencore International Plc, even as
U.S. stock market volatility fell to an almost five-year low in
the quarter and set the stage for a rebound. Share sales in the
U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe  picked up in recent weeks, led by Allison
Transmission Holdings Inc. and Dutch cable-television operator
Ziggo NV.  “People are still waiting to see that the IPOs that are
coming out now are going to work,” said Joe Reece, global head
of equity capital markets at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The
market has definitely been improving, especially during March,
but people still have a healthy degree of skepticism about the
IPO market overall.”  The most recent companies to hold share sales have been
rewarded by investors, with about two-thirds trading above their
offer price, the data show. That contrasts with Glencore, which
held its IPO in May and had lost 27 percent of its value since
that time, before today. Online coupon provider Groupon had
dropped 12 percent since going public in November.  Facebook’s IPO  More companies may be looking to take a cue from Facebook,
which is planning a $5 billion IPO in early May, according to
people with knowledge of the matter. A share sale by the  Menlo
Park , California-based company would be the biggest offering for
an  Internet company  in history.  “It’s going to push interest in the broader IPO market,”
said  Francis Gaskins , president of Ipodesktop.com in Marina Del
Rey,  California . “Companies will want to IPO at that time if
they can, while people are paying attention to the IPO market.”  Nine companies raised $1.4 billion in U.S. IPOs this week,
the most weekly initial offers in the country since December
2010, Bloomberg data show.  Michaels Stores Inc., the arts and crafts retailer owned by
Blackstone Group LP and Bain Capital LLC,  filed  for a $500
million IPO today, while Oaktree Capital Group LLC, the
distressed-debt investor co-founded by  Howard Marks , said it
plans to raise as much as $517.5 million in its initial share
sale.  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  has also announced plans for an IPO,
which it plans to complete this year, according to people
familiar with the situation.  Economic Prospects  In the U.S., consumer-review website Yelp Inc. already
raised $123 million in its IPO this month and has almost doubled
since its debut. Vantiv Inc., the payment processor partly owned
by Fifth Third Bancorp, sold $575 million in stock this month.
The shares have advanced 18 percent since they began trading
March 22.  Improving economic prospects are helping spur investor
demand for new stocks, according to equity capital markets
bankers. U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 3 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than
a year, and the U.S.  unemployment rate  has fallen to the lowest
level in three years. That helped push the measure of U.S. stock
volatility known as the  VIX (VIX)  to its lowest level since June 2007.  Low Volatility  “Volatility is low, and many of the forces that challenged
the macroeconomic picture have eased,” said John Chirico,
Citigroup Inc.’s New York-based co-head of Americas capital
markets origination. “We just need stability from here.”  This quarter’s $16.2 billion in IPOs globally compares with
$28.8 billion in the previous three months and $48.4 billion a
year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Morgan Stanley leads global
IPO underwriting so far this year, with an 8.2 percent share of
the market after working on offerings by Allison Transmission,
the biggest U.S. IPO this quarter, and Ziggo, the largest sale
globally, Bloomberg data show.  Ziggo and  Switzerland ’s  DKSH Holding Ltd. (DKSH)  led companies to
raise $3.1 billion in western European IPOs this quarter. While
that’s more than double the amount from the previous three
months, sales have still fallen about 40 percent from a year
earlier, the data show.  “It has taken some time for issuers to accept that markets
are open,” said Henrik Gobel, Morgan Stanley’s London-based co-
head of equity capital markets for Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa . “Ziggo and DKSH clearly show that IPOs can be done well
and it should encourage more companies to move ahead with their
transactions.”  Asian Sales  Talanx AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest insurer, is planning an
IPO as early as the first half of 2012 to raise about 750
million euros ($998 million), people familiar with the matter
said this month.  Siemens AG’s (SIE)  lighting unit Osram AG and the
Italian aerospace firm Avio SpA both delayed sales last year
amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Companies in Asia were also slow to return to the IPO
market this quarter. While Asia accounted for 44 percent of the
total funds raised worldwide in the period,  Hong Kong  IPO volume
dropped to its lowest level in three years.  Construction-equipment makers Sany Heavy Industry Co. and
XCMG Construction Machinery Co. are both seeking to revive deals
pulled last year, according to people with knowledge of the
situation. Graff Diamonds Ltd. may seek $1 billion in the second
quarter in Hong Kong’s biggest consumer IPO this year, people
familiar with the matter said on Feb. 15.  Chinese Growth  Concern over slowing economic growth in  China  is the
biggest constraint on share sales in that region, according to
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion in
assets. Chinese gross domestic product growth was the slowest in
more than two years in the fourth quarter, and the government
this month lowered its economic growth target, which had held
steady at 8 percent since 2005.  “IPO investors are staying on the sideline, watching where
 China’s economy  is heading,” Wan said. “A window may open for
deals in the second quarter if China further eases its monetary
policy.”  In a sign of improvement, share sales in all regions raised
more in March than in the previous two months combined,
according to Bloomberg data. Eight of the 10 biggest IPOs in the
quarter were completed in March.  “It’s been a much better market over the last four to five
weeks,” said JD Moriarty, New York-based co-head of  equity
capital markets  for technology in the Americas at Bank of
America Corp., at a March 27 briefing. “As we head into the
second quarter, we have reason to be optimistic that buyers will
be more receptive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  