-- ISDA Lists Dealers, Asset Managers on Determinations Committees
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-30T18:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/isda-lists-dealers-asset-managers-on-determinations-committees.html
The  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association  named the banks and asset managers that
will decide over the next year if credit events have occurred
that require auctions in the credit-default swap market.  The committees are divided into five regions and include 12
dealer banks and six asset managers, the New York-based trade
and industry group said today in an e-mailed statement. When a
company or country defaults on its debt, an ISDA-sanctioned
auction is held to determine the price of the underlying bonds.
The credit-default swaps tied to that debt then make the holders
of the debt whole to 100 cents on the dollar.  Earlier this month, it was determined by an ISDA committee
that sellers of credit swaps on  Greece  would have to pay as much
as $2.5 billion to settle contracts triggered by the nation’s
debt restructuring. The settlement was determined after dealers
agreed a final value for Greek bonds of 21.5 percent of face
value at an auction, according to administrators Markit Group
Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc.  The banks with voting power in the committees for all
regions are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS AG, ISDA
said. Nomura Holdings Inc. will act as a consultant to the group
and won’t have voting power, ISDA said.  The asset managers with voting rights are Citadel LLC, D.E.
Shaw & Co., BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, Pacific
Investment Management Co., and Elliot Management Corp., ISDA
said. The consultative non-dealer will be  MetLife Inc. (MET)   The members begin their term effective April 30, ISDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 