-- Fischer Warns Against Widening Deficit to Boost Defense
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-04-01T08:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/israel-s-fischer-warns-against-deficit-spending-to-boost-defense.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Israel shouldn’t widen its  budget deficit  to pay
for any increase in military spending, and warned of the risks
of “populism” before elections due by next year.  There is increasing pressure from defense officials to
boost expenditure, Fischer said in a phone interview on March
30. Extra defense spending of as much as 3 billion shekels ($807
million) could possibly be financed through cuts in other
outlays, while an increase of 5 or 6 billion shekels would be
“very hard” to accommodate within the current framework, and
would require a tax increase, he said.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is under pressure to
expand his budget. Geopolitical changes such as the fall of
Israeli ally  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt , and tension over  Iran’s
nuclear program , have brought calls for higher defense spending.
Mass protests last year over  living standards  are drawing more
money into social welfare and education, while slowing growth is
expected to reduce tax receipts.  Israel has outperformed most developed economies since the
global crisis that began in 2008. Still,  gross domestic product 
growth will probably slow to 3.1 percent this year from 4.7
percent in 2011, the central bank forecast on March 26.  The budget deficit will probably be between 3 percent and
3.5 percent of GDP this year and next, and the government won’t
cut spending as long as it remains below 4 percent, Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz said in a March 22 interview.  ‘Tough Things’  While the government has acted responsibly until now by
staying within budget restrictions, the country can’t afford a
spending spree motivated by elections, which in any case may not
help an incumbent government, Fischer said.  “Governments that do tough but essential things in
election years are rewarded for doing so,” he said. “It’s not
always the case that the guys who cut taxes 10 minutes before
elections come out ahead.”  Planning for Israel’s next budget, which may cover 2013 and
2014, will probably begin next month. Elections are due by
November 2013.  “Populism is the illusion that there are free lunches all
over the place and that you can increase spending without a
funding source and not suffer serious consequences,” Fischer
said. “This approach to policy almost always ends in trouble.”  Poverty Declining  Fischer also said that poverty in Israel has declined in
the last two years after a long period of increases. The  Bank of
Israel   annual report , released last week, traces the decline in
poverty and income inequality to an increase in labor
participation and lower unemployment.  “We finally seem to have more people going to work,”
Fischer said. “If we can maintain those trends, we are well on
the way to dealing with poverty.”  Netanyahu announced last night that a tax on gasoline will
increase by less than planned to ease the burden on consumers.
That will be paid for through an efficiency program for
government ministries, the prime minister’s office said in a
text message.  As a result of Netanyahu’s decision, the price of gasoline
rose by 0.05 shekel per liter, instead of 0.20 shekel, according
to the statement. A liter of 95 octane gasoline will now sell
for 7.79 shekels, the Energy Ministry said in an e-mail late
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 