-- Italy Losing Luster as Strikes Tarnish Debt Rally: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-30T15:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/italy-losing-luster-as-strikes-tarnish-debt-rally-euro-credit.html
The Italian bond surge delivering
better returns than oil, silver or the dollar this year will
fade as the nation seeks to borrow 100 billion euros ($136.7
billion) in the second quarter against a backdrop of strikes.  Italian securities due in a year or more have outperformed
commodities, currencies and other sovereign debt in 2012, when
adjusted for volatility, as budget cuts by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and  European Central Bank  lending spurred demand for the
nation’s assets.  Now Monti risks splitting in his unelected government with
a package of measures aimed at giving employers more powers to
fire staff. Benchmark yields have risen as the reforms, endorsed
by the premier’s cabinet on March 23, sparked a general strike
by the nation’s main union and prompted threats from Monti’s
Democratic Party coalition partners to reverse the law.  “The swing in sentiment was breathtaking, but the hurdle
for continued outperformance of Italian sovereign debt lies
quite high now,” said Frank Engels, a managing director of
fixed income at Union Investment in  Frankfurt , whose 46-member
team manages 74 billion euros. “Should there be no consensus
agreement on labor reform, the political factor could become a
performance drag.”  In a study of 20 securities across a range of asset
classes, Italian debt has only been beaten by the  S&P 500 index ,
which has recorded its best start to a year since 1998,
according to the Bloomberg Riskless Return Rankings.  Risk-Adjusted Returns  Italian debt has gained 1 percent since Dec. 31, when
adjusted for volatility. That compares to a 0.9 percent advance
in the dollar against the yen, a 0.6 percent rise in three-month
Brent crude futures and a 0.5 percent return from silver. In the
period the S&P index has risen 1.3 percent. German debt is
little changed, while U.K. bonds slid 0.2 percent.  Last year, the debt of the U.K., U.S. and  Germany  offered
the best risk-adjusted returns. Italian debt only beat the yen-
dollar exchange, and Portuguese and Greek government securities,
while the  S&P 500 index (SPX)  was little changed.  “Italy outperformed others as it had the most room to,”
said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in
London. “The big test for Italy now, particularly versus  Spain ,
is that it has only done half as much of its 2012 bond supply
target as Spain has.”  Italian Issuance  The yield on Italian benchmark 10-year debt was 5.12
percent at 4:11 p.m. London time from 7.11 percent on Dec. 30.
Two-year yields were 2.95 percent from 5.12 percent at the end
of last year. The yield difference between 10-year Italian debt
and similar-maturity German bunds, the region’s benchmark
government security, has narrowed to 3.32 percentage points from
5.28 percentage points at the close of 2011.  Italy  has fulfilled about 22 percent of this year’s
borrowing needs, while Spain has sold 44 percent of its 2012
target, Davies said. Italy has issued a total of about 127
billion euros of all types of debt this year, while Spain has
sold about 56 billion euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. Spain has front-loaded its sales this year to
take advantage of demand fueled by cheap loans offered by the
European Central Bank, which handed out almost 1 trillion euros
to regional lenders in December and February.  The Rome-based treasury will borrow about 103 billion euros
in the second quarter, according to a Banca IMI research note
published on March 27. Some 56 billion euros, or 27 percent, of
the 2012 target will comprise bonds and notes, Sercan Eraslan, a
fixed income analyst at WestLB, estimates.  Crisis ‘Almost Over’  The Italian 10-year yield reached 7.48 percent on Nov. 9, a
euro-era record and higher than the 7 percent level that
prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Monti
was sworn in as Italian prime minister and finance minister a
week later and pushed through a 30 billion-euro emergency budget
package.  The euro area’s debt crisis is “almost over,” Monti said
in  Tokyo  on March 28, adding that his nation had helped to stop
a worsening of the situation, he said.  “Italy is the market that has the best risk-reward if you
believe, as we do, in the positive outcome of the whole European
crisis,” said Cosimo Marasciulo, the Dublin-based  head of
 government bonds  and currencies at Pioneer Investments, which
manages 162 billion euros of assets worldwide. “There is still
margin for more outperformance.”  Italian 10-year yields have risen about 50 basis points
from their 2012 low of 4.68 percent on March 9 as Monti pursued
his labor reform agenda.  Unless Italy is “ready for what we think is a good job, we
may not seek to continue,” the premier said on March 26,
prompting concern the government won’t last until elections due
by May 2013.  “Italy now faces some hurdles of its own,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in  London . “The outperformance process has already started to
run out of steam.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net . 