-- Stocks Advance on Europe Aid, U.S. Data; Treasuries Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-30T20:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/japan-stocks-fall-on-output-oil-trims-weekly-loss.html
Global stocks extended the best
first-quarter rally since 1998 and the euro gained as European
finance ministers agreed to increase rescue funds and U.S.
personal spending and consumer confidence topped forecasts. Oil
rebounded from its biggest drop of the year and Treasuries slid.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  increased 0.6 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York , extending its three-month gain to 11 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent and is up 12
percent this year, also the best first-quarter advance in 14
years. The euro rose 0.3 percent versus the dollar and the cost
of insuring European sovereign debt against default snapped a
two-day gain. Agricultural crops led commodities higher as a
U.S. government report signaled tighter supplies. Ten-year
Treasury yields surged five basis points to 2.21 percent.  European governments capped fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros ($666 billion), bringing the size of the firewall
to 800 billion euros, according to a statement after a meeting
in Copenhagen today.  U.S. consumer purchases rose the most in
seven months, according to Commerce Department data, while the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment reached the highest level in more than a year.  “Things are not going gangbusters, but they are more
positive,” Ann Miletti, senior portfolio manager for Wells
Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said in a
telephone interview. Her firm manages $213 billion. “The tail
risk of Europe seems to have gone away. In an environment where
you have stocks trading at discounts to their historical levels,
it does create a sweet spot.”  Stocks Rally  Gains in the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  this year have been led by financial
and technology companies, with gauges of both groups increasing
about 21 percent in the first quarter. Even after rallying 28
percent from last year’s low in October and reaching an almost
four-year high on March 26, the  S&P 500  is trading at about  14.6
times (SPX)  reported earnings, below the average multiple of 16.4
since 1954. The Nasdaq Composite Index rallied almost 19 percent
this quarter, the most to start a year since 1991.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the largest U.S. entertainment company by
market value, advanced 1.8 percent for the biggest gain in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  after Lazard Ltd. recommended
buying the shares. Pfizer Inc. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  also rose
more than 1 percent to pace gains in the Dow, which rose 66.22
points to 13,212.04 to complete an 8.1 percent first-quarter
rally. Dow Chemical Co. and Monsanto Co. advanced with
commodities.  Apple Retreats  Apple Inc. retreated 1.7 percent today and pared its first-
quarter rally to 48 percent after an audit of Foxconn Technology
Group, its biggest manufacturer, found “serious and pressing”
violations of Chinese  labor laws .  Stocks started the session higher after Commerce Department
data today showed consumer purchases climbed 0.8 percent in
February, the largest gain since July. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent
increase. Incomes advanced less than projected, the data showed.
The Michigan confidence index rose to 76.2, topping the median
economist forecast of 74.5.  Thirty-year Treasury bonds also declined, sending yields up
seven basis points to 3.34 percent. Two-year yields were little
changed at 0.34 percent.  Treasuries  Treasuries had the steepest quarterly drop since the last
three months of 2010, while corporate bonds surged as the
world’s largest economy showed signs of improvement. U.S.
government securities lost 1 percent since Dec. 31 as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
An index of investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds
returned 3.2 percent, the most since July to September 2010  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rallied 1 percent, snapping
three days of losses, as automakers and construction companies
rallied. The regional benchmark index extended its first-quarter
advance to 7.7 percent.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  climbed 4.3 percent
as HSBC Holdings Plc recommended the cement maker.  The euro strengthened almost 3 percent against the dollar
in the first quarter, its biggest quarterly gain in a year, and
jumped 11 percent versus the yen in the period for its biggest
quarterly gain in 11 years. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six trading partners, fell 0.3
percent today, leaving it 1.5 percent lower since the end of
2011.  Italian 10-year bonds rose today, driving the yield down
nine basis points to 5.12 percent, with similar-maturity Spanish
yields falling 11 basis points and Belgian yields dropping six
basis points.  European Bonds  Portuguese bonds returned 14 percent this quarter, the
best-performing market according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.
Irish  government bonds  returned 11 percent in the first quarter,
the second-biggest gain, after  Portugal , as measured by indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the  European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies . Italian debt was third with a 10.5 percent
return, and Belgian securities earned 4.7 percent for fourth
place, according to the gauge.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps tied to the debt of 15 governments dropped 3.8
basis points to 268.5.  Crude climbed 24 cents to $103.02 a barrel, rebounding from
yesterday’s 2.5 percent drop and capping a second straight
quarterly gain. Wheat, corn and soybeans surged at least 3.5
percent to lead gains in 15 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI Index.  U.S. farmers will plant 73.902 million acres with soybeans
this year, down 1.4 percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said in a report today. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
75.429 million. In a separate report, the USDA said corn
inventories on March 1 fell 7.9 percent from a year earlier and
were the lowest for that time of year since 2004, while wheat
supplies fell 16 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.9 percent and is
up 14 percent this year, its best first-quarter rally since
1992. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of companies listed
in  Hong Kong  gained 1 percent as  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and  Bank of China Ltd.  reported better-than-estimated
earnings.  India ’s Sensex Index climbed 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  