-- Japan Oil Imports for Power Surge as South Sudan Supply Is Lost
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-03-30T10:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/japan-oil-imports-for-power-surge-as-south-sudan-supply-is-lost.html
Japan  lost oil supplies from South
 Sudan , even as its total crude purchases for generating power
surged because of the need to replace electricity from idle
atomic reactors.  The country imported 1.75 million kiloliters of oil, or
about 369,000 barrels a day, for power generation in February,
more than four times as much as a year ago, according to  data 
today from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  Imports for power generation were up 15 percent from
January. February’s purchases for  power plants  accounted for 9.6
percent of Japan’s total crude  imports  of 17.76 million
kiloliters for the month, according to the trade ministry data.  The increase comes amid a halt in supplies of low-sulfur
crude from  South Sudan , which is suitable for many oil-fired
generators in Japan.  South Sudan shut oil production in January after accusing
its northern neighbor, from which it seceded in July to become
an independent state, of stealing its crude. Japan had imported
142,613 kiloliters of crude from South Sudan in December and
bought 90,555 kiloliters from the African country in January.  The dispute around South Sudan has removed about 360,000
barrels a day from global markets since the end of January and
placed an “additional burden” on Japan, Michael Hsueh, a
London-based analyst at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in a report this
month.  Tight Supplies  “Supply of low-sulfur crude oil used for power generation
is getting tighter due to the issue of South Sudan,” Tsutomu Sugimori, senior vice president of  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp (5001) .,
Japan’s largest refiner, said at a press conference today. “We
are trying our best to secure alternatives.”  Japan appeared to be shifting some of its purchases to
Sudan, which exported 235,055 kiloliters to the Asian country in
February, up 160 percent from a year earlier, when the country
also included its southern neighbor.  Imports from Gabon, which also produces grades of crude
that Japanese generators can burn, increased 67 percent to
421,300 kiloliters in February from January. Japan imported no
oil from Gabon in February 2011.  Japan is consuming the most oil in four years in response
to the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami that wrecked three
reactors at the Fukushima plant northeast of  Tokyo , triggering
the worst radiation leak since Chernobyl in the 1980s. The
country relied on nuclear sources for almost 30 percent of its
electricity before the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  