-- Japan Production Decline Undercuts Signs of Recovery: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-03-30T01:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/japan-production-decline-undercuts-signs-of-recovery-economy.html
Japan ’s industrial production
unexpectedly dropped in February, undercutting signs of an
economic rebound in the first quarter as policy makers assess
whether to apply further stimulus.  Factory output  slid 1.2 percent from the previous month,
the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today, after a 1.9 percent gain
in January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1.3 percent increase. The  unemployment rate  fell to 4.5
percent and  consumer prices  excluding fresh food unexpectedly
rose 0.1 percent, government reports showed.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  has come under pressure by a group of
lawmakers to bolster stimulus efforts, with a board member this
week questioned on the idea of adopting a Federal Reserve-style
“operation twist,” swapping short-term bonds for longer-dated
securities. While the first gain in five months in consumer
prices prompted the yen to strengthen, inflation remains distant
from the 1 percent goal that the BOJ announced last month.  “They’ll have to maintain their easing stance for a while
to prop up the economy,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist
at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , referring to BOJ
policy makers. “A slight increase in prices won’t make the BOJ
optimistic.”  The yen traded 0.2 percent higher at 82.24 per dollar as of
10:22 a.m. in Tokyo, after earlier jumping as much as 0.8
percent on the data. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.1
percent.  Betting on Reconstruction  Policy makers are counting on reconstruction spending after
last year’s earthquake and tsunami to help propel the rebound
from a contraction in 2011. Gross domestic product may expand an
annualized 1.7 percent this quarter after a 0.7 percent
contraction in the final three months of last year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  South Korea  reported a slower gain in
industrial output. Revised figures for the nation’s fourth-
quarter gross domestic product showed 0.3 percent growth from
the previous three months, less than a previous estimate of 0.4
percent.  “We’re apparently going through a trough but the speed and
magnitude of an economic recovery highly hinges on global
demand,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the data.  The euro region is due to report an inflation estimate,
with a 2.5 percent annual rate likely for March according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
 Germany  reports retail sales today and  France  also gives details
on  consumer spending .  In the U.S., the final reading for the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan measure of consumer sentiment for
this month is due and  Canada  will report GDP for January.  Weakness in Demand  In Japan, some lawmakers have been calling on the central
bank to ease policy further after it expanded its asset-purchase
facility in February and set the 1 percent inflation target.
Answering politicians questions in the Diet, BOJ Deputy Governor
Kiyohiko Nishimura said in parliament on March 28 implementing a
Japanese version of the  Federal Reserve ’s maturity extension
program for its bond holdings won’t be necessary.  Weakness in demand in Asia and  Europe  makes it difficult
for exports and output to gain momentum, according to Yoshimasa Maruyama, an economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo.  Exports to  China , Japan’s largest overseas market, fell 14
percent in February from a year earlier, the fifth consecutive
decline, according to government data.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ’s excavator
sales in China fell 40 percent so far in February from a year
earlier, President Kunio Noji said on Feb. 23.  Temporary Setback  At the same time, there are signs that the slump in output
reported today may be only be temporary. Manufacturers said they
plan to increase production 2.6 percent this month and 0.7
percent in April, today’s report showed.  Mitsumaru Kumagai, chief economist at Daiwa Institute of
Research in Tokyo, said that the decline was the aftermath
of a temporary lift when output bounced back after disruptions 
to manufacturers from flooding in Thailand ended.The goverment 
also said data has been affected by the Leap Year.  A decline in the yen against the dollar from a post World
War II high in October last year and earthquake reconstruction
work are aiding an economy that contracted in the fourth
quarter.  “Japan’s recovery will continue to pick up in the first
half of this year,” said Shuichi Obata, senior economist at
Nomura Securities Co. “Growth in production for March and April
will absorb a decline in February.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  