-- JetBlue Actions Show How Training Altered Cockpit Culture
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-30T21:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/jetblue-actions-show-how-training-altered-cockpit-culture.html
More than three decades ago, a
United Airlines jet crashed in Portland,  Oregon , killing 10
people, because the co-pilot and flight engineer didn’t speak
up.  The captain had ignored the flight engineer’s warnings that
the plane didn’t have enough fuel to land safely. As the tanks
ran dry, the junior crew members said nothing, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board found.  The events aboard a March 27  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  flight,
on which the co-pilot locked an erratically behaving captain out
of the cockpit and diverted the plane to a safe landing, show
how much has changed in a culture once typified by autocratic
captains browbeating underlings even in the face of potential
hazards, safety specialists said. The co-pilot was identified
yesterday as Jason Dowd of Salem,  Ohio .  “Thirty years ago, I doubt you would have found a co-pilot
who would have done this because of fear of going up against a
captain and fear of getting fired,” John Nance, a former
commercial pilot who now runs a Seattle-based safety consulting
firm, said in an interview.  The United accident prompted a revolution in how pilots are
trained, Frank Tullo, one of a group of airline safety officers
who devised new methods starting in the late 1970s designed to
give all crew members responsibility for safety, said in an
interview.  Co-pilots were taught to speak up if they had concerns.
Captains, many of whom had come from the military where officers
were always considered to be right, were instructed to listen
and encourage others to voice concerns.  Crew Resource Management  The training, known as crew resource management, is now
required by the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , according
to an advisory circular on the agency’s website, and has
progressed from classroom discussion in its early years to full-
blown exercises in flight simulators.  In 2004, the agency expanded the requirement to include
pilots at so-called fractional jet operations such as NetJets
Inc., which is owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Tullo said the JetBlue crew’s actions were a textbook
example of that training being used in an unusual emergency that
probably hadn’t been rehearsed.  Examples included the flight attendants seeking help early
in the disturbance from passengers if things got worse, and the
off-duty captain responding to crew requests for assistance,
Tullo said.  Pilot Charged  JetBlue Captain Clayton Osbon, charged March 28 with
interfering with a flight crew, was tackled by passengers as he
pounded on the cockpit door after leaving and then demanding to
be let back in, according to an FBI affidavit. Osbon remains at
Northwest  Texas  Healthcare System hospital in Amarillo, Texas,
said Caytie Martin, a spokeswoman. She declined to comment on
his condition.  The NTSB, the U.S. agency that investigates aviation
accidents, downloaded the jet’s cockpit voice recorder today and
turned it over to the FBI,  Kelly Nantel , a board spokeswoman,
said. Agency investigators are also extracting data from a
second recorder that tracks the flight path and expect to hand
that over next week, Nantel said.  The co-pilot became concerned about Osbon’s behavior
shortly after the flight to  Las Vegas  left  New York , according
to the court filing. Dowd was identified as the co-pilot by a
government official who wasn’t authorized to release the
information.  By the Book  The captain had yelled over the radio at air-traffic
controllers and rambled about religion, according to the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . The co-pilot “became really worried”
when Osbon said “we need to take a leap of faith” and “we’re
not going to Vegas,” the FBI said in the affidavit.  The co-pilot at that point suggested to Osbon that they
invite the off-duty captain to join them, according to the
affidavit. Osbon reacted by leaving the cockpit.  With Osbon walking the aisle and ranting, the crew
initiated several actions critical to ensuring their safety,
Tullo said.  The co-pilot told a flight attendant to bring the off-duty
captain into the cockpit, according to the FBI. “The flight
attendants had already notified certain passengers they may need
their help,” the FBI said in its affidavit.  When Osbon began banging on the locked cockpit door to get
back in, the co-pilot made an announcement over the Airbus
A320’s public address system asking passengers to restrain
Osbon, according to the FBI. The pilots in the cockpit also
locked the bullet-proof door to prevent Osbon from using a code
to reenter, according to the FBI.  583 Dead  “This is a home run,” said Tullo, former vice president
of flight operations at Continental Airlines, now part of  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  “We have really empowered the entire
crew to be responsible for the safe conduct of the flight.”  The case files of the world’s aviation accident
investigators include many instances in which such quick action,
coordination and communication didn’t occur, with deadly
results.  A runway collision in 1977 between two Boeing Co. 747s in
Tenerife,  Canary Islands  -- the deadliest accident in history
with 583 fatalities -- occurred in spite of a warning from a
flight engineer on one of the jets, according to
AviationSafetyNetwork, which is partially funded by the
Alexandria, Virginia-base Flight Safety Foundation.  ‘Run Us Low’  The captain of a KLM jet continued to accelerate for
takeoff even after the engineer cautioned that there might be
another jet on the runway, according to the group’s website.  In the Dec. 28, 1978, United crash, warning lights
indicated a landing-gear problem as the jet approached  Portland ,
according to the NTSB.  The flight engineer noticed that there wasn’t enough fuel
to stay in a holding pattern assessing the issue. “Fifteen
minutes is gonna really run us low on fuel here,” he said,
according to the NTSB transcript of the cockpit voice recorder.  The engineer didn’t raise his concerns again, even after 15
minutes had passed, according to the transcript.  “His thinking process must have been, ‘He’s the captain.
He must know what he’s doing,’ ” Tullo said. “He ended up
dying for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  