-- Kashmir Activist Paid by Pakistan Spies Sentenced to Prison
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-30T20:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/kashmir-activist-paid-by-pakistan-spies-sentenced-to-prison-2-.html
A Kashmir activist who prosecutors
said aided a “decades-long” operation by  Pakistan ’s spy agency
to influence U.S. policy was sentenced to two years in prison.  Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai, 62, was sentenced today in federal
court in Alexandria, Virginia, after pleading guilty in December
to one count of conspiracy to defraud the U.S. and one count of
impeding the administration of tax laws.  “Your zealousness overwhelmed your good judgment,” U.S.
District Judge Liam O’Grady said, adding that Fai willingly took
money from Pakistan’s spy agency and acted as “their voice in
the mission to bring peace to Kashmir.”  Fai, who faced as long as eight years in prison, sought
home confinement. Prosecutors told the judge that Fai deserved
four years.  Fai admitted to accepting at least $3.5 million from
Pakistan’s government to fund the Washington-based Kashmiri
American Council, or KAC, which worked to sway the attitudes of
U.S. lawmakers on the disputed territory. He said he illegally
concealed the money from the U.S. on tax forms by denying the
council received money from foreign sources.  Fai also admitted he lied to FBI agents when he told them
in 2007 that he never met anyone affiliated with Pakistan’s spy
agency.  ‘My Adopted Country’  “I never intended to harm anybody,” Fai told the judge
today. “I never intended to harm the United States, my adopted
country, its people and its government.”  The council, which Fai headed at the time of his arrest in
July, is “actually run” by elements of the Pakistani
government, including the country’s military intelligence
service, the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency, or ISI,
prosecutors said. The council’s goal is to build support for
Pakistan’s interests in Kashmir and offset lobbying by  India ,
they said.  “For more than 20 years, Mr. Fai operated KAC as a front
for Pakistan’s intelligence agency,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Gordon Kromberg told the judge. He said that Fai hasn’t shown
any regrets for his conduct.  “His remorse is for being exposed as a fraud,” he said.  Fai’s lawyer, Nina Ginsberg, called the government’s
position “appalling” and said the U.S. has spent 20 years
tracking her client through wiretaps in an attempt to show that
he’s a Pakistani agent.  “Couldn’t Prove It’  “They couldn’t prove it,” she told the judge. “There’s
not one example of a public statement by Mr. Fai, not one word
that is anything that can be characterized as propaganda by the
Pakistani government.”  Pakistan and India, which have split control of Kashmir
since 1948, fought wars over the territory in 1965 and 1999.  Fai, a Pakistani immigrant and U.S. citizen living in
Fairfax,  Virginia , was charged in July with conspiracy to
violate the Foreign Agents Registration Act and lying to federal
agents. He was charged along with Zaheer Ahmad, a U.S. citizen
who remains at large, according to prosecutors. The pair failed
to disclose their affiliation with Pakistan’s government as
required by law, prosecutors said.  As part of his plea, Fai agreed to pay about $200,000 to
the IRS and forfeit about $143,000 the government seized from
five bank accounts in Virginia and Washington, according to
court papers. Fai also agreed to cooperate with any federal
investigation.  Washington Strategies  A search of Fai’s home, office and a storage facility
turned up documents detailing the council’s  Washington 
strategies, including budget requirements for contributions to
members of Congress and trips to Kashmir for lawmakers, money
for opinion pieces distributed to the media, and money for
seminars and conferences, prosecutors said in a court filing.  “He lied to the  Justice Department , the IRS, and many
political leaders throughout the U.S. as he pushed the ISI’s
propaganda on Kashmir,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said in a
statement.  One document found in the search called for $100,000 for
contributions to members of Congress in 2009, prosecutors said.
Fai, who admitted the conspiracy took place from 1990 until July
18, said he submitted annual budget requests of about $500,000
to $700,000 to officials of the government of Pakistan,
including the ISI.  ‘Purchased’ Information  Ginsberg said today that Pakistan wasn’t looking for Fai to
be its mouthpiece in Washington, rather the country
“purchased” information from Fai. Pakistan was paying Fai to
learn who he was talking to and what he was discussing.  “They were getting information much the same way the
government of the  United States  was doing through FISA
warrants,” she said, referring to court permissions to monitor
communications of suspected spies.  Since the mid-1990s, Ahmad, an American living in Pakistan,
moved government funds to Fai and the council, which also has
offices in London and Brussels, prosecutors said.  Fai has donated more than $10,000 to federal politicians in
the past five years, according to data compiled by the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  The case is U.S. v. Fai, 11-00561, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  