-- Keneally Confirmed to Lead Justice Department Tax Division
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 3 8 3 0 0 0 ]   S e t h   S t e r n   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 2 4 2 1 3 0 9 ]   L a u r a   L i t v a n   [ ]
-- 2012-03-30T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/keneally-confirmed-to-lead-justice-department-tax-division-1-.html
The  U.S. Senate  confirmed New York
attorney Kathryn Keneally as assistant attorney general of the
 Justice Department ’s tax division, where she will help run the
crackdowns on  identity theft  and offshore tax evasion.  Keneally, a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, was
President Barack Obama’s second choice after an earlier nominee,
Mary L. Smith, was blocked by lawmakers. Keneally was among
scores of nominees confirmed yesterday by the Senate for top
government jobs. The Senate also confirmed Michael Horowitz, a
Washington-based lawyer, as inspector general.  “Kathryn will be integral to our efforts to enforce our
nation’s tax laws fully and fairly, and Michael will promote
integrity, financial austerity and effectiveness in  Department
of Justice  operations,” Attorney General Eric Holder said in a
statement.  Keneally will lead more than 300 civil and criminal lawyers
who handle a wide range of investigations and litigation.
Bloomberg News reported March 27 that the division lost almost
30 percent of its 95 prosecutors in the past month, slowing a
U.S. crackdown on offshore banks that enabled  tax evasion ,
according to four people familiar with the matter.  Foreign Banks  Many of the lawyers handled cases involving foreign banks
or financial advisers suspected of helping U.S. clients cheat on
taxes, the people said. The transfers came amid criminal probes
of at least 11 Swiss financial institutions, including Credit
Suisse Group AG, with the tax division leading or assisting each
prosecution.  The division investigates identity theft, illegal tax
shelters and other crimes, while approving every tax case filed
by the 94 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys serving the
Justice Department around the country.  The prosecutors left under a program offered on Jan. 13 by
the Justice Department, which said it would “detail” as many
as 100 attorneys and support staff to the U.S. attorney’s
offices through Sept. 30, or the end of the fiscal year.  Keneally didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail seeking
comment on the confirmation.  Horowitz is a partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP.
He had served in the Justice Department’s criminal division,
first as deputy assistant attorney general and then as chief of
staff to the head of the division. He also had been chief of the
public corruption unit in the Southern District of  New York . 