-- Kentucky’s Davis Chosen Player of Year, Haith Gets Coach’s Honor
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-30T16:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/kentucky-s-davis-chosen-player-of-year-haith-gets-coach-s-honor.html
University of Kentucky  freshman
 Anthony Davis  was chosen the Associated Press men’s college
basketball Player of the Year, while the  University of
Missouri ’s  Frank Haith  took the top coaching honor.  Davis, 19, received 43 votes from the 65-member panel of
media members who regularly cover the sport, the  news agency 
said today. He is the first Wildcat and second freshman to win
the award, which began in 1961.  Haith, 46, was named Coach of the Year after receiving 21
votes from the same panel, which submitted ballots on both
awards before the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament began this month. The Tigers (30-5) reached the 30-
win plateau for the second time, won the Big 12 tournament title
and finished the season ranked No. 3 in the AP Top 25.  Davis averaged 14.3 points, 10.1 rebounds and 4.6 blocks
per game. The  Southeastern Conference ’s Player, Freshman and
Defensive Player of the Year, he joins current Oklahoma City
Thunder All-Star forward  Kevin Durant  as winners of the national
award in their first college season. Durant won in 2007 at the
 University of Texas .  In his first year at Missouri, Haith won a school-record 14
Big 12 games and guided the Tigers to their second conference
tournament title, according to the school’s athletics page. He
is the first Missouri coach to win the AP award since Norm Stewart in 1994.  Kentucky-Louisville Showdown  Kentucky  plays state-rival  University of Louisville 
tomorrow in the NCAA tournament national semifinals. Missouri,
seeded No. 2 in the West Region, lost in the Round of 64 to
Norfolk State.  University of Kansas  forward Thomas Robinson finished
second to Davis with 20 votes, followed by  Michigan State
University  forward Draymond Green, with two. Kentucky’s  John Calipari  and Michigan State’s Tom Izzo tied for second in the
coaches’ balloting with 10 votes apiece.  Jimmer Fredette of  Brigham Young University  won the player
award last year, with Mike Brey of  Notre Dame  receiving the
coaching award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  