-- Killing Stalls Stand Your Ground Laws as NRA Lobbies in Alaska
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/killing-stalls-stand-your-ground-laws-as-nra-lobbies-in-alaska.html
On the one-month anniversary of
Trayvon Martin’s killing this week, the  National Rifle
Association  was in Alaska lobbying for a law like the one at the
center of the Florida shooting.  The gun rights group  urged supporters  to contact senators
on the “stand your ground” bill, calling it “vital self-
defense legislation.” A lobbyist worked the halls in gun-
friendly Juneau, telling at least one senator that the highly
publicized slaying of the unarmed black teen in Sanford,
Florida, is “irrelevant” to the debate in Alaska, according to
Senator Hollis French, an Anchorage Democrat.  As the 4-million-member NRA continued its push in Alaska,
it faced mounting challenges in other states. Massachusetts
Governor  Deval Patrick  pledged yesterday to veto a similar bill
if it made it to his desk. Legislation in New York and Iowa
stalled in committees as lawmakers in  Georgia ,  Texas  and other
states said they would try to repeal laws already on the books.
A Florida-like measure in  Minnesota  was  vetoed  by Governor  Mark Dayton  on March 5, before the Martin case was widely covered in
the national media.  “You have to ask why they are doubling down in the face of
this case,” said French, a former prosecutor and chairman of
the judiciary committee, which approved the  Alaska bill  last
week. “You are tipping the balance in favor of more shootings.
There is no other way to put it.”  Deadly Force  Florida’s 2005 law, backed by the Fairfax, Virginia-based
NRA, allows the use of deadly force in a public place if someone
“believes it is necessary to prevent death or great bodily
harm.” The law says there is no duty to flee the confrontation.
Neighborhood watch captain George Zimmerman, 28, claimed self-
defense and was not arrested after shooting 17-year-old Martin
on Feb. 26, sparking protests around the country. Authorities
said the law prevented them from charging Zimmerman.  The  Florida  measure was promoted as model legislation by
the  American Legislative Exchange Council , a Washington-based
group with corporate and state legislative members who work
together to fashion policy that is then introduced in capitols
throughout the country.  Similar laws  are now in place in about
half of U.S. states, although provisions vary, according to the
 Legal Community Against Violence  in  San Francisco , which opposes
the laws.  Ladd Everitt, communications director for the Washington-
based  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence , said he thinks the days
when the NRA and ALEC could easily pass “stand your ground”
state laws are over because of the Florida shooting.  ‘Higher Hurdle’  “Even in very gun-friendly states, this case is really
going to cool prospects for ‘stand your ground’ laws,” Everitt
said. “If they try to push this in new states, people are going
to be like ‘Number one, we see this getting people killed, but
number two, why?’ It creates a higher hurdle for their lobbying
effort.”  The NRA’s lobbying arm, the  Institute for Legislative
Action , didn’t respond to calls placed to its media relations
office. When Brian Judy, a lobbyist for the group, testified
before  Alaska ’s Senate Judiciary Committee he said the measure
wouldn’t change the fact that a shooting must be justified.  “Law-abiding citizens should not fear criminal prosecution
when they stand their ground and defend themselves without
retreating from any place they have a legal right to be,” he
said, according to a recording of the March 16 hearing on the
Legislature’s website.  French, who didn’t vote for or against the Alaska measure
in his committee, said he’ll probably oppose the bill if it
makes it to the floor of the Senate, where 12 of 20 members are
co-sponsors. Representative Mark Neuman, the Wasilla Republican
who sponsored the bill, didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment.  Florida Case  ALEC didn’t respond to a call placed to Kaitlyn Buss, its
communications director. The legislative organization posted  a
statement  on its website March 26, saying it was unclear whether
the law it supported could apply to the Florida case.  “‘Stand Your Ground’ or ‘Castle Doctrine’ is designed to
protect people who defend themselves from imminent death and
great bodily harm,” according to the ALEC statement. “It does
not allow you to pursue another person. It does not allow you to
seek confrontation. It does not allow you to attack someone who
does not pose an imminent threat.”  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  has created a  task force  to
examine the 2005 law and other issues surrounding the case after
the criminal investigation is over.  Marion Hammer, executive director of Unified Sportsmen of
Florida, an NRA affiliate, defended the Florida law.  ‘A Good Law’  “The ‘stand your ground’ law was a good law when we passed
it; it’s a good law now,” Hammer, 72, who served as the NRA’s
first female president from 1995-1998, said in a telephone
interview. “Laws don’t do bad things. People do bad things.
Those who attempt to put ‘stand your ground’ on trial do so from
a very weak position.”  In  New York , the Senate’s Democratic conference called on
the sponsor of a similar measure to withdraw the proposal.  “It would be outrageous for New York to join” the list of
states that have approved “stand your ground” bills,  Senate
Democrats , who are in the minority, said in a March 26 letter --
issued the same day several members donned hoodies to protest
the shooting.  “It is not ‘tough on crime’ to pass a bill that
will let people get away with murder in New York, as it appears
they are in Florida.”  Senator George Maziarz, a Republican representing Niagara
Falls, who introduced the bill in January 2011, didn’t respond
to calls requesting comment. Maziarz’s bill hasn’t been put to a
vote.  Stuck in Committee  Massachusetts state Senator Stephen M. Brewer’s office has
received dozens of calls in favor of his “stand your ground”
bill and only a handful opposed, Meghan Kelly, his
communications director, said by e-mail. Brewer, a Republican
from Barre, has introduced the bill annually since 2007, but it
has yet to get out of committee.  In  Iowa ,  House Democrats  walked out of the Capitol on Feb.
29 to delay consideration of two gun bills, including a “stand
your ground” bill. The bill passed the Republican-controlled
House but died when it failed to get a hearing in a Senate
committee.  Supporters of the bill there focused on the case of Jay
Rodney Lewis, who served more than three months in jail before
he  was acquitted  of charges after shooting at two men in a
roadside altercation in October, said Representative Clel
Baudler, chairman of the public safety committee.  His House colleagues were concerned about the Des Moines
incident when they passed the measure, he said in a telephone
interview. The Florida case helped kill it in the Senate, he
said. Baudler said he and other supporters hope to bring the
bill back until it passes.  “I think when everything cools down, we will get it
through some day, some year,” said  Baudler , a Republican from
Greenfield. “If we don’t, I trust the voters to put the right
people in office to do the right thing for Iowans, not
Floridians or Californians, but the right thing for Iowa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  