-- Kit Digital Rebounds for Second Day on Takeover Speculation
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n
-- 2012-03-30T14:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/kit-digital-jumps-heads-for-biggest-rally-in-almost-five-months.html
Kit Digital Inc. (KITD)  rose for a second
day, poised for its biggest back-to-back rally in more than four
months after  Roth Capital Partners  said yesterday the maker of
online video software may put itself up for sale.  The shares climbed 11 percent to $8 as of 9:50 a.m. in  New
York , adding to an 11 percent rally yesterday. Kit’s secondary
listing in Prague jumped 22 percent to 148 koruna, making it the
best performer in the Czech 14-member  PX (PX)  equity index.  A resignation last week of four board members paves the way
for a takeover, with possible bidders being private equity
buyers and listed companies including  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , Roth analyst Richard Ingrassia wrote in a report.  “We also believe it is quite probable that Kit Digital
will sooner or later become the target of a takeover, which
would represent a major impulse for the stock price,” Ondrej Moravansky, an analyst at Cyrrus AS brokerage in Brno,  Czech
Republic , wrote in a report to clients today.  A private equity company is the most likely buyer as it
“would be most willing to pay the low- to mid-teens price
shareholders are looking for,” Ingrassia said, citing his
communication with Kit’s management and Roth’s “independent
checks.” Roth has a buy recommendation for Kit shares with a
12-month price estimate of $25, according to the report.  While Roth doesn’t possess any specific information that
suggests a transaction is underway, “it is more likely than not
that Kit Digital has at least one party” interested in
acquiring it, the brokerage said in a separate report today,
clarifying yesterday’s comments.  Daniel Goodfellow, a New York-based spokesman for Kit,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  