-- Cuomo’s $132.6 Billion Budget Approved by New York Lawmakers
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-30T20:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/new-york-assembly-approves-cuomo-s-132-6-billion-spending-plan.html
New York (STONY1)  lawmakers approved
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s $132.6 billion budget, marking the
earliest passage of a spending plan in Albany since 1983.  The Senate and Assembly today ratified the plan, which cuts
spending by $135 million and includes no new taxes. It follows
separate deals that Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, struck with
lawmakers this month on a pension overhaul, teacher evaluations,
casino gambling, a criminal DNA database and redistricting.  The budget sets up a task force to coordinate
infrastructure development across agencies and a $15 billion
fund for projects that Cuomo says will create tens of thousands
of jobs. It also provides $13.1 billion for the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority ’s five-year capital budget.  It’s Cuomo’s second spending plan since taking office last
year, and both times he and lawmakers reached a deal before the
April 1 deadline. From 1985 to 2004, the budget was late 19 out
of 20 years, said Morris Peters, a Budget Division spokesman. In
2010, lawmakers didn’t approve the final piece of the budget
until August.  “At one time the state government was a joke,” Cuomo said
today at a press conference in  Albany . “They were literally
laughing at it on the late-night shows. It has been a dramatic
and almost unbelievable turnaround in 15 months. We went from a
model of dysfunction to, I believe, a model of function.”  New Power  Cuomo was aided by declining revenue and his power to force
lawmakers to choose between shutting the government or passing
the budget through an appropriations bill called an extender,
said  Steve Greenberg , a pollster for Siena College in
Loudonville, New York.  “There tends to be more fighting when there’s more money
to spend,” Greenberg said. “I also don’t think the Legislature
wants to go down the road and test out how Cuomo would impose
his budget through an extender if the budget is late.”  Governor  David Paterson , Cuomo’s predecessor, was the first
to use the extenders to force lawmakers to approve pieces of his
budget. The process is used to keep the government running in a
new fiscal year when there’s no agreement. The governor has the
power, established by a 2004 court ruling, to put almost any
item in an extender bill. Cuomo had threatened to use the
procedure if talks had gone past April 1.  The budget closes what was once a $3.5 billion deficit, a
process made easier when lawmakers in December approved a Cuomo-
backed tax increase on joint earners making at least $2 million
annually. That lowered the gap to $2 billion. The remaining
savings were reached mostly by consolidating agencies.  Decrepit Bridges  The infrastructure fund, called NY Works, and the  task
force  that oversees it are at the center of the governor’s plans
to jump-start the economy, Cuomo said March 27, when he and
legislative leaders reached a budget deal.  About 32 percent of New York’s bridges are considered
deficient, meaning that although they’re safe, they need
rehabilitation to be fully functional,  Howard Glaser , director
of state operations, has said. The fund will be used to speed up
work on 115 bridges and 2,000 miles (3,218 kilometers) of roads,
using $1.2 billion in state funding, $1 billion from the federal
government, $9.3 billion from the state’s authorities and $3.5
billion from private industry, he said.  “NY Works has a different premise for government,” Cuomo
said March 28 on WCNY radio. “It says that government can
actually be a stimulative, participatory partner with the
private sector in creating jobs.”  MTA Funding  The MTA funding, which includes raising the largest U.S.
transit agency’s borrowing cap to about $41 billion from $34
billion and $770 million in direct state financing, will also
create jobs, he said.  The MTA approved March 28 a $599 million deal with
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , the Canadian maker of aircraft and railroad
equipment, that Cuomo said will preserve 500 jobs at the
company’s facility in Plattsburgh, a city in northern New York.  “The decision by the MTA to award this contract to
Bombardier is a major win for the people of the North Country
and the entire region’s economy,” Cuomo said in an e-mailed
statement.  Cuomo’s deal with lawmakers on changes to the pension
system applies only to new workers. He says it will save the
state and its local governments $80 billion over 30 years by
raising the  retirement age  to 63 from 62 and offering a 401(k)-
type plan for nonunion workers earning at least $75,000
annually.  The pension deal, originally a measure in the budget Cuomo
proposed in January, was part of a package that also included a
constitutional amendment to create as many as seven Las Vegas-
style casinos in the third-most-populous U.S. state.  The fiscal 2013 budget creates a seven-member commission to
oversee Indian casinos, horse racing, and run the lottery along
with video terminals at race tracks. The commission, with five
members named by the governor and one each picked by the Senate
majority leader and the Assembly speaker, will replace the
current Racing and Wagering Board and the Lottery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  