-- Noonan Steps Up ECB Pressure as Irish Plan Bank Debt Deferral
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-30T09:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/noonan-steps-up-ecb-pressure-as-irish-plan-bank-debt-deferral.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the government is seeking a European Central Bank
commitment to provide “continuing low cost funding” to the
country’s financial system, after he yesterday eased the
immediate burden of repaying the nation’s banking debt.  Noonan yesterday laid out plans to effectively sidestep a
3.1 billion-euro ($4.1 billion) cash payment due this month to
the former  Anglo Irish Bank Corp (ANGL) ., as it continues talks to
lower the bank’s overall rescue bill. Noonan has indicated he
may ultimately seek to use the euro-area’s bailout fund to
refinance the cost of bailing out the lender.  “The ECB would favor that because it would improve their
collateral significantly,” Noonan told reporters before a
meeting of European finance ministers in Copenhagen today. “But
that would be of little use to Ireland unless we got the
commitment to ongoing medium term low-cost funding from the
ECB.”  Irish consumer lenders relied on 71.3 billion euros of ECB
funding in January, according to the country’s central bank. The
nation’s financial system came close to collapse in 2008 after a
real estate bubble burst, prompting investors to shun Irish
banking debt and forcing the state to take control of five of
country’s six biggest domestic lenders.  Euro-area finance ministers should commit to an emergency
lending capacity of at least $1 trillion to reassure investors
in the face of the region’s debt crisis, Noonan said today.  “Anything that gets you $1 trillion looks like a serious
firewall,” Noonan said.  “The maximum that could be on the table
today would be 940 billion euros. That would be a very
impressive figure.”  Win  As part of a wider restructuring of the financial system,
Noonan also wants to move loss-making tracker loans out of the
some banks.  Allied Irish Banks Plc, (ALBK)  99.8 percent owned by the
government, said today it’s in discussions on such a move.  “The deferral is a positive,” said  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “A far greater
win would be any announcement of support to remove tracker
mortgages from Irish banks’ books, which would be a significant
step in returning the banks towards profitability.”  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.84 percent yesterday, down from 9.1 percent at the
start of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Copenhagen at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  