-- Northeast Cold, Storm May Leave Snow From N.Y. to Boston
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-30T13:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/northeast-cold-storm-may-leave-snow-from-n-y-to-boston.html
Cool weather will linger in the
U.S. Northeast through the weekend, while storms may leave a
dusting or more of snow on  Boston  and the area northwest of New
York City.  As much as 5 inches (13 centimeters) of snow may fall in
Monticello, New York, 75 miles north-northwest of Manhattan,
through the weekend, according to the National Weather Service.
Boston may have falling snow without any accumulation.  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  Demand for home heating fuel may be normal in eastern  New
England , including Boston and Providence, Rhode Island, through
April 6, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri.  The rest of the Northeast may use 10 percent to 30 percent
less than normal, Salmon said in an outlook today.  The forecast for  New York City  is for rain through tomorrow
with highs of about 45 to 50 degrees Fahrenheit (7 to 10
Celsius), according to Rob Carolan of Hometown Forecast Services
Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire.  While cooler weather persists in the Northeast, the
Midwest, Great Plains and South may all be 8 to 14 degrees above
normal, said MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Warmer weather is expected to continue in the Midwest and
Mississippi River Valley through April 8, according to MDA’s 6-
to 10-day forecast.  The East Coast from Maine to Florida is expected to have
seasonal temperatures from April 4 to April 8, while the West
Coast drops 3 to 4 degrees below normal, MDA said.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for April 3 is
48, according to MDA. It’s 44 in Boston, 45 in Chicago, 53 in
St. Louis, 59 in Atlanta, 62 in Dallas, 67 in Houston, 49 in
Seattle and 60 in Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  