-- Tobacco Makers Must List Ingredients, Prove Safety Claims
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-30T20:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/tobacco-makers-must-list-ingredients-prove-safety-claims.html
Tobacco companies  will have to
begin reporting the amount of unsafe chemicals in their products
and prove their so-called lower-risk alternatives to smoking
such as snuff are actually safer, U.S. regulators said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  moved today to implement
pieces of a 2009 law giving the agency the authority to regulate
tobacco products. The FDA released preliminary guidelines for
the industry that it says can educate consumers on exactly what
is in cigarettes, such as ammonia and formaldehyde, and police
claims that certain tobacco products may be safer than others.  The agency will share information on chemical amounts with
the public within a year,  Lawrence Deyton , director of the FDA’s
Center for Tobacco Products, said in a telephone call with
reporters. On the issue of less-risky tobacco items, the draft
 guidelines  set up two categories: one with a higher evidence
standard that lets companies claim less harm than cigarettes;
and another with a lower standard that permits companies to
market products as reducing exposure to unsafe ingredients.  “We are forging new territory to ensure that tobacco
companies provide accurate information and do not mislead
American consumers,” FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said in
a  statement . “We are committed to stopping such practices that
may cause people to start or continue using tobacco products
that could lead to preventable disease and death.”  93 Chemicals  The FDA released a list of 93 chemicals that tobacco makers
would have to report the quantity of in their products. The FDA
is studying how best to disseminate the information publicly.  “Most people do understand tobacco use is harmful,”
Deyton said. “There are also studies that people don’t really
understand why to the extent the various chemicals in tobacco
are harmful.”  The agency said in the draft on reduced-risk products --
which include electronic cigarettes, tobacco lozenges, snuff and
snus -- that it’s asking for scientific information, including
research findings related to a manufacturer’s claim, and may
request data comparing the product with cigarettes.  Products in the two categories will be asked to show
reduced risk and a benefit to the health of tobacco and non-
tobacco users before companies can market them as safer,
according to the draft guidelines. The companies also could
advertise the products as offering less exposure to harmful
ingredients if they prove that future studies may reveal a
reduction in disease and death when compared with cigarettes.  Snuff Warnings  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and its American Snuff unit asked
the FDA in July to change labels on smokeless products to:
“WARNING: No tobacco product is safe, but this product presents
substantially lower risks to health than cigarettes.” Current
labels say the product isn’t a safe alternative to cigarettes.  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , which owns  Philip Morris USA  and brands
including Copenhagen and Skoal, wrote the agency “there is
overwhelming scientific, medical and public health consensus
that moist smokeless tobacco products” such as snuff or snus,
“are substantially less hazardous than cigarettes.”  Snuff and snus are moist powder tobacco that goes under the
lip either loose or in a packet.  Shares of Richmond, Virginia-based Altria gained less than
1 percent to $30.87 at the close in  New York , while Winston-
Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds increased 1.2 percent to
$41.46.  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)  fell 2.4 percent to $3.28.  Scientific Evidence  Star Scientific filed an application with FDA in February
2011 to market its snuff product Stonewall Moist-BDL. Star,
based in Glenn Allen,  Virginia , said in a statement then that it
was the first FDA application for approval of a tobacco product.  Smokeless tobacco can cause mouth cancer, oral health
diseases and nicotine addiction, according to the Atlanta-based
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . About 3.5 percent of
U.S. adults used smokeless tobacco in 2009. Skoal held 25
percent of the market share the same year, followed by
Copenhagen with 24 percent, according to the CDC.  Independent third parties should be required to assess the
health effects of modified-risk tobacco products before
companies submit applications for review to the FDA, the
 Institute of Medicine  in  Washington , which advises the nation on
health matters, recommended in a December  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  