-- Obama Campus Fervor Losing to Apathy as Students Sour on 2012
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/obama-campus-fervor-losing-to-apathy-as-students-sour-on-2012.html
On election night 2008, freshman
Meagan Cassidy left  Lake Forest College  and hopped a train to
 Chicago  to celebrate Barack Obama’s impending victory.  “There was probably no better place to be,” Cassidy said
in a phone interview. The excitement generated that evening
spurred her on to become an intern and then a field organizer in
three congressional contests and two human rights campaigns.  Now a senior, Cassidy, 21, said she’s not working on a
campaign this time around. She’s too busy looking for a job at a
nonprofit advocacy group. She and her friends aren’t discussing
the election as much as in 2008, she said.  “There is not much talk of Obama at all,” Cassidy said of
the mood on campus, which extends beyond the president. “I
don’t think anyone’s satisfied.”  Obama enjoyed a wave of youth support in his run to the
presidency, winning 66 percent of voters aged 18-to-29 in the
race against Republican Senator  John McCain . Twenty-two million
young voters  cast ballots , making up about 18 percent of the
electorate -- two million more than in 2004, according to exit
polls and the Center for Information and Research on Civic
Learning and Engagement. Today that passion has cooled amid
gridlock and partisanship in Washington and a surge in
unemployment that is souring young voters.  ‘More Apathetic’  “There’s definitely a significant sense that this
generation are more apathetic headed into the 2012 election than
they were in 2008,” John Della Volpe, director of polling for
Harvard University’s Institute of Politics, said in a phone
interview.  Obama’s approval rating among college students dropped to
46 percent last December from 58 percent in November 2009,
according to a Harvard University  poll . Fifty percent of people
between the ages of 18 and 24 said they would “definitely” be
voting, an 11 percentage-point decrease from the fall of 2007. A
third of respondents said they approved of Democrats in
Congress, and 24 percent approved of Republicans. Just 12
percent said the nation was headed in the right direction  “The turnout will not be great,” Curtis Gans, director
of the Center for the  Study of the American Electorate  in
 Washington , said in a phone interview. The war in  Afghanistan , a
lack of progress on closing Guantanamo Bay and a dismal job
picture taint Obama’s prospects, he said. The  unemployment rate 
among 18- to 24-year-olds was 16.3 percent at the end of last
year, the highest since record-keeping began in 1948, according
to a  February Pew Research Center  report.  “There’s not the sense that four more years of Obama will
change the world for the better,” Gans said. Still, Obama
stands a “reasonably good chance” of winning, he said.  Uncontested Race  Some of the apathy can be attributed to an uncontested
Democratic race. In Obama’s 2008 primary battle, he and  Hillary Clinton  made appearances at dozens of college campuses to woo
students. While the election is still more than seven months
away, the president has time to recapture the mood that drew
young people to him four years ago, Clo Ewing, a spokeswoman for
the Obama campaign, said in a phone interview.  “We absolutely want to work toward doing as well, if not
better, than we did in 2008,” Ewing said.  Support for Obama among young people, including students,
may already be perking up, Della Volpe said. As of March 18, 55
percent of 18- to 29-year-olds approved of Obama, up from 44
percent in early December, according to a  Gallup  poll. The
national average was 48 percent. The poll didn’t separate out
students.  Silent Students  In 2008, students at  Dartmouth College  sported Obama bumper
stickers on their laptops and advocated their support over the
Internet, Dean Lacy, professor of government at the Hanover, New
Hampshire-based school, said in a phone interview.  “Every class I walked into, the students would be talking
about the election,” Lacy said. “This year I could barely get
students to talk about the Republican primaries, even in a class
on campaigns and elections.”  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney has appeared at a
dozen campuses so far, where the campaign contacts local college
Republicans to make calls on behalf of the candidate and spread
his “pro-jobs message,” Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Obama outpaced McCain in his use of social media in 2008.
The  College Republican National Committee  is beefing up its
social-media presence, Alyssa Farah, the committee’s
communications director, said in a phone interview. The group
has made inroads on Twitter, where they have 33,551 followers
compared with the College Democrats’ 23,969 and Young Democrats’
7,538 supporters.  Libertarian Streak  Texas Republican Representative  Ron Paul  has also generated
excitement among younger voters, tapping into “an increasing
libertarian streak” among students, Harvard’s Della Volpe said.
Paul has run strongest among Republican primary voters ages 18-
to-29, according to CNN exit polls, and won the group outright
in the South Carolina and Michigan primaries.  To lay the groundwork for the fall campaign, Obama campaign
manager  Jim Messina  and national field director Jeremy Bird are
visiting campuses in swing states including the  University of
Wisconsin-Madison  and the University of  Florida  to meet with
students. The campaign hasn’t determined how often Obama or Vice
President  Joe Biden  will visit campuses, Ewing said  “What happened in 2008 was a remarkable, once-in-a-
lifetime experience, and young people are a little bit slower
coming back,” Emily Tisch Sussman, executive director of the
 Young Democrats of America  in Washington, said in a phone
interview.  While college students say they are disillusioned with
Washington, almost 60 percent of those polled in the Harvard
survey volunteered in their community, Della Volpe said.  A Better Place  “They care about the country,” Della Volpe said. “They
want to make the community a better place. They just don’t think
the system in Washington is the most effective way to do that.”  Lange Luntao, a Harvard senior, traveled to  New Hampshire 
and  Pennsylvania  to work door-to-door for Obama in 2008. He
dropped his involvement in the campus Democratic organization
after what he called the “brutal” 2010 midterm elections when
the Democrats lost control of the  House of Representatives .  “I am still on their mailing list, but I haven’t been to a
meeting in a long time,” Luntao said. Instead he focuses his
energy on environmental issues.  In  North Carolina , which Obama won in 2008, thousands of
students descended on the main campus drive at the University of
North Carolina at  Chapel Hill  to celebrate election night,
Anthony Dent, a senior economics and English major, said in a
phone interview.  Dip in Enthusiasm  “If you talk to the people who were out on Franklin
Street, in the rain, shouting screaming, overjoyed at what just
happened, they bought a lot into his whole idea of fundamentally
changing Washington,” said Dent, a former leader of the
school’s campus Republicans. He said he notices a significant
dip in enthusiasm on campus now.  Austin Gilmore, president of the college Democrats at UNC,
agreed. On election night in 2008, Gilmore, then 17, and a
friend marched into a McDonald’s restaurant in downtown Raleigh.  “We had Obama t-shirts as well as a couple homemade
signs,” Gilmore said. “People were just spontaneously clapping
for us, which was great.” Now, Gilmore says, he wears his Obama
shirt for gym workouts.  The election “isn’t on a lot of people’s radar,” Gilmore
said, adding that he believes support for Obama will increase
once the Republicans have chosen their candidate and the general
election campaign begins.  “Obama came in with so many big ideas and big promises and
this mantra of hope and change and something new,” Gilmore
said. “I was more excited in 2008, but I was also very much
naive about how politics work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  