-- Obama Clears Way for Sanctions on Banks in Iran Oil Trade
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-30T20:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/obama-clears-way-for-sanctions-on-banks-in-iran-oil-trade-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  cleared the
way for sanctions aimed at banks in countries that import
Iranian oil, the latest U.S. step to ratchet up pressure on the
government in Tehran over its nuclear program.  The president determined that world oil supplies are
sufficient to proceed with the congressionally mandated
sanctions designed to deny Iran income from oil exports,
according to a memorandum released by the White House.  “There is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum
products from countries other than Iran to permit a significant
reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products
purchased from Iran by or through foreign financial
institutions,” the president said in the memorandum.  Obama cited current global economic conditions, increased
production by certain countries, the level of spare capacity and
the existence of strategic reserves to reach his decision.  Under a law signed by Obama Dec. 31, banks that settle
petroleum-related transactions through Iran’s central bank in
any country that has failed to show a “significant reduction”
in Iranian oil imports would be cut off from the U.S. banking
system. The law requires reductions by June 28 and countries can
avoid the sanctions if they take steps by then. The president
didn’t set targets for reductions.  Additional Sanctions  The penalties are among dozens of measures adopted by the
U.S. and the European Union since November in the standoff with
Iran. The EU banned new oil contracts with Iran on Jan. 23 and
embargoed all Iranian oil effective July 1. The U.S., Europe and
 Israel  have accused Iran of seeking the capability to build a
nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is solely for civilian
energy and medical research.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on March 20 granted
an initial group of six-month, renewable exemptions from the
sanctions to  Japan  and 10 European Union nations for having
detailed plans for curtailing imports of Iranian oil.  China ,  India , South Korea,  Turkey  and eight other buyers of
Iranian crude haven’t yet made similar pledges. The U.S. is in
talks with those nations to reach an agreement before the
deadline, according to an administration official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity. The sanctions were the
subject of discussions when Obama was in  South Korea  earlier
this week for a nuclear security summit, the official said.  Monitoring Supplies  Obama was required to make a determination today on whether
sanctions can be imposed without roiling oil markets, based on
the availability of non-Iranian crude.  “I will closely monitor this situation to assure that the
market can continue to accommodate a reduction in purchases of
petroleum and petroleum products from Iran,” Obama said in the
directive.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration, under the terms
of the law, said on Feb. 29 that excluding Iran from the global
oil market would widen the gap between worldwide supply and
demand six-fold, based on production and consumption estimates.
A second EIA report on the availability and price of petroleum
produced in countries other than  Iran  is due April 29.  Guy Caruso, a former head of the EIA under President  George W. Bush , said in an interview before Obama’s decision that there
would be little effect on gasoline prices because of the
sanctions.  Priced In  “It’s already been priced into the market,” said Caruso,
who’s now an energy analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a policy center in  Washington .  Crude oil for May delivery settled at $103.02 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices increased 4.2 percent
for the quarter after a gain of 25 percent in the last quarter
of 2011.  Iran (OPCRIRAN)  is the second biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia . It pumped 3.4
million barrels of oil a day this month, the lowest level since
June 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  With rising fuel prices threatening to crimp the global
recovery as Obama faces re-election, the U.S. and its allies
have been in discussions about U.S. strategic oil reserves.
White House deputy press secretary  Josh Earnest  repeated today
that no decision has been made on tapping the reserve and no
proposals have been made to other nations to do so.  French Prime Minister Francois Fillon told France Inter
Radio yesterday that the prospects of an accord between the U.S.
and  Europe  on tapping strategic reserves are “good” and
consumers can “reasonably expect” a release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Burlington, Vermont at 
Or  kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  