-- Obama Plans Overhaul of Student-Loan Debt Collector Practices
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-03-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/obama-plans-overhaul-of-student-loan-debt-collector-practices.html
The Obama administration proposed
requiring that debt collectors let student-loan borrowers make
payments based on what they can afford, rather than on the size
of their debt.  The U.S. Education Department, which hires private
collectors, said yesterday it would mandate that the companies
use a standard form to gather debtors’ income and expenses. If
borrowers protest, they would be offered an income-based
formula, which can result in payments as low as $50 a month for
an unmarried person with $20,000 in income and $20,000 in loans.  The collection companies -- which receive commissions of as
much as 20 percent of recoveries -- are facing complaints that
they insist on stiff payments from defaulted borrowers even
though the Obama administration and Congress have approved more-
lenient plans, Bloomberg News reported March 26. The education
department is also reviewing the commissions it pays collectors.  “We definitely feel a sense of urgency to make sure we are
doing everything we can to serve the interests of taxpayers and
students,”  Justin Hamilton , an Education Department spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  The agency first proposed changing the rule governing the
treatment of defaulted borrowers a year ago, Hamilton said.
After a public comment period, the regulation may take effect as
soon as July 2013.  More Favorable  The final proposal, worked out yesterday in discussions
with negotiators representing the government, industry and
borrowers, was more favorable to the debtors than what the
agency originally suggested, according to Deanne Loonin, an
attorney with the  National Consumer Law Center  in Boston.  In particular, for students seeking to “rehabilitate”
their loans in default, the proposed rule prohibits basing
payments on a borrower’s loan amount, which has been standard
practice for collectors, Loonin said in a telephone interview.
Current government contracts provide what are among the biggest
incentives to debt collectors that extract minimum payments
based on loan amounts.  “This regulation is a really important step toward
treating very vulnerable borrowers consistently and fairly and
giving them the second chance they are entitled to by law,”
said Loonin, who represented borrowers in the negotiations.  ‘Best Information’  Along with examining incentive payments in borrower
contracts, the department is looking at collector scripts and
“making sure they’re giving people the best information
available,” Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan  said in an
interview on March 28, after testifying about the agency’s
budget before a House panel.  With $67 billion of  student loans  in default, the Education
Department hires 23 private debt-collection companies to chase
borrowers. The contractors include Pioneer Credit Recovery, a
unit of  SLM Corp. (SLM) , the largest student-loan company, known as
 Sallie Mae .  Companies that collect student loans directly for the
department and through state agencies received about $1 billion
in commissions last year, according to a review of contracts and
agency data.  Sallie Mae, based in  Newark ,  Delaware , will abide by any
changes from the Education Department, said Patricia Nash
Christel, a spokeswoman.  “We’re proud to offer programs that give consumers the
opportunity to improve their credit and provide cost savings for
the American taxpayer,” Christel said in an e-mail.  In 2009, Congress expanded a program that lets lower-income
borrowers tie payments to their incomes. Debtors pay on a
sliding scale tied to their debt, salaries and family
obligations.  In October, Obama proposed making payments even lower and
forgiving loans after two decades for some borrowers, a change
that could take effect as soon as this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  