-- Obama Enlists Donations Stressing 2012 More Important Than 2008
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/obama-tells-new-england-donors-election-more-critical-than-2008.html
President  Barack Obama , seeking to
raise $2 million in campaign funds in Vermont and Maine, told
supporters that there may be more at stake in the U.S. election
this year than in his victorious run to the White House in 2008.  “In 2008 I was running against a candidate who believed in
 climate change , believed in immigration, believed in the notion
of reducing  deficits  in a balanced way,” the president said to
about 100 contributors at a luncheon in Burlington, Vermont, the
first of four events yesterday in two states he won by wide
margins in 2008.  “We had some profound disagreements, but the Republican
candidate for president understood that some of these challenges
required compromise,” Obama said, referring to Senator  John McCain . Now, he said, Republicans have a “fundamentally
different vision of America.”  Obama has been increasing his fundraising and campaign
appearances as he turns more directly to his re-election
campaign and as the Republican nomination race enters its final
stages. Obama is running with the nation’s  unemployment  rate
stuck at about 8 percent or higher since he took office and the
threat of higher  oil prices  stifling the recovery.  Obama raised $45 million for his campaign in February
compared with $11.5 million for Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney .  Agenda for Term  In seeking to rev up enthusiasm among his supporters, Obama
cited victories during his first term, including passage of the
health-care law that was the focus of Supreme Court arguments
this week. The remarks on the health-care overhaul marked the
president’s first on the issue this week.  Obama also outlined his future agenda, citing a push for a
minimum tax on individuals who make $1 million or more annually,
an initiative named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett .  The Senate is due to vote on the Buffett rule in two weeks.
It would require a minimum 30 percent tax rate for the highest
U.S. earners. The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation
projects it would raise $47 billion over the next decade.
Republicans, who have enough votes to block the legislation,
have said they oppose it.  Obama linked the tax to his re-election campaign theme that
the U.S. must cut its  budget deficit  without jeopardizing
education and research programs.  ‘Basic Math’  “If you make more than a million dollars a year, I don’t
mean that you have a million dollars; I mean every year they’re
making more than a million dollars, you should not pay a  tax
rate  that’s lower than your secretary,” he told approximately
1,800 people at Southern Maine Community College. “This is not
class warfare, this is not class envy, this is just basic
math.”  Obama also jabbed at the Republicans running for president
while at the University of Vermont in Burlington. He cited the
debate in the primary battle among Romney, former Senator Rick Santorum and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , and said
Abraham Lincoln “couldn’t win the nomination.”  Obama was making his first trip to Vermont since taking
office. He won the state by 37 percentage points in the 2008
election. Yesterday marked his third visit to Maine, which he
won by 18 percentage points in 2008.  Vermont  residents have made more per-capita contributions
to Obama’s re-election campaign than residents in any other
state, even his home state of  Illinois , according to a review by
the Burlington Free Press.  State Visits  The president’s stop in Vermont reduces to seven the number
of U.S. states that Obama has yet to visit since taking office:
 North Dakota ,  South Dakota , Nebraska, Idaho, Utah, Arkansas and
 South Carolina . None of these states voted for Obama in his 2008
presidential race against McCain.  Obama has made two trips to Maine since taking office,
including a July 2010 family vacation to Acadia National Park.  Tickets for the first event started at $7,500 per person
and went for as much as $35,800, according to the campaign. In
 Portland , Obama spoke to approximately 1,800 people at Southern
 Maine  Community College. Tickets for those events went for $44
to $100.  At a dinner at the Portland Museum of Art, Obama told about
130 supporters seated around square tables adjacent to an Edgar Degas exhibition that, while the economy is improving, more must
be done to invest in research, education and energy
independence.  “The task before us still looms large and the other side
doesn’t have answers to these questions,” he said at the final
fundraiser of the day. “You don’t see them debating how we
improve our education system; you don’t see them engaging, in
any serious way, about how we’re going to retrain our workers.
There’s not a conversation about how we restore manufacturing in
this country.”  Obama said Republican presidential candidates have “one
message,” which is cutting taxes “so that by every objective
measure our deficit is worse.” Ticket prices started at $5,000
per person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Portland, Maine at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  