-- Lockheed F-35 Cost Estimate by U.S. Increases 9% in Year
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-30T21:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/lockheed-f-35-fighter-estimate-increased-9-in-a-year-u-s-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
fighter jet, the U.S. military’s most expensive weapons program,
will cost $1.51 trillion, a 9 percent increase from the estimate
a year ago, according to Pentagon officials.  The program’s projected “life cycle cost” -- including
development since 1994, production of 2,443 jets and 55 years of
support -- increased from $1.38 trillion in 2010, the officials
said today in a briefing for reporters.  “Any cost growth, given our mandate to drive cost out of
the program, is not optimal, but from the standpoint of just
percentages, it’s not a significant amount from one year to the
next,” Major General  John Thompson , the deputy F-35 program
manager, said.  Holding down the F-35’s cost is a major goal for the
Defense Department, Thompson said, echoing statements of other
officials, including Frank Kendall, acting undersecretary for
acquisition.  Laurie Quincy, a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed Martin, said the projections “are based on a number of
variables that are subject to considerable fluctuations over the
next 55 years, making the estimate inherently imprecise.”  “Lockheed Martin remains confident that F-35 operations
and support costs will be comparable to or lower than that of
the seven platforms it will replace,” she said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Effects of Delays  Among causes for the 9 percent increase cited by Thompson
and in Pentagon documents were revised inflation-escalation
indexes, the effect of delaying aircraft purchases three
consecutive years; labor, hours and materials costs that were
higher than expected; and international sales that were less
than anticipated.  The cost estimate for the acquisition phase alone increased
4.3 percent to $395.7 billion in inflation-adjusted “then-
year” dollars.  Support-cost projections increased in part because of fuel-
price estimates and a decision to extend calculations for the
fleet’s service life to 55 years from 52 years.  Thompson said the F-35 program office estimates were close
to those developed by the Pentagon’s independent cost-analysis
office.  Independent Office  The similarities make the numbers more credible, Thompson
said. Congress created the independent office to improve
weapons-cost estimates and help curb excessive cost growth.  The $1.1 trillion represents 55 years of fleet-wide
support, from the introduction of the first low-rate production
aircraft delivered 18 month ago to the last one delivered years
from now, according to Todd Mellon, the Pentagon’s F-35
sustainment director.  The estimate includes all manpower at the aircraft unit-
level for the Air Force, Navy and Marines; fuel and spare;,
indirect costs associated with security and engineering and
updates of technical data and manuals, Mellon said.  It also includes costs to retrofit the aircraft with new
capabilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  