-- Oil Rises From Year’s Biggest Decline as Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-30T12:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/oil-rises-from-year-s-biggest-decline-as-finance-ministers-meet.html
Oil advanced in New York, heading
for a second quarterly gain, as  Europe ’s finance ministers met
in Copenhagen to increase rescue funds to temper the region’s
debt crisis.  Crude rose as much as 0.9 percent, the first gain in three
days, as  consumer spending  in the U.S. jumped in February by the
most in seven months, showing the biggest part of the economy is
strengthening. Prices fell 2.5 percent yesterday, the biggest
drop since December.  European equities  extended the biggest
first-quarter advance since 2006 and the euro gained while
 default risk  fell. For the week, prices are lower after U.S.
stockpiles climbed to the highest level since August and Western
countries discussed tapping emergency reserves.  “If the finance minister meeting is able to push equities
up or down, it should also influence crude,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in
Vienna who predicts U.S. futures will average $104 this year.
“In the short-to-medium term it does seem the worst of the
crisis is over. In the longer term, euro countries have to prove
the bunch of measures taken to stabilize their budgets have been
successful.”  Oil for May delivery gained as much as 91 cents to $103.69
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $103.58 at 1:47 p.m. London time, up 4.8
percent for the quarter. That would follow a gain of 25 percent
in the last quarter of 2011.  U.S. purchases climbed 0.8 percent, the most since July,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 0.6 percent increase. Incomes advanced less than
projected, sending the saving rate down to the lowest level in
more than two years.  Prices slumped yesterday to $102.78, the lowest close since
Feb. 16. West Texas Intermediate futures are down 3.1 percent
this week for a third weekly decline, the longest losing streak
since August.  Bollinger Band  Brent oil for May settlement gained $1.21, or 1 percent, to
$123.60 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded WTI was at $20.02, compared with yesterday’s close of
$19.61, the widest settlement in five months.  New York  crude settled below its lower Bollinger Band for
the first time in almost two months yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is at $103.40 a barrel
today. Bollinger Bands indicate support and resistance levels
based on volatility and are used by investors to determine entry
points for buying or selling contracts.  Prices fell this week after a March 28 report from the
Energy Department said U.S. crude stockpiles climbed  7.1 million
barrels  to 353.4 million barrels, the highest level since the
period ended Aug. 26. They were forecast to increase 2.6 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Rescue Lending Cap  European governments capped fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros ($666 billion), bringing the overall size of the
firewall to 800 billion euros, according to a statement after a
meeting in Copenhagen today. Efforts to raise the firewall will
succeed in tempering the debt crisis, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  Prices extended declines yesterday after French Prime
Minister  Francois Fillon  said consumers can “reasonably
expect” a release from emergency petroleum stockpiles.
Governments are closer to an agreement on the use of the
reserves, he told France Inter Radio. The  International Energy
Agency  said it’s ready to coordinate a release if there is a
serious supply disruption.  Iran , the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has raised concern about supply
by threatening to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for
a fifth of the world’s oil, in response to sanctions.  Pressure on Region  “Any rhetoric concerning the tightening of sanctions will
increase pressure on the region, and as a result you have to
expect it to extend to  oil prices ,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity markets
newsletter in Sydney. “We did break below the very important
support of $104 a barrel, and I think we’ve had a technical
reaction on the back of that.”  U.S. Representatives Ted Deutch, a Florida Democrat, and
Robert Dold, an Illinois Republican, introduced the Iran Energy
Sector and Proliferation Sanctions Act in Congress yesterday.
The measure is the latest in a stepped-up campaign to tighten
sanctions aimed at depriving the Persian Gulf nation of revenue
for its nuclear and missile programs.  The nuclear program is growing, breaching United Nations
resolutions amid an “alarming” escalation over the country’s
plans, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said in an
interview in  New Delhi .  New York crude may decline next week on concern that the
European and Chinese economies will slow, reducing fuel demand,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Sixteen of 26 analysts, or
62 percent, forecast oil will fall through April 6. Three
respondents, or 12 percent, predicted prices will rise and seven
estimated there will be little change. Last week, 57 percent of
surveyed analysts expected a drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  