-- Oil Rises on U.S. Economic Data, Decision on Sanctions
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-30T20:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/oil-rises-on-european-rescue-fund-agreement-u-s-spendin.html
Oil climbed, capping a second
quarterly gain, after reports showed U.S. consumer sentiment and
spending rose and President  Barack Obama  cleared the way for new
sanctions targeting Iran.  Futures increased 24 cents as an index of  consumer
sentiment  rose in March and U.S. purchases gained the most since
July. Crude reached its intraday peak when Obama determined that
world oil supplies were sufficient to proceed with sanctions on
banks in countries that import Iranian oil.  “The economic numbers today were mostly bullish,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant. “They point to pretty solid
growth of both the economy and demand.”  Crude oil for May delivery settled at $103.02 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices increased 4.2 percent
for the quarter after a gain of 25 percent in the last quarter
of 2011.  Brent oil for May settlement gained 49 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $122.88 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract climbed 14
percent this quarter. The European benchmark contract’s  premium 
to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil was at $19.86,
the most at the close since Oct. 24.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index rose to 76.2 from 75.3 at the end of last month.
It was projected to come in at 74.5 after a preliminary figure
of 74.3, according to the median of 63 estimates from economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. consumer purchases gained 0.8 percent in February, the
Commerce Department said, exceeding the 0.6 percent median gain
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Additional Sanctions  Obama’s decision cleared the way for the imposition of
congressionally mandated sanctions, according to a memorandum
released by the White House. The law allows banks that settle
petroleum-related transactions through  Iran ’s central bank to be
cut off from the U.S. banking system.  Obama and world leaders including French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are trying to use sanctions to keep Iran from developing
nuclear weapons. Obama and Sarkozy are seeking re-election this
year.  “This is a continuation of what we’ve been doing for a
while,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.3 billion. “Obama and Sarkozy have the same problem. They
want to hurt Iranian exports while preventing a spike in prices
that hurts the global economy and their re-election campaigns.”  Oil in New York reached $110.55 on March 1, the highest
level since May 4, amid speculation that Western sanctions would
disrupt shipments from the  Middle East .  ‘Alarming’ Rhetoric  The Persian Gulf nation is breaching United Nations
resolutions and increasing the size of its nuclear program amid
an “alarming” escalation in global rhetoric toward its atomic
plans,  Russia ’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said
yesterday in an interview in  New Delhi .  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  crude output fell 65,000 barrels a day to 3.385
million this month, the lowest level since June 2002, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts. The Islamic republic is the second-biggest oil
producing country in OPEC after  Saudi Arabia .  Oil also rose as European officials agreed to increase a
rescue lending fund to 800 billion euros ($1.07 trillion),
according to a statement after a meeting in Copenhagen today.
Efforts to raise it will succeed in tempering the debt crisis,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  Equities Gain  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent. The
dollar was down 0.3 percent against the euro. A weaker dollar
and stronger common currency boost the appeal of commodities as
an investment alternative.  “The oil price rise today coincided with the dollar’s move
lower,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in  New York . “The U.S. economic data this
morning gave the market a bit of a boost.”  Crude prices fell 2.5 percent yesterday, the biggest drop
since December, and decreased 3.6 percent this week after U.S.
stockpiles climbed to the highest level since August and Western
countries discussed tapping emergency reserves.  “There appears to be a concerted effort to drive down the
price of oil,” O’Grady said. “We will have to wait and see
whether it will have the desired impact.”  Oil output in March by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries rose to a three-year high, led by a Libyan
production gain, the Bloomberg News figures show. Production
increased by 110,000 barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 31.22 million
barrels a day from a revised 31.11 million in February.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 405,840
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 578,776
contracts yesterday, 10 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  