-- Hollywood Unions Ratify Merger to Bolster Clout With Studios
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-30T23:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/hollywood-unions-ratify-merger-to-bolster-clout-with-studios-1-.html
Hollywood’s largest actors unions
agreed to merge, creating a single organization that will have
greater bargaining power with movie and television studios.  Members of the Screen Actors Guild and the American
Federation of Television and Radio Artists approved the plan
supported by  George Clooney  and  Alec Baldwin , with 82 percent of
SAG and 86 percent of AFTRA members voting in favor, the union
said today in a  statement .  The combined organization, with more than 150,000 members,
will have the clout to negotiate for better pay, pension and
health benefits, and navigate the impact of changes to
distribution, SAG-AFTRA officials said. A 2009 strike by the
Screen Actors Guild was weakened when AFTRA members remained on
the job because their contract expired on a different date.  “The members are aware that the business models of their
employers are changing pretty dramatically,” Steve Diamond, a
Santa Clara University labor law professor who follows the
Hollywood unions, said in an interview before the results were
announced. “So there’s a defensive posture that has taken
hold.”  The merger campaign began during the strike after SAG
dissidents criticized union leaders for failing to reach an
agreement with the studios. After negotiations broke down, the
pro-merger group Unite for Strength won seats on the national
board by calling for a combination of the two unions. The
discussions with AFTRA began after the strike ended in April
2009.  Two Years of Work  The vote was the culmination of two years of work, SAG-
AFTRA National Co-President Roberta Reardon said at a press
conference in Los Angeles.  “In a single day our future has become bright,” SAG-AFTRA
National Co-President Ken Howard said. “Together we finally
stand as one.”  The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers,
the entity that negotiates on behalf of studios, including  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox and Viacom Inc.’s Paramount
Pictures, said in a statement that the group “looks forward to
working with the new performers’ organization.”  Issues facing the actors have changed with the growth in
digital distribution of films and TV shows. Union members want
to make sure residual payments, money they get each time a movie
is sold or rented, will continue as new platforms are developed,
Diamond said. Actors’ negotiators made little headway on the
issue in 2009, he said.  “In the next contract round you can expect a conflict over
residuals,” he said. “The question is whether they will have a
strategy in place to put it back on the table.”  The  Screen Actors Guild  represents about 120,000 film and
television actors, while  AFTRA  has about 70,000 members,
including actors as well as on-air TV news anchors and reporters
and radio announcers.  About 45,000 actors already belong to both unions,
according to Pam Greenwalt, a spokeswoman for the merged unions
who previously represented SAG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  