-- London Ready for ‘Outstanding’ Olympics, Official Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-30T12:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/london-ready-to-host-outstanding-event-olympic-panel-says.html
London is ready for the July 27
start of the  Olympic Games  and will deliver an “outstanding
event,” an  International Olympic Committee  official said, even
as questions remain about sponsorships and transportation.  The IOC’s coordination commission today concluded its 10th
and final visit to British capital.  “We have 119 days to go, but I can tell you that London is
ready to welcome the world,” Denis Oswald, chairman of the
coordination commission, said at a press conference today in
central London.  The London 2012 organizing committee is “preparing an
outstanding event,” Oswald said. “We have no doubt that this
summer will be a summer like no other in Britain.”  The press conference had been preceded by a small group of
protesters standing outside asking for an end to the Dow
Chemical Co.’s sponsorship of the Olympics.  The London games, which start in July, are the first for
Midland, Michigan-based Dow under a 10-year sponsorship
agreement with the IOC. Indian Olympic Association President
Vijay Malhotra said in December he would lodge a protest with
the IOC and the U.K. government, and 20,000 people have signed a
petition asking British authorities to drop Dow.  Bhopal Accident  An accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec. 3,
1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of Bhopal,
the capital of Madhya Pradesh state in central  India . Union
Carbide estimated that 3,800 people were killed by the leak.
 Amnesty International , a human-rights group, commissioned a
study that showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000
died later from exposure to the gas.  Dow acquired Union Carbide Corp. in 2001, about 16 years
after the accident and 10 years after the Indian Supreme Court
approved a $470 million settlement paid by Union Carbide and
Union Carbide India.  Oswald said the Dow sponsorship won’t upset the buildup of
the London Games.  “We realize the tragedy that Bhopal was and we have a lot
of sympathy,” Oswald said. “But Dow was not the owner.”  Oswald also dismissed worries about getting athletes,
officials and spectators around the city’s Tube, train and bus
systems.  Inrix Inc., a traffic services provider, estimated in
January that the Games will increase vehicles on  London ’s roads
by about 33 percent.  Core routes will slow to 12 miles (19 kilometers) per hour
in late July and early August, it said. The weekend of July 27
will be especially difficult as the Olympic opening ceremony
will clash with the busiest holiday getaway weekend of the
summer.  Traffic Buildup  On busy days there will be an additional 3 million journeys
on London’s roads and on the underground, Transport for London
said in a December report. At Bank and Canada Water tube
stations, commuters should expect to wait for longer than an
hour at peak times, according to the agency.  There will be 200 extra buses available, Transport for
London said. Around 11 million spectators are expected to visit
London and 300,000 athletes, media and Olympic officials, it
said. It advised commuters to visit entertainment set up on the
South Bank, eat a meal out or have a beer with friends or
colleagues to avoid peak times.  “All efforts have been made to organize transport in the
best possible way,” Oswald said.  He added he would be taking public transport instead of
using Olympic lanes designated for officials, athletes and
media, “depending on my program and duties,” during the event.  The Olympic flame that will burn in the Olympic stadium
during the London Games will arrive in Britain from  Greece  on
May 17, before going on a 70-day torch relay across the nation.
The flame will be lit May 10 at the Temple of Hera in Olympia,
Greece, among the historic ruins of the home of the ancient
Olympic Games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  