-- Optus Judge Weary About Making Copyright Policy
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-30T01:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/optus-judge-weary-about-making-copyright-policy.html
The Australian government,
pressured by sports leagues, agreed to review sections of the
nation’s copyright law that allow events to be rebroadcast on
mobile devices.  The review will cover a “broad range of exceptions” in
the Copyright Act that include allowing a user to record an
event to watch later, known as time shifting, Attorney-General
 Nicola Roxon  said in a statement today.  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  are
attempting to overturn a Federal Court ruling that allowed
telecommunications provider  SingTel Optus Ltd. (CWO)  to rebroadcast
games over mobile devices shortly after they aired live. The AFL
broadcast rights, sold to  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) , Foxtel and and
 Telstra Corp. (TLS) , are valued at more than A$1 billion ($1 billion).  “It’s right to have a review,” said Maurice Gonsalves, a
partner specializing in intellectual property at law firm King &
Wood Mallesons in Sydney. “The present system isn’t working
very well.”  Gonsalves represents Melbourne-based Telstra in the current
dispute with Optus.  Jill McKeough, Dean of Law at the University of Technology
Sydney, will head the Australian Law Reform Commission
undertaking the review, Roxon said.  “Technology is constantly evolving and testing the
boundaries of copyright law,” Roxon said in the statement.
“It’s important to ensure our copyright laws are keeping pace
with change and able to respond to future challenges.”  Two-Minute Delay  Optus’s TV Now service allows users of Apple Inc. iPads and
iPhones to view events with as little as a two-minute delay from
when they air live. The AFL, NRL and Telstra say the service
infringes copyrights because Optus makes the recordings, stores
them on its servers and passes them on to customers.  Optus, the Australian unit of  Singapore Telecommunications
Ltd. (ST) , is covered by an exemption in the law allowing people to
record copyrighted material for their own personal use, Federal
Court Judge Steven Rares ruled Feb. 1.  The customers made the recordings “for their private and
domestic use” at a more convenient time, even if that meant
viewings were “near live” within minutes of the start of the
broadcast,’’ Rares wrote in his ruling.  Rares’s  decision , the first of its kind, prompted the AFL,
NRL, other sports organizations and broadcasters to press the
federal government to change copyright laws and prohibit the
practice.  Fair Use Doctrine  “This development is clearly an example of the technology
overtaking the law,” David Gallop, the National Rugby League’s
chief executive officer, said at a Feb. 10 news conference.  “It couldn’t have come at a worse time to have this sort
of uncertainty,” he said, referring to negotiations the league
is holding with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from
2013 to 2017.  In the U.S., the fair use doctrine allows for the general,
non-commercial use of excerpts of copyrighted material, whereas
in Australia, copyrighted material use is allowed only under
specific exceptions, such as personal use, Gonsalves said.  Both the AFL and NRL deals are at the risk of dilution, as
are those for this year’s London Olympic Games, if the
rebroadcasts are allowed and other operators adopt similar
technologies.  Leagues Appeal Ruling  The sports leagues sought to overturn Rares’s ruling and an
appeal panel is considering the case. There is no indication
when it will rule.  TV Now, which Optus  started  in July last year, allows
customers in Australia’s mainland state capitals of Sydney,
 Melbourne , Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth to record free-to-air
television programs, including AFL and NRL games, and play them
back on computers, iPads and most 3G mobile devices.  Optus picks up free-to-air TV digital transmissions of 15
signals, including those from Channel 7, Channel 9 and Channel
10. Those broadcasts are converted into four types of video
files, such as QuickTime for playback on Apple and other
devices, which are stored on the company’s servers.  The government inquiry in copyright exceptions will accept
submissions and comments from the public until April 27, Roxon
said.  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of  Australia , Full
Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  