-- Toshiba May Bid Against Micron for Elpida, Nikkei Reports
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-03-30T00:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/toshiba-may-bid-against-micron-for-elpida-nikkei-reports.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the world’s second-
largest maker of  flash memory , will bid against  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  to become the sponsor of  Japan ’s failed
chipmaker  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Nikkei newspaper said.  Toshiba may seek assistance from the government-backed
Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of Japan, the Nikkei
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Elpida, which filed for bankruptcy protection last month,
will choose a sponsor in early May after two rounds of bids, the
report said. Boise, Idaho-based Micron has been in talks with
Tokyo-based Elpida since the end of last year and is considered
a leading candidate, the report said.  Elpida, the last Japanese maker of dynamic random access
memory, or DRAM, filed for bankruptcy with liabilities of 448
billion yen ($5.4 billion) on Feb. 27. Falling prices and a
stronger yen exacerbated the company’s troubles after it
received financial support from the government and lenders in
2009. The chipmaker, whose customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , was
delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 28.  Toshiba wasn’t the source of the Nikkei report, the Tokyo-
based electronics maker said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today. Kaori Hiraki, a spokeswoman for Toshiba,
declined to elaborate beyond the statement. Calls to Elpida’s
public relations staff weren’t immediately answered.  Toshiba announced its withdrawal from making DRAM in 2001
to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips. Elpida was
formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s
memory businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  