-- Hynix Submits Initial Proposal to Bid for Elpida
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-03-30T08:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/toshiba-considering-investing-in-bankrupt-elpida-executive-says.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the
world’s second-largest maker of computer memory chips, submitted
an initial proposal to bid for  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
chipmaker that filed for bankruptcy last month.  The South Korean company will decide whether to make a
final bid after due diligence, it said in a regulatory filing
today.  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  also was considering a bid, a senior
executive for the Tokyo-based company said today, asking not to
be identified because the discussions are private.  Bidders for Elpida’s assets may gain as much as 12 percent
of the global market for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM,
chips as the Tokyo-based company tries to revive itself after
filing for  bankruptcy  with liabilities of 448 billion yen ($5.5
billion) on Feb. 27. Hynix is trying to narrow the gap with
industry leader Samsung Electronics Co. and fend off  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  as chip prices are damped by slowing PC sales.  “Participating in the initial stage of bidding was a must
for Hynix because their competitors are known to be bidding,”
said Song Myung Sup, a Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment &
Securities Co. “They need to be part of the process to assess
Elpida’s situation more clearly. Also, you need to go in there
to have a better idea what competitors are looking for.”  Hynix shares dropped 4.1 percent, the most in three months,
to close at 29,250 won in Seoul trading, while  South Korea ’s
benchmark Kospi index was little changed. Toshiba declined 1.9
percent to 364 yen in Tokyo, while  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average lost 0.3 percent.  “The market is disappointed, as the DRAM business requires
a lot of money,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Falling Prices  Falling chip prices and a stronger yen eroded Elpida’s
earnings, exacerbating the Tokyo-based company’s troubles after
it received financial support from the government and lenders in
2009. The chipmaker, whose customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , was
delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 28.  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts. The price of the benchmark
DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM declined to a record 71 cents in November,
compared with $4.85 on Sept. 1, 2010, amid slowing personal-
computer sales, according to DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot
market for the chips.  Elpida gained approval on March 23 for President Yukio Sakamoto to lead its revival plan after filing for Japan’s
biggest bankruptcy in two years. The company plans to submit a
restructuring plan by Aug. 21.  Toshiba Investment  Toshiba may invest in Elpida alone or as part of a group,
and isn’t interested in all of the company’s assets, the Toshiba
executive said today. Elpida plans to choose a sponsor in May
for its revival plan, the executive said.  “If Toshiba comes in and takes Elpida, they can be a
serious competitor to Samsung and Hynix,” said Brian Park, an
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in  Seoul . An investment
would give Toshiba DRAM capacity in addition to its current
production of NAND flash memory, he said.  Kaori Hiraki, a spokeswoman for Toshiba, declined to
comment, and a spokesman for Elpida declined to comment or be
named.  Boise, Idaho-based Micron has been in talks with Elpida
since the end of last year and is considered a candidate to
sponsor the Japanese chipmaker, the Nikkei newspaper reported
earlier, without saying where it got the information.  ‘Worst Case’  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Micron, declined to comment.
Micron President  Mark Adams  also declined to comment on a
possible investment in Elpida in a March 22 interview. The U.S.
chipmaker will continue to look at developments in the industry
to see if there are investment opportunities “that make sense
for shareholders,” he said at the time.  “The worst case for Hynix is Micron taking Elpida,” Song
at HI Investment said. “If Micron is bidding, there has to be
some competition to boost bidding prices.”  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s
and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s memory businesses. Toshiba Corp. announced
its withdrawal from the DRAM business in 2001 to focus more on
making NAND flash memory chips.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung controlled 45 percent of
the DRAM market by value in the third quarter, according to
Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc. Hynix held a 22 percent
share, followed by Elpida’s 12 percent, the researcher said.  SK Telecom Co., South Korea’s largest mobile-phone carrier,
completed a payment of 3.37 trillion won ($3 billion) in
February to buy 21 percent of Hynix, following an agreement in
November. The deal ended a two-year effort by Hynix shareholders
to dispose of stakes they gained through a 2001 government-led
bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  