-- Swiss Stocks Snap Three-Day Decline; Transocean Rises
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-30T15:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/most-swiss-stocks-advance-as-givaudan-transocean-climb.html
Swiss stocks  rose as euro-area
finance ministers agreed on the size of the region’s rescue
funds and a report showed that  consumer spending  in the world’s
largest economy climbed the most in seven months.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  advanced with crude oil. Meyer Burger
Technology AG, the biggest maker of solar-panel manufacturing
equipment, gained 1 percent.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the world’s largest
maker of flavors and fragrances, added 1 percent after Jefferies
Group Inc. recommended buying the company’s shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, climbed 1 percent to 6,235.51 at the
close in Zurich, snapping three days of losses. The benchmark
gauge has  gained 5 percent  this year as the  European Central
Bank  disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the region’s
lenders. The SMI slipped 0.1 percent this week. The broader
Swiss Performance Index rose 1 percent today.  “A bigger rescue fund will gain time and air, even though
the basic problem still remains with the lack of competitiveness
of southern European economies,” said Christian Zogg, who
manages about $540 million at LLB Asset Management in Vaduz,
Liechtenstein.  The SMI fell for the past three days as more Americans
filed claims for jobless benefits than economists had estimated
and a report from the Conference Board showed a drop in  U.S.
consumer confidence  in March.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 5.5 percent less than the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-Area Firewall  Euro-area finance ministers, meeting in Copenhagen today,
set the maximum lending capacity of the proposed European
Stability Mechanism at 500 billion euros and the combined
lending limit of the ESM and the temporary fund -- the European
Financial Stability Facility -- at 700 billion euros.  In addition to the 102 billion euros already paid to
support current rescue programs, the new limit takes the total
size of the firewall to 800 billion euros, the Eurogroup said in
a statement.  “Robust firewalls have been established,” the ministers
said in the statement. “This comprehensive strategy has paid
off and led to a significant improvement in market conditions.”  U.S. Consumer Spending  In the U.S., a report showed that consumer purchases rose
0.8 percent in February, their biggest advance since July.
Economists had called for a 0.6 percent increase, according to
the median estimate of 83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “What’s also pleasing is that the previous months have
been revised upwards, hence the entire consumption path turns
out higher,” Viola Stork, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen, wrote in e-mailed comments. “It results in
an indication for moderate consumption growth in the first
quarter of this year.”  In  Europe ,  French consumer spending  rose for the first time
in four months in February. Consumption climbed 3 percent from
January, the national statistics office, Insee, said. Economists
had predicted an increase of 0.2 percent, according to the
 median of 20 estimates  gathered by Bloomberg News.  Transocean increased 2.9 percent to 48.25 Swiss francs as
crude oil advanced in  New York , rebounding from yesterday’s
decline, which was the biggest this year.  Meyer Burger (MBTN)  gained 1 percent to 14.75 francs as HSBC
Holdings Plc raised the stock to neutral, the equivalent of
hold, from underweight.  Givaudan added 1 percent to 870 francs as Simon Marshall- Lockyer, an analyst at Jefferies, raised the stock to buy from
hold.  Nobel Biocare AG, the second-biggest maker of dental
implants by sales, climbed 2.1 percent to 11.29 francs for its
second day of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  