-- Peru’s Sol Holds Near 15-Year High on Tax Payments, Copper Rise
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-30T20:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/peru-s-sol-holds-near-15-year-high-on-tax-payments-copper-rise.html
Peru ’s sol held near a 15-year high
as companies bought the currency to pay local income taxes and
copper prices rose on optimism that U.S. demand will grow.  The sol was unchanged at 2.6680 at today’s close, according
to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The currency earlier touched
2.6670, the strongest level since 1997,  data  from Peru’s
financial regulator show. It gained 1.1 percent this quarter.  Companies are paying income taxes in soles before an April
10 deadline for completing annual payments, leading the central
bank to purchase dollars to soak up the additional supply.
Copper capped its biggest quarterly gain since 2010 after U.S.
personal spending and consumer confidence topped forecasts.
Metals, led by copper, account for two-thirds of Peru’s exports.  “The tax payment period is almost over but there’s still a
lot of dollars being sold, mainly by mining companies,” said
Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader at  Banco Santander  in  Lima .
“Commodities are very important to the country’s economic
growth.”  The central bank  bought  $5.56 billion in the spot currency
market this quarter, including $125 million today, to stem gains
in the sol. It paid an average 2.6680 soles per dollar in
today’s purchases, according to a statement on the bank’s
website.  The central bank may buy fewer dollars next month as the
tax payment period ends and policy makers allow the sol to
strengthen to help ease inflation after a surge in prices this
month, Navarro said.  Peru Inflation  Consumer prices probably climbed 0.6 percent from February,
the most in eight months, according to the median estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The central bank has let the currency strengthen in the
short-term when it’s had a problem with inflation in the past,”
Navarro said. “The benchmark rate is the main instrument for
managing inflation in the medium and long term, but the  exchange
rate  has an impact in the short term.”  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 was unchanged at 5.46 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 157, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  