-- Philippine Peso Gains on Interest-Rate Outlook; Bonds Advance
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-30T08:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/philippine-peso-gains-on-interest-rate-outlook-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso rose, halting a
two-day loss, after the central bank signaled it will refrain
from cutting  interest rates , helping the nation maintain its
yield advantage over developed countries. Bonds advanced.  The peso rallied this quarter by the most since the three
months through September 2010 as speculation the country will
receive a credit-rating upgrade buoyed demand for Philippine
assets. The central bank is seeing “modest, manageable”
second-round inflation and pausing from rate cuts is “on the
table,” Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said yesterday.
Philippine 10-year bonds  yield  364 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There are no more rate cuts in the offing and to that
effect it is positive for the currency,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “They are not going to
narrow the rate differential over the dollar any further.
Inflows will remain positive.”  The peso advanced 0.2 percent to 42.917 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , extending its quarterly gain to 2.2 percent,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency rose 0.1 percent
for the week and fell 0.4 percent in March. The peso’s one-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, dropped 36 basis points today to 5.54 percent.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has lowered the overnight
borrowing rate by a total of 50 basis points this year to 4
percent. Policy makers next meet to review borrowing costs on
April 19.  The yield on the 15 percent bonds due March 2022 dropped
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.8 percent
today, according to noon fixing prices from Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. The rate fell 13 basis points this week and was
up 35 basis points for the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 