-- Raiffeisen Sees ‘Constructive’ Talks on Hungarian Muni Debt
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-30T15:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/raiffeisen-sees-constructive-talks-on-hungary-muni-debt-1-.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
and other Hungarian banks are in “constructive” talks with the
government to deal with foreign-currency debt of more than 413
billion forint ($1.9 billion) at municipalities.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s approach to debt relief for
municipalities is more consensual than it was when he forced
banks to swallow currency losses on mortgages last year,
Raiffeisen Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic told analysts
in London today. Stepic, whose Vienna-based bank is the third-
largest lender in eastern Europe, said he was confident a deal
would be found.  “We’re in a positive, constructive dialog on finding a
common solution,” Stepic said. “We believe we will be able to
find a common solution with the government.” A solution will
probably mainly consist of extending the maturities of
municipalities’ debt, he said.  Local governments are struggling to repay their foreign-
currency debt as the forint weakened and a grace period on bond
principal repayments ran out in 2011. They have increasingly
borrowed in foreign currencies since 2007 after the government
reduced funding to cut the  budget deficit , which in 2006 was the
widest in the European Union at 9.3 percent of economic output.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, last month
offered to fix the  exchange rate  on Swiss franc-denominated
municipal bonds at almost 17 percent below market rates as it
seeks to prevent an increase in bad loans.  ‘Orban Risk’  The law that imposed franc-mortgage losses last year pushed
Hungary’s banking industry into a sector-wide loss for the first
time in 13 years last year, which was exacerbated by rising bad
loan provisions and a special industry tax also slapped on the
sector by Orban’s government.  Raiffeisen had a 355 million-euro ($473 million) loss in
the neighboring country and had to inject fresh funds in almost
the same amount into its local unit Raiffeisen Bank Zrt. -- the
first bank it founded in eastern  Europe  1987, before the Iron
Curtain fell two years later.  ‘Less-Significant’ Risk  “Orban was a risk and is a risk,” Stepic said. “The
Orban risk is less significant now than it used to be when he
came into power,” he added, because the premier is seeking aid
from the  International Monetary Fund  which will put him into a
“tight corset.”  Total municipal debt stood at 983 billion forint at the end
of 2011, of which franc-denominated debt was 413 billion forint.
Raiffeisen has loaned the equivalent of 800 million euros to
municipalities, of which about 600 million euros are denominated
in francs, it said today. The forint has weakened 40 percent
against the Swiss franc since the middle of 2008, when the bulk
of franc-denominated bonds were issued.  Six of Hungary’s seven biggest banks have foreign parents,
including Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and Germany’s BayernLB. Only OTP
Bank Nyrt. is still domestically owned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  