-- Rand Gains First Day in Four as Euro Jumps on Rescue Fund Size
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-30T14:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/rand-gains-first-day-in-four-as-euro-jumps-on-rescue-fund-size.html
The rand advanced for the first
time in four days, capping its best first quarter since 2004, as
the euro rose after European finance ministers agreed to expand
rescue funds and U.S. personal spending grew more than forecast.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 0.9 percent and
traded 0.5 percent stronger at 7.6817 per dollar as of 4 p.m. in
Johannesburg, making it today’s third-best performing emerging-
market currency monitored by Bloomberg. The euro gained as much
as 0.6 percent versus the dollar to 1.3377. The yield on South
 Africa ’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 declined 11 basis points to
6.688 percent.  European governments capped fresh rescue lending at 500
billion euros ($666 billion), bringing the overall size of the
firewall to 800 billion euros, according to a statement after a
meeting in Copenhagen today. Efforts to raise the firewall will
succeed in tempering the debt crisis, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday. U.S. consumer purchases rose
the most in seven months, according to Commerce Department data.  “Whatever happens out of a combination of the  euro zone 
and the U.S. today will in the main govern what is likely to
unfold heading into the weekend.”  George Glynos , an economist
at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments.  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro against the
dollar, with a statistical correlation of 0.59 over the past
year. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lockstep.  The euro area accounts for 22 percent of South Africa’s
exports.  Credit Growth  Earlier, data showed South African credit growth
unexpectedly accelerated in February as the recovery in Africa’s
largest economy strengthened.  Borrowing (SACEIYY)  by households and businesses rose 7.9 percent
from 7.3 percent in January, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank 
said on its website today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 15 economists was for credit to expand 7 percent.  South Africa’s Reserve Bank held its benchmark lending rate
at 5.5 percent for a record 16 months yesterday to support the
economy as inflation slows.  The rand has advanced 5.3 percent this year. It declined 18
percent last year, the second-worst performance by an emerging-
market currency after  Turkey ’s lira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  