-- RBA’s Edey Comments on Payment System at Kansas City Fed: Text
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-03-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/rba-s-edey-comments-on-payment-system-at-kansas-city-fed-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a speech by Malcolm Edey, the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s assistant governor for the financial system. He
delivered the remarks during a panel discussion at a Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City conference.  INERTIA AND COORDINATION PROBLEMS IN PAYMENT NETWORKS  The question I have been asked to address is whether inertia (or
coordination failure) is an obstacle to payments system
innovation. And if so, what do we do about it?  To begin with, it helps to distinguish between two types of
innovation: proprietary and systemic.  An example of the first type might be a new piece of card
technology, or a new customer platform for an individual bank.
An example of the second might be the adoption of a new
interbank messaging standard or a system-wide shift to faster
payment times. The difference lies in whether the benefit can in
some sense be captured by the innovator, or whether the benefits
are more dispersed and dependent on coordinated action.
Payments service providers are good at proprietary innovation,
as you would expect – they have an incentive to be good at it.
It’s in the second area that problems of inertia and
coordination failure can come into play.  I can think of two general reasons why this is the case.
The first is the problem of capturing benefits so as to give a
return to the innovator. To give a concrete historical example,
think of the question of faster cheque clearing. For a given
cost, faster clearing is obviously an improvement, but it can
only be achieved collectively. Yet doing so confers no
competitive advantage to any individual participant in the
cheque-clearing system, so there is little incentive to agree on
costly action to make it happen.  To make the example more up-to-date, the same problem exists
with incentives to deliver faster (or real-time) electronic
transfers at the retail level. Faster payments can only happen
if the system as a whole is set up for it, and then only if a
critical mass of the individual participants are set up to
provide timely access. But putting this in place will obviously
involve some cost, with little or no proprietary benefit to the
investor, particularly where it may cannibalise other
potentially profitable product lines. This problem would exist
even if all the payments industry participants faced identical
incentives. Without an effective coordinating mechanism,
industry will tend to under-invest in this kind of innovation.  The second reason is that the costs and benefits of
participating in coordinated actions of this kind are not in
fact evenly distributed across participants. Some participants
will benefit more than others from a given innovation, or may
find it more costly than others, for reasons to do with their
size or their business model. Another factor is the timing of
investment cycles: collective action has to be collective, but
the timing of any given investment in payments technology will
always be more advantageous to some than to others. A bank that
is just about to undertake a regular technology upgrade may be
quite receptive to aligning that with a general change in
standards; whereas a bank that has just completed a major round
of investment may not be.  These things can make it very hard for industry participants to
agree on the timing of a systemic innovation, or on the pricing
arrangements that will underpin it. The end result can be a
degree of inertia, or a slower pace of innovation than would be
socially efficient.  I think this problem is inherent in any network that doesn’t
operate as a kind of proprietary unit in the way that, for
example, a credit card network does (competing of course with
other networks).  For the payments system as a whole, then, this points to the
need for coordination mechanisms. What sorts of mechanisms might
we be talking about?  For a lot of issues, the appropriate coordination mechanism
could be an industry body – especially where the issue is mainly
technical in nature and where there are no strong proprietary
interests at stake. An example would be routine updating of
technical standards.  But where there are significantly conflicting incentives that
make coordinated decision-making more difficult, it may need a
regulator to take a leadership role.  In  Australia  the payments system regulator is the central bank,
and regulatory decisions are made by the Reserve Bank Payments
System Board. We have a mandate to promote stability and
efficiency, which I think we can view as including the efficient
resolution of the coordination problems that I’ve just
described. And we have significant powers that can be directed
to that end.  For these reasons, the RBA has been increasing its focus on
these coordination issues in recent times.  As you may be aware, we announced a Strategic Review of
Innovation in the Payments System in July 2010, and we are now
in the finishing stages of that review. In the course of the
review, we held two rounds of extensive consultation with
service providers as well as with end-users of the payments
system.  Broadly speaking, the Review focused on three questions, which I
could sum up as Gaps, Governance and Hubs.  On Gaps, the question is, are there potential innovations that
would be in the public interest that are not happening because
of coordination failures?  Responses to the consultation suggested that there might be.
The main points highlighted as possible areas for improvement
were:
• Faster or real-time payments at the retail level
• Greater availability of payments systems outside normal
banking hours
• Improved capacity to send information with payments
• And, greater ease of addressing payments  The last one of these can be illustrated by analogy with the
cheque. A cheque payment can be addressed very easily when all
you know is the name of the recipient. But we don’t yet have a
comparably easy mechanism for addressing electronic payments.
Obviously it is not costless to deliver these things, and so a
coordinated decision process would need to have some way of
taking into account both the costs and benefits, including
benefits to end-users, in order to determine whether an
investment is worth making.  That raises the further question of who should provide that
leadership and under what arrangements – the general question of
Governance.  To make it more concrete, we can pose the following questions.
In the Australian case, should the Payments System Board take a
more prescriptive approach to setting objectives for payments
system innovation? Could it, for example, set an objective of
real-time consumer payments, or the adoption of new messaging
standards, by a specified target date? Could it then perhaps
delegate the implementation of those targets to an industry body
with the necessary technical expertise?  All of that would amount to a governance model where the
regulator makes high-level decisions as to the public interest,
while industry participants determine the most efficient means
of implementing them. I won’t foreshadow what we might conclude
on these things, but these are the sorts of questions the
Payments System Board is now considering.  The Board is also considering a third area, namely Hubs, or
specifically the question of whether there needs to be greater
use of centralised architecture for clearing and settlement of
retail payments. This is a particular issue in Australia,
because many of our payments systems are built on bilateral
links between institutions. Arguments can be made in favour of
hubs on the basis that they may be more efficient than bilateral
networks and more conducive to both competition and innovation.
But these considerations need to be balanced against the costs
of the investment. Again, this is a key question of system
design for which there needs to be a coordinated answer, whether
the eventual decision is for or against.  To sum up:
• Coordination failures can be an obstacle to innovation
• That problem is inherent in the nature of payment networks
• It’s very hard to design governance structures that make
appropriate provision for coordination while still allowing for
normal competition to occur
• That suggests a role for leadership by payments regulators or
central banks
• In some ways, central banks have a natural leadership role
because they act as a hub already in many payment systems. In
Australia’s case, the central bank is also the regulator for
payments-system efficiency and stability
• Finally, in carrying out any leadership role in this area,
it’s very important to consult. The advantage we have (as
regulators or as central banks) is that we can take a public-
interest perspective. But we also need to make use of the
expertise of payments industry participants in determining what
is feasible and what is the most efficient means of delivery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  