-- Treasury Yields Driving Investors to Loans, Barclays Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-03-30T19:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/treasury-yields-driving-investors-to-loans-barclays-says.html
The recent increase in benchmark
Treasury  yields  to the highest level since October is reviving
investor appetite for loans, according to Barclays.  “Investor interest in loans is more closely related to
Treasury yields as an indicator of overall rate risk in the
marketplace, rather than Libor as a contributor to loan
coupons,” Barclays analysts led by Bradley Rogoff, head of
credit strategy in New York, wrote today in a research note.  Leveraged loans, a type of floating-rate debt tied to the
 London interbank offered rate , have returned 4.35 percent this
year, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100  Index (SPBDLLB) . Retail investors renewed their interest in the
asset class in recent weeks following a rise in Treasury yields,
Barclays said in the report.  “On days when Treasury yields rise, risk assets such as
leveraged loans are likely to experience spread compression and
positive returns,” the analysts wrote. “Rising Libor rates, on
the other hand, do not necessarily signal an increase in
investor risk appetite and, thus, do not tend to lead to
positive loan returns.”  Three-month Libor, the rate that banks say they pay for
three-month loans in dollars, is 0.47 percent today, according
to the British Bankers’ Association. That  compares  with 0.58
percent at the beginning of the year.  U.S. Yields  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasury notes increased six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.22 percent at 3:17 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They
reached 2.40 percent on March 20, the highest since October.  Loan mutual fund flows have been positive for four straight
weeks, the longest winning streak since July, Barclays said in
the report. The strongest inflows ever came in the first six
months of 2011, when three-month Libor was at record lows,
Barclays said.  Loan  prices  closed at 93.84 cents on the dollar yesterday,
the highest level in almost eight months, according to the
S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index. Prices have climbed
about three cents this year from 90.75 cents on Dec. 30.
Leveraged loans are a type of speculative-grade debt rated below
BBB- by S&P and lower than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  “Time will tell whether the recent spike in retail
interest outlasts what is increasingly looking like a very
fleeting rise in  interest rates ,” the Barclays analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  