-- Recovery Pushes U.S. States to Most BEES Gains Since 2010
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-30T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/recovery-pushes-u-s-states-to-most-bees-gains-since-2010.html
More than two-thirds of U.S. state
economies strengthened during the last three months of 2011, the
widest advance in more than year, illustrating the spread of a
recovery fueled by manufacturing and energy production.  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States shows energy-
rich  North Dakota (STOND1)  was the top performer in the fourth quarter,
compared with the previous three months, followed by West
Virginia, Nevada and  Oklahoma . The gauge uses data on real
estate, taxes, jobs and stock prices to chart the trajectory of
50 state economies. Michigan, Illinois, Idaho, Minnesota, Ohio
and  Florida  rounded out the top 10.  “We haven’t felt that rising tide lifting all boats so
far, but I think we’re on the verge of that,” said Robert Dye,
chief economist for  Comerica Bank (CMA) , who reported yesterday that
Michigan’s economy in January reached its strongest level in six
years.  “What we see right now are regional pockets starting to
turn around, and we can identify lots of pockets,” Dye said
from Dallas in a telephone interview.  The index shows advances as the  U.S. economy  expanded at
the fastest pace in 18 months and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index had its  best three-month stretch  in more than two years.
The gains by 34 states in the Bloomberg index were the broadest
advance since the quarter ended September 2010. In the third
quarter last year, only five states showed increases.  Battleground States  The improvement included key presidential battlegrounds
such as the Midwest and Florida, where President Barack Obama
and his Republican challenger will fight for electoral votes in
November. Even with the gains, every state except  North Dakota 
was worse off on Dec. 31 than at the end of 2008, three weeks
before Obama took office.  Among the decliners were  Vermont , whose stock index was the
worst performer because of a 52 percent plunge by shares of
 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.; (GMCR)   Wyoming , where tax revenue
slid; and  Alaska  and  New Mexico , both of which saw employment
drop.  North Carolina ,  Washington  and  New Jersey  were also among
the 13 states that performed worse in the period.  The BEES index is based on the performance of local-company
shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage delinquencies,
job growth and personal income, giving equal weight to each
component. It is intended to indicate the direction of each
economy, rather than absolute health, so a state that’s quickly
rebounding will receive a higher rank than one with a steady but
slower pace of growth.  ‘More Upbeat’  The U.S. economy has been expanding as employers add jobs
at a faster pace and consumers become more confident about their
prospects, encouraging them to spend more on big-ticket items
such as automobiles. That’s helped lift Midwest manufacturing,
while energy production has boosted resource-rich states.  “People across the country are a little more upbeat on
the fact that the economic situation has stabilized in some
areas and is increasing in others,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist with Bloomberg LP in  New York . “The growth
that’s driving it is in energy, mining and manufacturing.”  A boom in oil and natural-gas production in North Dakota
pushed up tax collections and job growth at the fastest pace in
the fourth quarter.  Petroleum Development Corp. (PETD) , an oil and gas
driller, helped push West Virginia’s stocks higher. In Michigan
and Ohio, mortgage delinquencies dropped as home prices rose.
Illinois’s tax collections got a boost from Governor Pat Quinn’s
tax increases.  Positive Shift  States including Texas, Connecticut and Minnesota picked up
added revenue as 2011 drew to a close, while only 12 registered
a drop. The tax-collection figures compiled in the index mark a
positive shift for the economy after lower revenue led states to
cut budgets, said Brusuelas, the Bloomberg economist.  “This is a sign that things are improving, albeit at a
very slow pace,” he said.  There are also signs of recovery in states hardest hit by
the  home-price slide  that began in 2006. Both  Nevada  and Florida
registered a drop in mortgage delinquencies. In Arizona, housing
prices rose 2.6 percent, more than any other state, according to
the BEES index.  The outlook for the economy will hinge on whether the job
growth of recent months can be sustained, Comerica’s Dye said.  “We’re on the verge here from transition from what I would
call a weak and hobbled recovery into a self-sustaining
expansion,” Dye said. “We’ve had a good start here in early
2012, and so far all the indicators suggest we should be able to
keep that pace up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  