-- Retiring Lieberman in Senate Legislative Mix Unlike Peers
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/retiring-lieberman-in-senate-legislative-mix-unlike-peers.html
Senator  Joe Lieberman , a
 Connecticut (BEESCT)  independent and onetime Democrat known for frequent
splits with his former party, has found a fresh way to stand
apart: He’s the only retiring senator with a solid chance to
leave a mark on policy this year.  Lieberman may bring two significant bills to the floor,
while nine other departing senators will have few similar
opportunities before their terms end. Senate Budget Committee
Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, won’t lead debate
on a budget plan because Senate Democrats decided not to go
through the exercise this year. Democrat  Jeff Bingaman  of  New
Mexico , chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources panel, ends
his career as lawmakers trade blame over high gas prices with no
energy agreement in sight.  Lieberman is working on a measure to bolster the nation’s
computer defenses and another overhauling the financially
struggling U.S.  Postal Service . While neither measure grabs the
headlines, if Lieberman can help navigate opposition in the
Democratic-run Senate and Republican-dominated House they would
be top congressional accomplishments in an election year.  “I’m excited about the opportunity to get some significant
things done in my final year here,” Lieberman, first elected to
the Senate in 1988, said in an interview. “If I can get those
bills out of the Senate, then I have a chance on both.”  Lieberman, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs, has the advantage of sponsoring bills
that avoid the political polarization that has doomed other
Senate work, said Vincent Moscardelli, a political science
professor at the University of  Connecticut  in Storrs.  ‘Only Issues Left’  “These are the only issues left for people who want to
stake out the middle,” Moscardelli said.  Lieberman, 70, often moves between the parties on issues
though he hasn’t entirely found a place in either. The 2000
Democratic vice presidential nominee, he made history as the
first Jewish candidate on a major-party presidential ticket. He
became an independent in 2006 after losing his Senate primary to
a challenger who attacked his support for the  Iraq war .  Lieberman caucuses with Democrats. He angered party leaders
when he endorsed Arizona Senator  John McCain  for president at
the 2008  Republican National Convention . Some Democrats wanted
to strip him of his committee chairmanship, though he kept it
with President Barack Obama’s support.  Later, he withheld support for Obama’s health-care overhaul
until Democrats dropped a government-run “public option” to
expand coverage.  Hitting Snags  Whether he leaves the Senate on his own terms isn’t
assured. His two final bills are hitting snags. Even if they
make it through the Senate, House passage isn’t assured.  The Postal Service bill would authorize cost-cutting steps
to save it from bankruptcy in an era of e-mail. The measure
would provide more revenue, in part by allowing the Postal
Service to ship wine and beer and boost some rates. It would cut
billions of dollars of mandated pre-payments to its retiree
health benefits fund.  The Postal Service, which wants to end Saturday mail
delivery and close as many as 3,700 post offices, would have to
keep six-day service for at least two more years and go through
a designated process to decide which facilities to close.  This week, a Senate vote to consider the postal bill fell
nine votes short, so it won’t come up until after a two-week
April recess. Some senators say rural states aren’t guarded
enough against post office closures and reduced mail delivery.  Lieberman said he and other bill sponsors want to find a
“sweet spot” with opponents by imposing even tougher reviews
of postal office closures in an amendment they’ll offer.  Homeland Security  Lieberman said enactment of the cybersecurity bill would be
an achievement in a career that included helping to create the
U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. His measure seeks to strengthen computer
defenses for banks, power grids and telecommunications firms to
prevent an attack.  He wants to give the Homeland Security Department the
ability to identify critical  computer networks , set rules for
their operators and require companies to prove their networks
are secure or face penalties.  McCain and other Republicans say the cybersecurity bill
would be too tough on the industry. A McCain proposal would
avoid new industry rules while promoting information-sharing
incentives such as protection from lawsuits. The two are
negotiating on a possible compromise.  ‘Endless’ Consultations  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
decided consultations on both Lieberman bills were getting
“endless” and will allow both to be worked out on the floor
through amendments, said Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson.  “Neither is a lock to pass,” Jentleson said. “The
processes on both will be pretty intricate.”  Lieberman gave credit for progress on the measures to his
working relationship with Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the
panel’s top Republican and a co-sponsor of both bills. The two
often join together on legislation, including the 2010 repeal of
the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy barring gay people from
serving openly in the military.  “We’ve developed just an extraordinary working
relationship,” he said. “There’s just a lot of trust and
transparency.”  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic
leader, said Lieberman’s relationship with party colleagues is
“extremely positive” even after the past rifts. Republican
 Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a close ally of
Lieberman, said he gets results because of his personal
relationships and mastery of the details of government.  ‘Universally Respected’  “That’s the formula for being an effective senator, and
that’s Joe in a nutshell,” said Graham. “He’s passionate and
he’s knowledgeable. Whether or not you agree with him on
something, I think he’s universally respected for being his own
guy.”  Lieberman said he has few regrets about the controversies
in his Senate career, including his McCain endorsement and
support for the  Iraq  war.  “I think I’m going to enjoy just watching” this year’s
presidential campaign, he said, and has no plans for a major-
party endorsement.  Although his support for the war “caused me a lot of
political heartache, I feel good that I stuck with the war in
Iraq even when it got to be unpopular,” Lieberman said. “I
didn’t want us to essentially declare defeat and leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  