-- RIM Charts Risky Survival Plan While Opening Door to Sale
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-30T20:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/rim-ceo-charts-risky-survival-plan-while-opening-door-to-sale.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , trying to
ensure its survival as sales plunge, is charting a risky path of
refocusing on business users while weighing strategic changes
from licensing its BlackBerry software to selling itself.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said yesterday the
BlackBerry maker will concentrate on the market it once
dominated following a fifth straight quarterly sales shortfall.
He also said he would consider a sale of the company, though
that is not the “main direction” at the moment.  Heins, who started as CEO in January, is retreating to
serve enterprise users and “targeted consumer segments” after
failing to stop continued market-share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. That
means he’s withdrawing from the faster-growing part of the
market while trying to ward off Google and Apple’s accelerating
push into the workplace, fueled by companies allowing employees
to bring in their own devices.  RIM “may have lost too much momentum to recover,” RBC
Capital Markets analyst  Mike Abramsky , who cut his price target
on the stock today to $13 from $16, said in a note to clients.
“We are concerned RIM continues to misread the market.”  Jim Balsillie , RIM’s former co-CEO, resigned from the board
and two other executives departed as part of the overhaul. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based company said also it will discontinue
giving financial forecasts.  Sale Possible?  RIM rose 7.1 percent to $14.70 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain in more than two months. The  stock  has
plummeted 90 percent from its 2008 high and is down 74 percent
in the past year.  RIM’s price-to-earnings ratio, a measure of the stock’s
affordability, is less than 5, the lowest of its industry  peers ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is an attractive valuation for anyone willing to fix
the current strategy,” said  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who rates RIM the equivalent of a
hold. An acquisition of RIM “remains a remote but real
possibility,” he said.  A takeover of RIM’s size would trigger a review by the
Canadian government, which must determine whether an acquisition
is in the national interest. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government in 2010 rejected Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
$40 billion hostile takeover of  Potash Corp. (POT)  over concerns the
sale would cut jobs and  tax revenue .  ‘Substantial Change’  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty today said he hoped
that RIM is successful while pointing out it is controlled by
its investors. “RIM is a private company that trades and has
shareholders of course,” Flaherty told reporters in Toronto.
“They will be the masters of their own destiny.”  Asked on a conference call with analysts yesterday if he
would consider selling the company, Heins said that he would
have to weigh “any element that we detected during that
strategic review that would lead us to consider it” while a
sale is “not the main direction” at the moment.  Heins also acknowledged that he was wrong in January when
he suggested that RIM didn’t need “drastic change.”  “The impression I had of RIM at day two of being the CEO
is now pretty different from the impression, not the impression,
from the facts I know after being 10 weeks the CEO,” he said on
a conference call. “It is now very clear to me that substantial
change is what RIM needs.”  No More BlackBerrys  While Heins vowed in January to persuade more customers to
snap up new Bold, Curve and Torch models, which offer better
touch-screen navigation and Web browsing, that isn’t happening.  Plunging U.S. sales have left RIM’s share of the global
smartphone market at 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down
from 14 percent a year earlier, according to research firm IDC.
Apple’s share in that period rose to 24 percent from 16 percent.  U.S. government agencies, oilfield-services provider
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and banks like  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  have
either stopped issuing BlackBerrys or let employees use their
own iPhones and Android devices in the past 18 months.  Heins said yesterday that RIM was “late” to acknowledge
the bring-your-own trend to the workplace that has contributed
to falling sales.  ‘Powerful Assets’  To stop that trend from spreading, RIM needs to do a better
job of reminding organizations that it can offer customers a
dedicated network and secure servers, said Ted Schadler, an
analyst with  Forrester Research (FORR)  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . RIM
operates data centers around the world through which all
BlackBerry e-mails travel, a competitive edge that helped it win
over corporate users after it first started offering its service
and devices more than a decade ago.  “They need to focus on their strengths,” said Schadler.
“Those are two extremely powerful assets that they essentially
ignored over the last three years while they’ve been fighting
this battle for market share of devices.”  Still, that advantage has started to erode as companies
have installed technology that has made the use of iPhones and
Android devices for corporate purposes more secure. Apple has
also won over business users with its market-leading iPad tablet
computer, a device which RIM has so far failed to challenge with
its BlackBerry PlayBook product.  Damage Done  Because corporate users can increasingly use the devices
they want, rather than the ones given to them by their
information-technology departments, RIM’s strategy of
approaching the smartphone market from the enterprise point of
view is risky, said  Scott Sutherland , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc.  “It will be difficult to keep a hold on the enterprise
without a major partnership with a more consumer focused
company,” such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , said Sutherland, who
has the equivalent of a hold rating on RIM. “While the company
accepts the fact that it was late to the bring-your-own-device
market, we fear that the damage is already done” because it’s
consumers now driving the enterprise market, not IT managers, he
said.  Heins told analysts on the call that he would consider
licensing RIM’s planned new BlackBerry 10 operating system to
let other handset makers use the software as he focuses the
company on businesses rather than the broader consumer market.  “We will strongly invest in enterprise, industrial design,
high-end aspirational devices,” Heins said. “BlackBerry cannot
succeed if we try to be everybody’s darling and all things to
all people.”  RIM’s strategy has a chance to succeed, though any recovery
is unlikely before the latter part of the year, said Nirav Parikh, senior vice president at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., which manages about $30 billion in equities including RIM
shares.  “Whether it turns out to be good or bad depends on how
well they do it,” Parikh said. “It doesn’t change our opinion
that there’s a couple of difficult quarters ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  