-- Roche Breast Cancer Drug Delays Disease Worsening in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-30T08:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/roche-breast-cancer-drug-delays-disease-worsening-in-study-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s experimental
 breast cancer  drug T-DM1 delayed the disease worsening in a
late-stage patient study, moving the company closer to applying
for regulatory approval this year.  Patients who received the drug, which combines Roche’s
Herceptin with an older chemotherapy drug, lived
“significantly” longer without their disease progressing,
compared with those who received a combination of
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Tykerb and Roche’s Xeloda, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. The trial
hasn’t been running long enough to show whether the drug also
extended the women’s lives, Roche said.  Roche, which gained Herceptin with its $46.8 billion
purchase of Genentech Inc. in 2009, is developing T-DM1 with
technology it licensed from Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  Roche said it plans to apply for regulatory
approval for T-DM1, also known as trastuzumab emtansine, in
 Europe  and the U.S. this year.  “This lends further credibility to Roche’s ability to
protect and increase its breast cancer revenues despite the
likely appearance of biosimilar Herceptin,” analysts led by
 Mark Purcell  at  Barclays Capital  wrote in a note today.  Armed Antibody  T-DM1 is a so-called “armed antibody” that combines of
Roche’s Herceptin with DM1, which is derived from an old
chemotherapy medicine called maytansine. That drug was found to
be too toxic for patients in clinical trials two decades ago.
ImmunoGen’s technology enabled chemists to fuse DM1 to Herceptin
in such a way that it isn’t activated until Herceptin shepherds
it directly to the cancer cell.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  rejected a request in
2010 to accelerate the regulatory process.  About 1.4 million women are newly diagnosed with breast
cancer every year and almost 460,000 die, making it the biggest
cancer killer among women, according to the International Agency
for Research on Cancer in Lyon, France.  About 25 percent of cases are distinguished by a protein
called HER2 on the surface of the cancer cells that causes them
to multiply more quickly. Herceptin, which generated 5.3 billion
Swiss francs ($5.9 billion) in sales last year, latches on to
HER2, interfering with it without killing the cell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  