-- Russian Central Bank Heeds Calls for Longer-Term Lending
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-30T16:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/russian-central-bank-heeds-calls-for-longer-term-lending.html
Russia ’s central bank will resume
lending to banks for as long as a year, paving the way for the
three biggest lenders to seek at least 800 billion rubles ($27.2
billion), according to Raiffesenbank analysts.  Bank Rossii will offer loans of up to one year backed by
non-market assets and gold, effective April 2, the regulator
said in a statement on its website today. The central bank also
said on March 28 that it would provide repurchase and lombard
auctions for as long as a year starting April 9.  “Above all, the recipients of this long-term funding from
the central bank will be Sberbank and VTB,” analysts at
Raiffeisenbank in Moscow wrote in an e-mailed research note
today, referring to the repo and lombard auctions. “By our
estimates, these are the banks with the biggest need for longer-
term funds because of the imbalance between lending growth and
deposit growth on their balance sheets.”  The decision follows Sberbank Chief Executive Officer
 German Gref ’s call last month for the central bank to offer
loans of at least one year. VTB President Andrey Kostin said in
an interview with the Financial Times that Russia should follow
the  European Central Bank ’s example and provide loans of up to
three years.  “The central bank feel they must be in the market to set
the rate because they don’t want to be undermined by other
government agencies,”  Clemens Grafe , chief economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow, said by phone.  Vnesheconombank, Russia’s state-run development lender,
said on March 26 it will offer banks 40 billion rubles ($1.4
billion) in a 347-day auction.  Sberbank, VTB       OAO Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB Group, Russia’s two largest lenders,
advanced in Moscow trading, snapping three days of declines.
Sberbank rose 1.1 percent to 94.64 rubles, while VTB climbed 2.1
percent to 6.686 kopeks. Sberbank, VTB and OAO Gazprombank, the
country’s three biggest lenders by assets, have enough
collateral on hand to collect at least 800 billion rubles in
one-year loans, Raiffeisenbank said.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.3 percent last year as retail
lending and growth in real wages helped spur a boom in
consumption. Unlike European lenders, Russian banks don’t need
long-term lending from the central bank, First Deputy Chairman
Alexey Ulyukayev said at a business forum in  Switzerland  last
month.  Sberbank and VTB together accounted for 81 percent of the
central bank’s lending backed by non-market assets such as
promissory notes, Raiffeisenbank said. The loans are for up to
half a year.  Sberbank, in which Bank Rossii is planning to sell a 7.6
percent stake to investors, received 237 billion rubles and VTB
has 162 billion rubles of the 496 billion rubles in outstanding
credits collateralized by non-market assets, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  