-- Ryan Endorses Romney Days Before Wisconsin Primary Vote
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/ryan-endorses-romney-days-before-wisconsin-primary-vote.html
Mitt Romney  was endorsed for the
Republican presidential nomination by U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin as both men teamed up to urge solidified
support for the front-runner and attack President Barack Obama’s
economic record.  Ryan, the Budget Committee chairman whose home state holds
its primary on April 3, appeared in Appleton with Romney
yesterday. He is the latest prominent Republican to rally behind
Romney and call for an end to a primary contest that threatens
to drag on for months, potentially leading to a delegate fight
on the floor of the party’s national convention Aug. 27-30 in
Tampa, Florida.  “In this man, we have a person of conviction,” Ryan said
at Lawrence University before Romney gave a speech panning
Obama’s economic record. “We have a man with the right kind of
experience. We have the right kind of leader we’re going to need
to get this country right, and to get this country back on
track.”  Earlier, Ryan said it would be “counterproductive” for
the race to last much longer. “It’s important that we coalesce
as conservatives around Mitt Romney and focus on the big task at
hand, which is defeating  Barack Obama  in the fall,” he told  Fox
News .  Romney’s Pivot  Romney, 65, increasingly pivoting to an anti-Obama message
as his grip on the nomination tightens, debuted an overhauled
stump speech in which he contrasted his own vision for an
“opportunity society” with the “government-centered society”
he accused the president of creating.  “Instead of doing everything possible to promote the power
of the free-enterprise system to create jobs and get us out of
this crisis, Barack Obama has promoted the power of government -
- and the results have been predictable and dismal,” Romney
said. He called the president part of a group of “out-of-touch
liberals” who “say they want a strong economy, but they really
don’t like businesses very much.”  “It’s like saying you love omelets, but don’t like eggs,”
he said.  A former  Massachusetts (BEESMA)  governor and second-time
presidential candidate, Romney portrayed Obama and his allies as
power-hungry, ready to attack anyone who challenges them. “And,
as we see each day, they will fight even more fiercely to hold
on to that power,” he said.  A Tough Campaign  At a fish fry in Milwaukee, Romney promised as the nominee
to run a tough campaign against Obama.  “We’re going to focus our campaign on President Obama,”
he told voters gathered at the American Serb Hall. “Get him out
of the White House and restore American principals to our
country.”  Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, accused Romney of
“misleading rhetoric that has become par for the course for
him,” saying he had ignored economic progress during the
president’s term.  “From 24 straight months of private-sector  job creation  to
a thriving automobile industry that is creating hundreds of
thousands of jobs to lower taxes for every working family, the
president’s decisive actions over the past three years have
begun to pay off,” Smith said in a statement.  Even as Romney pushed toward a confrontation with Obama --
mentioning four times during his speech the Nov. 6 general
election date -- he was still working to hold off challenges
from within his own party.  Wisconsin Primary  In a NBC News/Marist poll of likely  Wisconsin (BEESWI)  primary
voters released today, Romney held an advantage over his closest
challenger, former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , 40
percent to 33 percent. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  was
third with 11 percent, and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  was last at 8 percent.  The telephone poll of 740 likely voters in the state’s
Republican primary was conducted March 26-27 and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  Santorum said in an interview with  CNN  that he planned to
take his candidacy “all the way,” regardless of whether he
wins in  Wisconsin  next week. He said a Romney nomination would
deprive Republicans of the upper hand in debating the health-
care law that’s the centerpiece of Obama’s domestic agenda,
given Romney’s prior backing for a Massachusetts statute that
contained a similar mandate that everyone purchase medical
insurance.  Santorum’s Prediction  “Frankly, I think he’ll be destroyed by President Obama on
this issue come the fall,” Santorum said of Romney.  At the same time, the Ryan nod provided the latest boost to
Romney’s effort to persuade his party’s base to unite behind him
as the candidate best positioned to defeat Obama.  Former President  George H.W. Bush  endorsed Romney this
week, joining his son, former  Florida  Governor Jeb Bush, who
announced his backing March 21. U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida did so on March 28.  While all three have had flattering things to say about
Romney in their endorsements, they have put special emphasis on
the need to end party infighting to focus on ousting Obama.  Following his endorsement in an interview with Fox, Rubio
told the Daily Caller that there were “a lot of other people
out there that some of us wish had run for president -- but they
didn’t. Mitt Romney would be a fine president, and he’d be way
better than the guy who’s there right now.”  Rubio also called Romney “plenty conservative enough to
defeat Barack Obama and do a much better job.”  The elder Bush, sitting beside his wife, former first lady
 Barbara Bush , in his Houston office this week, cited the country
song “The Gambler” in saying Romney’s rivals should “know
when to fold ‘em.”  “It’s time for the party to get behind  Governor Romney ,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington
at  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ; Lisa Lerer in  Milwaukee , Wisconsin at
   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  