-- S&P AAA-Rated Notes Sold in Australia Decried as Junk
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-30T03:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/s-p-aaa-rated-notes-sold-in-australia-decried-as-junk.html
Standard & Poor’s , facing lawsuits
by Australian towns for giving its highest rating to derivative-
linked notes that lost almost all their value, should have known
the investments didn’t deserve the ranking, an analyst said.  “It should’ve been junk,” said Peter Tchir, who developed
collateralized debt obligation investments at Deutsche Bank AG
and UBS AG before founding TF Market Advisors. “It’s good
Australia is pushing this,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  The case, the first of its kind worldwide, claims S&P
misled investors with its system for labeling a borrower’s
creditworthiness, according to IMF (Australia) Ltd., which is
funding the litigation. Twelve Australian townships as a group
claim in their lawsuit that they lost A$15 million ($16 million)
of A$16 million invested in notes called Rembrandt that were
rated AAA by S&P. A 13th town sued separately after losing more
than 90 percent of its A$1 million investment.  The towns claimed S&P gave the notes the highest investment
rating after pressure from ABN Amro Bank NV, which became the
Australian affiliate of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  ABN
Amro Bank and S&P have denied the allegation.  The value of the so-called constant proportion debt
obligations, created by ABN Amro Bank, was linked to movements
in the iTraxx credit default swap index in Europe and the Dow
Jones CDX in the U.S.  Second-Lowest Ranking  The assets backing the securities may have been worthy of
BBB, S&P’s second-lowest investment rating, Tchir said. The
notes used borrowing to magnify gains or losses, making them
riskier, he said.  “Taking something that is BBB and leveraging it shouldn’t
make it safer, but according to them it did,” Tchir said.  In rating the notes, S&P ignored lessons from the collapse
of Enron Corp. and Worldcom Inc. in 2001 and the sudden changes
in credit markets such events can create, he said.  Tchir said he hoped more investors would hold rating
companies accountable, although U.S. free-speech laws protect
the firms in that country from lawsuits such as the one filed in
 Australia .  The notes were unwound less than two years after the towns
bought them as credit spreads increased, and their cash value
was exhausted in 2008. Borrowing costs rose amid the most
extreme financial conditions since the Great Depression,
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., ABN
Amro Bank said in written submissions.  The bank said it sold $5 billion of the CPDO notes and no
one else sued, because most were sold to institutional investors
able to properly assess the risks.  The Australian towns failed to make responsible efforts to
understand the investment, S&P said in written submissions to
Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot, who will decide the case.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  