-- San Francisco to Pass New York as Top-Performing Office Market
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/san-francisco-to-pass-new-york-as-top-performing-office-market.html
San Francisco  is set to displace
New York as the best-performing office market in the U.S. this
year as hiring by technology firms helps fill space, brokerage
Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services projected.  The California city moved up five places to the top spot in
the firm’s 2012 National Office Property Index, which ranked the
country’s 44 largest office markets based on employment,
 vacancy , construction and rents.  New York (COLA)  placed second and
Houston third, Marcus & Millichap said in a report today.  “We’ve seen explosive growth in social media and
electronic marketing, and it’s really benefiting some metro
areas,” Hessam Nadji, San Francisco-based managing director of
the firm, said in a telephone interview.  As the U.S.  unemployment  rate declines, office occupancies
will pick up in metropolitan areas where technology, education,
energy and health care dominate, Marcus & Millichap projected.
The vacancy rate for U.S. office properties fell to 16 percent
last year, the lowest level since June 2010, according to CBRE
Group Inc. Before the recession, the rate hovered around 12
percent, data from the Los Angeles-based brokerage show.  Office construction hit a 15-year low in 2011, bringing
little new space to the market, according to Marcus & Millichap.
Employers are expected to absorb a net 50 million square feet
(4.6 million square meters) this year, the brokerage said.  Las Vegas ,  Detroit  and  Cleveland  -- areas with relatively
weak job growth and high office vacancy rates -- are expected to
show little improvement in occupancies, according to the report.  Asking rents for U.S. offices rents rose 1.6 percent in
2011 to about $28 a square foot, and may increase about 2
percent this year, Marcus & Millichap reported. There won’t be
any “real rent growth” until vacancies fall to about 12
percent, Nadji said.  “Vacancies are still high and landlords don’t have any
real pricing power yet,” he said. “We’re not going to see
those rises until 2013 or 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  