-- Scana Receives NRC Approval to Build South Carolina Reactors
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-03-30T20:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/scana-receives-nrc-approval-to-build-south-carolina-reactors-2-.html
Scana Corp. (SCG)  won U.S. approval to
build nuclear reactors, the second construction permit issued by
regulators in more than 30 years for units that may be among the
nation’s last erected this decade.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission today voted 4-1 to
approve the Cayce, South Carolina, company’s plan to construct
and operate two units at its Virgil C. Summer plant, about 26
miles (42 kilometers) northwest of Columbia. Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  dissented, citing pending safety rules in response to the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster in  Japan  last year.  “I continue to believe that we should require that all
Fukushima-related safety enhancements are implemented before
these new reactors begin operating,” Jaczko said in his vote.  Scana, which submitted its application to the NRC in March
2008, will pay 55 percent of the estimated $10.2 billion cost of
the project. Santee Cooper,  South Carolina ’s largest power
producer, is responsible for the remainder.  The NRC will require the companies to inspect and test
valve systems and develop strategies to respond to natural
disasters that may cause a loss of power, the agency said in a
statement. The NRC also is requiring that Scana and Santee
Cooper comply with an order, issued last month in response to
Fukushima, to have reliable instruments to monitor cooling pools
for spent fuel.  Five Units  The reactors are among five units that may be built in the
U.S. before 2020, as a glut of natural gas has discouraged
investment in other types of generation, including nuclear
power. Scana’s first unit won’t be operational until 2017, about
a year behind schedule, because of delays in the NRC’s licensing
process, the company said yesterday in a statement.  Scana executives were headed today to the NRC’s offices to
pick up the new licenses, and crews are poised to begin work on
the nuclear portions of the site tomorrow, Kevin Marsh, Scana’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a phone interview.  “I think it’s great for the state of South Carolina,”
Marsh said about the NRC vote. “We look forward to building
these two new nuclear units to enhance our ability to meet the
energy needs of our customers.”  Southern Co. (SO)  on Feb. 9 won U.S. approval to build two
reactors at its Vogtle plant near Augusta,  Georgia , becoming the
first company to receive an NRC construction permit since 1978.
The Atlanta-based company expects the first unit to be in
service by 2016, with the second a year later.  Partial Meltdown  A 1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile Island near
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , slowed development of U.S. nuclear
power, which accounts for about 20 percent of the nation’s
electricity. The  Tennessee Valley Authority  is reviewing its
timeline for completing work on a reactor it stopped building in
1988,  Michael Bradley , a TVA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The five reactors will provide an additional 5,600
megawatts of nuclear generating capacity on the Southeast’s
electricity grid by the end of the decade,  Marvin Fertel , chief
executive officer of the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a Washington-
based industry group, said in a statement. “That’s reliable,
low-carbon electricity for about 10 cities the size of
Columbia.”  Scana fell 4 cents to $45.61 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading. The shares have gained 16 percent in the past
year.  Westinghouse Units  Scana and Southern plan to build AP1000 reactors designed
by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Co. Scana’s second unit
will be operational by 2018, a year ahead of schedule, under an
agreement with project managers Westinghouse of Cranberry
Township, Pennsylvania, and  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  of  Baton Rouge ,
 Louisiana , according to the utility.  “Many safety issues remain concerning the AP1000 design,”
Tom Clements, non-proliferation policy director for the Alliance
for Nuclear Accountability, said in a statement. “It is very
vulnerable in the face of an earthquake, which could destroy the
cooling system.”  The NRC is weighing rules to improve the safety of U.S.
reactors after an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 triggered
a triple meltdown at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. Jaczko also opposed approval of Southern’s license,
stating that the commission should have required the company to
adhere to lessons from Fukushima.  The NRC on March 9 approved three orders in response to the
disaster, including a requirement for reactor owners to have in
place by 2016 sufficient emergency equipment to survive a  power
failure .  ‘Should be Consistencies’  While Scana is required to comply with the order for spent-
fuel pools, the commission has now approved permits for reactors
with different sets of safety standards, Jaczko said in an
interview following today’s vote.  “There should be consistencies” with these licenses, he
said. A requirement for new licenses to comply with all
Fukushima-related rules would ensure this outcome, he said.  The NRC’s examination of safety conditions at plants may
delay its review of license applications for reactors, including
two units  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  has proposed to build in Levy
County,  Florida , Jaczko said in his vote.  Progress was notified by the agency “a couple weeks ago”
that it faced additional review, including seismic analysis, for
its proposal to build AP1000 reactors, said Mike Hughes, a
spokesman for the Raleigh, North Carolina-based company.  “We don’t yet know what the impact the request and
additional analysis will have on the schedule,” Hughes said in
an e-mail.  Progress, which is merging with Duke Energy Corp., hasn’t
made a final decision on whether to build the reactors, whose
licenses are furthest along in the NRC’s review process. The
earliest the units would become operational is 2021, Hughes
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  