-- Scana Receives NRC Approval to Build South Carolina Reactors
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-03-30T18:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/scana-receives-nrc-approval-to-build-south-carolina-reactors-1-.html
Scana Corp. (SCG)  won U.S. approval to
build nuclear reactors, the second construction permit issued by
regulators in more than 30 years for units that may be among the
nation’s last erected this decade.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission today voted 4-1 to
approve the Cayce, South Carolina, company’s plan to construct
and operate two units at its Virgil C. Summer plant, about 26
miles (42 kilometers) northwest of Columbia. Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  dissented, citing pending safety rules in response to
Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster in  Japan .  “I continue to believe that we should require that all
Fukushima-related safety enhancements are implemented before
these new reactors begin operating,” Jaczko said in his vote.  Scana, which submitted its application to the NRC in March
2008, will pay 55 percent of the estimated $10.2 billion cost of
the project. Santee Cooper,  South Carolina ’s largest power
producer, is responsible for the remainder.  The reactors are among five units that may be built in the
U.S. before 2020, as a glut of natural gas has discouraged
investment in other types of generation, including nuclear
power. Scana’s first unit won’t be operational until 2017, about
a year behind schedule, because of delays in the NRC’s licensing
process, the company said yesterday in a statement.  ‘Significant Event’  “Receiving approval of our licenses to construct and
operate units 2 and 3 at V.C. Summer is a significant event for
our company,” said Kevin Marsh, Scana’s chairman and chief
executive officer. “We look forward to building these two new
nuclear units to enhance our ability to meet the energy needs of
our customers.”  Southern Co. (SO)  on Feb. 9 won U.S. approval to build two
reactors at its Vogtle plant near Augusta, Georgia, becoming the
first company to receive an NRC construction permit since 1978.
The Atlanta-based company expects the first unit to be in
service by 2016, with the second a year later.  A 1979 partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island station
near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , slowed development of U.S.
nuclear power, which accounts for about 20 percent of the
nation’s electricity. The Tennessee Valley Authority is
reviewing its time line for completing work on the reactor it
stopped building in 1988. Michael Bradley, a TVA spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Westinghouse Units  Scana and Southern plan to build AP1000 reactors designed
by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Co. Scana’s second unit
will be operational by 2018, a year ahead of schedule, under an
agreement with project managers Westinghouse of Cranberry
Township, Pennsylvania, and  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  of  Baton Rouge ,
Louisiana, according to the utility.  The NRC is weighing rules to improve the safety of U.S.
reactors after an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 triggered
a triple meltdown at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in Japan. Jaczko opposed his four colleagues’
approval of Southern’s license, stating that the commission
should have required the company to adhere to lessons from the
Fukushima disaster.  The NRC on March 9 approved its first orders in response to
the disaster, including a requirement for reactor owners to have
in place by 2016 sufficient emergency equipment to survive a
 power failure . The nuclear industry has drafted a plan to supply
plants with portable back-up gear, including pumps and
generators, helping to speed the regulatory process, Martin Virgilio, the NRC’s deputy executive director for reactors and
preparedness programs, said Jan. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  