-- Scene in D.C.: Beverly Johnson TV, Kimball Stroud
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-03-30T14:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/scene-in-d-c-beverly-johnson-tv-kimball-stroud-.html
It was an unusual mix at the
restaurant Teatro Goldoni on K Street last night, as policy
wonks, journalists and civil-rights activists toasted a
supermodel and a TV launch.  “I don’t know if it means I’m really important or really
old,” joked businesswoman and guest of honor Beverly Johnson,
the first black woman on the cover of Vogue.  She’s important enough to have her own reality show.
“Beverly’s Full House” has its debut this weekend on
OWN, the Oprah Winfrey Network LLC, run by her old friend.  “I knew Oprah before she was Oprah,” Johnson told the
guests surrounding her in the back of the restaurant as they ate
spinach cappellacci and for dessert tiramisu.  Sheila Johnson, the co-founder of  BET  and not related to
Beverly, called her “a beautiful icon who broke barriers.”  Lonnie Johnson, the senior director for federal relations
for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  (also no relation), confessed he had a
crush on the pioneering model in his younger years.  The dinner was hosted by Beverly Johnson’s  Washington 
friend, Kimball Stroud, co-founder of the  Impact Arts and Film
Fund .  “If you can play golf, you can do business in
Washington,” Stroud said when she heard that Beverly Johnson
unwinds by hitting the golf course.  Force in Business  A Democrat and civil-rights activist, Beverly Johnson
regaled the guests, including  CNN ’s Jessica Yellin and political
adviser David Mercer, with stories about her middle-class youth,
sudden rise to supermodel status and subsequent move into
business.  She and her boyfriend, Brian Maillian, who joined her last
night, run a hair- and beauty-product line for  Target Corp. (TGT)   She said her TV show will chronicle her loving, but
sometimes chaotic household, which includes her 30-year-old
daughter, her son-in-law and their small child, and admitted
that the constant presence of cameras was often irritating.  “My garage was like central command,” she said.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 