-- Scientists Say No Need for Nuclear Tests, Boosting Obama
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-30T19:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/scientists-say-no-need-for-nuclear-tests-boosting-obama.html
The U.S. has the technology needed
to detect nuclear tests by other nations and verify the
reliability of its own arsenal without resuming nuclear test
explosions, a scientific panel said.  The findings, in a report released today by the U.S.
National Academy of Sciences, might help President  Barack Obama ’s push for Senate ratification of the Comprehensive
Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, an expected administration goal if
Obama wins a second term.  Still, the debate may pivot on politics more than on
science. Republican opponents have said they’ll fight another
push for approval because alternative means of monitoring may
not always be sufficient. Also, they say the agreement binds the
U.S. without adequate ways for enforcement on others. The Senate
rejected the treaty during the Clinton administration in 1999,
and President  George W. Bush  never sought ratification, although
the U.S. continued to abstain from testing.  The National Academy panel members “have strengthened the
case technically,” said Sidney Drell, professor emeritus of
theoretical physics at  Stanford University  in  California , who
testified in favor of the treaty in 1999. “I would just hope
there’ll be a serious, non-partisan discussion” of the treaty’s
merits, he said.  Technical Capability  The U.S. has the technical capability to maintain safe,
reliable nuclear armaments “so long as the nation is fully
committed to securing its weapons stockpile and provides
sufficient resources for doing so,” said Ellen Williams, chief
scientist at  BP Plc (BP/)  and chairwoman of the panel. “In addition,
U.S. and international technologies to monitor weapons testing
by other countries are significantly better now than they were a
decade ago.”  Seismology has advanced enough to detect an underground
blast “well below 1 kiloton in most regions,” the Academy said
in a statement accompanying the report. The atomic bombs dropped
on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in  Japan  during World War II had
yields of 10 to 20 kilotons, the Academy said.  American scientists understand nuclear weapons “a lot
better than we did 10 years ago,” said Drell, a senior fellow
at the Hoover Institution policy group.  The National Academy of Sciences panel said the U.S.
program for verifying the safety and reliability of the
stockpile without testing has made “significant advances” in
knowledge and expertise since a similar 2002 report, including
new research facilities.  Voluntary Moratorium  The panel’s conclusion, which didn’t take a position on
treaty ratification, is the second time in 10 years that an
Academy panel concluded that nuclear testing isn’t necessary to
ensure the reliability of the stockpile. The U.S. has observed a
voluntary moratorium on nuclear test explosions since 1992.  The main reason the U.S. might need to resume nuclear
testing would be an adversary’s steps requiring the U.S. to
produce a type of bomb it hasn’t previously tested, the panel
said. In that case, the U.S. could withdraw from the treaty,
citing national security concerns, the committee said.  The test-ban treaty is among the biggest goals on Obama’s
agenda for reducing the nation’s reliance on nuclear weapons.
Most of those aims have been delayed to a possible second term
after a new treaty with  Russia  in 2010 that aimed for modest
cuts in both sides’ stockpiles won just 13 Republican votes in
the Senate.  Proponents of U.S. ratification for the test-ban treaty say
it would prompt other nations to follow suit and then coerce the
remaining outliers to fall into line. The U.S. and seven other
countries needed for the treaty to go into force have withheld
ratification:  China ,  Israel ,  India ,  Pakistan ,  Iran , North Korea
and  Egypt . China has said it would ratify the treaty once the
U.S. does so, Drell said.  ‘Not in Good Company’  “We’re not in good company,” said Drell, who wasn’t on
the National Academy panel.  U.S. ratification probably would persuade India to ratify,
which would encourage Pakistan to take the same step, said Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association
advocacy group in  Washington .  “U.S. ratification would, in the very least, prompt these
other holdout states to ratify and would reinforce the existing
global taboo against testing,” Kimball said in an interview
before the report was released.  While supporters of a global test ban say the result would
stem the spread of nuclear weapons, opponents of treaty
ratification say that’s unrealistic.  Unlikely to Follow  North Korea  and Iran are unlikely to follow suit, former
Central Intelligence Agency Director James Woolsey and a
colleague wrote in a report issued this month by the National
Institute for Public Policy. Explosive testing isn’t even needed
to develop more primitive nuclear devices, they said, a point
also made by the National Academy panel.  “Ratification is unlikely to rally international
cooperation against nuclear proliferation,” Woolsey and
Institute President Keith Payne said in the Washington group’s
report. Woolsey is an adviser to Republican presidential
candidate  Newt Gingrich , and Payne was a deputy assistant
secretary under former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.  “The prospective negative consequences of ratification are
not trivial,” they wrote, citing the U.S. ability to deter
adversaries and extend similar protection to allies.  Talking for 38 Years  The Academy’s new assessment was conducted during almost
three years by a nine-member committee that includes Director
Emeritus Bruce Tarter of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
in California, former U.S.-Russia nuclear weapons treaty
negotiator Linton Brooks, and Richard Garwin, a former director
of  IBM Corp.’s (IBM)  Watson Laboratory who helped develop the first
hydrogen bomb.  President Dwight D. Eisenhower initiated negotiations for a
nuclear-test ban with the then-Soviet Union and the U.K. in
1958. The talks took 38 years, and President  Bill Clinton  made
the U.S. among the first to sign the treaty in 1996. The number
of signatories has grown to 182 of 196 nations, and  Indonesia 
last month became the latest to ratify the pact, bringing the
total ratifications to 157.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  