-- Sept. 11 Remains Disposed as Waste Instead of Sea Burial
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-31T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sea-burial-considered-then-rejected-for-sept-11-remains.html
The military debated whether to
hold a burial at sea for human body parts from the Sept. 11
attack on the Pentagon before sending them to a landfill as
medical waste, according to Defense Department documents.  The documents were released to answer questions about the
disposal of Sept. 11 remains that surfaced during a review of
how the military’s Dover mortuary in  Delaware  handled troops who
died in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. After being cremated,
some body parts from the troops and the Sept. 11 attack were
burned again and ended up in a landfill.  U.S. Air Force officials managing the Dover Port Mortuary
discussed whether a batch of so-called Group F bio-waste from
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on the Pentagon should be
scattered at sea, according to heavily redacted e-mails and
documents the military  released yesterday  showing the time line
of decisions at Dover from May 1990 to Feb. 12. The material
included 1,321 unidentifiable fragments of human remains,
according to the documents.  The mortuary staff sorted the matter into six groups, with
the last one containing “fragmented material that could not be
further identified” because it included a mix of remains from
victims, terrorists and other “biological material,” Jo Ann
Rooney, the acting undersecretary of defense for personnel and
readiness said yesterday at a Pentagon news conference.  Asked to describe the biological material, Rooney said “it
could have been human, something from someone’s lunch and
anything of biological nature.”  ‘A Chaplain Present’  A defense official in an Aug. 6, 2002, e-mail wrote an  Air
Force  colonel seeking permission to scatter material from the
batch at sea and “perhaps even have a chaplain present.”
Instead, the U.S. Army Personnel Command, which had
responsibility for Dover, directed the mortuary to treat the
material as “normal waste,” according to documents, in which
the names of officials were blacked out.  The practice of sending some unidentified human remains to
landfills ended in 2008. They are now put in urns and buried at
sea.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  created in November a panel,
led by retired General John Abizaid, to review the handling of
human remains at the Dover mortuary, the primary U.S. entry
point for the remains of troops from the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan . Panetta called for the examination after reports
that the Air Force had mishandled and lost remains of some
military personnel.  Brief Reference  In a brief reference in a Feb. 28 report, the Abizaid panel
disclosed that cremated body parts from some victims of the
Sept. 11 attacks were disposed of in a landfill by a contractor
to the military. In response, Air Force Secretary Michael Donley
and General Norton Schwartz, the Air Force chief of staff, said
they hadn’t been aware that happened.  The Air Force has started disciplinary proceedings against
the former commander of the mortuary, Colonel Robert Edmondson,
and his deputy for mishandling soldiers’ body parts.  Rooney met families of Sept. 11 victims yesterday to brief
them on the details of the review, which found that “their
loved ones were treated with the care, dignity and respect,”
Rooney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  