-- Sealy Faces Governance Criticism From Second Stakeholder
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-30T20:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sealy-faces-governance-criticism-from-second-stakeholder.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , the mattress maker
that is 45 percent owned by private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) , is
facing criticism from a second major shareholder over KKR’s role
in managing the company.  FPR Partners , a San Francisco-based investment firm whose
7.7 percent stake makes it the third-biggest owner, said in a
letter to the chairman of the company’s nominating and corporate
governance committee that KKR’s governance role should be “very
different” than it is. KKR bought Trinity, North Carolina-based
Sealy in 2004 and took it public two years later.  “A 46 percent ownership stake in a public company should
lead to very different governance than 100 percent ownership of
a private company,” FPR said in the letter dated yesterday and
filed with U.S. regulators today. “We believe strongly that all
shareholders of a public company have a place in governing the
company they own.”  Sealy has been responding to governance complaints since
earlier this month.  H Partners Management LLC , a New York-based
hedge fund that owns 15 percent of Sealy, said in a March 11
letter that KKR “overloaded” the bedding maker with debt and
made strategic errors that reduced its earnings by half. FPR,
run by managing directors Bob Peck and Andy Raab, said it was
“disappointed and perplexed” by the company board’s response
to questions raised by Sealy’s second-largest shareholder.  Sealy called the claims “combative” and unconstructive.
In a March 23 letter, the company said KKR “has been a
responsible partner” and said the board’s composition meets New
York Stock Exchange guidelines for independence.  Lost Value  “Through the leadership of management and under the
guidance of the board of directors, we remain committed to
delivering long-term  shareholder value  and continue to be open
to constructive dialog with all of our shareholders,” Chris
Beattie, a spokesman for Sealy at Brunswick Group LLC, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , acquired Sealy
for $1.5 billion from an investment group that included Bain
Capital LLC. The buyout firm paid $5.78 a share for the mattress
maker and took it public for $16 a share.  The shares have since lost 87 percent of their value,
closing at $2.02 today, up 1 cent, in New York trading. The
company has gained 17 percent this year after reporting that  net
income  in the first quarter ended Feb. 26 rose to $1.6 million
from $130,000 a year earlier.  Both FPR, which manages more than $1 billion, and H
Partners have proposed that Sealy replace some members of its
board. H Partners said in a March 27 letter to directors that it
plans to withhold support for incumbent members “if you fail to
comply with our demands.”  Gary E. Morin, chairman of the nominating and corporate
governance committee, responded by saying the board is composed
of “strong, highly qualified and committed members.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  