-- SEC Weighs Sanctions for Lawyers Who Advise on Fraudulent Deals
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-30T21:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sec-weighs-sanctions-for-lawyers-who-advise-on-fraudulent-deals.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators are considering extending the reach of
enforcement actions in cases involving complex financial
transactions to lawyers who provided the legal advice on
fraudulent deals, an agency official said.  “I’ve seen some factual situations where advice that was
given didn’t look like it was done in good faith,”  Kenneth Lench , head of the structured products unit in the SEC’s
enforcement division, said today at a law event in New York.
“Something we need to seriously consider in appropriate cases
are charges against lawyers.”  The SEC typically sanctions individuals who play an active
role in making false statements or material omissions to
investors, not the lawyers who advise them. Often, in matters
involving a company and its employees, the individuals claim the
lawyers signed off on the conduct in question, Lench said.  That claim presents a challenge for the SEC because
communications between attorneys and their clients are generally
considered confidential and not available to regulators who are
investigating a matter. If the company refuses to waive
confidentiality in the course of the probe, it can be difficult
for the SEC to prove that someone willfully violated the law, he
said.  Lench, whose unit is responsible for uncovering fraud in
structured products such as mortgage-backed securities and
derivatives, also said that the agency is prepared to pursue
negligence claims against individuals who didn’t take reasonable
steps to keep a fraud from occurring. Negligence is a lower
legal standard than intentional or reckless fraud.  Mark Schonfeld, a former SEC attorney who is now a partner
at law firm  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP (1128L)  in  New York , said the
agency’s willingness to litigate cases based solely on claims of
negligence is “dangerous ground to start treading on as an
enforcement agency.” Schonfeld also spoke at the event, a
conference on securities law enforcement sponsored by the New
York City Bar Association.  Lench said those cases can have a deterrent impact.  “If it causes people to do their jobs better, that’s a
positive thing,” said Lench.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  