-- Senator Lugar Says Residency Dispute Resolved and He Can
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-30T18:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/senator-lugar-says-residency-dispute-resolved-and-he-can.html
Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana
Republican, has resolved a dispute over his state residency that
threatened to keep him from voting for himself in the May 8
Republican primary.  A local court helped work out a settlement between Lugar
and the Marion County Election Board that will let him vote if
he changes his voter registration address to a family farm in
the state, the six-term senator’s campaign committee said in a
statement today.  The Democratic-dominated election board said on March 15
that Lugar and his wife, who live in northern  Virginia , weren’t
eligible to vote in the county because they registered with the
Indianapolis address of a home he sold in 1977.  “With this new legal guidance the issue of the Lugars’
voting registration is resolved,” today’s statement from his
campaign said. “Any further challenge will clearly be nothing
more than continued pettiness on the part of a handful of
disgruntled political opponents.”  The board had voted on Lugar’s eligibility 2-1 along party
lines. He is being challenged in the Republican primary by state
Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who has accused the senator of
staying away from the state too much. The winner will run
against Democratic U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly.  Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, said he had longstanding legal guidance from the
election board and three Indiana attorneys general that his
registration was legal.  Lugar prevailed earlier when Mourdock backers challenged
his right to be on the ballot. The Indiana Election Commission
in February ruled Lugar is eligible to seek re-election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  