-- Serb Fiscal Council Says Budget Measures Don’t Go Far Enough
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-30T14:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/serb-fiscal-council-says-budget-measures-don-t-go-far-enough-1-.html
The Serbian government’s savings
measures won’t be enough to bring the first quarter fiscal gap
to the 26 billion-dinar ($311.2 million) target agreed with the
 International Monetary Fund , the Serbian  Fiscal Council  said.  The savings total about 15.7 billion dinars, compared with
an estimated deficit of 55 billion dinars at the end of the
first quarter, the Belgrade-based council said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The three-member body, appointed by parliament to monitor
budget performance, said it “welcomes every effort” to lower
the budget gap “but the measures to consolidate the fiscal
deficit won’t ensure sufficient savings even if those were to
fully materialize.”  The government was also right, it said, to cut sovereign
guarantees for public company borrowing to a minimum,
eliminating one of the reasons that led to a freeze in a $1.3
billion loan program with the IMF in February.  According to its own fiscal rules,  Serbia  needs to keep the
fiscal deficit within 4.5 percent of gross domestic product and
public debt below 45 percent of total economic output. The
Fiscal Council said in February unchanged policies would push
the deficit to at least 5.25 percent and public debt-to-GDP to
51 percent in 2012.  The government reported a two-month budget gap of 41.3
billion dinars at the end of February. The IMF has said a 61
billion-dinar fiscal deficit at the end of June would have
signaled that policies were on track.  Additional Savings Needed  The government’s new program will manage to save 13 billion
dinars at best, the Council said.  Serbia urgently needs additional savings measures, the
Fiscal Council said, because there is no sign of reversal of
negative trends from the first quarter. The amount of funds
needed has expanded and the savings measures will need to be
broadened and include local governments and public companies, it
said.  The IMF encouraged Serbia today to limit excessive debt
issuance and  interest rates  and convince investors Serbia is
serious about keeping its fiscal house in order, the lender’s
resident representative Bogdan Lissovolik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  