-- Shanghvi-Backed Natco Pharma Expects Sales to Rise 15% Next Year
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-03-30T03:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/shanghvi-backed-natco-pharma-expects-sales-to-rise-15-next-year.html
Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH) , an Indian
drugmaker backed by billionaire Dilip Shanghvi, expects sales to
rise as much as 15 percent in the year ending March 2013 helped
by a copy of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s cancer medicine Nexavar.  Natco, based in Hyderabad, expects sales of 5.1 billion
rupees ($100 million) this financial year, compared with 4.4
billion rupees in the previous period, Chief Operating Officer
Rajeev Nannapaneni said in an interview yesterday.  This month, Natco became the first company in India to get
government approval to sell a cheaper copy of a drug that’s
still protected by patents. The so-called compulsory license
permits Natco to make a version of Nexavar and sell it at a 97
percent discount to Bayer’s price.  Under a World Trade Organization agreement known as Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS,
member countries can use these compulsory licenses to lower the
cost of medicines. Governments can grant compulsory licenses to
allow a company to make copies or use a patented process without
the consent of the patent owner.  Global drugmakers “can’t charge European and U.S. prices
in  India ,” Nannapaneni said. “Multinationals have to relook
their model and consider differential pricing.”  Natco expects to earn 250 million rupees in the first year
of sales from the copy of Nexavar, which is used for treating
advanced stage kidney and  liver cancer .  The Indian drugmaker can charge not more than 8,880 rupees
for a monthly dose of 120 tablets. The company would have to pay
6 percent of its revenue to Bayer as royalty and supply the drug
at no cost to at least 600 needy patients each year, India’s
Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks said in a
 statement  on its website this month.  Shanghvi is chairman of Indian drugmaker  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (SUNP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  