-- Shell’s Alaska Plan Doesn’t Eliminate Spill Risks, GAO Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-30T20:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/shell-s-alaska-plan-fails-to-eliminate-drilling-risks-gao-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s plan for
oil drilling off  Alaska ’s north coast fails to deal with some
risks linked to operating in the remote region, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office said.  The federal watchdog’s comment strengthens calls from
environmental groups, such as the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  and Alaskan native people, that have been urging
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to delay Arctic oil
exploration.  Ice that floats on the surface or scrapes the seafloor may
hinder the response to a spill late in the drilling period,
which runs from July 15 through Oct. 31. A lack of personnel and
equipment near a remote drilling site may slow containment and
collection of spilled oil, the agency said in a  report  released
today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  “Shell representatives told us that the company plans to
have two concurrent drilling operations capable of providing
mutual assistance,” the watchdog said. “But there are few
additional resources available in the region to respond in the
event that Shell’s capabilities are insufficient.”  While Shell won the approval of its oil-spill response
plans, the Hague-based company has yet to obtain Interior
Department permits to drill any wells in the Arctic seas that
may hold as much as 26.6 billion barrels of oil.  Beaufort, Chukchi  Shell, preparing to drill in the region for five years
after spending about $4 billion on  Beaufort Sea  and Chukchi Sea
leases, plans to use equipment designed specifically for icy
Arctic conditions.  “Our oil-spill response plan is second to none in the
industry and we are proud of that,” Curtis Smith, a Shell
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. “The recent approval of our
Beaufort and Chukchi sea oil-spill response plans reinforces
that our approach to Arctic exploration is aligned with the high
standards the  Department of Interior  and the public expects.”  The GAO report is “one more powerful voice” in favor of
delaying Arctic drilling, Chuck Clusen, director of national
parks and Alaska projects at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, said today in a phone interview. The
NRDC joined Alaskan natives and other environmental groups in
challenging the sale that gave Shell access to Arctic leases.  The Interior Department “conducted exhaustive reviews of
the plans,” Nicholas Pardi, a spokesman, said today in an e-
mail. The agency “continues to hold the operators accountable
with additional exercises, reviews and inspections to ensure
that all personnel and equipment are positioned and ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  