-- Sino-Forest Files for Bankruptcy Protection, Seeks Sale
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-03-30T22:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sino-forest-to-file-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-canada.html
Sino-Forest Corp. filed for
 bankruptcy protection  as part of a plan that may see the Chinese
timber grower company sold to bondholders, nine months after it
was accused of fraud by short seller Carson Block.  The company obtained an initial order for creditor
protection in the Ontario Superior Court under the Companies’
Creditors Arrangement Act, Sino-Forest said yesterday in a
statement. The company said in an earlier statement it reached
an agreement with bondholders to seek a sale to a third party or
a restructuring under which they would acquire substantially all
of its assets.  Investors in Sino-Forest, once the largest Chinese forestry
company by market value, lost about C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion)
since Block’s research firm  Muddy Waters LLC  published a  report 
June 2 accusing it of overstating earnings. The shares plunged
74 percent before being suspended Aug. 26 amid investigations by
Canadian regulators and police.  Allen Chan , the company’s co-
founder, stepped down as chief executive officer in August.  “This is yet another indication of what we have said all
along, that Sino-Forest’s management has committed a massive
fraud and has deceived its shareholders and creditors,” Block
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “If the company were
really generating close to $2 billion in operating cash flow, it
would not have had to file for a court supervised
restructuring.”  Damages Sought  Houlihan Lokey, Sino-Forest’s financial adviser, has
started soliciting interest from “prospective strategic or
financial parties,” Sino-Forest said.  The Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based timber
company also said it started a court action against Muddy
Waters, Block and others relating to the allegations, which it
says were defamatory. Sino-Forest said it’s seeking damages and
the recovery of profits made by  Muddy Waters  and others made in
connection with the report. The suit was filed in the Ontario
Superior Court.  Block said in an e-mail that the lawsuit is “entirely
without merit” and that he stands behind the Muddy Waters
report.  Sino-Forest missed an interest payment on its 2016
convertible bonds in December. It reached a waiver agreement in
January with a group of bondholders, in return ceding them a
degree of control, including a say on certain transactions, the
appointment of directors and senior executives, and access to
offices.  An independent committee of Sino-Forest directors spent
more than $50 million on an eight-month investigation. The
committee published a report in January in which it said Sino-
Forest may not be able to disprove some allegations as the
information may not exist or be retrievable.  Ip Resignation  “Where we have a company where that level of clarity isn’t
available, there are serious issues,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund
manager  at Paragon Capital LP in  New York , which invests in
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks, said in a telephone interview.
Pollack said he’s never been a Sino-Forest investor.  Sino-Forest’s 6.25 percent notes due in October 2017 fell
to 32 cents on March 21, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The court order will formally be issued April 2, Ontario
Superior Court Judge Geoffrey Morawetz said yesterday. Rob
Staley of Bennett Jones LLP in Toronto, the lead counsel for
Sino-Forest, asked Morawetz to consider April 13 as the next day
in court for the proceedings.  ‘Company in Distress’  “This is a company in distress, it’s in urgent need of
restructuring,” Staley said in court yesterday. “The company
hasn’t been able to extricate itself from the allegations by
Muddy Waters.”  The company said it wouldn’t be able to file its fiscal
2011 financial statements by yesterday’s deadline. Albert Ip
resigned as Sino-Forest’s senior vice president, development and
operations north-east and south-west  China , because of health
reasons, the company also said.  Ip, who will continue to serve Sino-Forest as a consultant,
was one of five executives at the company ordered by Ontario
Securities Commission to resign on Aug. 26, a move the regulator
rescinded later the same day.  “We believe the full value of our assets will only be
achieved if we are able to continue operating the business, and
repair and preserve relationships with our customers and
suppliers,” Sino-Forest Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin
said in the first of the company’s statements issued yesterday.  The Toronto Stock Exchange said yesterday it’s reviewing
the listing of Sino-Forest’s shares.  Bennett Jones is Sino-Forest’s Canadian legal adviser.
Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP is Canadian legal adviser to its
board. Moelis & Co., Goodmans LLP and Hogan Lovells LLP are
advising the group of bondholders.  The cases are: In the Matter of a Plan of Compromise or
Arrangement of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , CV-12-9667-OOCL, and
Sino-Forest Corp. v. Muddy Water LLC, CV-12-9666-OOCL, Ontario
Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  