-- Sirius Jumps on Speculation of Liberty Media Stake Increase
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-30T22:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sirius-jumps-on-speculation-of-liberty-media-stake-increase-1-.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the largest
U.S. satellite-radio broadcaster, rose the most in more than a
month in  New York  trading, on speculation  John Malone ’s Liberty
Media Corp. will increase its stake and spin it off.  Sirius  advanced  4.5 percent to $2.31 at the close, the
largest one-day gain since Feb. 24.  Liberty, based in Englewood,  Colorado , owns preferred stock
convertible into about 40 percent of the common shares of New
York-based Sirius. Speculation about a stake increase
intensified after Liberty asked U.S. regulators this month for
permission to gain majority control of Sirius, said Brett Harriss, a Gabelli & Co. analyst in Rye, New York. He has a hold
rating on Sirius.  “There’s speculation they will increase their stake to go
from 40 percent to 51 percent and then divest the stake,”
Harriss said.  Liberty Media could avoid paying taxes on a spinoff of
Sirius if it increases its stake to 50 percent or more,
according to U.S. Internal Revenue Service rules, Harriss said.  A standstill agreement between the companies concluded this
month, allowing Liberty to buy more shares of Sirius, Harriss
said. Liberty asked the Federal Communications Commission for
consent to take de facto control of Sirius, in a filing dated
March 20.  Sirius today asked the FCC to dismiss Liberty’s application
for control in a filing, saying the majority of the Sirius board
of directors and its management dispute Liberty’s assertions.  A Sirius spokesman,  Patrick Reilly , and Liberty Media
spokeswoman, Courtnee Ulrich, didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  Sirius has gained 35 percent in the past 12 months. In
2009, the company averted bankruptcy after Liberty agreed to buy
a 40 percent stake in exchange for $530 million in loans.  Liberty Media  rose  1.5 percent to $88.15 and has gained 18
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  