-- Slovenia's 2011 Budget Gap Rises on State Aid to NLB
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-30T12:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/slovenia-s-2011-budget-gap-rises-on-state-aid-to-nlb.html
Slovenia’s budget deficit widened
to 6.4 percent of gross domestic product last year as the
government boosted the capital of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.
and helped other state-owned companies.  The gap grew from 6 percent of GDP in the previous year,
the statistics office in Ljubljana said on its website today.
The government spent 243 million euros ($324 million) to buy
shares of NLB, 119 million euros to cover liabilities of
Slovenske Zeleznice d.o.o., the country’s railways company, and
49 million euros for aid to the air carrier Adria Airways d.d.,
the office said. All transactions represent 1.3 percent of GDP,
a one-percentage point increase from a year earlier, it said.  “Today’s data show that there wasn’t much done in the last
three years to balance public finances, which have increased
each year,” Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The measures we have proposed are
therefore urgent and it’s of utmost importance they are adopted
quickly.”  Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s government, which took office
last month after early elections in December, pledged to cut
spending by about 800 million euros and reduce the deficit to
below 3 percent of GDP by year’s end.  Government spending 
advanced under the previous administration of Borut Pahor
because revenue collection slipped on a faltering economy, after
the country failed to attract foreign investors to boost capital
at state-owned enterprises.  Slovenia plans to sell its first benchmark bond this year
as its borrowing costs dropped since December after the  European
Central Bank  started offering three-year loans to European
banks.  The euro-region nation’s export-driven  economy  dropped an
annual 0.2 percent last year and is set to decline an annual 0.9
percent this year, according to the government’s forecasting
institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  