-- Soaring Aussie Sends Factory Orders to Austria, AWU’s Howes Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-30T03:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/soaring-aussie-sends-factory-orders-to-austria-awu-s-howes-says.html
The Australian currency’s sustained
strength makes it cheaper to produce goods in  Austria , home of
the fastest-rising labor costs among developed European
economies, than in Sydney, said Paul Howes of the Australian
Workers Union.  The local dollar’s advance “has made it essentially
impossible for any of our non-resource, trade-exposed sections
of the economy to be profitable,” Howes, national secretary of
the AWU, said in an interview in Sydney today. “When it’s now
cheaper to manufacture in  Europe  and it’s cheaper to manufacture
in  North America , something has really gone wrong.”  The so-called Aussie climbed more than 50 percent against
the euro over the past three years, the most among more than 150
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and reached a record 0.8242
euro Feb. 7. Investors have poured into the Aussie, driving it
up 53 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since early 2009, in
response to a higher benchmark  interest rates  and to bet on
Chinese growth.  Howes, 30, a power broker in the ruling Labor Party and the
youngest person to become a union national secretary when he was
elected in 2007, recounted a meeting this month with the chief
executive officer of a major manufacturer that had lost one of
its most significant contracts to make  consumer goods  to
Austria.  “This is crazy,” said Howes, noting that even with
Austria’s high level of unionization, government regulation and
wages, it’s still cheaper to transport goods from the landlocked
country to a port in Amsterdam and ship them to Sydney than to
produce in Australia. “If we lost to  Thailand  or we lost to
 China  I could understand, I can rationalize that.”  Borrowing Costs  The local currency has remained elevated as the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia maintains the highest benchmark rate of major
developed economies. Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said this month
the RBA’s threshold for intervening in the local dollar is
“quite high” as officials monitor its impact on the job
market.  “I don’t know anyone in business, or any parts of the
economy, that actually think we have the right setting on
interest rates at the moment,” said Howes, whose organization
of more than 135,000 members is the country’s largest industrial
union. “It is putting upwards pressure on the dollar.”  Investors are pricing in a 45 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs when it meets next week, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index shows. The currency soared to a six-month high of
$1.0845 after policy makers unexpectedly kept rates unchanged at
4.25 percent Feb. 7. They also held borrowing costs this month.  “If the currency doesn’t change we will see more job
losses,” Howes said.  Two-Speed Economy  The two-speed nature of the economy was reflected in the
loss of 15,400 jobs in February and the first increase in the
jobless rate since August. The southern states of Victoria and
South  Australia , centers of the manufacturing industry, lost a
combined 16,400 positions. Gains were led by Western Australia,
the center of the mining boom, with the state adding 3,400 jobs.  Australia’s economy is driven by a resource bonanza
predicted to last decades as the urbanization of hundreds of
millions of people in China and  India  increases demand for  iron
ore , coal and liquefied natural gas.  “A booming, out-of-control resources sector is not in our
national interest,” Howes said, citing deep recessions that
followed past resource booms. “We have this kind of myth about
resources in this country. Sure it’s generated enormous wealth
and it’s a great thing. But a boom like this isn’t healthy.”  ‘Massive Challenges’  Howes, who helped topple former leader Kevin Rudd in 2010
and install Julia Gillard as the nation’s first female prime
minister, acknowledged the her government is struggling. The
 Labor party  trails the opposition Liberal-National coalition by
19 percentage points, according to the latest Newspoll.  “We have massive challenges,” he said, while noting it’s
traditional for Labor to suffer heavy defeats as it tries to
engage in reform. She faces an election in the next 18 months,
and her party was voted out of power in Queensland state last
weekend.  Gillard’s “got amazing tenacity and I do think she’s one
of the greatest leaders Labor will ever have,” Howes said,
citing her ability to deliver reforms while leading a minority
government. “Whatever happens at the next election, I do know
this: History will treat Julia Gillard very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  