-- FIFA ‘Clearly Unconvincing’ in Dealing With Graft, Report Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-30T15:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/soccer-body-agrees-to-take-anti-corruption-measures-after-probe.html
 World soccer’s governing body has
been “clearly unconvincing” in the way it investigates and
prosecutes accusations of misconduct, according to a group
commissioned to suggest reform measures by FIFA.  A 13-member panel led by Swiss law professor Mark Pieth
said the way FIFA handles misconduct is “insufficient to meet
the challenges of a major global sport governing body.”  “This has led to unsatisfactory reactions to persistent
allegations,” said the report from the Independent Governance
Committee released today. “The IGC has identified a lack of
proactive and systematic investigation of allegations. In some
instances, allegations were insufficiently investigated and
where sanctions were imposed, they are at times insufficient and
clearly unconvincing.”  In response, FIFA President Sepp Blatter today said a new
ethics panel would be created with separate investigative and
judicial arms headed by independent chairmen.  The changes come after the current ethics body, which
includes only FIFA-affiliated officials, came under criticism
for the way it looked into allegations of wrongdoing during the
contest to host the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, won by Russia and
Qatar.  Only 22 of the 24-member board could vote after two
officials were suspended for offering to sell their support to
undercover journalists. Since then almost half of the voters
have either been sanctioned for or accused of breaching
regulations.  Re-Election Scrutiny  The Council of  Europe , an advisory group to 47 countries,
said Blatter’s re-election last year to a fourth term as
president should also be scrutinized. The 75-year-old was the
sole candidate after his only challenger, Mohamed Bin Hammam,
quit days before he was investigated for offering $1 million to
voters in the Caribbean. Bin Hammam is appealing a life ban from
the sport.  The new ethics panel could look into previous allegations
should “credible allegations” be made, according to Blatter.  “If somebody wishes to investigate, this is something the
Congress can do, or the members of the national associations who
participated in the elections,” Blatter said at a press
conference after Pieth met with FIFA officials.  At present, complaints are made through FIFA’s general
secretary  Jerome Valcke , who is responsible for passing them to
the ethics committee. Valcke has avoided investigation himself
on two occasions in recent times.  The first probe was over an e-mail in which he wrote Qatar
had “bought” the 2022  World Cup , and the second concerns a
handwritten note to former FIFA vice president  Jack Warner  over
television rights assigned to Warner that weren’t subject to
FIFA’s usual tender process.  Look to Past  Pieth had said before his meeting today that he believed
past accusations of malfeasance should be investigated before
FIFA could be reformed. FIFA last year promised to publish a
file naming officials who took payments from the organization’s
bankrupt former marketing partner ISL. That document remains
unpublished following appeals to Swiss courts by two of the
people involved.  Pieth, who works at the Basel Institute on Governance and
investigated corruption in  Iraq ’s oil-for-food program in 2004,
has been critical of the court’s failure to clear the document.
He’s said he'd quit if FIFA didn’t take the need for change
seriously, saying there was reputational risk associated with
advising the soccer body. His group includes former U.K.
Attorney General Peter Goldsmith, former Watergate investigator
Michael J. Hershman and Kim Seung Tack, chief operating officer
of Hyundai Motor Co.  The report also recommended a new compliance committee that
decides executive pay, term limits of up to two four-year terms
and a system to vet nominees for top positions. Blatter last
year said he earns “a little bit more” than $1 million.
Pieth’s report said all salaries should be made public.  The executive committee’s approval for the changes will now
need to be ratified by FIFA’s 208 members at their annual
Congress in Budapest in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  