-- SocGen Said to Name Vaz-Pinto Global Head of ECM Team
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-03-30T16:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/socgen-said-to-name-vaz-pinto-global-head-of-ecm-team.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  will name Luis
Vaz-Pinto head of global  equity capital markets , as  France ’s
second-biggest lender prepares to shuffle its investment-banking
arm, said three people with knowledge of the plan.  Vaz-Pinto, currently global head of equity syndication,
will run the French bank’s equity capital markets team under its
new corporate finance unit, which will also include mergers and
acquisitions, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the plans are private.  Thierry d’Argent, Societe Generale’s current head of
mergers and acquisitions, will oversee the new corporate finance
unit, the people said. Hubert Preschez, now head of French
mergers and acquisition, will also assume responsibility for
French equity capital markets as head of the French corporate
finance unit, they said.  These changes come as part of a broader reorganization of
Societe Generale’s investment bank, the people said. It’s also
setting up a new unit to advise and fund other financial
institutions, which will be led by Pierre-Yves Bonnet, currently
 global head  of strategic and acquisition finance at the bank,
the people said. Both Bonnet and d’Argent will report to Thierry
Aulagnon, head of the lender’s coverage and investment banking
division.  Laurent Morel, head of global ECM at the bank, will leave
his current position while remaining at Societe Generale in
another role, the people said.  Fourth-Quarter Profit  Societe Generale is reshuffling its corporate and
investment banking division after it posted the first loss in
two years and the French lender’s fourth-quarter profit fell 89
percent. That unit had a 482 million-euro ($642 million) loss
last quarter as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed client
trading and Societe Generale sold and wrote down troubled
assets.  The bank’s net income in the three months ended in December
declined to 100 million euros from 874 million euros a year
earlier, the bank said on Feb. 16.  Societe Generale ranks No. 7 in advising on equity sales in
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest ranking for a French
bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  