-- Songbird Profit Declines After Asset Sales Cut Rental Income
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-30T06:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/songbird-profit-declines-after-asset-sales-cut-rental-income.html
Songbird Estates Plc. (SBD) , the property
company that controls the Canary Wharf financial district in
east London, said full-year profit fell after 2010 asset sales
contributed to a drop in rental income.  Underlying profit before tax fell to 4.6 million pounds
($7.4 million) from 28.8 million pounds a year earlier, the
London-based landlord said in a statement today. Adjusted net
asset value per share fell to 190 pence as of Dec. 31 from 194
pence on June 30.  Songbird has a 69 percent stake in  Canary Wharf Group Plc (CWG) ,
which has been expanding outside the business district of the
same name. The company is involved in joint ventures to develop
an  office tower  known as the Walkie Talkie at 20 Fenchurch
Street in the City of  London  financial district and to redevelop
most of Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s London headquarters near
Waterloo railroad station.  “Although demand for high grade office space across London
has reduced largely due to broader economic uncertainties,
supply has remained relatively constrained,” David Pritchard,
Songbird Estates’ chairman, said in the statement.  Canary Wharf paid 90.4 million pounds to acquire control of
Wood Wharf, a 16.8-acre (6.8-hectare) site close to its existing
office district, the company said in January. That’s part of its
strategy to “diversify its tenant base and its activities,”
Pritchard said in the statement. It’s also considering an office
and residential development on its Newfoundland site, which was
previously expected to be a hotel and serviced apartments.  Canary Wharf  Group’s investment portfolio was 96.5 percent
rented at the end of the year, Songbird said, up from 96.1
percent at the end of the previous year.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the world’s biggest custody
bank, renewed its lease for office space at One Canada Square in
the business district for eight years from 2014, Canary Wharf
Group Plc said in January. That reflects a trend of global
economic weakness prompting tenants to extend their current
leases or move into existing buildings rather than paying more
for new space, according to a February report by London-based
consulting firm EC Harris LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 