-- Songbird Says Canary Wharf to Boost Focus on London Homes
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-03-30T15:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/songbird-says-canary-wharf-to-boost-focus-on-london-residential.html
Songbird Estates Plc (SBD) , the company
that controls east London’s Canary Wharf, plans to build more
homes in the financial district to take advantage of a “widely
anticipated shortage” in the U.K. capital.  Canary Wharf Group Plc (CWG) , in which Songbird has a 69 percent
stake, has an 11 million square foot (1 million square meter)
development pipeline that may result in 200 million pounds ($267
million) of profits for Canary Wharf,  Harm Meijer , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note. Songbird’s shares closed
up 4.6 percent at 114 pence.  Canary Wharf’s plans may be changed to allow more housing
at its Wood Wharf, Heron Quays West and Newfoundland sites,
Songbird said. Canary Wharf’s joint venture to redevelop most of
Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s  London  headquarters near Waterloo
station will also include homes. The average value of a London
home rose 1.3 percent to 455,159 pounds this month, Rightmove
Plc said in a report released March 19.  Canary Wharf may retain and lease the apartments rather
than putting them on the market, John Garwood, London-based
Songbird’s company secretary, said by telephone. “We’re looking
at the options we have -- that may well be one of them actually,
but it’s too early to say,” he said.  The number of new property listings in London fell 9
percent in January from a year earlier, an “early indication
that shortage of sellers and upwards price pressure will again
feature in 2012,” Rightmove said last month. Asking prices for
London homes rose to near a record in February, helping push
national values up the most in almost a decade, Britain’s
biggest property website operator said.  Wood Wharf  Canary Wharf  paid 90.4 million pounds to acquire control of
Wood Wharf, a 16.8-acre (6.8-hectare) site close to its existing
office district, the company said in January. The land has
planning approval for a 4.8 million square foot (445,935 square
meter) development, a third of which is to be homes.  “The best use of this site is being reviewed, potentially
altering the mix of uses in favor of residential,” Songbird
said in the statement.  Heron Quays West, a 1.3 million square foot office project,
has planning consent, but a residential and business development
is now being considered, Songbird said. Apartments may be
developed at its Newfoundland site where a hotel and serviced
apartments had been planned.  The developer said it would also try to attract more
businesses involved in technology, media and telecommunications
to east London.  “There appears to be a natural synergy between the finance
and tech sector,” Garwood said. “We’ll be looking to try and
extend that.”  Sovereign-Wealth Funds  Songbird and Canary Wharf Group are unlikely to be turned
into real estate investments trusts, Pritchard said on the call,
despite  amendments  to the U.K. legislation published yesterday
that allows institutional investors such as sovereign-wealth
funds to own majority stakes in REITs.  “The structural requirements for REITs really don’t suit
our construct,” David Pritchard, Songbird’s chairman, said in a
telephone call.  Funds managed by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  increased their stake in
Songbird by about 12.5 percent on March 19 and they now own
about 8.8 percent, subject the funds exercising  stock options .
Other major shareholders include a unit of China Investment
Corp., Qatar Holding LLC and investor Simon Glick of  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 