-- Spain Pledges Deepest Budget Cuts in More Than 30 Years
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-30T16:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/spain-to-slash-spending-raise-corporate-taxes-to-cut-deficit.html
Spain , under threat of falling
victim to the region’s debt crisis, will raise taxes and slash
spending to achieve 27 billion euros ($36 billion) in deficit
cuts as it tries to trim its budget gap by a third.  The government will cut ministries’ spending by 17 percent,
increase corporate levies and raise 2.5 billion euros through a
one-time amnesty on  tax evasion , Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said in Madrid. The 2012 spending plan seeks to reduce
the budget gap to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product from 8.5
percent in 2011, the largest reduction in at least three
decades.  “We are in a critical situation that has forced us to
respond with the most austere budget of the Spanish democracy,”
Montoro said today in  Madrid  after a Cabinet meeting that
approved the plan.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond has risen more than 50
basis points since March 2 when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
unilaterally raised his deficit goal for 2012 as a deepening
economic slump compounded a bigger-than-forecast shortfall last
year. The additional austerity announced today may fuel second
 recession  since 2009 that’s left the country with the euro-
region’s highest jobless rate at more than 23 percent.  ‘Harsh Austerity’  “This is as austere as it gets,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Strategy said in a note. “The big question
is, ‘can Spain’s sickly economy endure such harsh austerity?”  The 10-year yield fell 12 basis points to 5.34 percent at
5:45 p.m. in Madrid, leaving the  difference  with comparable
German debt at 355 basis points, down from yesterday’s close of
365, the highest in almost four months.  Under today’s plan the central government will reduce its
shortfall to 3.5 percent of GDP from 5.1 percent last year.
Spain’s 17 autonomous regions, the town halls and social-
security system account for difference between the central
government budget gap and the overall deficit goal of 5.3
percent. Montoro said he would enforce budget discipline in the
regions, which accounted for much of last year’s slippage, to
make sure they meet their 1.5 percent target.  Today’s blueprint seeks to avoid making consumers fund the
cuts. The plan won’t raise value-added tax, cut pension payments
or reduce civil-servants wages, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said.  Spending Cuts  About two thirds of the deficit reduction announced today
by the government is through spending cuts, with tax increases
and other revenue measures accounting for the rest.  The government aims to raise 12.3 billion euros in  tax
revenue , including an additional levy on income announced on
Dec. 30. The new measures include 5.35 billion euros from
reductions to corporate tax breaks such as rebates linked to
financial costs, depreciation, and goodwill of acquired
companies.  “The non-property part of corporate Spain is in a good
position, so it’s a good idea,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief economist
at Deutsche Bank AG said in a telephone interview. “The
adjustment is more advanced in businesses than in households.”  Foreign Aid  Investment will fall 20 percent and spending of 1.6 billion
euros will be slashed from job-placement policies. Transfers for
foreign aid will fall by 594 million euros and spending by the
foreign ministry will decline 54 percent.  Rajoy riled European Union partners with his March 2
announcement at a summit in Brussels that he had raised Spain’s
deficit target to 5.8 percent of GDP from the 4.4 percent
initially pledged. Earlier that day, he had attended a ceremony
to sign a treaty aimed at ending the debt crisis by enforcing
fiscal discipline. EU allies pushed back and got Spain to agree
on March 12 to a 5.3 percent goal.  Rajoy raised the target after his predecessor, Socialist
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriquez Zapatero, left him with a
deficit of 8.5 percent of GDP, dwarfing the 6 percent pledged to
the EU.  The reduction that Rajoy is pledging in the overall deficit
of 3.2 percentage points of GDP is more than the 2.7 percentage
points achieved by Zapatero, in the previous two years, when the
economy was performing better than the 1.7 percent contraction
forecast for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  