-- Stanford Joins Procession of Universities to Taxable Bond Market
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-30T18:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/stanford-joins-procession-of-universities-to-taxable-bond-market.html
Stanford University  plans to sell
$140 million of bonds due in 30 years, joining the University of
Pennsylvania and  Northwestern University  in taking advantage of
investor demand for higher-education debt.  Stanford, the fifth-richest U.S. school, may use proceeds
to refinance commercial paper and other debt, according to a
person familiar with the offering who declined to be identified
because the terms aren’t set. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley are managing the offering, the person said.
Northwestern, based in Evanston,  Illinois , and Tufts University
last week together sold $450 million in bonds.  The world’s wealthiest educational institutions, which
typically sell tax-free debt in the municipal market, are
tapping demand for higher-rated corporate bonds that are
outperforming municipal securities this year, according to index
data from Barclays Plc. The  University of Pennsylvania , the Ivy
League school founded by  Benjamin Franklin , yesterday sold $300
million of taxable 4.674 percent coupon notes maturing in 100
years to yield 140 basis points above long-term Treasuries.  “University debt has been a hot commodity for some time,
especially among the name institutions,” Dave Manges, municipal
trading manager at BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC, said in a
telephone interview. Investors want bonds from schools such as
Stanford “because of their international stature and name
recognition, both in this country and without. I’m sure there’s
an international component to the demand that you would not get
with the tax-exempt debt.”  Aaa Rating  Moody’s Investors Service assigned an Aaa grade to
Stanford’s taxable bonds, the ratings firm said in a March 28
statement.  U.S. investment grade corporate debt has returned 2.4
percent this year compared with the 1.8 percent return for
municipal debt, according to index data from Barclays Plc.  Tufts, based in Somerville,  Massachusetts , didn’t have any
corporate bonds outstanding before its sale of $250 million in
100-year notes on March 22, while Northwestern sold $5.3 million
of taxable debt with a variable  interest rate  in September 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  Stanford, whose  endowment  is $16.5 billion, trails Harvard,
Yale, the University of Texas system, and Princeton among U.S.
and Canadian institutions, according to the National Association
of College and University Business Officers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 