-- Stark Says ECB Didn’t Expect Banks to Borrow So Much for 3 Years
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-30T07:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/stark-says-ecb-didn-t-expect-banks-to-borrow-so-much-for-3-years.html
Former European Central Bank Chief
Economist  Juergen Stark  said policy makers didn’t expect banks
to borrow so much in their three-year loan operations.  “Nobody had expected the dimensions of this program,”
Stark said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Cernobbio, Italy, today. While it was appropriate to consider
these operations, the ECB is now on the hook for three years and
it will take time to shrink its balance sheet, he said.  The ECB lent banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) in two three-year operations that have calmed
financial markets and won governments time to address the
region’s debt crisis. ECB policy makers also cut the  benchmark
interest rate  in November and December, taking it back to a
record low of 1 percent.  “In my view, one rate cut was sufficient,” said Stark,
who left the Executive Board prematurely at the end of 2011. “I
didn’t want to go to 1 percent. We have seen so far that the
inflation rate has remained at a higher level than expected.”  Stark resigned over the ECB’s bond-purchase program, which
has since been halted after banks used some of the three-year
cash to buy the sovereign debt of countries like  Italy  and
 Spain . While Stark said the loans are “closer to the mandate of
the ECB” than bond purchases, he has criticized the quality of
the collateral the ECB is accepting from banks in return for the
funds.  “The final step taken by the ECB to soften the collateral
rules was taken after I had left,” Stark said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Cernobbio, Italy, at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  