-- State Laws Boosting Insurer Cost Without Adding Customers Failed
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-03-30T13:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/state-laws-boosting-insurer-cost-without-adding-customers-failed.html
The worst-case scenario for
insurers in the Supreme Court review of the U.S. health-care
law -- eliminating the mandate that everyone have insurance
while other changes remain intact -- has been tested in states
such as New York,  Maine  and Vermont.  It failed, insurers say.  The three states were among nine in the 1990s that tried to
force insurers to sell policies to anyone who asked, regardless
of health, without also mandating that other residents maintain
coverage. As a result, as many as 90 percent of those under age
30 dropped their plans, knowing they could always pick them back
up if they got sick. Premiums in some cases doubled.  By last year, six of the nine states had repealed the laws,
according to Blue Cross & Blue Shield Association, a federation
of insurers in  Washington .  “The market reforms and the mandate are inextricably
linked,” said  Karen Ignagni , chief executive officer of
America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry lobbying group in
Washington that represents  Aetna Inc. (AET) ,  Kaiser Permanente  and
more than a hundred other health plans. “What is most important
for the justices is that they understand those linkages.”  Several results could come from the Supreme Court hearings
ended March 28. The justices can approve the law entirely, or
knock it down. They can also slice it up, severing one or both
of the provisions challenged as unconstitutional by 26 states.  Mandate, Medicaid  The two provisions include the mandate, designed to pay for
other parts of the law that raise insurer costs, and a
broadening of eligibility for Medicaid, the government health
plan for the poor and disabled.  During three days of arguments, Justice  Anthony Kennedy ,
considered the swing vote between justices who may oppose the
law and those supporting it, said the insurance requirement
“changes the relationship of the federal government to the
individual in a very fundamental way,” signaling he may not be
in support of it.  At the same time, a series of questions and comments by the
justices on the last day of hearings suggested the court would
be reluctant to sever the provision from the rest of the law,
given its potential effects on consumers and the health
insurance industry, according to analysts.  Ana Gupte, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New
York, said decoupling the mandate from the insurers’ obligations
to cover everyone may be the least likely scenario.  Jason Gurda ,
an analyst at investment bank Leerink Swann & Co. in  New York ,
went a step further and predicted the mandate would survive.  ‘Good Stuff Stays’  “The most likely scenario of the law, post-Court scrutiny,
is the bad stuff goes and the good stuff stays,” Gupte said in
a note to clients yesterday. “The stocks should see a continued
upward trajectory into the year.”  If the court throws out the entire law, earnings potential
for insurers might be increased, she said. The industry doesn’t
prefer that outcome because of uncertainty about what Congress
might do next, she said.  The least likely outcome -- striking the mandate while
leaving intact requirements that insurers cover all
applicants -- would shave about 10 percent from future earnings
for top insurers including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP) , a result that “would still be manageable,” Gupte said.  Consumers also have a financial stake in the decision, said
 Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a health
consumer advocacy group in Washington. Knocking out the mandate
may push them into a situation where they would be dealing with
a “crazy quilt” of state-by-state health plans that differ on
costs, coverage and scale, he said.  Premiums Rise  In New York and  New Jersey , which didn’t repeal their
guaranteed-issue laws, insurance premiums have risen faster than
the national average, according to a Bloomberg Government study
published March 16. In New York’s Bronx County, the least
expensive family plan in March cost $3,150 a month, according to
the state’s Financial Services Department.  Vermont  also hasn’t repealed its law. There, just two
carriers actively sell policies to individuals in the state,
said David Mannis, a spokesman for the Vermont Department of
Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration.  The number of people with individual policies declined to
9,400 in 2005, from about 33,000 in 1994, before rebounding to
17,500 after the state created a subsidized program, he said.  “It certainly suggests the importance of the mandate,
which we support up here,” Mannis said by phone.  State Options  A group of state legislators who support the health law
have discussed what they could do to replace the insurance
mandate, if the court strikes it down, said Karen Keiser, a
Democratic state senator in Washington who chairs the group.  Possibilities for replacing a federal mandate include the
“politically difficult” route of passing state versions of the
mandate, or replacing private insurers with government-run
coverage in some states, Keiser said.  “It’s much more likely that states would step in and take
it on because it seems the Congress is really at impasse,” she
said by phone. In states that choose not to act, she said, “a
large number of Americans would be left out and left behind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  