-- Sudan Troops Fight Rebels Over Town in Oil-Rich State
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-03-30T12:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/sudan-troops-fight-rebels-over-town-in-oil-rich-state.html
Sudanese insurgents and government
troops are fighting for control of a town in the oil-rich state
of Southern Kordofan close to the border with newly independent
South  Sudan , the rebels and an army spokesman said.  Clashes started yesterday when the rebels laid seige to the
town of Taludi. Government forces are still battling to drive
off the insurgents, Sudan army spokesman al-Sawarami Khaled said
today by phone from Khartoum, the capital.  Government troops “have to either surrender or face their
destiny, because all roads leading to the town are now closed,”
the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North rebel group said
late yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Fighting between Sudanese government forces and the rebels
has intensified in the states of  Blue Nile  and Southern Kordofan
since South Sudan seceded on July 9, assuming control of three-
quarters of the former unified nation’s crude production of
490,000 barrels a day. Clashes broke out this week between
troops from Sudan and  South Sudan  in the oil-rich Heglig area.  South Sudan said its troops pursued the Sudan Armed Forces
into the Heglig area and accused them of bombing its forces
along the border between Southern Kordofan and the south’s Unity
state. The fighting stopped on March 28, both sides said.  Clashes between the armies of the former civil war foes
along the border prompted expressions of alarm from the United
Nations Security Council, the U.S. and the  African Union .  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) , Malaysia’s  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. (PET)  and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. pump most of the oil
in the two countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  