-- Suzlon CFO Quits, Following Vestas Top Staff, as Losses Expand
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-30T08:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/suzlon-cfo-quits-following-vestas-top-staff-as-losses-expand.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s chief
financial officer quit as widening losses at  India ’s biggest
wind-turbine maker jeopardize its ability to meet debt
repayments this year.  Robin Banerjee , appointed CFO in March 2009, left to take
up an undisclosed position and Head of Corporate Finance Kirti Vagadia will assume his responsibilities, Suzlon said today in
an e-mailed statement. The shares fell to a one-month low.  Suzlon joins  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest
turbine maker, in losing top managers as increased competition
from Chinese rivals squeezes profits and dwindling clean-energy
subsidies threaten demand. Vestas CFO Henrik Norremark resigned
last month after the Danish company reported a loss four times
wider than analyst estimates.  Losses at Suzlon grew to 2.86 billion rupees ($60 million)
in the three months through December, the most in five quarters.
That prompted the company’s auditors to examine its ability to
raise funds as it seeks to meet debt repayments this year.  Suzlon’s repayments may fall short by as much as $592
million out of $700 million in debt due in 12 months, Charanjit Singh, a Bangalore-based analyst at HSBC Bank Plc, said this
week. The company may face $389 million in bond redemptions this
year if investors holding convertible notes choose not to swap
them for shares.  Suzlon fell as much as 4.6 percent to 24.9 rupees in Mumbai
trading, the lowest intraday price since Feb. 28. The stock was
at 25.25 rupees as of 1:30 p.m. local time. The BSE Sensitive
Index rose 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 