-- U.K. Fuel Tanker Driver’s Union Rules Out Strike Over Easter
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-03-30T11:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/u-k-fuel-tanker-driver-s-union-rules-out-strike-over-easter-1-.html
Unite, the U.K.’s largest labor
union, said fuel-tanker drivers won’t strike over the Easter
holiday as it seeks to resolve a dispute with employers amid
panic buying that forced some gasoline stations to close.  “We will not be calling Easter  strike action  as we focus
on substantive talks through Acas,” Assistant General Secretary
Diana Holland said today in an e-mailed statement. “We do still
retain the right to call strike action” after Easter “should
those talks break down,” she said.  The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service, a
mediating body, said yesterday it had been in touch with the
union and companies involved in the dispute. “Substantive
discussions” will follow next week, it said.  Drivers in Unite working for fuel-distribution companies
with clients including  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , J. Sainsbury Plc,  BP Plc (BP\)  and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc  voted to strike  over  work conditions  and
changes to pensions. The drivers, numbering about 2,000, deliver
fuel to 90 percent of the U.K.’s 8,706 gasoline stations.  The U.K. Petroleum Industry Association Ltd., representing
the main oil refining and marketing companies, today urged car
owners to avoid hoarding fuel after the threat of a strike and
comments by politicians that led to queues at gasoline stations.  Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said two days ago
drivers would be wise to keep their cars topped up and have a
spare jerry can of gasoline or diesel at home. Gasoline demand
rose 172 percent yesterday and diesel increased 77 percent, the
 BBC  cited the RMI Petrol retailers’ group as saying.  The U.K. has enough fuel to meet demand in the event of a
strike, according to UKPIA. “There’s no supply problem,” Nick Vandervell, a London-based spokesman for the group, said
yesterday. “People need to stick to their normal fuel
patterns.” The Easter holiday runs from April 6 to 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net 
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  