-- U.K. Fraud Office in Too Many Secret Settlements, OECD Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-03-30T15:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/u-k-fraud-office-in-too-many-secret-settlements-oecd-says-1-.html
Britain’s Serious Fraud Office,
which prosecutes corporate bribery, uses too may secret
settlements in foreign corruption cases, the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  said.  The SFO is using more so-called civil-recovery orders that
require less oversight from courts and aren’t as transparent as
criminal plea agreements, the Paris-based think tank said in a
report today.  “The low level of information on settlements made publicly
available by U.K. authorities often does not permit a proper
assessment of whether the sanctions imposed are effective,
proportionate and dissuasive,” the OECD said in a summary of
the 79-page  report .  The study praised Britain’s anti-corruption law, which took
effect in July and is one of the strictest in the world. Under
the Bribery Act, companies must prove they have adequate
controls to prevent corruption in order to defend themselves if
a bribe is paid on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if
company officials didn’t know.  The SFO “hopes” to make improvements that will result in
settlements being more transparent, SFO Director  Richard Alderman  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Confidentiality has often been the key that unlocks
resistance,” said Alderman, who is stepping down next month.
“If settlements could be more open, the public would have more
confidence in the process leading to them.”  DePuy International Settlement  A civil-recovery order was used in April 2011 to win a
payment of 4.8 million pounds ($7.68 million) from Johnson &
Johnson’s British subsidiary, DePuy International, in an
overseas bribery case.  The orders are “symptomatic” of the SFO’s bid for shorter
and faster cases under civil law, even though it’s supposed to
prosecute criminal cases, said Mark Spragg, a fraud lawyer at
Keystone Law in  London .  “If the SFO can use the civil law to inflict a blow at a
much lower cost it will do so, but unfortunately the scrutiny
applied is far less than in a criminal case,” Spragg said in an
e-mail. “The intention is to use less resources, but this
should not be at the expense of fairness.”  Britain has been too slow to extend anti-bribery rules to
its overseas territories, some of which are considered offshore
financial havens that “may be used facilitate corrupt
transactions,” the OECD said.  The U.K. also needs to clarify what is considered
“reasonable and proportionate” hospitality and promotional
expenses in relation to the new bribery law, the OECD said.  Alderman, the director since 2008, will be replaced next
month by  David Green , a lawyer who was formerly the director of
the  Crown Prosecution Service ’s fraud group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  