-- U.S. Denies Request to Ban Chemical in Food Packaging
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-30T22:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/u-s-denies-request-to-ban-chemical-in-food-and-drink-packaging.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  rejected a request to ban a contested chemical
from cans and other packaging because opponents didn’t provide
enough data to support a rule change.  Continued study of bisphenol A, known as BPA, including
completion of federal studies currently in progress, is the most
appropriate course of action, the agency said in an e-mail
today. The chemical has been used in epoxy linings since the
1960s to extend the shelf life of canned foods and beverages.  Manufacturers of baby bottles and cups have stopped using
polycarbonate containing BPA in response to consumer concerns it
may affect children.  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  is among food makers
phasing out the use of BPA, while beverage companies such as
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  have kept the chemical, saying it’s safe.  “The information provided in your petition was not
sufficient to persuade FDA, at this time, to initiate rulemaking
to prohibit the use of BPA in human food and food packaging,”
David H. Horsey, an acting associate FDA commissioner, said
today in a letter to the  Natural Resources Defense Council .  NRDC, a New York-based environmental advocacy group,
petitioned the FDA in 2008 to ban its use in food and drinks
packaging. BPA, produced by combining phenol and acetone, mimics
the female hormone estrogen and may affect the brain and
prostate gland in fetuses and young children, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  Quickly Processed  A ban would hurt profits at can-maker  Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN) 
and others in the $60 billion industry,  Ghansham Panjabi , an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., said before the FDA
announcement. The biggest U.S. producer of BPA is  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , followed by  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)   About 4.7 million metric tons of BPA valued at about $8
billion will be produced this year, according to a report by
GlobalData, a London-based publisher of business intelligence.
Three times as much BPA goes into polycarbonate plastics, used
in items ranging from plastic bottles to DVDs, as is used in
epoxy resins.  The FDA plans to complete an updated safety review of BPA
this year and will make any changes to the chemical’s status
based on the science, Douglas Karas, an agency spokesman, said
in an e-mail. People of all ages metabolize and rid their bodies
of BPA faster than rodents used in studies, he said.  Federally funded research confirms that the human body
quickly processes and eliminates BPA, making it “very
unlikely” that the chemical causes harm, the American Chemistry
Council, a Washington-based industry group, said in a statement
today.  ‘Dangerously Off Course’  Sarah Janssen, a senior scientist at the NRDC, said the
FDA’s denial of a ban shows “a major overhaul” of chemical
regulation is needed. The Environmental Working Group, a
Washington-based advocacy group, said consumers can no longer
trust the FDA to protect the health of their families.  “The agency has veered dangerously off course,” Jane
Houlihan, the group’s senior vice president for research, said
today in a statement. “Pregnant women and new parents should no
longer think FDA has their backs.”  The North American Metal Packaging Alliance, a Washington-
based industry group, praised the FDA’s decision.  “A ban without conclusive scientific evidence of risk
would compromise the safety of canned foods and beverages,”
John Rost, the alliance’s chairman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  