-- U.S. Requests WTO Compliance Panel on EU’s Airbus Subsidies
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-30T18:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/u-s-requests-wto-compliance-panel-on-eu-s-airbus-subsidies-1-.html
The Obama administration requested
that the  World Trade Organization  set up a compliance panel to
deal with “inconsistent” subsidies from the European Union to
airplane-maker Airbus SAS.  “The European Union’s aircraft subsidies have cost
American aerospace companies tens of billions of dollars in lost
revenue, which has cost American workers their jobs and hurt
their families and communities,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The WTO ruled in June that the EU and four member nations
provided more than $18 billion in subsidized financing to
Airbus, according to the USTR statement. The WTO said the
subsidies caused Chicago-based Boeing Co. to lose sales of more
than 300 aircraft and market share, according to the statement.  The EU’s compliance report was submitted on Dec. 1 as part
of the seven-year legal battle over aid to Airbus and Boeing,
the world’s two biggest commercial planemakers. Kirk then said
the EU had failed to halt government aid for Airbus to build
aircraft, including the A380. The U.S. today requested an April
13 meeting of a WTO settlement body to discuss the issue.  “We regret that the U.S. has chosen to take this step,
since the EU notified its compliance with its WTO obligations in
the package of steps taken at the end of 2011, and the U.S. has
yet to do the same in the Boeing case,”  John Clancy , a trade
spokesman for the EU, said today in an e-mailed statement.  WTO judges in March 2011 ruled that  Boeing Co. (BA)  subsidies
from the U.S. and individual states damaged Airbus by more than
$5.3 billion.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Toulouse, France-based Airbus, which had a record 1,419
orders in 2011 to extend its lead over Boeing, delivered 534
aircraft last year while its rival delivered 477.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  