-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbed in March to One-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-03-30T14:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-increased-to-76-2-in-march.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly rose in March for a seventh straight month as
Americans grew more upbeat about the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final index of
 consumer sentiment  rose to 76.2, the highest since February
2011, from 75.3 last month. A reading of 74.5 was projected
after a preliminary March figure of 74.3, according to a median
forecast of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Employment growth, income gains and higher stock prices are
helping sustain the improvement in confidence that may help lift
consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. At the same time, gasoline that’s increased 20 percent
so far this year and currently approaching $4 a gallon,
threatens to become a bigger strain on household budgets.  “There does appear to be some pent-up demand being
released,” said Sean Incremona, senior economist with 4Cast
Inc. in  New York . “The resilience on the employment front and
the higher stock market, it’s all off-setting the negative
implications of higher gas prices.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 72 to 78,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession. It averaged 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Business Activity  Another report showed business activity in the U.S. held
close to a 10-month high in March. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said today its  barometer  fell to 62.2
from 64 in February. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
Economists forecast the gauge would fall to 63, according to the
median of 58 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks trimmed gains after the figures. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,403.6 at 10:35
a.m. in New York.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, released yesterday,
was minus 34.7 in the week ended March 25, little changed from a
four-year high reached two weeks earlier.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it’s a good time to buy big-ticket goods like cars, rose
to 86 in March, also the highest since February 2011, from 83
the prior month. The preliminary March reading was 84.2.  Consumer Expectations  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
was little changed at 69.8 after a one-year high of 70.3 in
February.  The improvement in sentiment is translating into more
purchases. Consumer spending in the U.S. rose in February by the
most in seven months, showing the biggest part of the economy is
strengthening.  Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the largest gain since July,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
0.6 percent increase. Incomes advanced less than projected,
sending the saving rate to a more than two-year low.  So far, pessimism from higher fuel has been limited as the
labor market improves. The number of Americans seeking
 unemployment  benefits for the first time dropped last week to
the lowest level in almost four years.  Employment Gains  Payroll growth in February capped the best six months since
2006, and the  unemployment rate  stayed at 8.3 percent, a three-
year low.  Higher prices at the pump still pose a risk. The average
cost of a gallon of regular gasoline nationwide was $3.92 on
March 28, the highest in 10 months, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring organization.  That was reflected in Americans’ view on inflation.
Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.9 percent over the next 12 months, the
highest since May, compared with 3.3 percent in the February
survey.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 3 percent rate of
inflation compared with 2.9 percent in February.  “Consumers still face some headwinds, especially from
rising gas prices, which could strain discretionary purchases
and impacts the pace of recovery,”  Howard Levine , chairman and
chief executive officer at  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , said in a
conference call with analysts on March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  