-- Huawei Sponsors Team in Australia’s Capital Amid Bid Ban
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-30T02:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/huawei-sponsors-team-in-australia-s-capital-amid-bid-ban.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of phone equipment, signed a sponsorship deal with
a rugby league team in Australia’s national capital as it fights
a ban on bidding to work on the country’s broadband network.  The two-year agreement, Huawei’s first major sports-team
sponsorship worldwide, will put its logo on the front of playing
jerseys for the  Canberra Raiders  for the rest of the 2012 season
and next year, the Shenzhen, China-based company said in a
statement today.  The deal follows Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s defense
yesterday of her government’s decision to tell Huawei not to bid
for work on the network because of “national interests.” The
Chinese company’s expansion plans in the U.S. and  Australia  face
opposition from lawmakers, who have cited security concerns
because of alleged links to China’s military, an accusation
Huawei has denied.  Huawei, founded by Ren Zhengfei after his retirement from
the Chinese army, had offered to limit all employees on the
broadband project to security-cleared Australian citizens, open
up its software code, and undergo a full audit of security
measures.  The company said it’s working on eight broadband networks
similar to Australia’s in the U.K.,  Singapore ,  Malaysia ,  New
Zealand , the  United Arab Emirates , Cameroon, Benin and Brunei,
and hasn’t been asked for security concessions in those markets.  Huawei didn’t say how much it was spending on the
sponsorship. The agreement is worth about A$1.7 million ($1.8
million), the Sydney Morning Herald  reported  today, without
saying where it got the information.  “It’s good for us at the moment to be able to say Huawei
is here for the long term,” Luke Coleman, a Sydney-based
spokesman for Huawei, said by phone today. “We’ve partnered
with an iconic rugby league team, which shows that we’re
investing for long-term growth in the Australian market.”  The Raiders are the only team based in Canberra from the
National Rugby League.  Rugby league is the nation’s third-most attended sport,
trailing only Australian Rules football and horse racing,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  