-- Hungarian President Vows to Fight After Losing Doctoral Degree
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/hungarian-president-vows-to-fight-after-losing-doctoral-degree.html
Hungarian President  Pal Schmitt 
vowed to fight to restore his honor after he was stripped of his
doctoral degree for copying most of his thesis 20 years ago and
pledged to write a new dissertation.  Budapest-based Semmelweis University yesterday repealed his
title, saying the thesis didn’t meet the ethical and
professional criteria of scientific work. Facing opposition
calls to resign, Schmitt said on state television M1 his
conscience was clear regarding his thesis, which was an
“honest” and “useful” piece of work.  “There is no link in my view” between the presidency and
losing his degree, said Schmitt, 69, an ally of Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban . “I wrote the dissertation as a student twenty
years ago, to the best of my ability.”  The former Olympic champion fencer and member of the
 International Olympic Committee  has signed every piece of
legislation since assuming office in 2010. European Union
objections to some of those laws, including new regulations on
the central bank and the judiciary, have blocked Hungary’s talks
on an International Monetary Fund loan.  Hungary’s presidency is largely ceremonial and the bulk of
executive power lies with the prime minister. Schmitt’s
predecessors regularly returned legislation to Parliament or
sought Constitutional Court review. Schmitt said in June, 2010
that he “wouldn’t block the government’s agenda” as president.  Higher Degree  Schmitt will prove he can write a PhD dissertation, a
higher degree which has more stringent standards than the kind
of doctoral title he received under the academic system
prevailing in  Hungary  in 1992, he said.  A university commission report, excerpts of which were
released March 27, confirmed that 180 pages of Schmitt’s 215-
page dissertation entitled “The Analysis of the Program of
Modern Olympic Games” were “partially identical” to another
work, while another 17 pages were “completely identical” to a
separate study, with neither receiving credit. It blamed the
university for overlooking the similarities with the previous
works.  Hungary’s four parliamentary opposition parties have urged
Schmitt to resign. Orban told public radio MR1 today that “no
one else can decide” but the president whether he should
resign.  German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg quit
last March over allegations he plagiarized passages of his
doctoral thesis.  No Notes  While Schmitt’s thesis included a bibliography, it didn’t
cite sources and didn’t include footnotes or endnotes, according
to the report, published on the university’s website. The
commission didn’t use the word “plagiarism” in the three-page
summary of its report.  Schmitt, who won Olympic gold medals in fencing in 1968 and
1972, was a deputy chairman of Fidesz from 2003 to 2007 and a
vice president of the European Parliament from July 2009 to May
2010. He has headed the Hungarian Olympic Committee since 1990
and was vice president of the IOC from 1995 to 1999. He was a
deputy state secretary for sports under communism in the 1980s.  Schmitt’s approval rating sank to 30 percent this month
from 49 percent when he took office in June 2010, pollster Ipsos
said on its website, without giving a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  