-- Vale Investors Overreacting to Tax Dispute Risk, Flow Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-30T20:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/vale-investors-overreacting-to-tax-dispute-risk-flow-says-2-.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  investors “may be
overreacting” to the risk that the world’s largest iron-ore
producer may have to pay as much as $17 billion in back taxes on
foreign subsidiary income, brokerage Flow CCTVM SA said.  Brazil  Supreme Court  justice votes in an agriculture
cooperative case indicate “positive developments” for
exporters including Vale, Flow’s Renato Antunes and Aristoteles
Nogueira in  Sao Paulo  said in a report late yesterday.  The agriculture  case  is set to replace a dispute filed by
an industry group in 2001, whose 5-4 vote favors tax
authorities, the Flow analysts said in the report. Three
justices who voted against the industry group have retired,
giving exporters a better chance for a favorable ruling if the
agriculture case proceeds as the “leading case” for future
litigation, Flow said.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale,  Brazil ’s biggest exporter, has
been challenging back taxes on its foreign subsidiaries’ profits
since 2003 amid growing shipments and rising metals and minerals
prices. The company received four tax claims totaling 30.7
billion reais including interests and penalties for the
1996-2008 period as of Dec. 31, Vale  said  March 6, adding that
Brazilian tax authorities may also file claims for the period
starting in 2009.  A Vale official in Rio, who declined to be named according
to corporate policy, said the company won’t comment on the Flow
report.  ‘Lower Probability’  Six out of 11 justices voted to review the agriculture case
in Supreme Court and use it as a benchmark for future rulings,
according to the  website  of Brazil’s high court. Vale may
benefit from the new case as it lowers the probability of a
potential loss and extends the litigation period, the Flow
analysts said.  “There are two main positive spillover effects for Vale:
lower probability of a potential loss and a longer-than-expected
process,” the analysts said. “We believe investors may be
overreacting” to Vale’s risk of losing.  Vale  rose  1.1 percent to 41.46 reais in the close in Sao
Paulo today, its highest level since March 21. The stock has
dropped 12 percent in the past year, more than twice the 5.1
percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  