-- Vestas Wind Turbine Catches Fire in Germany, No Injuries
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-30T19:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/vestas-says-turbine-catches-fire-at-gross-eilstorf-wind-farm.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the
world’s largest wind-turbine maker, said a V112 3.0-megawatt
turbine caught fire today at the Gross Eilstorf wind farm in
 Lower Saxony ,  Germany . No injuries were reported.  The cause of the 3 p.m. blaze, which is burning out under
“controlled conditions,” hasn’t been determined, the Aarhus,
Denmark-based company said in a statement. The turbine, a new
model for Vestas, was disconnected from the grid and three
nearby V112 turbines were shut for safety reasons, it said.  With many potential causes, “we can’t start any
investigation until we have a chance to look at the turbine and
in order to do that we have to get to the nacelle,” Andrew
Hilton, a spokesman for the company, said of the casing on the
tower that houses the turbine’s power-generating components.  The company will survey the damage more intensely tomorrow,
Hilton said by phone from Aarhus. The site is in the
countryside, not in a residential area, he said.  A fire at such a machine could lead to a potential loss of
300,000 euros to 400,000 euros ($400,000 to $533,000) per year,
according to Fraser McLachlan, chief executive officer of GCube
Underwriting Ltd., an insurer of renewable energy projects.  “You do get fires occasionally and it comes with the
territory,” McLachlan said by phone. The turbine may take at
least a year to replace, he said.  Hilton said Vestas can replace a turbine in a few days.  In its statement, Vestas said it’s important to note the
company “has over 46,000 turbines operating, and these types of
accidents are very rare.”  Vestas, whose shares have declined 8.7 percent this year,
expects a first assessment tomorrow and will release results of
that when completed, the company said.  There is no risk to 13 other machines still operating at
the park, Vestas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  