-- Vinashin Former Chief Gets 20 Years in Jail After Vietnam Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-30T17:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/vinashin-former-chief-gets-20-years-in-jail-after-vietnam-probe.html
Eight former executives of
 Vietnam ’s biggest shipbuilder and its units were sentenced to
prison terms of as much as 20 years, after being found guilty of
economic mismanagement at the company that almost collapsed in
2010 under $4 billion of debt.  Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group’s ex-chairman Pham Thanh Binh was handed a 20-year sentence, presiding judge Tran
Van Nhien announced yesterday at the end of a four-day trial,
the maximum penalty for the offense. Seven other defendants were
given terms ranging from 10 to 19 years. A ninth defendant was
found guilty of a separate charge of misuse of assets, and
sentenced to 3 years in prison. All nine had denied their
actions damaged the company, known as Vinashin.  The shipbuilder almost collapsed in 2010, blighting the
country’s image among overseas investors as its failure to make
payments on a dollar-denominated loan hampered Vietnamese
companies seeking to sell debt internationally. The controversy
sparked calls for a rare confidence vote in Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung, who had championed the shipbuilder. He accepted
responsibility for the company’s “shortcomings” in a televised
broadcast.  “This case has definitely made it clear to outside
observers that there are some serious structural problems in the
state sector,”  Eddy Malesky , an associate professor in the
Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies
at the  University of California  in  San Diego , said ahead of the
verdicts. “The good thing about it is it has spurred renewed
interest in getting a handle on state-owned enterprises.”  Packed Courtroom  The nine defendants heard their verdicts in front of a
packed courtroom in the northern port city of Haiphong,
accompanied by police officers. They were responsible for losses
totaling 910.5 billion dong ($43.7 million), according to an
indictment.  All the nine can appeal their verdicts within 15 days,
judge Nhien said. Binh will appeal the verdict in the supreme
court, his lawyer Chu Dong said in a phone interview.  Binh, chairman from 1998 to 2009, was responsible for 852.7
billion dong of the losses through his involvement in two power-
plant projects and the purchase of a high-speed vessel, the
indictment said.  “Besides particularly large-valued state losses in terms
of money and assets, the defendants’ violations also delayed
production and business, badly affected the foreign investment
environment regarding Vietnam’s shipbuilding industry, and
negatively impacted workers’ lives,” the indictment read.  The former executives denied the allegations that they
caused economic harm. Some said they were following Binh’s
orders. Trinh Thi Hau, the only woman among the defendants, had
cried at her seat after presenting her defense.  Sacrificed Youth  Binh, 58, dressed in a suit jacket and sandals, and other
defendants answered questions from a judge and prosecutors
throughout the trial. Dong, Binh’s lawyer, had said the former
chairman “sacrificed his youth” to develop the country’s
shipbuilding industry.  “There were times when I violated regulations and the
government’s instructions, but for the public interest, not for
personal gain,” Binh told the court yesterday before the
verdict was delivered.  Established in 1996, Vinashin expanded rapidly as demand
for marine transportation surged and Vietnamese leaders bet the
company would rival South Korean and Chinese shipbuilders. The
company once counted hotels and a scooter business among its
nearly 300 units as it diversified operations.  Sole Recipient  Vinashin was the sole recipient of $750 million raised in
the country’s first dollar-bond issue in 2005, and had planned
to build and export $1 billion of ships in 2009, a year before
its debts brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. The company had
over-diversified and failed to manage its cash flow and debt
properly, the Ministry of Transport said in July 2010, the same
month Binh was suspended during a government probe.  Prime Minister Dung acknowledged “shortcomings” in
managing the company at a legislative meeting last year.  Vinashin won government approval in November 2010 for a
turnaround that included paring debt 38 percent and transferring
units to other state-owned companies such as Vietnam National
Shipping Lines and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group. Last year, the
company asked holders of a local currency bond it defaulted on
to write off as much as 90 percent of the money owed, bondholder
Sabeco Fund Management said.  The failure to pay the first installment on a $600 million
loan in December 2010 from a group of lenders headed by  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sparked concern that the country’s state-owned
companies might not receive government support if they had
problems meeting debt obligations.  Credit Rating Cut  Vietnam’s sovereign credit rating was cut one level to B1
in December 2010 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
factors including “debt distress at Vinashin” for the
downgrade.  Standard & Poor’s  followed with a similar move later
that month, placing Vietnam’s creditworthiness three levels
below investment grade on a par with Bangladesh and Gabon.  “When Vinashin was issuing debt and the government
supported them, people bought into the idea Vietnam was the next
 China ,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant
vice president at Moody’s, which has a negative outlook on
Vietnam. “That sheen has worn off. Some investors got burned.”  Elliott Associates LP, one of about 20 creditors with a
stake in the $600 million loan, dropped a lawsuit against
Vinashin in a London court, Daniel Billings of Kreab Gavin
Anderson, hired to represent Elliott, said March 27. The
shipbuilder had missed three payments totaling $180 million,
people familiar with the matter said in January.  Stake Sales  The government has called for raising efficiency and
competitiveness at state-owned enterprises. Prime Minister Dung
in January told companies to submit restructuring plans,
including the sale of stakes to private investors and disposal
of non-core businesses. The ruling Communist Party said in
December that “unprofitable or even money-losing” state-run
companies had become a burden.  De Guzman of Moody’s said the agency’s negative outlook on
Vietnam’s rating reflects “uncertainties” in the state-owned
sector and the country’s bank-restructuring plan.  “The fact they’re trying to hold these people accountable
is good. My hope is they don’t stop there,” De Guzman said of
the trial. “Some SOEs continue to lose money and act as a risk
to the government’s balance sheet. Actual reform still needs to
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  