-- Vivus, Arena Unlikely to Be Affected by FDA Obesity Panel
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2012-03-30T20:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/vivus-arena-unlikely-to-be-affected-by-fda-obesity-panel.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  and
 Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , competing to win U.S. regulatory approval for
weight-loss treatments, probably won’t be affected by an
advisory panel’s recommendation for heart-risk studies, a  Food
and Drug Administration  spokeswoman said.  The panel voted 17-6 yesterday in Silver Spring,  Maryland ,
to recommend that companies developing weight-loss therapies
should conduct clinical trials to assess heart danger or review
pre-approval human trial data on heart attacks and strokes. The
panel’s goal was to help the agency update guidelines for
bringing obesity treatments to market, Erica Jefferson, a
spokeswoman for the FDA, said in an e-mail today.  “It’s unlikely that the discussions over the past couple
days will impact any existing applications,” Jefferson said.  Vivus, Arena and a third California-based company,  Orexigen
Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , are racing to bring the first weight-loss
pill to market in 13 years. The fen-phen appetite-suppression
drug combination was pulled from pharmacies 15 years ago when it
was linked to heart-valve abnormalities.  Vivus rose 5.1 percent to $22.36 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Arena increased 1.1 percent to $3.08, and Orexigen fell 9.7
percent to $4.10.  The FDA is set to make a decision on  Mountain View ,
California-based Vivus’s drug Qnexa by April 17. San Diego-based
Arena’s treatment lorcaserin faces an advisory panel May 10,
with the agency expected to make a decision by June 27.  Orexigen agreed in September with the FDA to conduct a two-
year study of heart risks for the drug Contrave. The La Jolla,
California-based company is a partner with  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502) , based in Osaka,  Japan .  Two-Tiered Studies  Panel members agreed studies should be two tiered: pre- and
post-approval. Companies should rule out a certain degree of
risk during pre-approval and further prove the drugs don’t cause
excessive heart harm after the medicines are on the market,
advisers said during discussion. The FDA isn’t required to
follow the panel’s guidance.  The panel voted Feb. 22 that Qnexa’s benefits outweigh its
risks. Sanjay Kaul, a professor in the David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA Cedar Sinai Medical Center and a panel member,
said the treatment works the best to help patients lose weight,
giving it a good chance of the FDA requiring post-approval
studies on heart risk instead of additional ones before.  The last obesity drug the FDA approved was  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in 1999.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  withdrew its obesity
treatment Meridia in 2010 after a post-market trial revealed a
16 percent increase in risk of heart attack or stroke in those
taking the product over those using a placebo and little
difference in weight loss.  Arena is studying its compound lorcaserin to assess cancer
risks. The company is in a partnership with Tokyo’s  Eisai Co. (4523)   The FDA previously has rejected all three drugs, asking for
more data on safety risks, including the likelihood of birth
defects associated with Qnexa.  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.
Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and stroke,
and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in
medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  