-- Wells Fargo, SEC Ordered to Confer on Subpoena Requests
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-30T17:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/wells-fargo-sec-told-to-meet-to-resolve-subpoena-requests-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers were told by a
federal judge to meet to discuss the agency’s subpoenas for
documents about an investigation of mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. Magistrate Judge  Laurel Beeler  in San Francisco
rejected the SEC’s request for an order compelling the bank, the
largest U.S. home lender, to deliver documents it agreed to
produce under subpoenas dating from September, according to a
court filing yesterday. Beeler said the parties’ lawyers should
meet in person, and if that doesn’t work, file a letter to her.  The SEC has said it’s looking into the possibility of fraud
by the San Francisco-based company and hasn’t concluded anyone
broke the law. Wells Fargo failed to produce subpoenaed
documents and should be forced to cooperate with the probe into
its sale of almost $60 billion in residential mortgage-backed
securities, the agency said in a March 23 filing.  When the regulator asked a U.S. judge to compel delivery of
the documents, the matter was referred to Beeler.  “The application falsely accuses Wells Fargo of not
cooperating in connection with an investigation by the SEC
staff,” the bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  “In fact, before the application was filed, Wells Fargo
had made 68 separate document productions of more than 750,000
pages and had responded to the vast majority of the staff’s 96
requests,” it said, adding that the underlying issues lack
merit.  Marc Fagel , the head of the SEC’s office in  San Francisco ,
today declined to comment on the court’s ruling or the Wells
Fargo statement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wells
Fargo & Co., 12-80087, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 