-- Wen’s Growth Plan Draws Korea Investment, HI to Consumer
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-03-30T05:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/wen-s-growth-plan-draws-korea-investment-hi-to-consumer.html
Korea Investment Corp. (KRINVTZ)  and HI Asset
Management Co., awarded permission to invest in mainland  China ,
expect consumer stocks to benefit from government efforts to
reduce the Chinese economy’s reliance on exports.  “Consumption-related stocks are likely to outperform,
especially durable goods such as autos or home appliances as the
government is likely to move to help boost disposable income,”
Sohn Je Seong, who helps manage $5.3 billion at Seoul-based HI
Asset, said in a March 27 interview. “The Chinese government,
which moved in advance to tighten, has enough policy tools and
more room to wiggle.”  HI Asset became in December one of 147 companies with
Chinese government-approved qualified foreign institutional
investor status to buy so-called A shares on the mainland and is
awaiting its investment quota. Korea Investment, the $45 billion
 sovereign wealth fund , was awarded a $200 million investment
quota on March 9.  A gauge of consumer-staple shares on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  is
the best performer of 10 industry groups since March 5 when
Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced a lower economic growth target for
China and signaled a shift toward expansion driven more by
domestic consumption. The industry measure’s 2.9 percent decline
through yesterday compares with an 8.3 percent drop by the CSI
300, which measures stocks in Shanghai and Shenzhen.  “Domestic demand-related companies are expected to post
high growth as the consumption market is set to expand,” Park Sang Il, a spokesman at Seoul-based Korea Investment, wrote on
March 28 in an e-mail response to questions. “We’re currently
working to set up a detailed investment strategy.”  Promote Consumption  The consumer gauge, which includes liquor makers  Kweichow
Moutai Co. (600519)  and Wuliangye Yibin Co.,  traded  at 19.7 times
estimated profit on March 26, the biggest premium to the CSI 300
since Jan. 3. An index of consumer-discretionary companies such
as Suning Appliance Co. is valued at 10.8 times profit.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has fallen 7.5 percent since
Wen announced the new growth target of 7.5 percent for this
year, down from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005. The
government highlighted plans to endorse higher minimum wages
during this month’s National People’s Congress.  China’s Commerce Ministry plans to hold a program to boost
consumption from April 2-May 4, according to a March 9 statement
on its website. The package is meant to improve people’s quality
of life and expand consumer  spending , the ministry said, without
providing details of specific measures.  Fiscal Policy  The two consumer gauges on the CSI 300 index are the top
performers since Nov. 9, 2008, rising at least 99 percent
through yesterday after China unveiled 4 trillion yuan ($634
billion) of stimulus in the wake of the global financial crisis.
The CSI 300 increased 46 percent in the period.  The index rose 0.5 percent as of 1:03 p.m. today. The
consumer discretionary gauge climbed 1 percent, while the
consumer staples measure lost 1.9 percent.  “Executing a more proactive fiscal policy is a core part
of China’s 2012 economic agenda,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Helen Zhu wrote in a March 27 report. “The
major beneficiary is mass market consumption as disposable
incomes rise faster than wages.”  The Goldman Sachs analysts are favoring retailers and
building-material companies, according to the report. The
Chinese Finance Ministry’s 2012 budget shows increased spending
on areas including education, health care, social housing and
employment, which were the industries that grew the fastest in
2011, they wrote.  ‘More Attractive’  The Shanghai Composite slumped 24 percent in the past 12
months as the government tightened monetary policy to curb
inflation and  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt overseas shipments. The
gauge trades at 9.4 times estimated profit, compared with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s multiple of 13.5, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 30 percent discount is the
widest gap since at least January 2006, the data show.  “We believe China is more attractive in terms of market
size and future growth potential, compared with other markets,”
Korea Investment’s Park wrote by e-mail.  The sovereign fund was one of 15 so-called QFIIs that were
granted a combined $2.11 billion of investment quota this month,
a record amount since the  program  first started in 2003. Foreign
institutions get a QFII license from the  China Securities
Regulatory Commission  first before they obtain quota from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange to buy yuan-denominated
stocks and bonds.  Policy makers have accelerated quota allotments as foreign-
exchange reserves dropped and stocks slumped. SAFE issued $2.91
billion of  quota  this year to 23 institutions, compared with
2011’s $1.92 billion and a high of $3.4 billion in 2006,
according to data posted on its website on March 9. The
regulator has granted a total of $24.55 billion in quota to 129
foreign firms since 2003, the data showed.  ‘Valuation Merits’  The CSRC plans to raise QFII quotas and will broaden the
scope for investments to attract more overseas funds, Vice
Chairman Yao Gang said at a forum on March 25. That will benefit
HI Asset, which is waiting for its quota.  “Chinese stocks have valuation merits, with the benchmark
index underperforming for the past two years,” HI Asset’s Sohn
said. “China’s tightening policy, which had been the biggest
drag on the market, has now shifted its course. I believe
there’s room for gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  