-- Wilbur Ross Plans Shipping Expansion as Industry Distress Grows
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-03-30T08:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/wilbur-ross-plans-shipping-expansion-as-industry-distress-grows.html
Billionaire Wilbur Ross said he’s
considering further investments in shipping as financial
distress within the maritime industry intensifies.  The chairman and founder of WL Ross & Co., who manages
about $10 billion, is evaluating further purchases of oil-
product tankers after last year participating in the acquisition
of 30 of the vessels through Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Diamond S Shipping. He’s also considering liquefied natural gas
and liquefied petroleum gas carriers, he said by e-mail
yesterday.  “The number of distressed shipping deals grows daily,
mostly from individual owners of small numbers of ships,” Ross
said. “We do expect further opportunities over the next 12
months. You never know where the exact bottom is until after the
recovery has begun, but it is clear that we are already much
closer to the bottom than the top.”  The combined market value of the world’s 80 biggest
publicly traded shipping companies plunged by $101.7 billion in
the four years to March 23, figures compiled by Bloomberg show.
A glut of vessels cut earnings below levels that cover operating
costs, triggering bankruptcies and loan breaches.  Ross and six investors who spent $900 million to buy the
product carriers last year may deploy about $300 million more,
Diamond S Chief Executive Officer Craig Stevenson Jr. said in
interviews over the past 10 days. China Investment Corp., the
nation’s sovereign-wealth fund, also backed that transaction.  Only Forced Sales  “The only sales around at the moment are forced sales,”
said Stevenson, who headed OMI Corp. when the oil-tanker
operator was bought for $2.2 billion including debt by Teekay
Corp. and  Torm A/S (TORM)  in 2007. Banks that financed vessels are
selling them at lower prices to get rid of them because owners
are unable to pay, Stevenson said.  Any purchase of  oil tankers  would exclude the biggest,
known as very large crude carriers, and the company isn’t
seeking to buy ships that haul dry-bulk raw materials, according
to Stevenson.  Vessels that haul liquefied gases may be attractive because
fewer have been built, said Ross. Day rates for shorter-duration
 LNG-carrier (VSMVVLAN)  charters rose above $150,000 this year, contrasting
with slumps for oil tankers and dry-bulk carriers.  Stevenson said he’s studying new transactions daily and
examined 50 deals over three years before buying the 30 product
tankers from Hong Kong-based Cido Tanker Holding Co.  Share Sale  The CEO started Diamond S in October 2007 with private-
equity firm First Reserve Corp., and the companies’ offices are
less than a mile apart in Greenwich. While Stevenson would like
to see Diamond S go public eventually, there is no schedule for
a share sale, he said.  Stevenson said he was introduced to Ross by Robert Profusek, a partner at New York-based law firm Jones Day
specializing in mergers and acquisitions who had both men as
clients. After a presentation to the billionaire’s staff
regarding last year’s transaction, proceedings went into “high
gear,” the CEO said.  “Before you know it, we’ve got Wilbur in and literally a
who’s who of the private-equity world as investors in Diamond
S,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  