-- Wisconsin Workers Win Fight on Yearly Union Renewal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-03-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/wisconsin-workers-win-fight-on-yearly-union-renewal.html
Wisconsin’s requirement that the
state’s public employees vote each year on whether to keep their
unions was struck down by a federal judge.  While U.S. District Judge William M. Conley in Madison, the
state capital, yesterday upheld the bulk of a 2011 law curbing
public employee collective bargaining rights, he said the annual
recertification provision violates constitutional equal
protection rights. The state failed to justify why “general
employee” unions are required to comply and “public safety”
unions are exempt, he said.  The judge also invalidated a part of Wisconsin Act 10,
signed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  last year, that
prohibited the voluntary deduction of union dues from the
paychecks of general employees only.  “The immediate effect is that it will return the voice
that this act took from the workers,” Mark Sweet, a lawyer for
one of the public employee unions, said. “The judge called the
act unprecedented and pointed out the strong political motives
that were involved in its implementation.”  The law required unions to poll their members yearly on
whether they wanted to be in the organization. To continue, the
union would have needed positive votes from a majority of all
its members, not just those voting.  Judge’s Ruling  All of the public safety unions qualifying for the
exemption had supported Walker in his 2010 gubernatorial
campaign while none of the general employee unions to which the
rule applied had backed him, said Conley.  “Act 10’s exemption of public safety employees from the
annual recertification requirement and the prohibition on dues
withholding certainly has no obvious relationship to the
government’s supposed concern with disruptions by public safety
employees,” the judge said in his 39-page ruling.  The  Wisconsin  Supreme Court ruled 4-3 last year that the
law was lawfully adopted.  Walker’s signing of the legislation prompted protests
outside the state Capitol and sparked a drive to recall him from
office.  The state’s Government Accountability Board, which oversees
Wisconsin’s elections, yesterday said more than 900,000 people
had signed those petitions, and set that election for June 5.  Milwaukee Mayor  Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat, said he would
oppose Walker in that election.  A spokesman for the governor, Cullen Werwie, said in an e-
mailed statement that Conley upheld the majority of Act 10.  “We are confident that the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals
will continue to uphold the constitutionality of the law,”
Werwie said, referring to the Chicago-based U.S. appeals court
where any challenge to Conley’s decision would be heard.  Union attorney Barbara Zack Quindel said in a phone
interview that no decision has been made on whether to appeal
those parts of the law that the court upheld.  “If the ruling stands, unions representing non-‘public
safety employees’ will no longer have to demonstrate member
support through annual recertification and will have greater
ability to take money out of employees’ paychecks,” state
Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said in a statement after the
ruling. “While this may give the unions more power over their
members, it does nothing to benefit the public employees of this
state.”  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
Walker, 11-cv-428, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   harris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee
at   fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hythas at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 