-- Wynn Wants Okada Lawsuit Sent Back to Nevada State Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-30T19:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-30/wynn-wants-okada-lawsuit-sent-back-to-nevada-state-court-1-.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  wants its lawsuit
against Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada sent back to Nevada
state court, arguing its removal to federal court was part of a
“scheme to manipulate the legal process and to forum shop.”  Wynn said in a request filed in federal court yesterday in
Las Vegas that its claims of breach of fiduciary against Okada
involve only state law issues. Okada moved the case to federal
court to avoid having it heard by the same state court judge who
ruled against him in his attempt to gain access to Wynn’s books
and records, according to the filing.  “Defendants experimented in state court and, after
receiving an unquestionably adverse decision, moved to do
whatever they could to start anew,” Wynn’s lawyers said.
“Defendants purposefully used the removal process as an
improper attempt to forum shop.”  Wynn, based in  Las Vegas , sued Okada in February and
redeemed his 20 percent stake in the casino operator saying he
was “unsuitable” based on findings that he made improper
payments to Philippine gambling officials. Okada last month
removed the case to federal court, saying the underlying issue
was whether he violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Okada, who Wynn seeks to remove from the board of
directors, also filed counterclaims in federal court, alleging
that Wynn Resorts Chairman  Steve Wynn  runs the company as his
“personal fiefdom” and asking the court to invalidate the
redemption of his shares at an $800 million discount.  Jim Golden, a spokesman for Okada’s  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425) , didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
filing.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, 12-00400, U.S. District
Court, District of  Nevada  (Las Vegas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 