-- 
‘Big Brother’ Winner Shetty Starts Indian Property Discount Site

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-10-05T09:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/-big-brother-winner-shetty-starts-indian-property-discount-site.html
Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty,
winner of the “Celebrity Big Brother” reality show in 2007, is
teaming up with developer  Housing Development & Infrastructure
Ltd. (HDIL)  to start a group home buying website in India.  Groupco Infracom Pvt., partly owned by Shetty, will
introduce the website grouphomebuyers.com today, according to a
statement. Buyers can log onto the site for their property
related searches, and Groupco will negotiate with developers for
bulk discounts.  “Grouphomebuyers harnesses the power of group buying and
empowers each individual home buyer to get significant volume
discounts which are almost unachievable individually,” said Hem
Tejuja, managing director of Groupco Infracom.  Groupco joins companies including  Groffr , which are seeking
to tap demand for homes in India where the economy is forecast
to grow about 8 percent this year. Groffr, a startup founded by
former executives of the Kotak Mahindra Group last year, sells
homes, cars and electronics through its website targeting
graduates of  India ’s top colleges.  The country’s young population, low mortgage penetration,
rapid urbanization and a trend toward nuclear-family homes will
boost demand for homes in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy after  China , according to a report by UBS AG in May. The
country, with an estimated housing shortage of 24.7 million
units, needs 10 million homes in urban areas alone, it said.  Groupco will also help buyers with the documentation and
due diligence of the property, it said.  Shetty, the Indian actress whose bullying at the hands of
contestants on the “Celebrity Big Brother” television program
drew international attention, owns a cricket team in the Indian
Premier League with her husband Raj Kundra, as well as a food
chain in the U.K. She also has a perfume line, yoga fitness DVDs
and runs spas in Mumbai under the brand Iosis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  