-- 
Taleb: World’s ’Problem’ Worse Than ’08

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-10-05T16:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/-black-swan-author-taleb-says-world-faces-bigger-problem-now-than-in-2008.html
(Corrects spelling of Taleb in fifth paragraph.)  Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , author of the
best-selling book “The Black Swan,” said the current global
market turmoil is worse than it was in 2008 because countries
such as the U.S. have larger sovereign-debt loads.  “Definitely, we face a bigger problem now and we will pay
a higher price,” Taleb, who is also a professor at New York
University, said today at a news conference in Kiev, referring
to the turmoil during the last global financial crisis. “The
structure of the problem has still not been understood. We
haven’t done anything constructive in three and a half years.
Nobody wants to do anything drastic now.”  Concerns over the global situation have intensified as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepened and the  U.S. economy  showed signs
of slowing.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s credit rating
for the first time in August, criticizing lawmakers for failing
to cut spending or raise revenue enough to reduce record budget
shortfalls.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday
he’ll push forward with further expansion of monetary stimulus
if needed.  Taleb urged countries to keep their budgets balanced,
criticizing President Barack Obama of “loading the U.S. with
debt that our children will have to pay” and said that growth
fuelled by government debt isn’t really growth.  “Someone made a mistake lending and someone made a mistake
borrowing,” said Taleb. “It is a mistake to transform private
problems into public debt.”  The U.S should “be aware of the importance of fiscal
wisdom,” he said at the news conference, organized by
investment bank Investment Capital Ukraine.  Taleb popularized the term  black swan , which derives from
the once widespread Western belief that all swans were white --
until explorers discovered the black variety in  Australia  in
1697. He argued that unforeseen events with a large impact on
markets occur more frequently than statistical analysis
predicts, thereby justifying the high cost of hedging against
disasters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  