-- 
Microsoft Claws Back to Smartphone Relevance: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-10-05T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/-mango-makes-microsoft-relevant-in-phones-again-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
You know the line about never getting
a second chance to make a first impression? Luckily for
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , it turns out not to be true.  Windows Phone 7, Microsoft’s attempt to claw its way back
into the lucrative smartphone arena, was released a year ago to
respectful but hardly adulatory reviews. It was good, but not
good enough to go head-to-head with the big boys,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)   Now it is. Microsoft is rolling out Windows Phone 7.5, also
known as “Mango,” an altogether more polished and potent
contender. The software began going out to existing users as a
free upgrade last week; new handsets from manufacturers
including  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung Electronics Co. will begin
showing up shortly. It deserves consideration if you’re in the
market for a new phone and not already committed to another
operating system.  Once a dominant player in smartphones, Microsoft was slow
to react to the 2007 release of Apple’s iPhone and saw its
market share implode.  Now, though, a combination of factors is giving it an
opening.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is struggling to hold onto its
BlackBerry customers; Google’s acquisition of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. may lead competing manufacturers to think twice
about their dependence on Android;  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  pulled
the plug on its competing WebOS platform.  Steady Improvement  All that wouldn’t matter much if the Windows Phone platform
didn’t measure up. But Microsoft has steadily improved the
software, with interim updates and the 7.5 release adding
functions that were notably absent at launch. Hello, copy-and-
paste, Twitter support, Internet sharing; good to see you,
visual voicemail and multitasking. What kept you?  Unlike Apple’s iOS, Google’s Android and just about every
other mobile-device operating system, a Windows phone doesn’t
present you with rows of icons representing apps. Instead, the
home screen consists of a number of colorful tiles that
represent the phone’s key functions. These tiles can update
themselves with new information, so that, for example, you can
see your next appointment at a glance, or how many new e-mails
you’ve received.  Some of the tiles lead to what Microsoft calls hubs --
collections of information and apps organized around a theme.
The People hub, for example, aggregates your contacts and
social-network feeds, providing one-stop shopping for getting
and staying in touch with people important to you.  Suggesting Apps  One of the cleverest features in the new version of the
operating system is the way it integrates the search function
with the ability to discover and incorporate new apps.  For example, I used my test phone, a Samsung Focus, to find
Italian restaurants near Bloomberg’s  San Francisco  offices. The
software not only gave me the usual reviews and directions, but
also suggested I might want to download the OpenTable app for
booking reservations online. Once I did, future restaurant
searches gave me a reservation option that automatically
launched the app.  Speech has also been integrated into the operating system.
You can dictate messages that are then read back to you and,
once you approve, dispatched as texts. Say “’Moneyball’
showtimes” and up pops a list of local theaters where the movie
is playing, along with the option to buy tickets.  It’s not as potent as Siri, the personal-assistant feature
that Apple is launching with its new iPhone 4S, but I found it
more useful and enjoyable than the voice features built into the
current version of Android.  Vetting the Marketplace  Microsoft says its Marketplace now has 30,000 apps, far
fewer than the 500,000 or so available for iPhone or 250,000 for
Android. At least Microsoft, like Apple and unlike Google, vets
new apps before they go into the Marketplace, providing a little
higher comfort level for the security-conscious.  A few things are still missing from Windows Phone 7.5. One
is the ability to take advantage of the powerful multi-core
processors that are showing up on high-end phones. Another is
support for LTE, the fastest fourth-generation network
technology, which  Verizon Wireless  and, more recently,  AT&T Inc. (T) 
have begun rolling out.  Perhaps those features will show up in updates. In the
meantime, the Windows Phone platform may get another boost soon
when  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  unveils the first devices developed under its new
Microsoft partnership.  Microsoft still has a long way to go to catch up with Apple
and Google, and as this week’s announcement of the latest iPhone
illustrates, they’re hardly standing still. Windows Phone 7.5,
though, at least confirms that Microsoft is pointed in the right
direction.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 