-- 
‘Rock of Ages’ Suit Against ‘Chicago’ Producer Claims Betrayal

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/-rock-of-ages-suit-against-chicago-producer-claims-betrayal.html
Producers of the raucous Broadway
musical “Rock of Ages” have gotten into a courtroom brawl with
one of the industry’s most respected managers, disputing advice
she gave them as a consultant on productions worldwide.  The consultant,  Alecia Parker , “continuously compromised”
the show’s interests in favor of bigger Broadway players,
according to the countersuit, which was filed after her company
sued “Rock” for nonpayment of fees. Parker gave tainted
recommendations that almost created a “catastrophic financial
loss,” the producers said in a court filing.  “Every betrayal begins with trust,” the  “Rock of Ages” 
producers said in papers filed in  New York  State Supreme Court
in  Manhattan , quoting the 2000 song “Farmhouse” by the band
Phish.  Such lawsuits are rare on Broadway, where contract disputes
are usually resolved in arbitration.  Parker, associate producer of “Chicago,” Broadway’s
fourth-longest-running show, didn’t return calls seeking comment
on the countersuit.  Judd Burstein, a lawyer who represents Parker’s employer,
National Artists Management Co., declined to comment. The lead
producer of “Rock of Ages,” Matthew Weaver, is a theater
newbie with film credits, including a 2007 remake of “The
Heartbreak Kid.” He also declined to comment.  Respectful Reviews  A high-decibel boy-meets-girl boy-loses-girl musical scored
and inspired by 1980s arena anthems, “Rock of Ages” premiered
at the  Vanguard Hollywood  nightclub in January 2006. The $7
million show opened in April 2009 at Broadway’s Brooks Atkinson
Theatre, to grudgingly respectful reviews.  According to an agreement filed in court, in August 2009
“Rock” hired Namco, the company run by “ Chicago ” producers
Fran and Barry Weissler, for guidance in planning future
productions of the show. Namco designated Parker, a Weissler
lieutenant for more than three decades, as the “key person.”  The consulting agreement is non-exclusive and she “makes
no representation or warranty with respect to any advice,” it
said.  Two years later, Namco sued “Rock of Ages” for nonpayment
of its weekly $3,000 consulting fees from Jan. 16 to March 8.
The suit sought damages and other relief to be determined by the
court. Rock of Ages Broadway LLC countersued on Sept. 7, seeking
dismissal of the case plus damages.  “Ms. Parker represented that her connections with
Broadway’s power brokers would benefit ‘Rock of Ages’” -- and
that her experience would “make her valuable when determining
how to tour the musical around the world,” according to the
countersuit.  Separate Agenda  Parker, according to the countersuit, gave advice based on
her own desire to cultivate relationships with theater landlords
on Broadway and in Toronto.  According to the countersuit, Parker recommended 18 weeks
at the 1,500-seat Royal Alexandra Theatre in Toronto, starting
in April 2010. It was “ill-advised,” and an additional Toronto
production was created “to avoid a catastrophic financial
loss.”  She also recommended moving the Broadway production from
the Atkinson to a theater half its size, the Helen Hayes,
according to the countersuit, in order to find a home for
“Rain.”  The Beatles tribute show was wrapping up a 12-week
engagement at the Neil Simon Theatre, which is owned by the
 Nederlander Organization . Instead of closing, “Rain,” which
was co-produced by Nederlander, moved to the Atkinson and
“Rock” moved to the Hayes.  Double the Cost  “The move to the Helen Hayes Theatre cost more than
double, and the weekly running costs are more than 15 percent
higher, than the forecast presented and/or validated by Namco
and Ms. Parker,” according to the countersuit.  Separately,  Carl Levin , a “Rock” producer, has sued
Weaver and three other producers for $417,000 that he said he’s
owed as a producer’s fee for a movie adaptation scheduled for
release in 2012 starring  Tom Cruise .  Levin, who describes himself on the show’s Website as a
“recovering  Morgan Stanley (MS)  investment banker,” said in court
papers filed in Superior Court in Los Angeles that he was
entitled to a third of any proceeds from a movie deal, according
to a verbal agreement. Weaver and other producers said there was
no such agreement.  The first case is National Artists Management Company Inc.
v. Rock of Ages Broadway Limited Liability Co., 651880/2011, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  The second case is Levin and Eleven Entertainment LLC v.
Corner Store Entertainment, BC464815, California Superior Court
( Los Angeles ).  To contact the writer of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 