-- 
Ackman May Sell Shares in Hedge Fund in 2012 for Stable Capital

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ackman-may-sell-shares-in-hedge-fund-in-2012-for-stable-investment-capital.html
Bill Ackman , the  money manager  known
for investing in companies to press for changes, said he may
sell shares in a hedge fund to secure more permanent capital for
investments as soon as next year.  Ackman, founder of New York-based Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, told an audience late yesterday at the Harmonie
Club in New York that he plans to sell shares in a closed-end
fund, which trades on an exchange.  “We will pick our moment, probably sometime in 2012,”
Ackman said.  By selling shares in a listed fund, Ackman is trying to
avoid a repeat of 2009, when investors redeemed about 27 percent
of the firm’s capital. The redemptions made it harder for him to
take advantage of opportunities created by the global financial
crisis, he said in an hourlong interview. Pershing Square itself
would not be going public.  Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP in London and Third
Point LLC in New York are among the  hedge funds  that have sold
shares in individual funds to the public. Such listings mean
hedge funds don’t have to worry about investors pulling cash
through redemptions.  Closed-end funds raise capital by selling a set amount of
shares through an initial public offering, then trade on an
exchange like a stock. The price can fluctuate above or below
the value of the underlying holdings.  Brevan, Third Point  Brevan Howard, run by  Alan Howard , raised about $1 billion
in March 2007 with an IPO in BH Macro Ltd., the first listing of
an individual hedge fund on the  London  Stock Exchange. Third
Point, run by Daniel Loeb, four months later raised $525
million, or about 24 percent less than its target, in a share
sale for one of its funds on the London bourse.  Ackman, 45, invests in companies he deems undervalued and
then urges changes he says will increase shareholder returns. In
the past year, he has bought stakes greater than 10 percent in
Fortune Brands Inc., the maker of Jim Beam bourbon now known as
Beam Inc. after a spinoff, and J.C. Penney Co., the third-
largest department store chain in the U.S.  Ackman, who owned about 0.8 percent of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at
the end of June, according to a regulatory filing, said bank
stocks are interesting at current prices.  “The prices assume financial Armageddon,” he said.  Citigroup, based in New York, tumbled 48 percent this year
through yesterday. Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  dropped 57 percent and New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell 29 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  