-- 
Ackman Won’t Invest in HP, Sees Too Much ‘Brain Damage’

-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-05T11:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ackman-says-he-won-t-invest-in-hp-sees-too-much-brain-damage-.html
Bill Ackman , founder of activist
hedge-fund manager Pershing Square Capital Management LP, said
he would avoid investing in  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  because the cost
of evaluating the company would outweigh the benefits.  Ackman said he received five or six calls from investors in
HP, the world’s biggest personal computer maker, in recent
months “begging us to take a stake,” according to an interview
conducted on Bloomberg TV’s “Inside Track” with Erik Schatzker.  “It looks cheap, but the future of the PC is a very, very
difficult business to handicap,” said Ackman, 45. “It’s a big,
complicated mess.” Paul de Lara, a spokesman for HP in London,
declined to comment.  Ackman invests in companies he deems undervalued and then
urges changes to increase shareholder returns. In the past year,
he has bought stakes greater than 10 percent in  Fortune Brands
Inc. (FO) , the maker of Jim Beam bourbon that changed its name to
Beam Inc. after a spinoff, and J.C. Penney Co., the third-
largest department store chain in the U.S.  HP Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman , who succeeded  Leo Apotheker  last month, said yesterday the company will decide
whether to spin off its personal-computer division by the end of
the month.  Speaking to Schatzker, Ackman said the announcement of the
spinoff had perhaps “irreparably damaged the brand.”  “Before I make an investment in something that requires
’brain damage,’ or a lot of work and energy, I figure out how
much money I can make,” he said, referring to Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard. “And the higher the  brain
damage , the higher the profit has to be to justify it.”  The shares of Hewlett-Packard rose 82 cents, or 3.7
percent, to $23.02 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has fallen 45 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  