-- 
Adelphia’s Imprisoned Rigases Say Prosecutors Withheld Evidence in Appeal

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-10-05T20:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/adelphia-s-imprisoned-rigases-say-prosecutors-withheld-evidence-in-appeal.html
Adelphia Communications Corp. founder
 John Rigas  and his son Timothy, in prison for  securities fraud ,
asked a judge to overturn their convictions and sentences,
claiming prosecutors withheld evidence that would exonerate
them.  John Rigas, 86, is serving 12 years in prison, and his son
Timothy, 55, is serving 17 years after being convicted in 2004
of looting Adelphia and lying about its finances. They asked
U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand, who oversaw their trial, to
rule that their constitutional rights were violated in two ways.  The Rigases said prosecutors failed to turn over notes of
interviews they conducted in February 2002 with Adelphia’s lead
securities lawyer. Those notes, obtained by the defense through
litigation after the  jury trial , provide “powerful exculpatory
evidence on a number of key issues at the trial,” the Rigases
argued in filings in Manhattan federal court.  “Had this evidence been disclosed to the defense, as
required by the Due Process Clause of the United States
Constitution, there is a reasonable probability of a different
outcome at trial,” they said in the motion.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Adelphia, once the fifth-largest U.S. cable-TV provider,
collapsed in 2002 and its assets were sold to Time Warner Inc.
and Comcast Corp.  Legal Fees  The Rigases also argued that prosecutors violated their
rights by “causing Adelphia to withdraw the advancement of
legal fees and by causing Adelphia to close off access to
critical witnesses and evidence.”  A judge overseeing the Adelphia bankruptcy later authorized
at least $27.8 million for the Rigases to use for legal fees,
according to the filing.  “But that was too little too late given the impairments in
the trial preparation that had already caused irreparable injury
to the defense,” it said.  The Rigases are under federal indictment in  Pennsylvania  on
charges that they conspired to dodge taxes on $1.9 billion they
stole from Adelphia. The Rigases raised similar arguments there
about prosecutors threatening Adelphia with indictment if it
supported the men before the New York trial. In June, the judge
in Pennsylvania said the Rigases had to raise it with Sand.  Not Called  Sand had ruled in January 2008 that prosecutors weren’t
obligated to turn over notes from the securities lawyer, Carl Rothenberger, who wasn’t called as a witness at trial.  Sand said the government’s obligation to hand over
exculpatory material didn’t extend to Rothenberger because the
rule on such disclosures applied to evidence known only to the
government. The Rigases knew of Rothenberger’s existence, his
role at Adelphia and facts on which he could testify, he said.  The Rigases unsuccessfully contested that ruling and other
issues in one of two failed appeals to the U.S. Appeals Court in
 New York . The U.S. Supreme Court also twice declined to hear
their case, including one petition citing the Sand ruling.  In their new filing, the Rigases said they hadn’t
previously appealed whether prosecutors had to turn over the
notes “in light of their actual content.” They also said the
documents “only came to light recently during discovery in
another criminal case, and were hidden from the defense until
then.”  ‘Scores of Witnesses’  The Rigases also claimed Adelphia worked closely with
prosecutors to ensure that the company forced them to resign and
didn’t pay their legal fees. Adelphia also cooperated to avoid
its own indictment and to bar the Rigases from talking to
“scores of witnesses” at the company, its outside  law firm  and
its auditors, according to the filing.  The Rigases didn’t call those witnesses to testify because
“Adelphia (acting in coordination with the government) had
forbidden anyone within its control from speaking with defense
investigators or lawyers prior to trial,” according to the
filing.  “No lawyer worth his salt would ever blindly call a
witness at trial when that witness has refused to be
interviewed,” it said. “The prejudice the defense suffered as
a result of the witnesses’ refusal to be interviewed was
devastating.”  The Rigases were convicted of securities fraud and bank
fraud, as well as conspiring to commit securities fraud, bank
fraud, falsify books and records and make false statements to
the Securities and Exchange Commission. They are in a federal
prison in Butner,  North Carolina .  The New York case is U.S. v. Rigas, 02-cr-01236, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The
Pennsylvania case is U.S. v. Rigas, 05-cr-402, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 