-- 
Madoff Trustee Seeks to Pursue Racketeering Claim Against Kohn

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-06T04:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/madoff-trustee-argues-to-keep-racketeering-claim-against-kohn.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former firm asked a U.S. judge not to dismiss civil
racketeering claims from a $58.8 billion lawsuit against Bank
Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria.  David Sheehan , a lawyer for trustee  Irving Picard , asked
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  yesterday to deny
the defendants’ request that he throw out claims brought under
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO.
The law provides the basis for most of the damages Picard seeks
in the case.  Lawyers for the defendants argued that Picard lacks
standing to sue because he stands in the shoes of the Madoff
firm, which was responsible for the fraud, and that Kohn didn’t
run a separate racketeering enterprise for purposes of the RICO
law.  The defense lawyers also told Rakoff that RICO doesn’t
cover a racketeering enterprise that is located primarily
overseas. Most of the defendants in the suit, including Kohn,
based in  Austria , were located outside the U.S., they said.  In a complaint filed in December, Picard, calling Kohn
Madoff’s “criminal soul mate,” sued her, along with UniCredit,
Bank Austria, Bank Medici and dozens of other Austrian and
Italian parties. He claimed Kohn fed more than $9.1 billion of
investor money into the Madoff fraud.  ‘Illegal Scheme’  UniCredit, Picard alleged, ignored signs of fraud at the
Madoff firm and participated in the “illegal scheme” with
Kohn. Picard demanded $19.6 billion, which was his estimate at
the time of all the principal lost by Madoff investors. Because
RICO provides for triple damages, the trustee could recover as
much as $58.8 billion. The claim is the largest of about 1,000
suits Picard has filed to recover money for victims of the
Madoff fraud.  “If we win this case, no money is going to Butner
prison,” Sheehan told Rakoff yesterday, referring to the
federal prison in Butner,  North Carolina  where Madoff is serving
a 150-year sentence. “Where is it going to go? It’s going to
all of the customers” defrauded by the con man.  In June, Rakoff agreed to take the case from  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , saying the case required “significant
interpretation of RICO.”  “I don’t see how I have any leeway on the standing
issue,” Rakoff said to Sheehan. He also questioned Sheehan’s
argument that Kohn headed a scheme that was separate from
Madoff’s and still subject to U.S. racketeering law.  “If she’s the brains of that scheme, then why isn’t this a
foreign scheme?” Rakoff asked.  Rakoff didn’t say when he will decide the motion.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 