-- 
Aeon to Acquire Japanese Grocers

-- B y   M i y u k i   S e g u c h i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-10-05T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/aeon-to-acquire-japanese-grocers-in-biggest-purchase-since-2008.html
Aeon Co.,  Japan ’s largest supermarket
operator, agreed to acquire regional grocers Marunaka Co. and
Sanyo Marunaka KK to expand in the western part of the country
with its biggest purchase since 2008.  The retailer will pay 45 billion yen ($587 million) for the
closely held supermarket chains in a transaction to be completed
Nov. 25, the Chiba, Japan-based Aeon said in a statement to the
Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday. The price amounts to 0.14 times
revenue, compared with the median 0.25 times for acquisitions of
Japanese retailers in the past three years, based on figures in
the statement and Bloomberg data.  Aeon will add the two grocers’ 211 outlets to the chain of
about 1,300 supermarkets nationwide as it invests in opening
stores to boost growth, President Motoya Okada said. The
retailer is expanding amid a recovery in demand as northeastern
Japan rebuilds from the March 11 earthquake and consumers seek
electricity-saving  light bulbs , air conditioners and
refrigerators amid concern about possible power shortages.  “We need to concentrate on opening stores for a short
period of time, otherwise it would be tough in terms of
profitability,” Okada told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.
“Marunaka has a good network of outlets in the west of Japan
and we can help in distribution.”  Marunaka and Sanyo Marunaka had combined operating profit
of 8.2 billion yen in the year ended March 31, on sales of 330
billion yen, according to the Aeon statement.  Aeon fell 0.7 percent to 1,027 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading yesterday, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average declined 0.9 percent.  Forecast Raised  Separately, Aeon raised its profit forecast by as much as
36 percent from the previous estimate to a record.  Net income will be between 63 billion yen and 68 billion
yen for the year ending February, compared with a previous
projection of 50 billion yen, it said yesterday.  The Marunaka chains’ revenue will be added to Aeon’s
results this fiscal year, the retailer said in the statement.  The Marunaka and Sanyo Marunaka acquisition is also the
biggest this year of a retailer in Japan after MM Holdings Co.’s
$1.25 billion purchase of Culture Convenience Club Co.,
completed in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miyuki Seguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 mseguchi@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at   dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
Kyung Bok Cho at   kcho7@bloomberg.net  