-- 
Afghan Authorities Break Up Haqqani-Linked Plot to Kill President Karzai

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-10-05T21:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/afghan-authorities-break-up-haqqani-linked-plot-to-kill-president-karzai.html
Afghan authorities broke up what they
said was an assassination plot against President  Hamid Karzai  by
men linked to al-Qaeda and the Haqqani network.  Six people have been arrested, including an employee at the
presidential palace, the spokesman for the national intelligence
service said. A professor at Kabul University, three university
students, and another man were also arrested, according to the
 Associated Press .  The six, detained last week, are affiliated with al-Qaeda
and the Haqqani faction of Afghanistan’s Taliban movement, said
Lutfullah Mashal, spokesman for the Afghan National Security
Directorate. The group “was very close to conducting their
attack,” Mashal said in a phone interview yesterday.  Karzai was due to return to Kabul yesterday from an
official visit to  India . Mashal gave no details about how or
when the alleged plot was to be launched.  The palace staff suspect, named Mohibullah Ahmadi, was from
the president’s native village of Karz in southern  Afghanistan ,
Mashal said. He denied reports that Ahmadi was a bodyguard and
declined to described the man’s palace role.  The Taliban have conducted prominent strikes in Kabul in
the past month. Afghanistan blames them for the killing two
weeks ago of Burhanuddin Rabbani, Karzai’s chief envoy seeking
peace talks with the insurgents. The attacks, including an
assault on the American embassy that the U.S. blamed on the
Haqqani faction, have heightened tensions between Pakistan and
both Afghanistan and the U.S.  The Haqqani faction is based largely in Pakistan’s border
district of North Waziristan. U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen said
before retiring last month as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff that the group operates as a proxy force guided by
 Pakistan ’s main military intelligence agency. Pakistan denied
Mullen’s accusation.  Karzai has survived at least two assassination attempts,
including a guerrilla assault on a military parade he was
viewing in Kabul in 2008. A gunman fired on him in 2002 while he
visited the southern city of Kandahar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  