-- 
Thai Floods Test Yingluck as Damage May Rise to $1.6 Billion

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-10-05T10:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/thai-businesses-see-1-6-billion-damage-as-floods-stunt-growth.html
Thailand ’s worst floods in at least
50 years may slow economic growth and cause $1.6 billion of
damage, posing the first leadership test for Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra since she took office two months ago.  The deluge swept across the country from late July, killing
237 people, displacing 2.6 million others and damaging almost 10
percent of rice farms in the biggest exporter of the grain, data
from the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives show.  Economic losses from the floods and weakening overseas
demand for Thailand’s electronics, textiles and agricultural
goods may complicate Yingluck’s efforts to meet a pledge to
raise the  minimum wage . Flood damage may reach 50 billion baht
($1.6 billion), the  University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce 
estimates, stiffening resistance to mandated pay increases.  “The 300 baht minimum wage was a promise made by the
politicians to win votes, so they must pay for the additional
increase,” said Atthayuth Leeyavanija, a member of Thailand’s
central wage-setting committee who represents employers.
“Raising wages to 300 baht a day nationwide would have a severe
impact on businesses.”  Yingluck’s government has deployed about 10,000 soldiers to
aid flood victims and extended rice-price guarantees to shield
rural incomes, while the  finance ministry  last week cut its 2011
growth forecast to a range of 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent, from 4
percent to 5 percent.  Factory Closures  The University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, a private
institution founded by the chamber, said the impact of flooding,
including an earlier deluge, may total 76 billion baht, cutting
0.8 percentage point from economic expansion.  The government estimates the most recent floods may cause
as much as 30 billion baht of damage, Deputy Prime Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today. Costs so far amount to about 20
billion baht, central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said.  More than a hundred factories producing auto parts, food
and electronics have temporarily closed because of floodwaters,
according to the Federation of Thai Industries.  Indorama
Ventures Pcl (IVL) , which says it’s the world’s largest producer of
polyester, shut factories in Lopburi province that make wool
yarns and polymers, the company said on Sept. 27.  “We didn’t expect the impact to spread from the
agricultural sector to the industrial sector,” Tanit Sorat, the
federation’s vice-president, said yesterday by phone. “This
will threaten economic growth because declining production could
reduce incomes and weaken consumption at a time when demand from
overseas buyers is slowing.”  Ancient Temples  At least 40 factories including plants operated by Danish
shoemaker  ECCO Sko A/S  and Japanese food and beverage producer
Ajinomoto Co. have closed at an industrial estate near
Ayutthaya, where floods are threatening to damage World
Heritage-listed temples, Narapote Thewtanom, deputy governor of
the Industrial Estate Authority Thailand, said today. Operations
may not return to normal for three months, he said.  Rising waters threatened to damage crops in 60 of
Thailand’s 77 provinces, Kasikorn Research Center said in a
report on Sept. 19. Losses in the agricultural industry may
total 20 billion baht, it said.  “This flooding is the worst in at least 50 to 60 years,”
Kittiratt, who is also the commerce minister, said Sept. 26.  Rice Damaged  Thailand, which supplies about 30 percent of world rice
exports, cut its forecast for production from the main harvest
by 12 percent to 22.73 million metric tons after floods damaged
crops, the farm ministry said in a statement today. About
3.07 million tons of rice may be damaged, it said.  The benchmark SET Index has tumbled 18 percent over the
past month, the most in  Asia , as threats to the global recovery
led investors to pare bets on emerging markets. The baht has
weakened 4.2 percent against the dollar in the same period.  Thailand’s inflation rate has so far weathered the floods,
easing to a six-month low of 4.03 percent in September as a
fuel-price slide countered a climb in food costs.  Flooding won’t have a significant impact on inflation
through crop damage since vegetables account for just 1.4
percent of the consumer-price index’s goods basket,  Permanent
Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said two days ago.  Rate Pause  The damage caused by flooding has “increased the chance of
the central bank pausing rate rises,” said Pornthep Jubandhu,
an economist at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok.  The Bank of Thailand raised its benchmark rate by a quarter
of a percentage point to 3.5 percent on Aug. 24, the ninth such
increase since the start of July 2010.  Thailand’s two-month old Cabinet plans to spend 7.2 billion
baht to assist farmers affected by the floods. The government
also agreed to extend its rice-price guarantee program to the
second harvest from the end of February.  Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party won a majority in elections in
July by appealing to rural voters in the north and northeast,
where average incomes are about one third that in Bangkok,
according to data from the National Statistical Office. Those
areas, whose voters also helped propelled Yingluck’s brother
 Thaksin Shinawatra  to three election victories between 2001 and
2006, are among the worst-hit by this year’s seasonal floods.  The effect of the inundation may not be serious enough to
threaten Thailand’s new government, said Somjai Phagaphasvivat,
a lecturer at Bangkok’s Thammasat University.  “The government has a strong base that will continue to
support Yingluck because of her brother,” he said by phone.
“There will be a lot of criticism, but not to the point where
the rhetoric will turn to street action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  