-- 
Ai Fiori Is Zagat’s Top New Restaurant; Brooklyn’s Three Stars

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ai-fiori-is-zagat-s-top-new-restaurant-brooklyn-s-three-stars.html
Three years after leaving Merrill
Lynch & Co., Ahmass Fakahany saw his French-Italian dining room,
Ai Fiori, named New York’s best new restaurant by the Zagat
Survey today.  The citation came less than 24 hours after Ai Fiori won its
first, coveted Michelin star.  Fakahany runs the restaurant, in  The Setai Fifth Avenue 
hotel, with chef  Michael White .  “Overall, the industry has stabilized and turned upwards,”
said survey co-founder Tim Zagat. “It’s the best year since the
recession for restaurants.”  Eric Ripert’s Le Bernardin, which re-opened in September
after a monthlong renovation, won Zagat’s top food honors for
the second year in a row. Ripert’s temple to seafood also
snatched the most-popular rating from Danny Meyer’s Gramercy
Tavern, which now holds the number two spot, ahead of Meyer’s
Union Square Cafe (No. 4) and his Eleven Madison Park (No. 5).  Thomas Keller ’s Per Se continued its winning streak for the
best-service and Asiate, its neighbor in the Time Warner Center,
remained at the top of the decor category.  Google Purchase  This is the first edition of New York’s Zagat survey since
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  purchased the guide this fall for an undisclosed
amount.  Zagat collected the opinions of 41,604 diners, who ate out
an average of three meals per week, down from 3.3 in 2008, 3.4
in 2006 and 3.5 in 2002.  Forty-three percent of the respondents said they never
engage in group buying discounts, such as those offered by
Groupon. Eighty-one percent said they don’t follow restaurants
or food trucks via social media sites, and 49 percent said they
have not downloaded restaurant-related apps on their
smartphones.  Sixty-two percent said it’s “rude and inappropriate” to
text, email, tweet or talk on their mobile phones at a
restaurant, but 66 percent found that taking photos of food or
companions is “acceptable in moderation.” Fifty-five percent
said they shared their dining experiences, both good and bad,
via websites, blogs and social media.  The average cost of dining at  New York ’s 20 most expensive
restaurants rose to $163.34 per person. That’s a 5.5 percent
hike, the biggest since 2007, when prices rose 11.1 percent.  Zagat said the increases were only partly related to
inflation. “People will raise their price if they can get away
with it, and these 20 most expensive restaurants are virtually
all full,” he said.  In a sign that the New York restaurant industry is
weathering the fragile economic recovery, there were only 68
restaurant closings in 2011, the lowest number since before
2002.  Michelin Speaks  Yesterday, Michelin made news by granting three stars to
Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare, in the annex of a supermarket.  Chef Cesar Ramirez’s venue is the only Brooklyn
establishment to earn the highest honor of the “Guide Rouge.”  “Ramirez is an extremely talented and meticulous chef,”
said the editor-in-chief of  North America ’s Michelin Guides. She
declined to give her name, citing her responsibilities as one of
the guide’s anonymous inspectors.  “What he does there night after night is very impressive,
given that his audience is sitting right in front of him and
there’s very little room for error.”  Eleven Madison Park also jumped in the rankings, from one
star to three after the restaurant was overhauled last fall,
moving to a prix-fixe-only format of $125 or $195 per person at
dinner.  35 Courses  Brooklyn Fare, with a set menu of $185, made its debut on
the list with two stars last year. Ramirez serves a 25-to-35
course feast to 18 guests every night. He specializes in small,
composed bites of raw fish -- scrambled eggs with sea urchin and
caviar or a tiny cube of bluefin tuna.  SHO Shaun Hergatt, the recipient of somewhat uneven reviews
by Bloomberg News and the  New York Times , is a new entrant to
the two-star category. Earlier in September, the Australian-born
Hergatt raised his dinner price by $10 to $85; diners now
receive five courses instead of three. L’Atelier de  Joel
Robuchon  was also promoted to two stars.  Michelin’s New York guide, which didn’t award any stars to
Indian restaurants last year, now cites three: Junoon, Tamarind
Tribeca and Tulsi. Kaiseki cuisine, which involves long and
often complex Japanese tasting menus, received two new entrants
from Tribeca:  David Bouley ’s Brushstroke, where meals cost $85
to $135, and Rosanjin, where guests can spend as much as $200 on
dinner.  East Village  New entrants to the one-star category include Heartbreak, a
European restaurant in the East Village, and Tori Shin, a
yakitori spot on the Upper East Side.  Three stars means exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie. is the world’s second-biggest tire maker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 