-- 
AIG Appeals $45 Million Court Order in SunTrust Mortgage Insurance Dispute

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-05T20:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/aig-s-united-guaranty-appeals-45-million-suntrust-mortgage-case.html
A unit of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority owned by the U.S. government,
filed a notice of appeal challenging a judge’s order to pay more
than $45 million to  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  to fulfill mortgage
insurance contracts.  AIG’s United Guaranty unit is seeking to reverse a court
ruling that it must pay Atlanta-based SunTrust about $34 million
for covered losses, $6 million in interest and $5.4 million in
legal fees and costs, according court records. The notice of
appeal was filed yesterday in federal court in Richmond,
Virginia.  SunTrust sued United Guaranty in 2009 for breach of
contract, saying the insurer didn’t meet obligations to cover
losses tied to borrower defaults. Beginning in January 2008,
United Guaranty “systemically” denied claims on loans that
hadn’t been underwritten using an automated system from mortgage
investor  Fannie Mae , SunTrust said in its complaint.  United Guaranty also denied claims for losses from loans
where SunTrust didn’t verify all the information on borrower
applications, according to the lawsuit.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said the
insurer expected the appeals court to reverse the lower court’s
exclusion of evidence that, if admitted, “would have changed
the outcome.” Hugh Suhr, a spokesman for SunTrust, declined to
comment on the appeal notice.  Combo Loans  The loans at issue in the litigation, known as combo loans,
involve a combination of first- and second-lien mortgages.  United Guaranty said in court papers that SunTrust loans
may be disqualified from coverage if the bank failed to meet
guidelines or misrepresented information about the mortgages.  “SunTrust expressly represented -- falsely and in breach
of the policies -- that these combo loans each complied with
specified underwriting guidelines mutually agreed to between the
parties,” United Guaranty alleged in a counterclaim filed
against SunTrust.  United Guaranty identified about 12,000 loans out of
100,000 SunTrust loans that were ineligible for coverage,
according to an August decision by U.S. District Judge Robert E. Payne in Richmond.  United Guaranty filed for dismissal of the case and sought
sanctions against SunTrust last year alleging that a SunTrust
employee had altered e-mails that were potential evidence in the
case. In March, Payne ruled that some e-mails had been altered
by a SunTrust employee and ordered the company to pay United
Guaranty’s legal fees related to the altered e-mails.  Premiums Collected  After a bench trial in July, Payne found United Guaranty
“knowingly billed for and collected premiums” on loans that
the company wasn’t going to cover in a default.  “UG’s disregard for its obligation is demonstrated by the
fact that it set out to determine which loans were not eligible
for coverage under its stated interpretation of the policy and
then, after ascertaining from the insured that there were almost
12,000 loans meeting that description, UG continued to accept
the very premiums its executives say it could not accept,”
Payne said in an Aug. 19 ruling.  AIG is seeking to gain market share at mortgage insurance
operations as less diversified rivals, including PMI Group Inc.,
were forced to stop writing coverage. United Guaranty was the
third-largest home guarantor by total volume during the six
months ended June 30, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.  Mortgage insurers pay lenders when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Carriers suffered losses as
the number of soured loans surged during the recession. Rejected
claims, or rescissions, in recent quarters have improved results
at United Guaranty, as well as MGIC Investment Corp. and Radian
Group Inc., the two largest U.S. mortgage insurers.  The case is SunTrust Mortgage Inc. v. United Guaranty
Residential Insurance Company of  North Carolina , 09-00529, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  