-- 
Air France Crash Criminal Probe Shows Scope of Crew Errors

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-06T13:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/air-france-flight-447-crash-probe-shows-confused-crew-misread-instruments.html
Air  France  Flight 447’s crew reacted
badly to an autopilot shutdown and misread instruments showing
the plane’s rapid descent before it plunged into the Atlantic,
killing all 228 people aboard, a report shows.  “I’ve lost VSI,” the junior co-pilot said of the Airbus’s
vertical-speed indicator, according to a recording detailed in
the report from court-appointed experts. In fact, the instrument
was functioning normally, its analog needle immobilized at the
lower limit because the plane was hurtling toward the ocean at
15,000 feet a minute, the document seen by Bloomberg News shows.  Flight 447 from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris crashed on June 1,
2009, after ice-blocked speed sensors shut down the autopilot
and the crew reacted incorrectly by pulling the jet into a steep
climb until it slowed to an aerodynamic stall, France’s BEA
accident investigation bureau said in May. The interim report
from the criminal probe broadly endorses those findings.  “The aircraft’s stall went completely unnoticed by the
crew, who made no reference to it,” according to the report,
which was presented to victims’ families yesterday. Faced with
unusual readings, the two co-pilots, alone at the controls while
the captain was on a rest break, “rejected them en masse.”  Focus on Airline  The document identifies no fault with the Airbus SAS A330,
beyond the failure of  Thales SA (HO)  airspeed sensors which caused
the autopilot shutdown. Manslaughter charges have been filed
against Paris-based Air France and Toulouse, France-based Airbus
as part of the criminal investigation, which could increase
damages payouts if any criminal liability is proven.  “The emphasis on the crew’s handling of the situation does
seem to put the focus on Air France, rather than Airbus,” said
Simon Foreman, a Paris-based attorney with  Soulez Lariviere &
Associes  who has represented French authorities in previous
crash investigations and isn’t involved this time.  To put the airline on trial prosecutors would have to go
much further in linking pilot error to Air France procedures or
training, he said. “Based on what I’ve heard so far, it’s hard 
to see where criminal liability might be established,” he added.  Interface Issue  Airbus spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  declined to comment on
the judicial report, while Air France attorney Fernand Garnault
said it was “impossible to draw any conclusions” from the
interim findings.  “The real focus of this investigation is the man-machine
interface, and why the pilots didn’t have everything they needed
to understand what was happening,” Garnault said.  Air France had earlier suggested that a stall alarm
confused the  A330 ’s pilots by initially sounding when the jet
began to lose lift and then shutting down as it slowed to a
point where the computer was receiving no useful information,
before coming back on again when the air-speed picked up --
misrepresenting what was actually a positive development.  In reality, the junior copilot began pulling the nose up
again -- deepening the stall -- before the alarm resumed, the
criminal report suggests.  While referring to the aircraft’s artificial horizon as
they struggled to keep its wings level, the copilots also
disregarded its indications that the jetliner was at a dangerous
nose-up angle, the document says.  Psychologists  “The information was there, but the question is why they
were blind to it,” said David Learmount, a former Royal Air
Force pilot and safety editor for Flight International magazine.  “This is all about human cognition,” Learmount said.
“Even if we’re left guessing about what was going on in the
pilots’ heads, that doesn’t absolve us from the responsibility
of trying to understand.”  BEA crash investigators have convened a “human factors”
working group of psychologists, doctors and pilots to examine
how the Flight 447 crew analyzed and responded to cockpit
information. A spokeswoman for the agency declined to comment on
the legal investigation today.  The criminal report also notes the captain’s failure to
consider a detour around bad weather shown on the radar, despite
concerns repeatedly voiced by a copilot, and questions his
decision to take a break while crossing the so-called inter-
tropical convergence zone, which is generally stormy.  While the captain broke no regulations by leaving the
cockpit, the report says, staying put would have been “the
safety-minded choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 