-- 
Taiwan Central Bank Signals It’s Against Currency Weakening

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-10-05T09:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/taiwan-s-central-bank-signals-it-s-against-currency-weakening.html
Taiwan  signaled it won’t push for a
weaker currency even as slowing global growth puts pressure on
policy makers to protect exports. The island’s dollar rose.  The central bank “doesn’t favor Taiwan dollar
depreciation,” Governor Perng Fai-nan said in reply to
questions from lawmakers in Taipei today. Taiwan’s exchange rate
is determined by market supply and demand, and the island is
facing less “hot money” pressure, he said.  Asian stocks have fallen in recent months as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a struggling U.S. economy dimmed the outlook for the
region’s exporters. Taiwan’s central bank left its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 1.875 percent last week, ending five
straight quarters of increases as regional policy makers seek to
protect their economies from a faltering global recovery.  Taiwan’s dollar gained, snapping a four-day loss, on
speculation exporters took advantage of recent declines to
repatriate earnings at a more favorable  exchange rate . The
currency rose 0.2 percent to NT$30.623 at the 4 p.m. local time
close.  “Taiwan dollar’s weakness is likely to continue in the near
term because of the real demand for U.S. dollars from foreign
investors and Taiwanese firms,” said Laura Ho, an economist at
Grand Cathay Services Corp. in Taipei.  Slowing Global Expansion  Global growth is slowing and price gains are easing after
peaking in the third quarter, Perng said today. Emerging markets
can’t decouple from developed economies, he said.  Taiwan’s consumer prices increased 1.35 percent in
September from a year earlier, compared with a 1.34 percent
advance in August, a report showed today. That was less than the
1.4 percent median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Taiex stock index has tumbled about 22 percent this
year, as a global stocks rout wiped almost $9.4 trillion off
shares worldwide in the same period.  Foreign investors sold Taiwan stocks in September, leading
to capital outflows and a decline in foreign-exchange reserves,
Perng said today. Still, Taiwan’s banking system has “healthy”
liquidity, he said.  Taiwan hopes to sign a cross-strait yuan clearance
agreement with  China  soon, Perng said, without giving further
details. While the yuan will probably become a major
international currency one day, the island won’t hold it in the
foreign-exchange reserves for now as the mainland hasn’t opened
its capital account, he said.  China won’t have a “hard landing” as its economy is
performing relatively well compared with the U.S. and Europe,
Perng said. He said the island’s policy makers will closely
monitor economic data from the mainland, its largest trading
partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  