-- 
Akamai Down 57% Lets IBM Vie With Verizon for Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-10-05T20:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/akamai-down-57-lets-ibm-vie-with-verizon-for-takeover-real-m-a.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  may finally
be cheap enough to lure  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  or
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  as the most speculated U.S. takeover
target since 2005 approaches its lowest valuation on record.  Worth as much as $9.9 billion last year, the shares have
plunged 57 percent in the past 12 months for the third-biggest
drop in the Nasdaq 100 Index, giving it a market value of $3.8
billion. Akamai is valued at 7.6 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, almost two-thirds less
than a year ago and near a 2008 record low. It’s more affordable
than 94 percent of the largest U.S. Internet software companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Akamai may now attract acquisition interest from IBM, which
is hunting for takeovers, and Verizon, owner of the largest U.S.
wireless operator, said Blaylock Robert Van LLC and SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc. While earnings forecasts that missed
analysts’ estimates and price cuts triggered Akamai’s drop, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company is still projected to
have record revenue in 2011 and a fifth straight profit gain as
increasing  Internet traffic  buoys demand for the provider of
server space that helps websites load faster.  “It’s a no-brainer for someone like IBM who wants a very
dynamic, global, mission-critical content distribution
network,” Joel Achramowicz, an analyst at investment bank
Blaylock Robert Van, said in a telephone interview from Oakland,
 California . “It represents a very compelling acquisition
target.”  Buyout Rumors  Jeff Young , a spokesman for Akamai, declined to comment on
whether the company had been approached by IBM or Verizon about
an acquisition. Michael Fay, a spokesman for IBM, and Robert Varettoni, a spokesman for Verizon, said the companies don’t
comment on rumors and speculation.  Akamai, which supplies the computer power that speeds
delivery of content for customers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Netflix Inc., was the subject of more buyout rumors than any
other American company from 2005 through 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It was named as a target 21 times by electronic
news services, brokerages or newspapers, the data show.  “We don’t see any need to be bought,” Tom Leighton,
Akamai’s co-founder and chief scientist, said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “Akamai is very
attractive. We’re very unique in what we do. We’d be of interest
to any big player that cares about the Internet.”  Instead, Akamai may be an acquirer as it looks to use its
cash for potential takeovers, Leighton said.  Intelligent, Clever, Cool  Akamai, whose name means intelligent,  clever  and cool in
Hawaiian, was  co-founded  by Leighton, a former  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  professor, and Daniel Lewin, a former
graduate student at the school. The two were trying to meet a
1995 challenge by MIT colleague and World Wide Web pioneer Tim Berners-Lee to find better ways to deliver Internet content to
users. Lewin died aboard one of the two hijacked planes that
crashed into the World Trade Center during the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.  Akamai was formed in 1998 and sold shares to the public in
1999. After the Internet bubble burst, deal speculation coupled
with a more than fourfold increase in revenue since 2004 drove
Akamai’s Ebitda multiple to 21 times a year ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Akamai’s stock plummeted 57 percent in the last 12 months
through yesterday. The company was forced to keep up with price
cuts from competitors such as  Limelight Networks Inc. (LLNW)  and  Level
3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and sales from advanced services like
cloud-computer security failed to make up for the lost profits.
That reduced its market value to $3.8 billion as of yesterday
after reaching a 10-year high of $9.9 billion on Dec. 7.  Internet Usage ‘Explosion’  “It sure makes a lot of sense for Akamai to be acquired,
more sense than at the beginning of the year,” Aaron Schwartz,
a New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a phone
interview.  Akamai rose 8.7 percent to $22.35 today for the fourth-
biggest gain the in the Nasdaq 100.  Valued at 7.6 times Ebitda as of yesterday’s close, the
company is approaching its record low of 4.9 times set in
November 2008. That makes it cheaper than 15 of 16 U.S. Internet
software and services companies with market values greater than
$1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Internet Traffic  “While the stock is down here, it wouldn’t be very
surprising if somebody looked at them as a possible
acquisition,” Scott Tapley, who helps oversee $2.5 billion at
1st Source Investment Advisors Inc. in  South Bend ,  Indiana , said
in a phone interview. “The thesis behind their existence -- the
explosion of bandwidth consumption -- is playing out in
spades.”  Internet traffic will quadruple by 2015 to almost a
zettabyte, driven by growth in smartphones, tablet computers and
appliances connected to the Web,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  said in its
fifth annual Visual Networking Index  report  in June. More
consumers watching videos and accessing the Web on mobile
devices will strain service providers’ abilities to transmit
data quickly, said Cisco, the largest maker of networking
equipment. A zettabyte is equal to a trillion gigabytes.  An Akamai competitor such as Limelight, the $241 million
company based in Tempe,  Arizona , may be acquired first because
it is “bite-size” and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  owns 27
percent, Donna Jaegers, a Denver-based analyst at DA Davidson &
Co., said in a phone interview.  Record Revenue  Akamai is projected to post a 13 percent gain in 2011 net
income to $194 million, a fifth consecutive increase, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts also
project that sales will reach an all-time high of $1.14 billion
this year and $1.28 billion next year.  The company may not be willing to sell for less than $40 a
share, which would be a 95 percent premium to yesterday’s
closing price of $20.56, Rodney Ratliff, a  Memphis , Tennessee-
based analyst at SunTrust Robinson, said in a phone interview.  IBM is planning more acquisitions to fuel growth in its
$22.5 billion software business, Senior Vice President  Steve Mills  said in an interview. The Armonk, New York-based company,
which last week surpassed Microsoft Corp. to become the world’s
second-most valuable technology company after Apple, said it may
spend $100 million to $300 million on targets.  “IBM has made a lot of software acquisitions, it’s a
player in the cloud and it’s looking to increase that exposure
to the cloud,” DA Davidson’s Jaegers said. “They also have a
resale agreement with Akamai. You would expect anybody who has a
resale agreement with Akamai to think about maybe buying it
since they’ve already been test-driving the product.”  Verizon as Buyer  A telecommunications company, such as New York-based
Verizon Communications, could buy Akamai to be able to charge a
premium price for guaranteed Internet content delivery at better
performance rates on mobile phones, said Jefferies’ Schwartz.
Verizon Communications, the second-largest U.S. phone company,
is the majority owner of  Verizon Wireless , the No. 1 U.S. mobile
operator.  “On the telco side, the one that would make the most sense
would be Verizon,” SunTrust Robinson’s Ratliff said. “Verizon
is a big Akamai reseller.”  Akamai is now “an even more attractive acquisition
target” than it was earlier this year, Ratliff said.  “The market can’t stay this depressed forever,” he said.
“At the end of the day, it’s much more likely that you
ultimately will see Akamai taken out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 