-- 
Alabama Federal Judge Rejects Bid to Delay Enforcement of Immigration Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/alabama-federal-judge-rejects-bid-to-delay-enforcement-of-immigration-law.html
Enforcement of parts of  Alabama ’s new
immigration law won’t be put on hold while the U.S.  Justice
Department  appeals a Sept. 28 court ruling allowing them to take
effect, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama, yesterday denied the federal government’s
request, saying she didn’t foresee a “substantial” case for
reversal of her decision last week. The measures she upheld
include allowing police to make a “reasonable attempt” to
determine the immigration status of a person otherwise detained
or arrested.  “Alabama has an interest in enforcing laws properly
enacted by its legislature and not likely to be found
unconstitutional,” Blackburn said in a four-page ruling.  In a separate order, she denied a similar bid for delay in
enforcement requested by civil rights groups in a parallel case.  Governor Robert Bentley, a Republican, signed the Alabama
immigration legislation on June 9.  The law, the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen
Protection Act, includes provisions requiring public schools to
collect data on the enrollment of children of unlawful residents
and criminalizing the failure of illegal immigrants to complete
or carry alien registration documents.  The U.S. sued to prevent its enactment, arguing that
immigration policy can only be set by the federal government,
not the states.  Schools, Licenses  Blackburn’s Sept. 28 ruling allowed Alabama to enforce the
parts of the law that makes failure to carry documentation a
misdemeanor, as well as the school data portion of the law and a
provision enabling police to take drivers arrested without a
valid license before a magistrate for determination of their
citizenship.  Unlicensed drivers found to be in the U.S. illegally can
then be detained for prosecution or turned over to federal
immigration agents.  Blackburn barred enforcement of provisions that prevented
undocumented people from applying for jobs or working in the
state, and that prohibit them from being harbored or
transported. The judge was appointed to the federal court by
Republican President  George H.W. Bush .  Bentley then called the judge’s decisions a “victory” for
Alabama.  “I remain committed to seeing that this law is fully
implemented,” the governor said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We will continue to defend this law against any and
all challenges.”  Appeals Case  The federal government on Sept. 30 asked Blackburn to delay
enforcement while it challenged her prior rulings at the U.S.
appeals court in Atlanta. Xochitl Hinojosa, a spokeswoman for
the Justice Department, declined to comment on yesterday’s
decision.  “We’re extremely concerned about the continued harm that
this law will have on everyone in the state of Alabama,” Andre
Segura, an ACLU attorney, said yesterday in a phone interview.
The organization has received reports that children are being
held out of school there “out of fear of the effects of the
law.”  The New York-based group will ask the Atlanta appellate
court for an emergency order barring enforcement of the
challenged provisions, Segura said.  The federal government’s case is U.S. v. Bentley, 11-
cv-02746, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham). The civil rights groups’ case is Hispanic Interest
Coalition v. Bentley, 11-cv-2484, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  