-- 
Alaska Governor’s Oil-Tax Plan May Harm State’s Bond Credit, Analyst Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/alaska-governor-s-tax-plan-may-harm-state-s-credit-analyst-says.html
Alaska  Governor Sean Parnell’s
proposal to reduce oil taxes to spur production may cost the
state its top  credit rating , the Legislature’s nonpartisan
research office said.  The Republican governor has said his  plan  would shrink
revenue by as much as $2 billion a year, though the gap would
narrow as the incentives encourage companies to increase
exploration and output. Chuck Burnham, a legislative analyst,
said less revenue may force the state to balance its budget with
reserves in lean years.  “To the extent that oil-tax reductions increase the
state’s reliance on cash reserves, such reductions may be viewed
as a negative factor by  credit rating agencies ,” Burnham said
in a report.  Alaska, which has the second-largest U.S. crude reserves
after  Texas , gets more than 80 percent of its operating budget
from oil-production taxes and royalties. Alaska has no state tax
on personal income, property or sales. Its general-obligation
bonds carry a rating of Aaa from Moody’s Investors Service and
are graded one step lower, at AA+, by  Standard & Poor’s .  Burnham said revenue is only one factor that rating
companies would consider when reviewing the state.  Parnell wants to reduce the current 25 percent base-tax
rate to 15 percent and cap surcharges that now increase along
with the per-barrel price of oil.  ‘Climate for Investment’  “We are working to improve Alaska’s climate for
investment,” Parnell said in a Sept. 29  speech  to the Energy
Council in Anchorage. “We plan to incentivize exploration and
development in areas outside of existing units.”  Parnell’s office referred a request for comment to Revenue
Commissioner Bryan Butcher, who didn’t respond.  The analysis was produced at the request of state Senator
Bill Wielechowski, a Democrat who opposes Parnell’s plan. It was
previously reported by the The Anchorage Daily News.  “Alaska should take this threat seriously,” Wielechowski
said in a statement. “Our triple-A credit rating enables us to
build roads, bridges, schools and other public facilities at a
lower cost than would otherwise be the case. Our credit rating
is the envy of many states and we shouldn’t squander it.”  Parnell was lieutenant governor under Sarah Palin and took
the top office when she resigned in 2009. He is a former deputy
director of the state agency that manages oil and gas leases,
and was a lawyer for the Washington-based law firm Patton Boggs
LLC, whose clients at the time included oil producers such as
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  