-- 
Amazon’s Lovefilm Cuts Nordic Cash Forecast on Weak Growth

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-05T14:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/amazon-s-lovefilm-service-cuts-nordic-cash-flow-forecast-on-weak-growth.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s European DVD rental
and video-streaming service Lovefilm.com cut its long-term cash
flow forecast for Northern Europe as the company failed to lure
as many subscribers as initially planned.  Lovefilm which has been expanding into Norway, Denmark and
Sweden, lowered its cash flow forecast for the region based on
its five-year investment plan, the company said today in its
annual report filed with  Companies House  in  London . The company
wrote down the value of the Nordic unit by 2.4 million pounds
($3.7 million).  Lovefilm, whose main markets are the U.K. and Germany, is
competing in the Nordics with local rivals Voddler, whose
investors include Finish mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , and
Danish phone-company TDC A/S. Customer growth in the region
“has not met management expectations,” Lovefilm said.  “The Nordic region represents a very small proportion of
the overall customer base,” the company today said in an e-
mailed statement. “We expect the Nordic region will continue to
grow steadily but not at the same rate as the U.K. and
 Germany .”  Amazon, the largest online retailer, agreed to buy the
remaining shares of Lovefilm in January for $320 million, to aid
international expansion and compete with rivals including
Netflix Inc. in the fast-growing video-streaming market.  The Seattle-based e-commerce company initially took a
minority stake in Lovefilm after selling its DVD rental business
in the U.K. and Germany to the private company in 2008. In the
U.S., Amazon offers subscribers unlimited access to an online
video library through its $79 Amazon Prime service.  Lovefilm’s net loss narrowed to 560,000 pounds in 2010 from
a loss of 2.2 million pounds a year earlier as sales climbed 14
percent to 111.9 million pounds. The company had a total of 1.6
million subscribers at the end of December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  