-- 
Ambac Wins Approval of Reorganization, Nears Tax Resolution

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-10-05T14:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ambac-wins-approval-of-reorganization-plan-nears-tax-dispute-resolution.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, won court
approval of a plan to restructure more than $1.25 billion in
senior notes as a lawyer said the company is close to resolving
a key tax dispute.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  court
today approved the so-called disclosure statement, paving the
way for creditors to vote on a final Chapter 11 plan. She
overruled objections from shareholders who said the plan will
improperly give them nothing for their investments.  Separately, Peter Ivanic, a lawyer for Ambac, said the
company is close to resolving its dispute with the IRS over a
tax benefit, and would sit down with mediators next week if
there’s still a difference between the “bid and the ask” on a
settlement.  “This is the largest, one of the most complex and
complicated cases I’ve been involved in,” said Ivanic,
congratulating creditors’ lawyer Anthony Princi for helping
negotiate key terms, such as resolution of a  New York  City tax
dispute.  Ambac filed a revised plan last month after reaching an
agreement with a Wisconsin regulator that resolved how Ambac
Financial will share a tax benefit with its operating unit,
Ambac Assurance Corp., staving off liquidation of the holding
company or litigation with the regulator.  Unsecured Debt  There is $1.6 billion in unsecured debt that would need to
be fully repaid before shareholders are entitled to anything,
Ambac said in court papers. Ambac’s financial advisers have
determined that the value of Ambac Assurance is negative given
liabilities of over $2 billion, and future recovery for
creditors, who come in line before shareholders, is
“uncertain,” lawyers for Ambac wrote.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256
billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to
Bloomberg data. Ambac Financial, which relied on dividends from
the operating unit, filed for bankruptcy in November 2010, about
two years after Ambac Assurance stopped selling new policies in
2008.  IRS Dispute  Ambac Financial has yet to resolve a dispute with the
 Internal Revenue Service  over a tax benefit. The IRS has
questioned how Ambac Financial used $7.3 billion in net
operating losses, or NOLs, to account for its losses from credit
default swaps. The agency seeks an $807.2 million claim, which
Ambac said should be valued at zero, and a lawsuit over the
dispute is still in mediation.  Ambac’s plan values the reorganized company at $750
million. According to a mediation agreement with the Wisconsin
regulator, Ambac Assurance will get $3.8 billion in NOLs, or
less, depending on certain conditions.  Secured claims will be repaid in full and general unsecured
claims will get an 8.5 percent to 13.2 percent recovery,
according to the disclosure statement, which sets the
reorganization’s terms. Senior notes would get an 11.4 percent
to 17.6 percent recovery. The plan still requires court
approval, and Ambac seeks a hearing Dec. 8 to have it confirmed.  The plan proposes giving new stock and warrants to Ambac
Financial’s general unsecured creditors and holders of $1.25
billion in notes. If those note holders accept the plan, holders
of $444.2 million in subordinated notes would get 1.5 percent of
the stock plus warrants.  Ambac Financial listed liabilities of $1.68 billion in its
initial Chapter 11 petition.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABK) , 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 