-- 
Anadarko’s Mozambique Fields May Hold More Gas Than the U.K.

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:44:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/anadarko-sees-substantially-increased-offshore-area-potential.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the largest
U.S. independent oil and natural gas company by market value,
raised estimates of reserves at its offshore  Mozambique  fields
after appraising the Camarao prospect.  The cumulative results of exploration have “substantially
increased” the prospects of Offshore Area 1 of the deepwater
Rovuma Basin, it said in a statement. The company is confident
the Windjammer, Barquentine, Lagosta and Camarao complex holds
at least 10 trillion cubic feet of gas. That would be more than
the proven reserves of the U.K., according to BP Plc data.  “Our successful drilling program offshore Mozambique
continues to expand the already world-class resource potential
of this frontier basin,” Vice President  Bob Daniels  said in the
statement. “We are optimistic that our current resource
estimates will increase, as we still have significant
exploration and appraisal work ahead of us.”  Anadarko hired  Technip SA (TEC)  and  KBR Inc. (KBR)  in August to design
a liquefied natural gas plant in Mozambique after appraising
reserves in the Rovuma Basin. The partners, including Mitsui &
Co. and  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , may build as many as six trains, or LNG
production units.  Cove said last year it would sell its 8.5 percent stake in
the exploration venture to avoid development costs. Its shares
jumped 11 percent to 74 pence in London.  Cove “will face challenges monetizing its stake offshore
Mozambique given its minority interest,” Phil Corbett, an
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an e-
mailed report.  East Africa  may hold 40 trillion cubic feet of potential
gas resources, according to estimates by Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  