-- 
Manchester City’s Tevez Was Mistranslated Before Suspension, Adviser Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-05T16:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/manchester-city-s-tevez-was-mistranslated-before-suspension-adviser-says.html
Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez 
never refused his manager’s request to enter a Champions League
game and comments he made after the match were mistranslated,
his adviser said today.  Tevez, who cost City a reported 45 million pounds ($69
million), was suspended with full pay pending an investigation
by the  soccer club . He met City officials two days ago to
discuss the events from the game at  Bayern Munich  last week.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said he wanted to put Tevez in
as a substitute during the second half of City’s 2-0 loss and
the 27-year-old refused.  Tevez, who sought to leave City this summer to return to
 South America  and be closer to his family, denied the
accusation. His adviser Kia Joorabchian said he’d only refused
to warm up and comments after the game in which the Argentina
international is said to have told a television interview he
wasn’t “mentally right” to play were misquoted.  “If you don’t have a very professional interpreter you
have a problem,” Joorabchian said at a conference in  London .
“The interpretation was incorrect. Both questions and both
answers from Carlos were interpreted incorrectly.”  Independent experts used by  Sky News  to view the interview
with its partner Sky Sports News verified the translation.  In the translation Tevez is quoted as saying, “It’s just
that I didn’t want to go in because I thought I was unwell. I
wasn’t emotionally well, and I thought it better not to. I felt
that it wasn’t suitable that I go on because my head wasn’t in
the right place.”  The forward later released a statement after the game
saying there had been a “misunderstanding”.  “I had warmed up and was ready to play,” Tevez said.
“This is not the right time to get into specific details as to
why this did not happen, but I wish to state that I never
refused to play.”  “I know Carlos in a totally different light to what most
people around the world now him,” Joorabchian said. “Since he
was an 18-year-old boy you cannot criticize his commitment on
the pitch and for not wanting to play.”  Joorabchian once owned Tevez’s contract rights and signed
him for a record $20 million for  Brazil ’s Corinthians before
bringing him and teammate  Javier Mascherano  to  England ’s West
Ham in a loan deal. Their arrivals promoted the Premier League
to ban the practice of third-party ownership.  Joorabchian said he still finances those types of deals in
countries that allow outside companies to own rights of players,
notably in Brazil. He said such a model helps teams who are
unable to raise funds from banks.  “If the banks are not willing to lend them money there
needs to be another vehicle to lend them money to allow them to
compete,” he said. “Otherwise it will always be the top four
or you need to find billionaire. The smaller clubs will never
get a chance to succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  