-- 
Manhattan Waterfront ‘Greenway’ Heads Toward Completion Under UN Land Deal

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-10-05T23:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/land-deal-with-un-closes-nyc-gap-mayor.html
New York City  moved a step closer to
completing an 18-year-old plan for a waterfront esplanade around
 Manhattan  after the United Nations Development Corp. agreed to
pay $73 million for land to build offices, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The transaction would provide cash to fill a  one-mile gap 
between East 38th and 60th Streets, allowing runners, bicyclists
and walkers to use a waterside pathway from the Hudson River in
Washington Heights south to the Battery, and then north along
the  East River  past Wall Street to 125th Street. Currently
cyclists and pedestrians have to leave the path and use First
Avenue and other streets on that midtown stretch.  Under the memorandum of understanding, reached after months
of negotiation, the United Nations Development Corp., a public-
benefit corporation separate from the UN, would pay $73 million
to a specially created entity, the Eastside Greenway and Park
Fund. It would receive part of  Robert Moses Playground , just
south of UN headquarters, where the world body has sought land
to build an  office tower .  “Today’s agreement puts in place a critical missing link
-- the last major gap in the Manhattan Greenway -- that will
make the waterfront a resource for the whole city to enjoy,”
Bloomberg said in a prepared statement.  Creating Jobs  Should the UN decide to go forward, Bloomberg said, it
would expand an institution that’s already one of the city’s
largest employers and create jobs. The Legislature and Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  permitted the city to sell part of the one-acre
playground in July.  If successful, the development entity, a party to the
memorandum of understanding signed today, would lease space in
the new building to the UN.  “The UN is appreciative of the efforts that would enable
us to consolidate our offices that are currently spread out in
more than half a dozen locations around the city,” said  Martin
Nesirky , a spokesman for UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in an
interview.  “The UN is looking forward to an invitation to enter lease
discussions,” Nesirky said. Any lease agreement would have to
be approved by a majority vote of the UN General Assembly, he
said.  Park Improvement  The city would also reap hundreds of millions of dollars
for the esplanade from the sale of United Nations Plaza, two
city-owned buildings where the UN rents offices at below-market
rates, the mayor said.  The playground’s sale would pay to improve St. Vartan Park,
about five blocks south of the UN, to compensate for the loss of
part of the playground.  The  East River Esplanade , a continuous bikeway and walking
corridor with parks and playgrounds, extends from  Wall Street 
north featuring low-energy-consuming lighting, recycled
materials and low-maintenance planted landscaping.  It is a link in the 32-mile  Manhattan Greenway , a project
permitting cyclists to circumnavigate Manhattan, mostly along
its waterfront, and part of a  citywide initiative  to develop and
increase public access to the city’s 520 total miles of
shoreline.  Increasing recreational use along the East River may boost
property values by attracting more people to the area, according
to Leanne Lachman, president of Lachman Associates, a  New York- 
based real estate consulting firm.  Real Estate Values  “Being able to go all the way around the waterfront would
just be fabulous,” said Lachman, an executive-in-residence at
 Columbia Business School . “It’ll really enhance not only
values, but just the enjoyment of the neighborhood.”  The economic benefits of the UN’s presence, she said, stem
from diplomats as tenants and consumers. They are “very
important users of space, users of restaurants, everything,”
she said. “And they’ll use the park along the river too.”  Some residents of the nearby Tudor City apartment complex
have complained that the new building would block their views,
said state Senator Liz Krueger, who supports the project. Since
Tudor City has a limited number of windows facing the UN, the
impact on views will be “minimal,” she said.  Krueger said supporters of the project have sent her office
4,000 letters, e-mails and calls compared with 200 in
opposition. The esplanade will probably increase property
values, she said.  “Looking at what’s happened on the West Side, with the
expansion of  Hudson River  Park and the High Line and other
improved access, I think that absolutely it’s been verified that
those expanded parks have significantly added to the value of
real estate,” she said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News’s
parent, Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Spencer at 
 kspencer14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  