-- 
Announced Job Cuts Rise 212% From Year Ago

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-05T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/announced-u-s-job-cuts-rise-212-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
U.S. employers announced the most job
cuts in more than two years in September, led by planned
reductions at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and in the military.  Announced firings jumped 212 percent, the largest increase
since January 2009, to 115,730 last month from 37,151 in
September 2010, according to Chicago-based Challenger, Gray &
Christmas Inc. Cuts in government employment, led by the Army’s
five-year troop reduction plan, and at Bank of America accounted
for almost 70 percent of the announcements.  While the bulk of firings are not “directly related” to
economic weakness, they “could definitely be a sign of more
cuts to come,” John A. Challenger, chief executive officer of
Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a statement. “Bank of
America is not the only bank still struggling in the wake of the
housing collapse, and the military cutbacks are probably just
the tip of the iceberg when it comes to federal spending cuts.”  More reductions will add to the pool of job seekers
competing for work as policy makers, including President  Barack
Obama  and Federal Reserve officials, strive to spur the labor
market. Payrolls probably didn’t rise fast enough last month to
lower the jobless rate, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Labor Department’s monthly jobs figures in
two days.  Compared with August, job-cut announcements climbed 126
percent, the Challenger report showed. Because the figures
aren’t adjusted for seasonal effects, economists prefer to focus
on year-over-year changes rather than monthly numbers.  Government agencies announced 54,182 reductions in
September. Of those, 50,000 resulted from the troop reductions
announced by the Army, Challenger said.  Financial Companies  Financial companies announced 31,167 cuts, the second most
layoffs. Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
said on Sept. 12 it will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few
years as part of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s
plan to bolster profit. The reductions, equal to about 10
percent of the staff, are part of an overhaul that aims to
remove about $5 billion in annual costs by the end of 2013.  Today’s report also showed that employers announced plans
in September to hire 76,551 workers, up from 15,201 the prior
month, while down from 123,076 in the same month last year.
Retailers led the gains, planning to add 70,912 positions ahead
of holiday.  September Employment  Employers probably added 60,000 jobs in September as the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead of the
Oct. 7 Labor Department figures.  The Fed ‘will continue to closely monitor economic
developments and is prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” the central bank’s Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said yesterday in testimony to Congress.  “Recent indicators, including new claims for  unemployment
insurance  and surveys of hiring plans, point to the likelihood
of more sluggish job growth in the period ahead,” he said.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose jobs are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  