-- 
Anonymous Vows NYSE Attack to Support Wall Street Protests

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-05T17:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/anonymous-vows-to-attack-nyse-in-support-of-occupty-wall-street-protests.html
Anonymous, a group of self-styled
hacker-activists behind attacks on corporate and government
websites, vowed to support the Occupy  Wall Street  protests by
erasing the New York Stock Exchange “from the Internet” on
Oct. 10.  The group posted a video message on YouTube declaring war
on the world’s largest stock exchange in retaliation for the
mass arrests of Wall Street protesters, and posted a link to the
video on one of several Anonymous Twitter feeds.  The two-minute message didn’t elaborate on the threat or
whether it referred only to an attack on the NYSE website, which
would have no effect on trading.  Anonymous has launched several so-called directed denial of
service attacks on websites over several months, including
actions in December against the sites of  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and
 Visa Inc. (V)  Members of the group use specialized software to
launch the attacks, which can slow or crash the site for a short
period of time, according to court documents.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which
operates the exchange, said the company doesn’t comment on
rumors or security matters.  NYSE.com includes corporate information, press releases,
trading notices, the company’s rules and bylaws, and access to
services for companies whose stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange. The trading systems are run separately through a
secure  data center  in Mahwah,  New Jersey .  Homeland Security  Memo  Last month, the Department of Homeland Security circulated
a memo warning of cyber attacks by Anonymous, as well as the
group’s involvement in the Occupy Wall Street protests.  Anonymous had deployed new tools to help members attack
websites, the memo said, listing two pieces of software called
#RefRef and Apache Killer.  The memo also said that the group was trying to recruit
employees of Wall Street companies and warned of possible
blackmail attempts against other insiders to gain their
cooperation.  “Anonymous has recently used Twitter to attempt to solicit
ideologically dissatisfied, sympathetic employees from within
institutions in the financial sector,” DHS said in the memo
said. “To date these attempts appear unsuccessful,” the
department said.  Disputed Threat  The threat been disputed by some members of Anonymous, who
said on Twitter that it hadn’t been sanctioned. A similar
dispute occurred over an announcement in July that Anonymous
would attack Facebook on Nov. 5, 2011.  A posting on Anonnews.org said it was almost impossible to
verify the operation because of the nature of Anonymous as an
organization “free of hierarchical structure.”  The potential attack on NYSE “may or may not be a false
flag operation initiated by authorities in order to discredit
Anonymous and Occupy Wall Street,” the post said.  Stocks listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange trade on
almost all U.S. exchanges and other systems where investors can
buy and sell securities, including electronic communications
networks, broker-dealers and dark pools, or private venues that
match orders without displaying prices in advance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 