-- 
Apartment Builders Stymied by Wait for U.S. Government Loans

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/apartment-builders-slowed-by-wait-for-u-s-loans.html
With Denver apartment buildings
filling up, developer  Allied Realty  decided last year to build
330 new rental units on a hill overlooking the city’s downtown.  Bank credit for multifamily construction, which seized up
during the 2008 financial crisis, was still hard to come by. So
Allied applied for a loan insured by the  Federal Housing
Administration , which offers long-term financing at favorable
 interest rates .  Three months ago, after hearing nothing from the government
for nearly a year, the company decided to pull its FHA loan
application, said Lauren Brockman, a principal at Allied.  “They couldn’t give us a time when they would get to it,”
Brockman said in an interview.  A surge in single-family foreclosures combined with tighter
credit markets has given the federal government a dramatically
expanded role in financing new construction and rehabilitation
of multifamily units.  The result is a backlog of applications. Government
officials and developers say the FHA -- constrained by
government austerity -- has had a tough time handling the
demands of its new role as a cornerstone of apartment lending.  Government-sponsored enterprises including  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  now hold  41 percent  of outstanding multifamily
mortgage debt, up from 34 percent in 2008, according to the
Mortgage Bankers Association. And the FHA expects to endorse a
record $12 billion in multifamily loans in fiscal year 2011, up
from about $2 billion in 2008.  FHA says it endorsed 1,100 multifamily loans so far this
fiscal year, nearly seven times the number just three years ago.  Keeping Pace  “FHA has been hard-pressed to keep pace with the demand,”
Carol Galante, acting commissioner of the FHA said in testimony
prepared for a congressional hearing last month.  As its loan volume has quadrupled, the number of FHA staff
devoted to multifamily loans has dropped through attrition to
1,414 nationwide, down 13 percent since 2005. In addition, the
agency tightened underwriting standards last year and began
requiring more documentation.  These factors have created a traffic jam of loans waiting
for approval, according to David B. Cardwell, a vice president
of the  National Multi Housing Council , a  Washington  trade group
representing apartment builders. Loans that should take 60 to 90
days are delayed as long as 18 months. Builders have told the
group they are frustrated by the difficulty of determining the
status of their loan applications and with the lengthy approval
process, complicated by tighter underwriting.  “Have they stepped up? Yes, they have,” Cardwell said in
an interview. The results of FHA’s efforts to improve the delays
caused by underwriting changes are “mixed at best,” he said.  New Guidelines  Officials at the FHA say the delays exist only in some of
its 52 field offices around the country -- those where there is
the greatest demand. The agency just published a new  guide  to
its mortgage application procedures and is working with the
field offices to standardize the loan process and train staff to
work more efficiently, officials said.  “Even with the new underwriting guidelines from last year,
we are endorsing more loans than ever, providing necessary
liquidity to the marketplace while minimizing risk to public
dollars,” Galante said in an e-mailed statement.  Apartment builders report a recent slight easing in bank
credit, which has in turn reduced some of the reliance on
government financing. Eventually, Allied Realty obtained a  bank
loan  for its Denver project, Brockman said. In smaller markets,
though, developers might not have that option and could be stuck
waiting for the government to act, he said.  Slowing Starts  Even as the number of renters is increasing, multi-family
housing starts have slowed to about 100,000 units annually --
compared with about 300,000 before 2008. This, in turn, is
sending rents higher.  “The pent-up demand is tremendous, and the ability for us
to build product is putting a lot of pressure on rents, which is
going to put a lot of pressure on affordability,” Brockman
said.  Reliance on the government isn’t likely to decrease any
time soon, Cardwell said. The  Mortgage Bankers Association 
reported last week that outstanding commercial and multi-family
mortgage debt increased in the second quarter of this year for
the first time in seven quarters. Government agencies increased
their holdings of multifamily mortgages by $4 billion, while
commercial banks increased their holdings by just $1 billion.  “The dominance of the government participation in the
market is still a major component of owners’ access to reliable
debt,” Cardwell said. “I think that our members and the
industry as a whole still have some concern about the way banks
are going to respond to the current and near-term economic
conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 