-- 
Apple Beats HTC as Nokia Customer Loyalty Falls for First Time

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-05T11:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/apple-beats-htc-samsung-as-nokia-s-customer-loyalty-falls-for-first-time.html
IPhone users are most likely to buy
their next handset again from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s customer
loyalty dropped for the first time, a survey shows.  About 93 percent of iPhone owners in the U.S. and 88
percent in the U.K., Germany and France said they would probably
or definitely go for another Apple handset, said Paul Brown, an
analyst at  Strategy Analytics , citing a poll. Nokia’s brand
loyalty was 63 percent in Europe, compared with 74 percent a
year earlier, while only one in two Nokia users in the U.S.
plans to buy the next handset from the Finnish manufacturer.  “A lackluster portfolio of user-friendly touchscreen
devices is one of the key reasons for this decline,” Brown said
in an interview. “By creating a powerful brand image, along
with a compelling user experience, Apple has managed to create a
high level of brand loyalty amongst existing users.”  Gearing up for the holiday season, Apple yesterday
introduced an upgrade of its best-selling product with voice
recognition features and a higher-resolution camera. Nokia,
seeking to stem a loss of market share to Apple and makers of
Android handsets like  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung Electronics Co.,
said its introduction of products based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows Phone 7 is scheduled for the “weeks ahead.”  More Crowded  Nokia rose as much as 4.1 percent in Helsinki trading after
Apple yesterday didn’t introduce a more revolutionary iPhone 5
model. At 2:47 p.m. local time, the stock was up 2.7 percent at
4.09 euros. Apple dropped 0.4 percent to the equivalent of
$371.69 in German trading. The stock yesterday fell 0.6 percent
in  New York .  The highest user satisfaction rate among major mobile-phone
vendors may help Cupertino, California-based Apple defend its
position as the largest smartphone vendor as the market becomes
more crowded. At the same time, Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland,
allied with Microsoft to lure consumers and app developers with
the Windows Phone system.  Strategy Analytics , which surveyed 1,497 users in Europe
and 987 in the U.S. in August and September, plans to release a
full report including China and  India  next week.  “A key challenge for Apple next year will be whether the
company can maintain such high loyalty rates following the
retirement of iconic chief executive  Steve Jobs ,” Analytics
analyst  Neil Mawston  said.  Topping HTC, RIM  Jobs, who co-founded Apple with  Steve Wozniak  in 1976,
ceded the CEO post to  Tim Cook  in August while remaining
chairman.  HTC’s handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android ranked second
in the survey with an 81 percent expected repurchase rate in
Europe and 75 percent in the U.S.  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker
of the BlackBerry, reached 72 percent in both regions, while
Samsung Android phones polled at 66 percent in Europe and 73
percent in the U.S.  Android was the best-selling smartphone operating system
worldwide in the second quarter as sales rose more than fourfold
to 43.3 percent of the market, led by Samsung and HTC, according
to researcher Gartner Inc. Apple had an 18.2 percent share.  “Apple created a new experiential bar that all of a sudden
everything else was measured against,” Nokia Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop said yesterday.  Nokia became the world’s biggest handset maker in 1998 and
fell behind in smartphones after Apple’s 2007 introduction of
the iPhone, which raised consumer expectations for handsets that
can handle corporate e-mail and play movies and music.  The iPhone increased its satisfaction score in  Europe  this
year from 59 percent in 2008 when it was first included in the
 Strategy Analytics  poll. Earlier data from the U.S. weren’t
available. Nokia polled between 72 percent and 74 percent in
earlier Europe surveys before posting a decline this year.  Nokia scored 23 percent user satisfaction for its Web
browsers in Europe compared with 67 percent for Apple. Nokia
rolled out new browsers for its handsets this summer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  