-- 
Apple’s Tim Cook Aims to Woo Shoppers Without Pizazz of IPhone 5 Redesign

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-05T20:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/apple-s-tim-cook-aims-to-woo-shoppers-without-pizzazz-of-iphone5-redesign.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  this holiday season will
have to prove it’s what’s on the inside that matters most.  With its latest iPhone 4S, Apple didn’t tinker with the
outside of the device, focusing instead on improving the
processor, camera and software interface. The challenge will be
persuading shoppers to upgrade to a new product that looks
exactly like their old one.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook , in his first major
product release since taking over for  Steve Jobs , is counting on
faster speed, voice recognition and the iCloud storage service
to make the iPhone a success. The device, Apple’s best-selling
product, will face off against an army of fresh smartphones
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, including Samsung Electronics
Co.’s Galaxy S II and LG Electronics Inc.’s Thrill 4G.  Apple “didn’t quite understand how revved up expectations
had gotten,” said Frank Gillett, an analyst at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc. Some users were
looking for a more revolutionary iPhone 5, rather than just a
faster iPhone 4, he said. Instead, “Apple is asking people to
appreciate and give them credit for a highly engineered and
integrated set of products and services.”  Jobs Absent  Cook also has to promote the new iPhone without as much
day-to-day assistance from Jobs, whose expertise in marketing
and design helped turn Apple into the world’s most valuable
technology company. Jobs, who switched from CEO to chairman on
Aug. 24, didn’t appear at the unveiling of the iPhone 4S
yesterday. The 56-year-old has taken three medical leaves over
the past seven years amid a battle with a rare form of cancer.  The success of the iPhone has helped Apple weather market
turmoil and the resignation of Jobs, with the shares gaining 17
percent this year. Apple rose $5.75, or 1.5 percent, to $378.25
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Apple touted the inside changes to the iPhone 4S at
yesterday’s event, held at its headquarters in Cupertino,
 California . The A5 chip will make graphics seven times speedier
and deliver twice the processing power. The model will cost $199,
$299 and $399, depending on features, and will be available from
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for the first time. Apple already had
agreements with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless .  Motorola Deal  “Inside, it is all new,” said Phil Schiller, a senior
vice president in charge of product marketing.  At stake is leadership in the market for smartphones, which
is projected to double by 2015, according to IDC. A billion of
the handsets will be sold that year, the research firm estimates.
While the iPhone is the world’s most popular smartphone, the
Android operating system is more widely used by the industry.  Google aims to bolster that position by purchasing its own
mobile-phone manufacturer, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. A
full redesign under the iPhone 5 banner, along with a revamped
iPhone 4, would have given Apple more ammunition to use against
Google and its Android partners.  Even so, Apple benefits from more efficient manufacturing
by keeping the same body design, Gillett said.  “One thing people don’t understand about Apple is they
don’t just change the look for the heck of it,” he said. “They
think about it for a very long time.”  Camera Replacement  The iPhone 4S, available Oct. 14, will have a camera that
has 60 percent more pixels and can shoot high-definition video.
The device also relies on an “intelligent antenna system”
that’s designed to improve call quality and works with both CDMA
and GSM wireless standards. Users will have up to 8 hours of
talk time on one charge.  “For many customers, the iPhone 4S will be the best still
camera they’ve ever owned, the best video camera they’ve ever
owned, and it’s with them all the time,” Schiller said.  The new voice-recognition system will turn the device into
a hands-free personal assistant. The technology lets users check
weather, get directions or surf the Web using speech commands.
Apple already had basic  voice-control  abilities on the iPhone
for placing a call or accessing a song.  Apple acquired a speech-recognition software company last
year called Siri, which helped it develop the new features. The
system relies on artificial intelligence to handle users’
questions. The features, combined with the more aggressive
prices, will give Apple an edge, said  Andy Hargreaves , an
analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .  ICloud Release  “Siri is very unique from what I’ve seen and should
continue to differentiate them at the high end,” he said.  The older iPhone 4 model will now cost $99, and the iPhone
3GS will be free with a wireless contract.  The company also is preparing to release iCloud, which
stores pictures, music and other files on Apple’s remote servers.
The content can be accessed through iPads, iPhones and Macs via
the Internet, and mobile devices no longer have to sync up to a
computer. ICloud will debut on Oct. 12.  Voice recognition is emerging as the latest arena for
Apple’s rivalry with Google, which has  spent years  promoting
speech technology. Current Google features let users transcribe
voice messages to text, ask for turn-by-turn driving directions
and perform Web searches based on verbal commands.  Apple’s iPod, meanwhile, remains an important business,
Cook said -- even as the iPhone cannibalizes some of its sales.
As it prepares for the year-end shopping season, the company
introduced a new $129 version of the iPod Nano and a range of
iPod Touch models starting at $199.  The iPod, which made its debut 10 years ago, has reached
sales of 300 million units globally.  “It took Sony 30 years to sell 220 million Walkman
cassette players,” Cook said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  