-- 
Marriott Reports Quarterly Loss on Costs From Hotel Chain’s Timeshare Unit

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/marriott-reports-q3-loss-on-timeshare-costs.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, had a third-quarter
loss after recording costs related to a timeshare business it’s
planning to spin off.  The net loss was $179 million, or 52 cents a share,
compared with a profit of $83 million, or 22 cents, a year
earlier, the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said yesterday in
a statement. Analysts expected earnings of 28 cents a share, the
average of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Results included $324 million of pretax impairment costs at
Marriott’s timeshare business, hurt by a slump in demand as
economic growth slows. The company said in February that it
would separate the unit later this year to concentrate on
operating properties.  “The spinoff of our timeshare business is on track,” J.W. Marriott Jr., the company’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. It’s scheduled for completion by
the end of the year, he said.  Earnings before a pretax charge of $352 million, which
includes the impairment related to the timeshare segment, beat
estimates. Adjusted earnings were $104 million, or 29 cents a
share. On that basis, analysts expected a profit of 27 cents,
the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Marriott’s revenue rose to $2.87 billion in the third
quarter from $2.65 billion a year earlier.  Growth in Revpar  At its hotel operations, which include the Ritz-Carlton
brand, Marriott said it expects revenue per available room, an
industry measure of occupancy and rate, to grow 5 percent to 7
percent this quarter, and 3 percent to 7 percent next year,
before adjustments for currency fluctuations. In the third
quarter, it increased 6.9 percent.  Slower growth in the  U.S. economy  will weigh on hotel
occupancy and room rates, according to  Patrick Scholes , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. with an “outperform”
rating on the shares. The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in
August and has been stuck at 9 percent or higher for five
months.  “The macroeconomic environment has definitely had an
impact nobody can deny,” Scholes said in a telephone interview.
“The fact that they start their revpar range at 3 percent tells
me there is a chance that next year could be pretty soft. Three
or four months ago, Street estimates were 7 to 9 percent.”  In the third quarter, revpar increased 6.9 percent in  North
America , the same as the worldwide gain, Marriott said. That’s
less than the 9.6 percent increase this year through August
across all hotels in the top 25 U.S. markets, and 8.1 percent
nationwide, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Lowered Outlook  Last week, Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook
for the U.S. lodging industry as slower economic growth
threatens to limit demand for travel and curtail operators’
ability to raise room rates.  Shares of hotel companies tumbled in the third quarter as
job growth stalled and the  Federal Reserve  said there are
“significant downside risks” to the U.S. economy. Marriott
declined 23 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30.  The company announced earnings after the close of regular
U.S. trading yesterday. Its shares rose 4 percent to $28.18 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  Marriott is the first of the major U.S. hotel chains to
report third-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  