-- 
Asian Stocks, Oil Snap Three-Day Decline on European Banks; Euro Weakens

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-10-05T00:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/asian-stocks-oil-snap-three-day-decline-on-european-banks-euro-weakens.html
Asia  stocks and oil rose for the
first time in four days on speculation Europe will recapitalize
its banks to tame the region’s debt crisis. The euro weakened
against the dollar and yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.4 percent at 9:28 a.m.
in  Tokyo . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell less than 0.1
percent after a rally in the U.S. stocks gauge in the final hour
of trading yesterday. Oil jumped 2.9 percent to $77.86 a barrel
in  New York . Copper gained 1.9 percent to $6,927 a metric ton in
 London . The euro fell 0.3 percent to 102.25 yen after yesterday
jumping the most in more than five months. The 17-nation
currency declined 0.3 percent to $1.3309.  Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said a “bad bank” to
hold Dexia SA’s troubled assets will be set up as the debt
crisis spreads from the continent’s periphery to its heartland.
European Union Commissioner for Economic Affairs Olli Rehn said
ministers see a need to adopt a “coordinated approach,” the
Financial Times reported yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank can take further steps to
sustain a recovery that’s “close to faltering.”  “The markets are trading on news of the day, rumors,
announcements and innuendo,”  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage
about $15 billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in San Francisco,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “That’s going to
continue until we have some visibility into the future with
respect to the  U.S. economy , what’s happening in Europe as well
as what’s going on in Asia.”  An index of financial companies on MSCI’s Asia Pacific
Index rose 0.8 percent, helping the benchmark gauge snap a
three-day, 5.7 percent slump. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
climbed 1.1 percent, and South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.5
percent.  Banks, Dexia  EU finance ministers are discussing ways of coordinating
recapitalizations of the region’s lenders after recognizing that
they hadn’t succeeded in convincing financial markets that the
banks could survive the current debt crisis, the FT reported,
citing unnamed officials.  The board of Dexia, a Paris- and Brussels-based municipal
lender, met Oct. 3 to discuss a breakup of the bank after the
sovereign debt crisis reduced its ability to obtain funding,
said three people with knowledge of the talks. The bank’s shares
have dropped 59 percent this year, the fourth-largest loss on
the Bloomberg  Europe  500 Banks and Financial Services Index.  The  S&P 500  fell 1.4 percent at 3 p.m. New York time and
ended the day with a 2.3 percent advance. It was the 10th time
since 1985 that the index posted a loss of 1 percent or more at
3 p.m. and was up when the market closed, according to data
compiled by Harrison, New York-based Bespoke Investment Group
LLC. The measure declined the next day eight times, with losses
averaging 1.3 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  