-- 
Asian Currencies Advance on Speculation Federal Reserve to Boost Stimulus

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-05T09:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/asian-currencies-advance-on-speculation-federal-reserve-to-boost-stimulus.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and  South Korea ’s won, on speculation policy
makers in  Europe  and the U.S. will boost monetary stimulus to
revive the global economy.  The ringgit advanced for a second day as economists
predicted that official data this week will show Malaysia’s
export growth quickened in August. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rallied yesterday as Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
Federal Reserve can take further steps to sustain a recovery
that’s “close to faltering.”  “We had a very positive finish to  Wall Street  overnight
and that has seen the market open on a positive footing but it
appears to be pretty fleeting,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
Singapore-based strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “Any relief
rally will be used as an opportunity to buy the dollar.”  The ringgit advanced 0.3 percent to 3.1910 per dollar as of
4:46 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Singapore’s dollar strengthened 0.6 percent to
S$1.3071 and the won gained 0.3 percent to 1,190.23.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares rose as much as 0.6
percent after the Financial Times cited European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  as saying the
recapitalization of Europe’s banks must continue to help address
the region’s debt crisis.  Malaysian Exports  “Prospects of a recapitalization in Europe and Bernanke’s
statement helped to boost risk appetite,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur.  The ringgit climbed from a 15-month low as the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey showed  Malaysia ’s
exports rose 8 percent in August from a year earlier after
having grown 7.1 percent the prior month. The statistics
department will release the data tomorrow.  The won pared gains after advancing as much as 0.5 percent
as South Korea’s foreign-exchange reserves dropped the most
since November 2008. The reserves were $303.4 billion at the end
of September, compared with $312.2 billion a month earlier, the
Bank of Korea said today. The drop came as Finance Minister Bahk
Jae Wan said the government will act to stabilize the financial
markets when needed.  Thai Intervention  Central banks are selling U.S. Treasuries at a record pace
to support their weakening currencies as Europe’s debt crisis
drains capital from emerging-market economies, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. Central bank net sales of U.S. Treasuries
held in custody at the  Federal Reserve  reached a record $25.3
billion last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand’s baht was steady after the central bank said it
intervened in the market “recently.” Policy makers “sold the
dollar, but not much,” Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
yesterday.  The baht slid 3.7 percent last month, the most in a decade,
on concern a faltering global recovery will damp demand for the
nation’s exports. Overseas shipments account for about two-
thirds of Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy. The baht
traded at 31.15 per dollar, compared with 31.16 yesterday.  “Intervention won’t be able to reverse the trend, but the
baht’s decline may stall just for now,” said Minori Uchida, a
senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The  Philippine peso  advanced 0.5 percent to 43.868 per
dollar and Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to NT$30.632.
Indonesia’s rupiah lost 0.3 percent to 8,933. Financial markets
in  China  are shut this week for the National Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  