-- 
Massachusetts Attorney General Cites ‘Lost Confidence’ in Banks, May Sue

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-05T22:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/massachusetts-attorney-general-coakley-says-she-may-sue-banks.html
Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said she may sue major banks after she “lost
confidence” that they will reach an adequate agreement to
resolve disputes over foreclosure practices.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states last year announced a
probe of bank foreclosure practices following reports that
faulty documents were used to seize homes. Since then, attorneys
general and federal officials have been negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S. --  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  “I have lost confidence that the banks will bring to the
table an agreement that properly holds them accountable for
wrongful foreclosures,” Coakley, 58, said in a statement today.
“Because our office for some time has anticipated that result,
we have begun preparing for litigation.”  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said last week
that she was rejecting a proposed settlement with the banks and
would pursue her own mortgage investigation, according to a
letter she wrote to the U.S. Justice Department and Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading talks for the
states.  State Probes  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , Delaware
Attorney General Beau Biden and Nevada Attorney General
Catherine Cortez Masto are also conducting mortgage-related
investigations as settlement talks with the banks continue.  Miller said today that the settlement being worked on will
hold the banks accountable “in ways that are unprecedented”
and will help struggling homeowners across the country. Further
negotiations took place this week in Washington.  “While attorneys general are free to criticize an
agreement that does not yet exist, we expect that they’ll soon
see the tangible results of our yearlong efforts to address
improper servicing and foreclosure practices, and provide relief
to homeowners,” Miller said in an e-mailed statement.  Coakley said her office is “aggressively proceeding” with
plans to file lawsuits. They would include claims tied to the
failure to establish the right to start a foreclosure and the
filing of false or misleading documents, she said.  Coakley, who has been investigating a mortgage database
used by banks known as MERS, didn’t disclose when or which banks
would be sued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 