-- 
AT&T May Be ‘Big Winner’ in New IPhone Battle With Verizon

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-05T20:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/at-t-may-be-big-winner-with-new-iphone.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless operator, may gain an edge against its rivals with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone announcements.  AT&T uses network technology designed to handle data
traffic for iPhone 4S, the model unveiled yesterday, at as much
as twice the speed of Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
according to Apple. AT&T will also have an exclusive on the
cheaper iPhone 3GS, which the company will give away with a two-
year service contract.  The result may be that AT&T will have an advantage in
drawing new customers against Verizon Wireless, the country’s
largest carrier, and Sprint, which will be offering the Apple
device for the first time this fall, said James Dailey, chief
investment officer at Team Financial Asset Management LLC.  “There could be a competitive advantage,” Dailey, who is
based in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , and holds AT&T shares, said
in an interview. “That could shift some momentum back to AT&T
from Verizon.”  The AT&T iPhone 4S uses a faster version of technology
called high-speed packet access, or HSPA, that increases speeds
to as much as 14.4 megabits per second. The Verizon and Sprint
iPhones use a technology called CDMA, or code division multiple
access, for which there’s no comparable speed jump.  “The big winner on this phone is AT&T,” said  Roger
Entner , a wireless strategist with Boston-based Recon Analytics.  Beyond Product Specs  For Verizon, which outpaced AT&T in subscriber growth in
the second quarter, the relative speeds of the Apple iPhone may
make it more challenging to draw new customers in the fourth
quarter, said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst with Hudson Square
Research in New York.  “Verizon is going to be marketing the exact same phone
that AT&T and Sprint have, except it will be 3G with a limited
data plan,” Rethemeier said in a note today. “We think this
puts Verizon at a significant marketing disadvantage.”  Verizon Wireless said customers will chose a carrier
because of factors that go beyond product specifications.  “While iPhone 4S may look like the same device across all
carriers, customers know they are choosing reliability when they
select a Verizon Wireless iPhone 4S,” said Marni Walden, the
company’s chief marketing officer.  AT&T, based in Dallas, rose 43 cents to $28.31 at 4 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has dropped 3.6 percent
this year.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , based in New York,
dropped 13 cents to $35.77, while Sprint, based in  Overland
Park , Kansas, closed unchanged at $2.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  