-- 
Australian Retail Sales Rose for Second Month in August

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-05T00:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/australian-retail-sales-rose-for-second-month-in-august-1-.html
Australian retail sales advanced more
than economists forecast in August for a second straight month,
led by spending on household goods and dining out.  Sales rose 0.6 percent from a month earlier, when they
increased a revised 0.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 22 economists was for a 0.2 percent gain.  Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens yesterday held the
benchmark  interest rate  at 4.75 percent for an 11th month as
consumers turn cautious and to gauge the fallout from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Australian economy, which has avoided a recession
for two decades, is continuing to get a lift from mineral
extraction.  Recent indicators “show  consumer spending  rising at a
healthy clip,”  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP
Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker,
said before the report. “Today’s data is belatedly reflecting
that fact.”  Spending on household goods rose 1.7 percent, and consumers
spent 1.2 percent more at cafes and restaurants, today’s report
showed. They spent 0.8 percent less at department stores, it
showed.  The Australian dollar pared an earlier fall against its U.S.
counterpart after the report. The currency traded at 95.22 U.S.
cents at 11.32 a.m. in Sydney from 95.72 cents yesterday in  New
York  and 95.15 cents before the data.  Supermarket Sales  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second-largest retailer, said
fourth-quarter sales from its Coles supermarkets rose 7.2
percent as cheaper milk and bread lured customers.  Revenue at Coles rose to A$8 billion ($7.6 billion) in the
three months ended June 26 from A$7.4 billion a year earlier,
Perth-based Wesfarmers said in a July 28 statement. The sales
growth rate compares with the 7.4 percent median estimate of
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Australia’s household savings rate held above 10 percent in
the three months through June, when the economy expanded 1.2
percent, the fastest pace in four years, spurred by household
spending and a recovery from natural disasters in the northeast.  The RBA boosted its rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, tempering a rise in consumer debt, which more
than tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  Chief Executive Officer Bernie Brookes
said  consumer confidence  in Australia is at a three-decade low
and doesn’t expect any improvement in at least six months.  “The poor consumers are being bludgeoned,” the CEO of the
nation’s biggest department-store chain said in a Sept. 27
interview. Sales during the Australian winter slumped as much as
5 percent, he said, and Christmas will be a “bit better” this
year after being “so bad last year.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  