-- 
Australian, New Zealand Dollars Hold Two-Day Advance Before ECB Meeting

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-05T22:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/australian-new-zealand-dollars-hold-two-day-advance-before-ecb-meeting.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars held a two-day rally versus the U.S. currency before the
European Central Bank holds a meeting today amid optimism
Europe’s leaders are discussing a plan to recapitalize lenders.  Demand for both South Pacific currencies was boosted as
futures signaled Asian equities will extend a worldwide rally in
stocks, increasing demand for higher-yielding assets. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday Europe’s rescue fund
will only be used as a last resort to save banks, and investors
may have to take deeper losses as part of a Greek rescue.  “The crazy jigsaw that is the European debt debacle is
starting to see a plan bubbling around in the background and
that should be positive for risk,” said  Chris Weston , an
institutional dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “Hopefully
we’ll see some further measures from the ECB and that should be
good for the euro and also help the Aussie push upward.”  Australia’s dollar traded at 96.40 U.S. cents at 9:24 a.m.
in Sydney from 96.59 in  New York  yesterday, when it rose 0.9
percent. The currency fetched 74.07 yen from 74.18 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar bought 76.60 cents after yesterday advancing
0.8 percent to 76.63 cents. It traded at 58.85 yen from 58.84.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 1.9 percent yesterday, ending three days of declines, and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.8 percent. Raw
materials account for the majority of exports from  Australia  and
New Zealand.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  