-- 
Australia Bank Mortgage Discounts Unsustainable, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-10-05T01:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/australia-bank-mortgage-discounts-unsustainable-jpmorgan-says.html
Australia ’s biggest lenders will be
unable to sustain the discounts they’re now offering to mortgage
borrowers in their efforts to boost flagging credit growth,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Fujitsu Ltd. said.  In the short term, Australian banks can take advantage of
declining  interest rates  for deposits to fund discounts on home
loans, according to the semiannual  JPMorgan/Fujitsu Australia
Mortgage Industry Report  released today. As maturing debt pushes
the cost of refinancing higher, banks will face difficulty
keeping up these discounts, the report said.  Growth in Australian home loan approvals has been slowing
after the nation’s central bank raised interest rates seven
times from October 2009 to November 2010 to prevent a property
market bubble.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , Westpac Banking Group and
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  have all cut rates on fixed-rate
mortgages to boost credit growth.  “Renewed competition in the current low growth environment
is now driving the higher discounts being offered to mortgage
customers, with improved pricing seemingly across the board,”
Scott Manning, a Sydney-based analyst at JPMorgan, said in the
report. “Australian banks will have an increasing balance of
maturing term debt that will need to be re-financed over the
coming three to six months, either through new wholesale debt or
through deposits.”  With offshore funding still challenging, deposits will
become more expensive and discounts now offered on mortgages
unsustainable, Manning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  