-- 
Australian Government Debt Turnover Accelerates on Central Bank Activity

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-05T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/australian-government-debt-turnover-accelerates-on-central-bank-activity.html
Australian government debt turnover
grew last financial year at more than three times the pace of
the previous period as federal and state authorities sold more
bonds and overseas central banks became more active, according
to the Australian Financial Markets Association.  Transactions in  Australia ’s government securities grew 60
percent to A$1.5 trillion ($1.4 trillion) in the 12 months ended
June 30, after increasing 17 percent in the previous year.
Turnover of debt issued by banks, companies and highly-rated
foreign borrowers increased 34 percent to A$908 billion,
according to the 2011 Australian Financial Markets Report
released today. Overall, over-the-counter and exchange-traded
financial market activity grew 23.5 percent.  Australian sovereign bonds provided the best returns among
26 markets over the past 12 months as a U.S. ratings downgrade
by  Standard & Poor’s  and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis spurred
investors to seek alternatives to assets denominated in euros
and dollars. An increase in demand for the nation’s assets also
spurred highly rated borrowers such as the World Bank Group and
the  European Investment Bank  to boost issuance in Australia.  “Commonwealth and state programs were strongly supported
by both domestic and offshore investors,” the report said. Amid
Europe’s debt crisis “Australian bank and corporate debt should
perform reasonably well when compared with global peers,
benefiting from the relative safe-haven status of Australian
government debt,” it said.  Australian sovereign bonds returned 11.2 percent in the
past 12 months, Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes show. Corporate notes
gained 10.4 percent, compared with 1.8 percent for a gauge of
global company debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data.  Turnover in federal government debt securities by offshore
central banks rose more than 140 percent last year, the report
showed.  Rate Bets  Changing expectations on interest-rate moves by the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia also boosted transactions in overnight index
swaps, the report showed. Transactions rose 120 percent last
financial year as Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised  interest rates 
in November, increasing speculation policy makers would continue
to increase the benchmark.  Since June, the prospect of slower global growth has
spurred investors to increase bets on rate cuts instead, with a
Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps indicating 157 basis
points in reductions over the next 12 months. Australia’s
benchmark rate of 4.75 percent is the highest in the developed
world.  The AFMA report released today is produced by the
Australian Financial Markets Association along with Austrade and
the Australian Securities Exchange. It analyzes data collected
from market participants and covers the period from July 1,
2010, to June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  