-- 
Lax Law Gives U.S. Subsidiaries an Opening to Sell to Iran: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-05T00:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lax-law-gives-u-s-subsidiaries-an-opening-to-sell-to-bellicose-iran-view.html
“U.S. and international officials
appear to agree that the sanctions have not, to date, hurt
 Iran ’s economy to the point at which the core Western goals on
 Iran’s nuclear program  can be accomplished.”  That was the conclusion of a  report  last month by Kenneth Katzman of the  Congressional Research Service , a nonpartisan
group that writes policy and legal analysis for lawmakers.  A prime example of the porousness of the sanctions can be
found in November’s issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine, which
 focuses on  the business ethics of the petrochemical conglomerate
owned by Charles and  David Koch , the billionaire brothers who
are big donors to conservative political causes. Starting in the
1990s and until at least 2007, a Koch Industries Inc. subsidiary
with offices in Italy and  Germany  circumvented the U.S. embargo
by selling millions of dollars of equipment to Iran’s oil
industry.  Did Koch break the law? It seems not. The company relied on
a loophole in the 1996  Iran Sanctions Act  and subsequent laws
and executive orders that make it illegal for U.S. companies to
do business in Iran’s oil sector, the lifeblood of the rogue
nation’s economy. This weakness in the sanctions regime has
allowed opportunistic foreign subsidiaries of American companies
to conduct business in Iran as long as American or U.S.-based
employees weren’t involved in the transactions.  A subsidiary, Koch-Glitsch, sold products to a unit of the
state-owned National Iranian Petrochemical Co. to help build the
largest plant in the world to process natural gas into methanol,
a compound used in plastics, paints and chemicals. According to
documents obtained by Bloomberg Markets, Koch-Glitsch also
sought to work on the expansion of the largest refinery in Iran
and the development of South Pars, the world’s largest natural-
gas field.  Koch-Glitsch began to wind down its involvement in Iran in
2006, and Melissa Cohlmia, the director of corporate
communications for the Wichita, Kansas-based parent company,
informed Bloomberg that the European unit’s actions “were
consistent with applicable U.S. laws allowing such sales at the
foreign subsidiary level.”  Koch is hardly the only U.S. company to have benefited from
this shortcoming in the law. According to the Congressional
Research Service report,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Huntsman
Corp. (HUN)  -- the family business of Republican presidential hopeful
 Jon Huntsman  -- have all conducted business in Iran through
foreign subsidiaries.  These companies began pulling back operations only after a
2005 scandal, when it came to light that Halliburton, where Vice
President  Dick Cheney  had served as chief executive officer,
used a subsidiary registered in the  Cayman Islands  to carry out
contracts for work on  oil fields  in Iran. Nobody knows how much
commerce is being done this way with Iran today -- because it is
not illegal, it isn’t being carefully tracked.  Last year’s Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability
and Divestment Act strengthened previous restrictions for U.S.
companies and their subsidiaries. It prohibited U.S. companies
from doing energy-sector work -- particularly work that could
help Iran produce or import gasoline. The legislation also set
penalties for financial institutions that did business with the
entities affiliated with the Tehran regime.  Although the law was a step in the right direction, gaps
remain. Some American companies are likely to turn a blind eye
to unsavory practices by subsidiaries as long as there is
“wiggle room,” says Gary Milhollin, the director of the
 Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control , which monitors
business dealings with Iran. Despite the sanction, it remains
possible for subsidiaries of U.S. companies to provide Iran so-
called dual-use supplies that could be adopted for use in
missile and nuclear programs.  This dangerous situation could be remedied with an
unequivocal prohibition on commerce by U.S. companies and their
subsidiaries with Iran. Language to that effect was included in
the Senate version of last year’s measure, but was stripped out
of the law before it was sent to President  Barack Obama  --
another demonstration of effective resistance by some business
trade groups and their allies in Congress.  Iran gets closer each day to developing a nuclear weapon,
further destabilizing an already shaky region. The U.S. faces an
uphill battle in rallying international support for tougher
sanctions, and the unseemly laxity toward American companies
leaves the administration open to justified accusations of
hypocrisy. Congress could ease this diplomatic challenge -- and
make the world a somewhat safer place -- with a stricter law on
sales to Iran.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 