-- 
Baht Gains After Bank of Thailand Says It Intervened; Bonds Rise

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-05T08:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/baht-is-steady-after-bank-of-thailand-says-it-bought-dollars.html
Thailand ’s baht gained for a second
day after the central bank said yesterday it had intervened in
the foreign-exchange market “recently” to curb volatility.
Bonds rose for a fourth day.  The Bank of Thailand “sold the dollar, but not much,”
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said yesterday after the close
of local trading. The baht slid 3.7 percent last month, the most
in a decade, on concern a faltering global recovery will damp
demand for the nation’s exports. Overseas shipments account for
about two-thirds of  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy.  “Intervention won’t be able to reverse the trend, but the
baht’s decline may stall just for now,” said Minori Uchida,
senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The baht advanced 0.1 percent to 31.13 per dollar as of
3:00 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency may fluctuate between 30.80 and 31.30 this month,
Uchida said.  Government bonds  rose after a government report showed this
week inflation eased last month. The yield on the 5.4 percent
notes due July 2016 dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.52 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thailand’s consumer price index rose 4.03 percent in
September from a year earlier, the least since March, official
data show. Inflation expectations aren’t likely to increase and
policy makers have “closed the gap somewhat” on normalizing
 interest rates , Prasarn said on Sept. 24. The central bank,
which has raised its benchmark interest rate six times this
year, meets next on Oct. 19.  “The Bank of Thailand may have to pause at least this
month in raising rates as external conditions have been
deteriorating,” Uchida said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  