-- 
Barclays CMBS Spread Index at Widest Since February 2010

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-05T18:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/barclays-super-duper-cmbs-spreads-at-widest-since-february-2010.html
The extra yield investors demand to
hold the top-ranked portion of bonds backed by commercial
mortgages jumped to the highest level since February 2010 amid
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will erode bank balance
sheets.  Spreads on the BarCap CMBS AAA Super Duper Index widened 29
basis points yesterday to 323 basis points, or 3.23 percentage
points. Relative yields have climbed from 226 basis points since
the end of July, after sinking as low as 178 basis points on
April 26, the index data show.  The commercial-mortgage  bond market  has been whipsawed as
investors shun all but the safest securities on concern that the
global economic recovery is stumbling, hindering Wall Street’s
ability to make new loans for sale as securities. A lack of new
loans makes it harder for borrowers with debt coming due to
refinance.  “We haven’t seen stabilization yet,” said Julia Tcherkassova, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst based in New
York at  Barclays Capital . “Originators need to see that
stability.”  It takes several months to accumulate mortgages to package
for sale as bonds, and price swings on the debt mean that
lenders may be stuck with unprofitable loans if values decline
in the interim.  Loan Quotes  While banks are providing quotes on new loans to property
owners, the success rate is low because the borrowing costs
aren’t competitive with insurance companies, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in an Oct. 3 report. Volatile spreads and the
lack of an effective tool for lenders to guard against losses
are the biggest impediments to new issuance, New York-based
analysts led by  Alan Todd  wrote in the report.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender, which had been
predicting as much as $45 billion in sales this year, cut the
issuance forecast for 2011 to $25 billion. Sales plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record $234 billion in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $20 billion
of the debt has been issued in 2011.  Markit Group Ltd. started a derivative index this week that
mimics the performance of commercial-mortgage bonds sold after
2009. That may allow lenders to offset the risk of warehousing
loans on their books to jumpstart new issuance.  It may be difficult to find investors to take the other
side of that trade, according to Roger Lehman, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York .  “Unless it becomes more liquid, or cheaper, a buyer of
that risk would rather take the cash bonds because they are
easier to get out of,” Lehman said.  Editors: Pierre Paulden, John Parry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  