-- 
German Stocks Rise on Funding Aid Optimism; Deutsche Bank Gains

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-06T15:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/basf-deutsche-boerse-equity-market-preview-for-germany.html
German stocks advanced for a second
day on optimism policy makers will step up their efforts to
contain Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, even as the European
Central Bank left  interest rates  unchanged.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s biggest bank, gained after
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the body plans
coordinated action to recapitalize banks.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and
 Salzgitter AG (SZG)  rallied with metal prices.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 3.2 percent to 5,645.25 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge jumped 4.9 percent
yesterday after the Financial Times quoted Olli Rehn, the
European Union’s commissioner for economic affairs, as saying
there’s an “increasingly shared view” that the region needs a
coordinated approach to halt the debt crisis.  “In Europe, the gloomiest assumptions about the debt
crisis are being priced in,” said Milan-based Giordano Lombardo, group chief investment officer at Pioneer Investments,
which manages $238 billion. “When market conditions become less
volatile, conventional metrics such as price-to-earnings ratios
or price-to-book ratios are likely to regain a key role and
European equities should have more upside than other markets in
this better environment.”  The DAX has retreated 25 percent since this year’s high on
May 2 and is trading at 8.8 times the estimated earnings of its
companies, near the lowest since 2008, according to Bloomberg
data. The broader HDAX Index climbed 3.3 percent today.  Coordinated Action  The  European Central Bank  resisted calls to cut interest
rates at President Jean-Claude Trichet’s final policy meeting
today and left the benchmark rate at 1.5 percent. The ECB said
it will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce yearlong
loans for banks.  Financial stocks gained on optimism bank balance sheets
will be protected. “We are now proposing to the member states
to have a coordinated action to recapitalize banks and so to get
rid of toxic assets that they may have,” Barroso said today in
a video question-and-answer session. Euro-region lenders may
need more than 140 billion euros ($187 billion) through a
program similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program,
Morgan Stanley analysts said.  Deutsche Bank climbed 2.6 percent to 27.2 euros. Smaller
rival  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  advanced 3.9 percent to 1.85 euros. The
Stoxx 600 Banks Index rose 4.2 percent, extending yesterday’s
4.6 percent gain.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today policy makers
need to “look again” at whether European banks need additional
capital.  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter, Germany’s biggest steelmakers,
jumped 9.4 percent to 19.7 euros and 5.9 percent to 37.29 euros,
respectively. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all advanced on
the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  