-- 
Bernanke Signals Political Pressure Wouldn’t Halt More Easing

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/bernanke-signals-pressure-from-congress-wouldn-t-halt-additional-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he’ll push forward with further expansion of
monetary stimulus if needed, resisting pressure from Republicans
concerned that he’s fanning inflation.  Bernanke said yesterday in testimony to Congress’s Joint
Economic Committee that the Fed is “prepared to take further
action as appropriate” after using unconventional tools to
boost growth in August and September. He rejected comments by
Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina and Senator  Mike Lee  of
 Utah  that record central bank stimulus has spun inflation and
the money supply out of control.  Some Republicans are trying to remove the half of the Fed’s
congressional mandate to achieve “maximum employment,”
focusing it only on keeping inflation low. Representative Mick Mulvaney said the Fed chief could legitimately push ahead with
more stimulus so long as he keeps price increases in check.  “Doing so, given his dual mandate, is completely
defensible despite our objections,” Mulvaney, a first-term
Republican who represents the town of Dillon,  South Carolina ,
where Bernanke grew up, said in an interview after the hearing.
“Because how are we supposed to say, ‘Look, inflation is
killing us,’ when it’s not, yet?”  The Fed’s preferred price index, the personal consumption
expenditures index, excluding food and fuel, rose 1.6 percent in
August from a year earlier, up from 1 percent in March. The
index including all prices rose 2.9 percent in August, compared
with 2 percent in March.  Oil Price Jump  Bernanke, 57, said in his testimony that price increases
“have begun to moderate” after a jump in oil costs earlier
this year resulted in higher prices for gasoline and food.
Faster inflation this year “does not appear to have become
ingrained in the economy,” he said, and cited a recent decline
in what traders expect for inflation.  A measure of inflation expectations for five to 10 years
out, based on a 2008 Fed research paper, declined to 2.16
percent on Sept. 30, the most recent date available, from 2.79
percent at the end of August.  Top Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio , sent Bernanke a letter last month urging the central bank
to avoid further monetary easing. Also in September,
Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, renewed his
push to strip regional Fed presidents of their vote on interest-
rate policy after three regional chiefs dissented from the Fed’s
August easing.  Utah’s Lee told Bernanke that “most Americans believe,
correctly I think, that the prices of products and services they
buy on a daily basis, things like gasoline, electricity, heating
oil, health-care services, have increased significantly in
recent years and have grown more volatile.”  ‘Essentially  Price Stability ’  Bernanke responded that inflation has come down over the
last 30 years and during his tenure has been “about 2 percent,
which is essentially price stability.”  “So I think the record on price stability has been very,
very good actually,” he said.  South Carolina’s DeMint said during the hearing that the
Fed’s stimulus has caused an “exponential increase in monetary
supply relative to the growth of the economy.”  Bernanke responded that “the evidence is that all of the
things we’ve done have not driven inflation above the price
stability level.” In addition, while the monetary base, which
includes $1.55 trillion in bank reserves, has “grown
tremendously,” the  money supply  that “most Americans think
about” which includes cash and checking accounts, hasn’t
expanded “unusually,” he said.  Remaining Tools  Bernanke said yesterday that the Fed’s remaining tools to
boost growth include giving more information about its pledge to
keep  interest rates  low at least through mid-2013, reducing the
rate paid on banks’ reserve deposits and buying more securities.  The Fed chief and his colleagues may decide to link a
future rise in interest rates more closely to their outlook for
inflation and possibly unemployment over the medium term, said
Roberto Perli, managing director in charge of policy research at
International Strategy and Investment Group in Washington.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  could say that it will
see no need to tighten policy so long as their forecast for
inflation for the next two to three years remains below 2
percent. The message would be clearer if the FOMC also specified
what unemployment rate would induce them to raise rates, he said.  “This type of policy is probably more powerful in terms of
keeping rates where they want them to be than buying a few
hundred billion of Treasuries,” said Perli, a former associate
director in the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs. “Something
on this might come out in November, but reaching an agreement
will be very challenging given the many different views” of
policy makers, he said.  ‘Off the Table’  Responding to a question, Bernanke said the central bank
has no immediate plans for another round of large-scale asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing. At the same time, he
said, the Fed doesn’t take “anything off the table.”  The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in August and has
been stuck at 9 percent or higher for five months. Employers
added zero jobs to payrolls in August, down from 85,000 in July,
according to the Labor Department. Sustained payroll increases
of around 150,000 a month are needed to bring unemployment down
about half a percentage point over a year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  Small Business  Bernanke indicated he wouldn’t go too far in the opposite
direction of what some Republicans want. He dismissed a
suggestion by Vermont Senator  Bernard Sanders , an independent
and self-described socialist, that if the Fed could lend
trillions of dollars to big banks during the crisis, it could
also set up a similar large-scale program for small businesses
now.  “I don’t think that’s our role and I’m sure we don’t have
the authority to do that,” Bernanke told Sanders.  Bernanke is still regarded well personally even by his
Republican critics. DeMint began his questioning by thanking the
Fed chief for his service during a “very difficult time.”
Representative Kevin Brady, a Republican from  Texas  who’s vice
chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said Bernanke is
“serving very well” even as they disagree over the Fed’s
monetary stimulus over the past year.  “They’re trying to do way too much, but  Chairman Bernanke ’s
not the problem,” Brady said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. Instead, he criticized President Barack Obama’s White House for “failed leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  