-- 
BlackRock CEO Fink Says He Understands ‘Occupy Wall Street’ Demonstrators

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-10-06T00:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/blackrock-chief-fink-defends-occupy-wall-street-protesters.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink, head of the world’s largest asset
manager, said he understands the concerns of protesters speaking
out against financial firms in New York and other cities.  “The protesting is a statement the future is very clouded
for a lot of people,” Fink, 58, said yesterday during an event
in Toronto. “These are not lazy people sitting around looking
for something to do. We have people losing hope and they’re
going into the street, whether it’s justified or not.”  New York City police have arrested at least 700 people
since the rallies began Sept. 17. Demonstrators used social
media to spread the protests to cities including  Boston ,
 Chicago , Denver,  San Francisco , Pittsburgh and  Seattle . Those
drawn to the “Occupy  Wall Street ” campaign have used signs and
chants to denounce banks and corporate influence on politics.  “People are afraid of the future,” Fink said. “We have
some structural issues we have to fix.”  Labor organizations including Transport Workers Union Local
100, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s biggest union,
marched alongside protesters in New York yesterday. The crowd
was estimated at 10,000, said Patrick Brunner, a spokesman for
Occupy Wall Street.  Demonstrators initially struggled to build momentum,
drawing a fraction of the 20,000 participants that organizers
such as Adbusters, a group promoting the demonstrations, aimed
to lure to lower  Manhattan . Instead, about 1,000 people showed
up, and by the time traders and bankers returned to work two
days later, the crowd had dwindled to about 200. The number of
protesters camping in Zuccotti Park a few blocks from the  New
York  Stock Exchange fell into the dozens that week.  On Sept. 24, a larger group of weekend protesters watched
as a New York Police Department deputy inspector used pepper
spray on some participants. The incident stoked public interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  