-- 
BNY Mellon ‘Sledgehammer’ Lawsuits Raise Pressure to Settle Currency Cases

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-10-05T20:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/bny-mellon-sledgehammer-lawsuits-raise-pressure-to-settle-barbash-says.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
largest custody bank, faces increased pressure to reach
settlements on foreign-exchange cases following new lawsuits
brought by New York and federal officials.  The New York attorney general and the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in  Manhattan , each of which filed complaints yesterday,
bring deeper resources and more expertise on financial cases,
Barry Barbash, head of the asset-management group at law firm
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, said in an interview from his
Washington office. New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman can also wield the state’s powerful Martin Act, he
said.  “The Martin Act is a fairly significant sledgehammer of a
statute” that makes it easier for prosecutors to prove fraud
compared with many other states’ laws, said Barbash, a former
director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
division of  investment management .  The New York suit, brought yesterday in the state’s  Supreme
Court , accuses BNY Mellon of defrauding public pension funds of
$2 billion over 10 years. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a
separate suit in federal court. Florida and  Virginia  have also
filed claims against the bank and Massachusetts regulators are
investigating similar claims.  The bank fell 54 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $18.28 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has lost
39 percent this year, compared with the 30 percent decline by
Standard & Poor’s 19-company index of asset managers and custody
banks.  ‘Flawed Analysis’  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on a “flawed
analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global foreign-exchange
market, he said.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody provider,
faces similar lawsuits from California and  Arkansas . The Boston-
based firm has said it will defend itself against the claims.  Northern Trust Corp., based in  Chicago  and the fourth-
biggest custody bank, hasn’t been named in any foreign-exchange-
related lawsuits, the company said. New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail asking if it had been sued.  Schneiderman alleged in his complaint that BNY Mellon
violated the Martin Act, New York state’s securities fraud
statute, which doesn’t require proof of intent as a prerequisite
to proving an act of fraud.  ‘Pretty Darn Broad’  “It’s pretty darn broad,” Peter Pope, a partner in  New
York  for the law firm Jenner & Block LLP, said of the Martin Act
in a telephone interview. “It encompasses ‘all deceitful
practices contrary to the plain rules of common honesty’,” he
said, quoting from case law.  Barbash said the two new plaintiffs may represent tougher
opponents to BNY Mellon than other litigants.  “These two formidable government agencies potentially
change the dynamic of the lawsuits and may put more practical
pressure on the banks to settle,” Barbash said. “Being in the
center of New York, they can draw from a greater talent pool and
may be more sophisticated in terms of their knowledge and
experience on financial cases.”  Pope, who led the criminal division of that office under
former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , agreed, adding,
“Historically, when the attorney general of New York gets
involved in a case, it brings a huge amount of additional
enforcement attention to the issue.”  Neither Barbash’s firm nor Pope’s represent any of the
parties involved in the litigation.  Standing Instruction  All the states’ cases center on the pricing of small
foreign-exchange transactions handled automatically by the
custody banks on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as
standing instruction.  The banks have claimed they acted as a principal, selling
one currency for another in arms-length transactions at a price
they set that customers were free to accept or reject. The
plaintiffs have claimed the banks were obliged to act as an
agent, obtaining for them the best possible  exchange rate  in the
interbank  currency market , and misled clients on how they set
prices.  BNY Mellon defrauded thousands of clients nationwide,
according to the New York complaint. Victims included public and
private pension funds and federally insured financial
institutions, officials said in court papers and in statements.
New York City pension funds, including the Teachers’ Retirement
System of the City of New York, lost tens of millions of
dollars, they said.  Heightened Anxiety  Equity analysts covering BNY Mellon said the new suits will
increase shareholder worries without necessarily exposing the
bank to significantly higher financial risk.  “Will it heighten anxiety? It probably does,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst with Guggenheim
Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview. “But it still
doesn’t mean they did anything that wasn’t in the legal
agreements.”  “We believe the likelihood the $2 billion claim will be
awarded is minimal,” John Stilmar, an analyst with SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc. in Atlanta, wrote in a research note
published today. “We believe the FX operations may be
misunderstood by the states suing the trust banks, and punitive
penalties will not be as much as current headlines.”  BNY Mellon said in July that pretax revenue from standing
instruction foreign-exchange transactions for public pension
funds in 2011 will total about $36 million, Stilmar wrote, which
is “dramatically lower than the attorney general’s claim.”  Foreign-Exchange Revenue  “The New York State attorney general is working hard to
find ways to sue banks,” Richard X. Bove, an analyst with
Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida , said in a telephone
interview. “I am sure he will come up with more. New York seems
to have a burning need to drive out as many financial companies
as it can.”  BNY Mellon reported $184 million in foreign-exchange
revenue in the second quarter, about 5 percent of total revenue.
Roughly 40 percent of that revenue, or about 2 percent of total
revenue, came through standing instruction, according to Heine,
the spokesman.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . They also manage investments for
individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  