-- 
Bond Traders Left Adrift as Dealers Reduce Risk: Credit Markets

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-06T03:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/bond-traders-left-adrift-as-dealers-reduce-risk-credit-markets.html
Europe’s crisis of confidence is
crippling credit-market trading as banks shrink bond inventories
to the least since the depths of the last recession.  Federal Reserve data show U.S. primary dealers cut their
holdings of corporate debt by 33 percent to $63.5 billion since
May, bringing stockpiles to within $4 billion of the five-year
low reached in April 2009. Trading in investment-grade company
bonds has dropped 27 percent since February, according to Trace
data compiled by  Barclays Capital , and a measure of the cost to
buy and sell debt is at the highest in more than two years.  Evaporating liquidity is contributing to the biggest junk-
bond losses since the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
three years ago as Europe’s leaders seek to prevent the region’s
fiscal imbalances from infecting the global banking system and
the U.S. economic recovery struggles to gain footing. Sales of
new high-yield securities have all but disappeared and prices in
debt markets are swinging by the most since 2008.  “Everything is moving very quickly,” said Tom Farina, a
managing director in New York at Deutsche Insurance Asset
Management, which oversees more than $200 billion. “With the
experience of the credit crisis still fresh in our minds,
there’s a greater appreciation for how much the market could
decline over a short period of time.”  ‘Functioning Market’  Convulsions are spreading beyond corporate debt with
dealers restricting trading in bonds tied to skyscrapers,
shopping malls and other types of property, according to
Ellington Management Group LLC.  “It is very hard to get a dealer to provide good
liquidity” in commercial mortgage bonds rated AA and lower,
said Leo Huang, an investment manager overseeing commercial
real-estate debt at  Old Greenwich , Connecticut-based Ellington.
“For a functioning market, you need to have a market for those
bonds.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, BAE Systems Plc led $3.4
billion of company bond sales in the U.S. as issuance shows
signs of reviving. The cost to protect corporate debt from
default declined and relative yields on bonds backed by
commercial mortgages jumped to the highest level since February
2010.  Bonds of New York-based Morgan Stanley were the most
actively traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers, with 168
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Its $1.5 billion of 5.5 percent notes due in July 2021 rose
1.5 cents to 86.3 cents on the dollar, Trace data show. The
bonds, which yield 7.5 percent, fell from 100.1 cents on Sept.
20 as investor concern mounted that  Europe ’s debt crisis would
spread to U.S. bank balance sheets.  BAE, John Deere Sales  BAE Systems sold $1.25 billion of debt in three parts in
its first offering since June 2009. Europe’s largest defense
company issued $500 million of 4.75 percent notes due in October
2021 that yield 287.5 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Deere Capital Corp., the financing unit of Moline,
Illinois-based machinery maker Deere & Co., and Darden
Restaurants Inc. also issued bonds after sales fell 96 percent
during the two days ended Oct. 4 from a week earlier.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 145.1 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The measure, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, dropped as reports
depicted faster-than-forecast growth in payrolls and service
industries and rising fuel demand.  European Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 9 to
199 as the  International Monetary Fund  said European Union
officials are working on plans to boost bank capital to contain
the debt crisis.  In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of
40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  fell 10 basis points
to 257.5 as of 8:14 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 6
basis points to 225 basis points as of 9:11 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
Deutsche Bank AG prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Underwrite Loans  Spreads on the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper Index
widened 29 basis points on Oct. 4 to 323 basis points, or 3.23
percentage points. Relative yields have climbed from 226 since
July.  Volatility is making it harder for  Wall Street  to
underwrite loans, Julia Tcherkassova, a commercial-mortgage debt
analyst based in  New York  at Barclays, said yesterday.
“Originators need to see that stability.”  It takes several months to accumulate mortgages to package
for sale as bonds, and price swings on the debt mean that
lenders may be stuck with unprofitable loans if values decline
in the interim.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
fell for the sixth day, reaching the lowest level since December
2009. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, dropped 0.06 cent to
86.96 cents on the dollar and is down from this year’s high of
96.48 in February.  Primary Dealer Holdings  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In emerging markets relative yields shrank 9 basis points
to 475 basis points yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index. The index has ranged this year from 259
basis points on Jan. 5 to 496 basis points on Oct. 4. The gauge
rose 1 basis point to 476 as of 9:25 a.m. in  Hong Kong  today.  The 22 primary dealers of U.S. government securities that
trade directly with the  Federal Reserve  have reduced holdings of
corporate and securitized debt lacking government guarantees
from $94.9 billion at the end of May, Fed data show. Inventories
peaked at $235 billion in October 2007 and fell to as low as
$59.8 billion in April 2009.  Even as European leaders have vowed to stand behind the
region’s banking system and prevent the sovereign debt crisis
from escalating, they’ve faced domestic opposition to expanding
rescue packages for the most debt-laden nations. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday Europe’s rescue fund
will only be used as a last resort to save banks and that
investors may have to take deeper losses as part of a Greek
rescue.  Bid Ask Spreads  “It makes sense that people have pulled back a little
bit,” said Jeffrey Meli, head of credit strategy at Barclays in
New York. “It’s harder to determine appropriate pricing for a
political problem than a financial problem.”  The four-week moving average of daily investment-grade
bonds traded on Trace dropped to $10.6 billion on Sept. 30, from
$14.6 billion Feb. 11, according data compiled by Barclays.  At the same time, the gap between where dealers buy and
sell debt has widened to the most since July 2009. The so-called
bid-ask spread for the 15 most-traded credit-default swaps on
U.S. investment-grade companies expanded to 18.7 basis points on
Oct. 4, compared with 4.9 basis points at the end of July,
according to market prices compiled by London-based CMA. That’s
equivalent to $18,700 on a $10 million contract.  ‘Extremely Poor’  “It’s hard to buy or sell securities right now,” said
Meli. “There’s been a substantial decline in dealer balance
sheets and Trace volumes have also fallen. If dealers are
cutting balance sheets, there’s just less buffer capital to buy
and sell securities.”  A measure of price swings over a 50-day period for high-
yield bonds is at the highest since December 2008. The Barclays
Capital U.S. Corporate High Yield Average OAS index reached 35.6
yesterday, from 14.9 at the start of June.  “People are not going to buy a bond today when tomorrow
it’s going to be down 5 points,” said Peter Plaut, a senior
vice president and high-yield and distressed bond salesman at MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in New York. “Liquidity is extremely
poor.”  Junk bonds  lost 7.5 percent in August and September
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, the
biggest two-month loss since the period ended November 2008. U.S.
bank bonds declined 3.7 percent during the same period. Issuance
of speculative-grade debt has dropped to $7.1 billion since the
end of July, down 89 percent from the same period last year,
Bloomberg data show.  Forced Selling  The “impaired” credit markets are particularly troubling
because they’ve deteriorated even without the kinds of forced
selling that took place three years ago during the crisis
triggered by the U.S. housing market collapse and Lehman’s
bankruptcy, according to strategists at Wells Fargo Securities.  “The credit markets have significantly less leverage now
than was the case in 2008, so we have not seen the forced
selling from collapsing layers of leverage in the synthetic
credit markets,” fixed-income strategists led by Richard Gordon
said in an Oct. 4 report.  As trading in bonds seizes up, demand for credit-default
swaps tied to corporate borrowers and trading partners, or
counterparties, such as banks is rising.  Trading in the top 1,000 credit swaps on individual
borrowers jumped to 33,471 contracts in the week ended Sept. 30,
compared with a weekly average of 23,578 contracts in the six
months ended in August, according to  Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp.  data.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other investment firms traded 253
contracts tied to Morgan Stanley last week, protecting $2.2
billion. That compares with a weekly average of 73 contracts
backing $710 million in the six months ended in August, DTCC
data show. Swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. traded 179 times on
$1.57 billion last week, compared with an average of 91 swaps on
$891.6 million.  “It’s been a difficult environment,” David Austen, head
of credit sales for the Americas at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, said in an interview yesterday
on Bloomberg TV’s “InsideTrack.” “No one’s particularly happy
right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 