-- 
Borges Says IMF Offering Options to Work With Revamped EFSF

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-05T15:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/borges-says-imf-offering-options-to-work-with-revamped-efsf.html
The  International Monetary Fund  has
offered a slate of options to European Union authorities as they
work to revamp the euro area’s main rescue fund, said Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European department head.  The IMF is in a position to work “alongside” the European
Financial Stability Facility on rescues, such as possible
efforts to restore confidence in Spain and  Italy , Borges told
reporters in Brussels today.  “The most important and immediate help that we could
provide” is precautionary lending, as the EFSF also will be
able to do once the euro region’s parliaments have finished
approving an upgrade, Borges said. Other options, including
investments in the primary and secondary bond markets, might
also be “hypothetically” possible.  “To be able to do this we’d have to create a special
purpose vehicle, which we have done in the past in other
circumstances,” Borges said. “It could be done, it’s not to be
excluded.”  In a subsequent statement, Borges retreated from some of
these suggestions. “We are not contemplating any market
involvement with the EFSF,” he said. “Any alternative lending
modalities to what we do now would require a different
legal structure and the use of a different source of financing.
We have not discussed these issues with our membership.”  ‘Catalyst’ Role  Borges said the EFSF needs to be a “catalyst” for drawing
investors back to the market. He said the 440-billion euro ($586
billion) fund doesn’t need to be greatly expanded, just used
efficiently, perhaps with the aid of leverage or additional
guarantees from some nations.  “The most important thing in our view is that as soon as
the authorities know how they want to use the EFSF, if that is
clearly communicated to the markets, can have a very important
stabilizing effect,” Borges said. He said it will take some
time to implement those policies, since the EFSF will need to
raise money once the EU decides how to proceed.  In its new role, the EFSF will have the option of buying
bonds on the secondary market, “in ways that would be very
helpful for Spain and Italy,” whose bonds were bought by the
 European Central Bank , though they didn’t require bailout
packages, Borges said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 