-- 
Brazil’s Rousseff Pledges to Boost Investment in Bulgaria

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-05T11:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/brazil-s-rousseff-pledges-to-boost-investment-in-bulgaria.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
pledged to raise investment in Bulgaria, her ancestral homeland,
in renewable energy, aviation and the oil industry.  Rousseff arrived to the capital Sofia late yesterday after
meeting European Union officials in Brussels, accompanied by
representatives from Brazil’s biggest companies, including
state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and mining
company Vale SA, both based in Rio de Janeiro.  Rousseff, whose late father Pedro Rousseff immigrated to
Brazil after leaving Bulgaria before World War II, is on her
first visit to the eastern European nation of 7.3 million, where
her election last year was widely celebrated. Prime Minister
Boiko Borissov gave her a family tree during her inauguration on
Jan. 1.  “I am surrounded by a lot of love since I arrived, which
makes me feel connected to the people in  Bulgaria  because of my
genetic links and the memory of my father,” Rousseff told
reporters in Sofia today. “My country sees in Bulgaria a strong
ally in the region, where we would like to expand and strengthen
our presence.”  To boost bilateral trade from $147 million last year,
Rousseff wants to sell Brazilian-made buses to Bulgaria, and Sao
Jose dos Campos plane maker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is looking to expand its
presence, her spokesman, Rodrigo Baena, said on Sept.  “I am determined to turn around the negative trend and
increase opportunities for joint projects between Brazilian and
Bulgarian businesses,” Rousseff said.“There are many options
for cooperation in agriculture, renewable energy, aviation and
oil industries.”  Expanded business with  Latin America ’s biggest economy
could help Bulgaria, the  EU’s  poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, cope with dwindling foreign
investment and slow economic recovery.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  