-- 
Brazil Real Rises on Speculation Central Bank May Act to Support Currency

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-10-05T21:22:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/brazil-real-climbs-on-bet-europe-will-act-to-shield-banks-from-debt-crisis.html
Brazil ’s real strengthened for a
second day on speculation the central bank will act to stop the
currency’s depreciation against the dollar while European policy
makers act in concert to shield banks from the sovereign debt
crisis.  The real advanced 1.4 percent to 1.8327 per dollar, from
1.8581 yesterday. It was the third-best performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real rose after policy makers moved to prop it up by
auctioning currency swaps contracts for a second consecutive day
yesterday. Brazil’s central bank sees no reason why the real
should fall against the dollar more than other currencies and
will use swaps contracts to combat such market distortions, the
newspaper Valor Economico reported, without saying how it got
the information.  “The central bank demonstrated that it will defend the
real when there is greater volatility,” Mauricio Junqueira, who
helps manage about $300 million at Squanto Investimentos in  Sao
Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “I think they’re happy
with the current level.”  Most emerging-market currencies rallied today and the lira
jumped from a record low after policy makers in Turkey and
 Russia  stepped up sales of foreign-currency reserves to counter
a selloff in developing-nation assets.  Brazil’s central bank isn’t targeting a specific  exchange
rate , Sao Paulo-based Valor said. Lower-ranking government
officials have discussed a strategy to intervene in the  currency
market  if the real weakens beyond 1.90 reais per dollar, the
newspaper said.  Real ‘Ceiling’  “The central bank is showing a ceiling” for the real’s
value, Deives Ribeiro, head of  currency trading  at Fair
Corretora de Cambio e Valores, said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “The central bank didn’t say it clearly, but it
showed that if the real reaches 1.90 it will sell currency
swaps.”  Brazil’s central bank entered the  derivatives market  on
Sept. 22 for the first time in two years to bolster the real
after it reached a two-year low of 1.9549.  The real was also boosted by speculation European policy
makers will act in concert to shield banks from the sovereign
debt crisis, Italo Abucater, head of currency trading at ICAP
Brasil in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  “Today is one more day leaders managed to stall the
crisis,” he said. “We’ll see what power they have to resolve
this. The situation is still uncomfortable.”  European Union finance ministers are discussing ways to
coordinate recapitalizations of banks, the Financial Times
reported, while  France  and  Belgium  said a “bad bank” will be
set up to hold Dexia SA’s troubled assets.  Commodities Advance  Commodities rebounded from the lowest level in 10 months
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank may take further steps to sustain an economic recovery.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose 2.8 percent.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013, the most actively-traded today, fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 10.22 percent. Yields on the contract
earlier rose as much as five basis points.  “The market is without a reference, more sensitive to
sources and the comments of officials, given the surprise rate
cut at the August meeting and the uncertainty abroad,”  Zeina Latif , a Latin America economist at RBS Securities Inc., said in
a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  