-- 
Brazilian Rainfall May Favor Coffee Crop’s Flowering, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-05T08:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/brazilian-rainfall-may-favor-coffee-crop-s-flowering-cepea-says.html
Increased rainfall this month may
favor the flowering of the coffee crop in top global producer
 Brazil , according to Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research
group.  Rains over the past weekend will induce flowering, and most
of Brazil’s coffee crop should flower by the middle of the week,
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said Oct. 3.  “October is the main month for the blossoming development,
which will determine the yield potential for the next season,”
Cepea analyst Margarete Boteon said in a report yesterday.  Brazil may produce a record 57 million to 58 million bags
of coffee in the 2012-13 season, Guilherme Braga, head of the
national coffee exporters’ council, known as CeCafe, said in an
interview on Sept. 28.  Rains in September were too light for new flower buds to
form, Boteon said, citing unidentified agents. Dry weather
jeopardized part of the first blossoming, which happened between
late August and early September, according to the analyst.  The lack of water and “the heavy winter in some producing
regions have affected the coffee crop,” she said.
“Consequently, the first blossoming has been limited.”  Flowering of the robusta crop in Espirito Santo state, the
largest grower of the variety used in instant coffee, was
“satisfactory” due to irrigation systems, Boteon said.  Robusta beans for November delivery advanced $13, or 0.6
percent, to $2,021 a metric ton by 9:16 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in
 London . Arabica coffee for December delivery rose 2.85 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $2.294 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 