-- 
Brezhnev’s 18-Year Rule Was ‘Huge Plus’ for Russia, Putin’s Spokesman Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-05T10:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/brezhnev-s-rule-huge-plus-for-russia-putin-spokesman-says-2-.html
Soviet leader  Leonid Brezhnev , whose
18-year rule may be overtaken by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,
was a “huge plus” for the country, said Putin’s spokesman.  “In Moscow you often hear the words, ‘Why is he coming
back?’” Dmitry Peskov said in an  interview  with the private
Dozhd television channel in Moscow late yesterday. “A lot of
people are talking about the Brezhnevization of Putin. But these
are people who don’t know anything about Brezhnev.”  Putin, 58, said Sept. 24 he’ll seek to return to the
presidency in March elections, pushing aside his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , who replaced him in the Kremlin for four years because
of a constitutional ban on three consecutive terms. Two more
six-year terms would give Putin 24 years at the helm, making him
the longest-serving leader since  Josef Stalin .  Brezhnev led the  Soviet Union  from 1964 until his death in
1982, a period later characterized as an era of stagnation that
paved the way for the country’s collapse in 1991.  Russian bloggers have posted online  mock-up photos  of
Putin’s face superimposed on a Brezhnev portrait since the
announcement of his return to the Kremlin.  “Brezhnev is not a minus sign,” Peskov said. He was a
“huge plus for our country. He laid the foundations for the
economy and agriculture.”  ‘Real Problems’  Putin’s unpopularity among educated Muscovites isn’t shared
by the population outside the capital, Peskov said. “There they
have to deal with real problems,” he said. “We all want the
country to be modern and free, but you have to work for that, it
won’t happen in five years.”  Putin’s first two terms as president were marked by efforts
to centralize power and increase state ownership of the
country’s biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global
economy,  Russia ’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year
during Putin’s 2000-2008 tenure.  Concern over the global slowdown and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis has roiled markets in Russia, which saw its economy
contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on record. The
country is vulnerable to swings in oil prices and will have to
cut spending, including pensions, to bring its budget into line
and reduce its dependency on commodity exports, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 21.  The world’s largest energy exporter saw the price of its
main export, Urals crude oil, fall about 10 percent in the past
two weeks to below $100 a barrel. Russia needs oil to average
$109 a barrel this year and $112 in 2012 to balance its budget,
according to current government forecasts.  Brezhnev, who benefited from a sharp rise in  oil prices 
after the 1973 Arab oil embargo, only presided over stagnation
in the final years of his rule, said Peskov.  “Let’s not confuse things with the late Brezhnev era,”
said Peskov. “Let’s not start thinking things are bad, the
‘tandem’ has shown its effectiveness for our country,” he said,
referring to the power-sharing arrangement between Putin and
Medvedev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  