-- 
Soros, BSkyB, Expedia, News Corp., S&P, H&R Block, AT&T in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-10-05T11:44:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/bskyb-expedia-news-corp-s-p-h-r-block-at-t-in-court-news.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros ’s
fight against his 2002 insider-trading conviction in France,
over the sale of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA shares, may end tomorrow
when the  European Court of Human Rights  rules on his appeal.  The 81-year-old claimed his conviction was based on rules
the stock-market regulator said were too vague to determine
whether he acted illegally. That violated his rights under the
European Convention on Human Rights, he argued.  Soros was convicted of insider trading and ordered to repay
2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) he made from the 1988 share
purchase after a Paris court found he acted with the knowledge
that the bank might be a takeover target. French stock market
regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading laws were
too vague to determine whether he had broken them.  The decision to pursue Soros without the support of the
regulator was “rare” for French courts and done more “in
consideration of the persona of Mr. Soros,” said Denis Chemla,
a Paris partner in Herbert Smith LLP’s Paris office. The case
spawned a lot of “fantasies; it was a French institution under
attack by a cosmopolitan international financier.”  Soros turned to the human rights tribunal in December 2006
after he lost his appeal to the Cour de Cassation, France’s top
court, which quashed the fine while upholding the conviction.  The human rights court can review whether the defendants’
human rights were respected. If he wins, Soros may ask French
judges for the conviction to be overturned. Tomorrow’s decision
can be appealed to the Strasbourg, France-based court’s Grand
Chamber.  “We are hopeful that the court will rule along the lines
of its preliminary judgment on admissibility last year,” Ron
Soffer, Soros’s attorney, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “If it isn’t clear to the market regulator, then it
should be presumed not clear; I don’t think the courts should
apply novel interpretations of the law retroactively.”  Verdicts/Settlements  Rajaratnam Says He Deserves No More Than 8 Years in Prison  Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam, claiming that
prosecutors overstated how much he profited from directing what
they called the biggest hedge fund insider-trading scheme in
history, said he should get a prison term of 6 1/2 to 8 years.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
securities fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors, who say he made
$72 million from his crimes, asked for a term ranging from 19
years and seven months to 24 1/2 years, citing federal
sentencing guidelines and the “historic nature of his crimes.”  At a hearing yesterday in Manhattan federal court, defense
lawyer Terence Lynam said the calculations by prosecutors were
wrong. Rajaratnam made only $7.4 million personally in
management fees and from Galleon trades, Lynam said. Prosecutors
rejected the defense position.  “The government has proved beyond a reasonable doubt that
he was a serial insider trader,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed
Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who will
preside over Rajaratnam’s sentencing Oct. 13.  Lynam argued Rajaratnam didn’t deserve the enhanced
sentence sought by prosecutors, saying the government improperly
calculated Rajaratnam’s gains from trading on information from
insiders, as well as losses he avoided through the schemes.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Premier League, Pubs Get Split EU Court Ruling on TV Rights  The Premier League’s geographic restrictions on
broadcasters such as  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  showing
its soccer matches breach European Union antitrust rules, the
bloc’s highest court said in a ruling that may still limit what
pub and bar owners can show customers.  The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled that
territorial licenses are “contrary” to competition law “if
the license agreements prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts.” While the
court said anyone can watch such broadcasts, pubs can’t show the
feeds via foreign decoder cards without the permission of the
copyright owner, such as the broadcasters and the league.  The Premier League, home to some of Europe’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool,
started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) U.K.
television contract in August 2010, and receives a further 1.4
billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast rights.
The ruling offers something for the league and the U.K. pub
owner who tried to show local matches from a Greek provider.  “On one hand now it’s very blunt and very clear that
absolute territorial restrictions on how right holders license
their exclusive rights are not permitted,” said Daniel Geey, a
lawyer at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in  London . “The Premier
League will get some comfort that the actual feed that goes out,
which does contain copyrighted aspects, cannot be shown without
the right holder’s permission.”  The EU court case was triggered by two cases pending at the
U.K. High Court. In one, Karen Murphy, the owner of the  Red,
White and Blue Pub  in Southsea, England, faces a criminal
lawsuit after buying a decoder card that allows her to show
league games from Greek television. BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest
pay-TV operator, said the cards are “illicit” because they’re
being used outside their specified area.  The current system is “not a fair, free choice,” Murphy
said yesterday in an interview with British Broadcasting Corp.,
adding she paid about 800 pounds a year for the Greek service,
compared with the 700 pounds a month that a Sky package would
have cost. Sky and the league would “do anything, obviously, to
protect their income.”  The Premier League said that the judgment “makes it clear
that the screening in a pub of football-match broadcasts
containing protected works requires the Premier League’s
authorization.”  BSkyB spokesman Robert Fraser declined to immediately
comment.  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v. QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v. Media
Protection Services Limited.  For more, click here.  Expedia Mislabeled Available Rooms as Booked, Court Says  Online travel agency  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  engaged in “misleading
marketing practices” by showing rooms as booked and mislabeled
who offered promotional prices on rooms, a Paris court ruled
yesterday.  The court found Expedia had fixed the issues before the
trial and ordered that it pay about 367,000 euros ($484,000) to
Synhorcat, a French hotel and restaurant association, and two
hotels that joined its claim for unfair business practices.  Expedia said in an e-mailed statement that the decision
“recognizes the efforts made and the results obtained to
improve access to information and transparency.”  Expedia, based in Bellevue, Washington, and its TripAdvisor
unit, were sued by the group and hotels in Paris and Brittany,
with the support of the consumer-protection division of France’s
finance ministry.  Synhorcat  claimed Expedia advertised reduced
rates at hotels without their consent, showed available rooms as
fully booked and inserted third-party bookers’ phone numbers in
place of the hotels’.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  BNY Mellon Sued by U.S., N.Y. Over Foreign-Currency Trading  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was sued by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan and the New York attorney general
for allegedly defrauding clients in foreign currency trades.  The bank earned $2 billion through a 10-year fraud in which
it misrepresented to customers its pricing practices, according
to a complaint by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
and the City of New York. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a
separate suit in federal court.  “From at least 2001 to the present, the bank has engaged
in a multipronged campaign of deception,” the state and city
said in their complaint in state  Supreme Court  in Manhattan. The
two filings couldn’t immediately be confirmed in online court
records.  The bank’s scheme defrauded thousands of clients
nationwide, according to the New York complaint. Victims
included public and private pension funds and federally insured
financial institutions, officials said in court papers and in
statements. New York City pension funds, including the Teachers’
Retirement System of the City of New York, lost tens of millions
of dollars, they said.  The lawsuits come after attorneys general in Florida and
Virginia sued BNY Mellon in August. Like New York, those states
allege the bank overcharged public retirement funds in foreign-
exchange transactions. The New York complaint supersedes, or
replaces, a whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2009, Schneiderman’s
office said in a statement.  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on the same
“flawed analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global foreign
exchange market, he said.  “Simply put, this is the kind of prosecutorial overreach
that ill serves New York, New Yorkers and the pension funds that
the Office of the New York Attorney General purports to
represent,” Heine said in an e-mailed statement.  The cases are United States of America v. Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan), and People of the State of New York v. Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., 114735-2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BofA, JPMorgan Accused of Charging Veterans Illegal Fees  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  were among 13 banks and mortgage lenders accused in a so-
called whistleblower lawsuit of charging military veterans
illegal fees to refinance home loans.  The banks charged fees barred under a U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs program and hid the charges to get government
guarantees for the loans, according to the whistleblower
complaint brought in 2006 by two mortgage brokers that was
unsealed Oct. 3 in federal court in Atlanta.  “This is a massive fraud on the American taxpayers and
American veterans,” James E. Butler Jr., a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement. “Knowing they
weren’t allowed to charge the fees, the banks and mortgage
companies inflated allowable charges to hide these illegal fees
without telling the veterans who were the borrowers or the VA
they were doing so.”  The Justice Department isn’t joining the lawsuit, according
to a Sept. 30 filing by the U.S. Attorney’s office in Atlanta.  The whistleblowers, who worked for Financial Services Inc.,
doing business as Veteran’s Mortgage Co., accuse the banks of
violating the U.S. False Claims Act and seek $5,500 to $11,000
in damages on behalf of the U.S. for each violation.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America; Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo; and  Joe Evangelisti , a
spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is U.S. ex rel. v. Wells Fargo, 06-547, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  News Corp. (NWSA)  Sued by 13 People in a Day as Hacking Cases Grow  News Corp.’s U.K. unit was sued by 13 people yesterday and
at least 24 since last week over claims related to phone-hacking
at the defunct News of the World tabloid.  The latest rash of lawsuits in London include complaints
filed by pop star Dannii Minogue; Paul Burrell, Princess Diana’s
former butler; and Sara Payne, the mother of a murdered eight-
year-old girl, who had close ties to the newspaper.  News Corp. now faces at least 64 lawsuits linked to the
phone-hacking scandal that forced the company to shutter the
weekly tabloid in July. The company is facing probes by British
police and an independent body set up by the U.K. government
into the activities of reporters and private investigator  Glenn
Mulcaire , who was jailed in 2007 for hacking into voice-mails.  “So far, fewer than 5 percent of the victims of Glenn
Mulcaire have been notified,” Mark Lewis, a lawyer for some
phone-hacking victims, said in an e-mail. “He was just one
agent used by one paper. When the final tally takes place, we
will see thousands of claims and more than one paper.”  News Corp. has reached settlements with at least two
celebrities who sued the newspaper. Actress Sienna Miller agreed
to a 100,000-pound ($154,000) payout and sports commentator Andy
Gray will receive 20,000 pounds. Both will also receive legal
costs.  “News International is committed to reaching fair and
where possible swift settlements with victims of illegal voice-
mail interception and has unreservedly apologized to those
affected,” a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit said in an
e-mailed statement.  The company has a 20 million-pound fund to settle phone-
hacking cases. Lewis said that as the number of plaintiffs
grows, his own estimate of 100 million pounds looks like “a
serious underestimate.” News Group agreed to pay one Lewis
client, the family of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler, a
settlement valued at 3 million pounds, a person familiar with
the matter said last month.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  MERS Wins Dismissal of 72 Suits Challenging Its Legality  Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. won dismissal
of 72 lawsuits questioning the legality of its system for
allowing banks to use it to register home loans.  U.S. District Judge James A. Teilborg in Phoenix, where the
cases have been centralized, dismissed the litigation in an Oct.
3 order. Teilborg rejected the homeowners’ claims that MERS is a
“sham beneficiary” and that foreclosures based on MERS
documents are invalid. The decision echoed a federal appeals
court ruling last month that upheld an earlier holding of his.  “MERS serves as the beneficiary on plaintiffs’ deeds of
trust, as the nominee or agent for ‘any valid note holder,’”
Teilborg wrote.  MERS, a unit of Reston, Virginia-based Merscorp Inc., bills
itself as a provider of “support services to the mortgage
industry,” specifically tracking the servicing rights and
ownership interests in mortgage loans. The company lets banks
electronically register their sales of home loans so they can
avoid trudging down to the county records office.  “The master complaint has been dismissed and we’ll be
appealing that decision,” Robert Hager, a Reno, Nevada-based
lawyer for the borrowers, said in a phone interview.  Teilborg said the borrowers failed to show that MERS isn’t
a beneficiary on the deed of trust, that the MERS deeds are
invalid or that MERS’s assignments of the deeds were defective
because it didn’t have the right to make the transfers.  The case is In re Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
(MERS) Litigation, 09-md-2119, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix); the appeal is Cervantes v. Countrywide, 09-
17364, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San
Francisco ).  For more, click here.  IRS Stingy With Whistleblower Payouts, Slow to Follow Up Tips  The IRS took more than four years to reward a whistleblower
through a new program to encourage tipsters and has drawn
criticism from the Government Accountability Office for failing
to move faster.  A recent  GAO study  found that the program, which has
attracted tips from more than 1,300 whistleblowers, doesn’t
collect data that could speed up evaluation of information that
started to pour in after Congress authorized the Internal
Revenue Service to establish the office in late 2006.  “Five years later, they have to start paying rewards,”
Stephen Kohn, executive director of the  National Whistleblower
Center , a Washington-based nonprofit group that advocates for
government informants, told Bloomberg Government.  The 2006 law was designed to help the IRS narrow the tax
gap, which is the difference between taxes owed and taxes paid.
The gross amount of the gap is estimated to be $345 billion.  Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican who pushed for
the law, noted that by comparison the U.S. Justice Department
has collected more than $27 billion under the False Claims Act,
the law upon which the IRS whistleblower statute is modeled. The
figure cited by Grassley reflects recoveries since 1986 changes
to the law and includes at least $7.8 billion collected since
2009, according to Justice Department figures.  “Here’s an opportunity for the IRS to get the help of a
lot of non-IRS employees, the same way the Justice Department is
getting the help of a lot of non-Justice employees,” Grassley
said in a telephone interview.  He recently  asked  the IRS to address issues identified by
the GAO report and by whistleblower advocates. Grassley, who
said he knows of only one IRS whistleblower award, said the
agency is slow to pursue tips because of concerns that the
information could reflect negatively on its enforcement.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  S&P Rating in Australia Based on ‘Imagined Events’  Standard & Poor’s, under investigation by the U.S. over the
nation’s credit downgrade, gave its highest rating to notes
whose value was dictated by “imagined events,” a lawyer for a
group of Australian investors told a court.  Two Australian towns and an insurer sued the U.K. arm of
S&P’s owner McGraw-Hill Cos. and financial-services firms,
including Royal Bank of Scotland’s Australian unit, which were
involved in the sale of AAA-rated securities that plummeted in
value during the global financial crisis in 2008.  “The note is really just a series of rules,” Noel Hutley,
lawyer for the plaintiffs, told Federal Court Justice Jayne
Jagot yesterday in Sydney at the start of a scheduled 10-week
trial. The rules were supposed to be affected by external
events, yet were “akin to a game” with “imagined events”
dictating the outcome, Hutley said.  Bathurst regional council and Corowa Shire Council seek to
recoup losses they incurred from the purchase of securities in
2006.  The Bathurst council paid A$1 million ($948,600) to acquire
a Community Income Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Note, or
a CPDO, on Dec. 20, 2006, and was advised less than two years
later that the note was being unwound and the council would
receive a repayment on the note of A$67,043, according to the
statement of claim.  The start of Hutley’s opening statement was dominated with
explanations and definitions of terms involved in the
construction and sale of the CPDOs.  ABN Amro Bank NV, one of the lenders involved in the sale
of the notes, objected to Hutley’s proposal to allow his opening
statement to be made public.  The statement contains “sensationalist allegations” that
aren’t based on filings in court, said Ian Jackman, the bank’s
lawyer.  The case is Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd., NSD936/2009, Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more, click here.  H&R Block Gives Justice Department Test for AT&T Trial  The government’s fight to keep  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  from buying
the maker of TaxAct products gave the Justice Department unit
seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. its
first merger trial in seven years.  “It doesn’t matter whether it’s a relatively small
transaction or a transaction involving billions of dollars, the
law should be applied the same way,” Joseph Wayland, the deputy
head of the antitrust division, said in closing arguments Oct.
3. “This merger totally lacks any redeeming features.”  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in Washington said she
expected to decide by the end of the month whether H&R Block’s
$287.5 million acquisition of closely held 2SS Holdings Inc.
violates antitrust law.  Howell’s ruling could serve as a template for the judge
overseeing the government’s case against AT&T, which is
scheduled for trial on Feb. 13, said Washington antitrust lawyer
David Balto.  “If the Justice Department is unsuccessful, it could pose
significant obstacles to its objection to the AT&T merger,”
Balto said in an interview.  The lawsuits against AT&T and H&R Block are among a handful
of occasions in the past decade when the Justice Department sued
to block a merger. In the AT&T and H&R Block cases, Wayland, who
joined the antitrust unit a year ago from Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP in New York, leads the litigation.  The case is U.S. v. H&R Block, 1:11-cv-00948, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here  Berlusconi’s Fininvest Contests Mondadori Ruling in Filing  Fininvest SpA, the investment company owned by Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi, submitted a filing contesting an
Italian appeals court ruling requiring the company to pay
Compagnie Industriali Riunite SpA 564 million euros ($744
million).  Fininvest said in a statement yesterday that it made the
filing with the Ministry of Justice and the country’s highest
court.  CIR said in a separate statement yesterday that Fininvest’s
move is “a groundless attempt” to overturn the ruling made by
the appeals court in July regarding the takeover battle for
publisher  Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA (MN)  dating back to 1991.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Chicago Lawyer Agrees With U.S. to Stop Touting Tax Shelters  A Chicago tax attorney consented to a court order barring
him from promoting tax shelters that the U.S. claimed were
phony.  John E. Rogers agreed to the entry of orders against him
and two businesses, Sugarloaf Fund LLC and Jetstream Business
Ltd., without admitting to allegations made in a federal
complaint filed last year in federal court in Chicago.  The U.S. Justice Department accused Rogers of using
distressed Brazilian debt to improperly reduce his customers’
reported income, leading to more than $370 million in
deductions. U.S. District Judge Samuel Der Yeghiayan signed the
orders on Sept. 30.  “The Justice Department is committed to exposing and
shutting down fraudulent tax shelters and their promoters,” D.
Patrick Mullarkey, acting assistant U.S. attorney general in the
Justice Department’s tax division, said yesterday in a statement
announcing the ban on Rogers and his businesses.  Rogers, reached by phone at his Chicago law office,
declined to comment on the court orders. He was formerly
affiliated with the law firm Seyfarth Shaw LLP.  The case is U.S. v. Rogers, 10-cv-07068, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 