-- 
Cain’s 9-9-9 Arithmetic Raises Revenue Generation Questions

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-05T14:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cain-s-9-9-9-math-raises-questions-on-generating-enough-revenue.html
Herman Cain ’s bid for the Republican
presidential nomination is fueled in part by his proposed U.S.
tax code overhaul that tax policy veterans say doesn’t add up.  His proposal is gaining attention after a Washington Post-
ABC News poll released yesterday found that Cain is tied for
second place with Texas Governor  Rick Perry  among Republicans
and Republican-leaning independents. A Quinnipiac University
 poll  published today has Cain in second place and Perry in
third.  In campaign stops, Cain touts his  9-9-9 plan  as a concept
that will lead to a fairer tax system. The proposal would tax
sales transactions and gross income for individuals and
businesses at 9 percent while eliminating levies on  capital
gains . It also ends the taxes that fund Social Security, and
corporations wouldn’t pay a tax on dividends.  Following the broad contours of Cain’s plan, the U.S. would
have collected almost $2 trillion in 2010, according to a
Bloomberg News calculation based on data from the Commerce
Department’s  Bureau of Economic Analysis . The U.S. actually
collected almost $2.2 trillion that year, according to the White
House Office of Management and Budget.  Unrealistic Proposal  Tax policy experts say Cain’s plan is unrealistic because
it presumes that no deductions and exemptions will be permitted,
no matter how popular.  “Either Herman Cain is the tax messiah or is proposing a
system that has no correspondence to real-world tax systems,”
said Edward Kleinbard, a former chief of staff to the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. “In practice, it
will have the same economic effect as a 27 percent uncapped
 payroll tax .”  Kleinbard is now a professor at the University of Southern
California’s Gould School of Law.  Speaking on radio host Don Imus’s program yesterday, Cain
said the 9-9-9 proposal would be revenue-neutral, meaning it
would generate as much revenue as the U.S. collects now.  “We calculated based upon initially no growth, just
replicate the amount of revenue we’re already bringing in,” he
said.  Cain’s campaign hasn’t produced specific revenue estimates
for its proposal and didn’t respond to requests for comment
yesterday.  Estimated Collections  Using 2010 figures, Cain’s plan would have collected $922.1
billion in revenue from the national sales tax with no
exemptions, $912.7 billion at a 9 percent individual income tax
with few deductions or other tax benefits, and $127.7 billion
from a 9 percent tax on U.S. corporate income with no
deductions.  The federal government in 2010 actually collected $898.5
billion from individuals, including levies on capital gains;
$191.4 billion from the corporate income tax; $864.8 billion
from Social Security and retirement taxes; $141 billion in other
taxes, such as estate and gift taxes; and $66 billion in excise
taxes. This doesn’t include the taxes levied by states on retail
sales and property.  Cain’s proposal is worded in a way that suggests nothing --
food, housing or clothing -- would be exempt from the national
 sales tax . It is unlikely that Congress would endorse such a
broad-based  consumption tax , and even if it did, consumers might
change their buying habits. That could reduce consumption and
would then lower revenue from the national sales tax.  Lower Revenue  If lawmakers were to exempt everyday items such as food and
clothing and provide a rebate to low-income individuals to
offset the regressive nature of the sales tax, the plan would
generate much less revenue, said  David Kautter , managing
director of the Kogod Tax Center at American University in
Washington. With the information available, it’s almost
impossible to develop a precise revenue estimate, he said.  “The revenue estimate is largely dependent on the rate and
what’s subject to tax,” Kautter said. “When you pull out
housing, clothing and food, the amount you raise drops by a
lot.”  Cain, 65, has signaled resistance to exemptions from the
sales tax. In an Oct. 2 appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” he
said his goal is to “grow the base and make sure the  tax code 
is fairer for everybody.”  “It levels the playing field,” he said. “It gets rid of
all the loopholes. But the most interesting is, it gets the
government out of the business of trying to pick winners and
losers and trying to decide what’s regressive and what’s not
regressive.”  ‘Informal Sale’  Daniel Shaviro, a professor of taxation at the  New York
University School of Law , said a national sales tax is difficult
to implement because it is easily evaded.  “All the consumer and I have to do is turn off the
register and do an informal sale,” he said.  Cain’s proposal is notable for its lack of deductions and
benefits compared with the current tax code. Business deductions
would be limited to investments, purchases from other companies
and dividends paid to shareholders. Individuals could deduct
charitable deductions. Businesses and individuals in so-called
empowerment zones could qualify for additional deductions.  Turnaround Manager  Cain is pitching himself as a turnaround manager who saved
Godfather’s Pizza Inc., a restaurant chain, from bankruptcy. An
Atlanta native, he was on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Kansas City  in the 1990s and was its chairman from 1995 to
1996.  He won  Florida ’s Republican presidential straw poll on
Sept. 24 with 37.1 percent of the votes. Perry was second with
15.4 percent.  There are plenty of questions remaining about the details
of Cain’s proposals. Chris Edwards, the director of tax policy
studies at the  Cato Institute , a  Washington  organization that
advocates for limited government, said some of the business
provisions were “odd.”  The shift to taxing gross income instead of net income
would mean that some business expenses, such as wages, could no
longer be deducted, Edwards said. He questioned the benefit of
such a move when Cain’s plan would also protect businesses from
paying taxes on dividends.  “The business base would be much broader because
businesses don’t get a wage deduction, but then it would be
narrower because they get to deduct dividends paid to
shareholders,” Edwards said. “That’s a significantly different
base.”  Shifting Tax Burden  Kleinbard said the bottom-line effect of Cain’s proposal
would be a greater shift of the tax burden to individuals from
corporations and investors. He said eliminating the
deductibility of wages would raise the cost of labor, which
businesses would pass on to workers in the form of lower pay.  That, combined with no mention of the standard deduction,
personal exemption or earned-income tax credit, “means a huge
tax hike for the working poor,” he said.  There’s a long way to go before any of that happens, said
Joseph Thorndike, an editor at Tax Analysts, a nonpartisan
publisher in  Falls Church , Virginia.  “I do not believe they made a serious effort to estimate
the revenue from these plans, but most other candidates’ plans
aren’t any different,” he said. “They spout out all kinds of
stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  