-- 
California Gasoline Rises for Third Day on Work at Refineries

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-10-05T21:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/california-gasoline-rises-for-third-day-on-work-at-refineries.html
California-blend gasoline
strengthened for the third day after maintenance began at two
Northern California refineries and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  was said to be
planning work at its Martinez refinery in January.  The premium for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
San Francisco climbed 4.5 cents to 31.5 cents a gallon above
gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
4:14 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The same fuel in  Los Angeles  strengthened 5.88 cents
to a premium of 29.88 cents to futures, the highest level since
Sept. 2.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  are conducting
planned maintenance at their Northern California refineries.
Tesoro will cut rates at its Martinez refinery, northeast of San
Francisco, in January to start work on process units that may
last until March, two people familiar with the work said.  Gasoline inventories on the West Coast fell for the second
week to 28.3 million barrels in the week ended Sept. 30,
according to the Energy Department. That’s the lowest level for
stocks since Sept. 2.  California  gasoline inventories rose 3.6 percent last week,
and diesel stocks in the state climbed 7.1 percent, according to
the state Energy Commission.  California-blend diesel in Los Angeles strengthened 0.5
cent to a premium of 12 cents above heating oil futures traded
on the Nymex.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon, rose
4.5 cents to 36.5 cents over futures. That’s the largest premium
for the fuel in more than two years.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  shut several units at the Puget Sound
refinery in Anacortes,  Washington , last month for maintenance
that’s expected to last until Nov. 8. Tesoro is still conducting
work on a residual oil unit that was scheduled to be completed
at the end of last month, Mike Marcy, a company spokesman based
in Martinez, California, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  