-- 
Premier Rewrites Conference Speech After Latest in ‘Pattern’ of Blunders

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-10-05T13:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cameron-rewrites-speech-after-pattern-of-blunders.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  was
forced to rewrite a section of his party-conference speech in
which he urged consumers to cut back on spending. It’s not the
first time his rhetoric has got ahead of his intent.  Cameron’s aides went around the press room at the
Conservative’s annual convention in Manchester, northwest
England today holding a handwritten note setting out a new
phrasing of one sentence of the address, so that it no longer
told voters to “deal with your debts” by “paying off the
credit-card and store-card bills.”  “This is part of a wider pattern,”  Steven Fielding ,
director of the Centre For British Politics at Nottingham
University, said in an interview. “The myth of Cameron is that
he’s great at presentation, and he is, up to a point. But then
he makes a fool of himself.”  At the 2009 party conference, again in Manchester, Cameron
said the Bank of England’s quantitative-easing program to
stimulate growth would have to stop “soon,” arguing that
“printing money leads to inflation.” The premier later said
this hadn’t been intended as an attack on the policy.  As Tory delegates arrived at the conference this morning,
they were able to pick up free copies of the Daily Telegraph
newspaper, with the front-page headline “Pay off your credit
cards for the sake of the economy.”  ‘Real Trouble’  “If the consumer took the prime minister seriously, we’d
be in real trouble,” Nick Pearce, director of the Institute of
Public Policy Research, wrote on the  group’s website . “In one
quarter, this would reduce  consumer spending  by 25 percent and
GDP by 15 percent.”  “The only way out of a debt crisis is to deal with your
debts,” the original text of the speech extracts released last
night read. “That means households -- all of us -- paying off
the credit-card and store-card bills. It means banks getting
their books in order. And it means governments -- all over the
world -- cutting spending and living within their means.”  Those words were revised this morning to: “That’s why
households are paying down their credit-card and store-card
bills.”  Cameron wasn’t the only Tory to get into trouble with his
speech this week. Two days ago, Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  accused British banks of running “Ponzi
schemes” before 2008. Aides refused to explain the comment
further.  ‘Pet Cat’  Yesterday, Home Secretary Theresa May found Justice
Secretary Ken Clarke offering a bet that she’d got her facts
wrong when she told the conference an illegal immigrant had been
allowed to stay in the U.K. “because -- and I am not making
this up -- he had a pet cat.” The Judicial Office, which speaks
for Britain’s judges, immediately issued a statement that the
cat “had nothing to with the decision.”  In July 2010, Cameron sparked a diplomatic storm when he
said during a visit to India that  Pakistan , a key ally in the
fight against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants, should not be
allowed to “look both ways” on terrorism or “promote the
export of terror whether to  India , whether to  Afghanistan  or to
anywhere else in the world.”  The prime minister flew to Pakistan in April this year to
“clear up the misunderstandings” and “mark a new chapter” in
ties between the two countries.  The Tories aren’t the only party caught out by their
rhetoric this conference season.  Last week, at the main opposition Labour get-together,
party leader  Ed Miliband  singled out John Rose, former chief
executive officer of Rolls Royce Holdings Plc, as “the true
face of British business” in contrast to the “predators” and
“asset strippers” in the financial-services industry.  Miliband failed to mention that, just a week before, Rose
had joined Rothschild Group, which advises on mergers and
acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Manchester, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  