-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls Ahead of Weekly U.S. Storage Report

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-05T16:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/canadian-natural-gas-falls-ahead-of-weekly-u-s-storage-report.html
Canadian natural gas fell on
speculation a U.S. government report tomorrow will show
stockpiles increased more than average last week, weakening
demand for the power-plant fuel.  Prices, which usually follow their U.S. counterparts on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , declined 2.6 percent as analysts
expect the Energy Department to say stockpiles increased 99
billion cubic feet in the week ended Sept. 30, according to the
median of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
average gain for the week is 74 billion, department data show.  “Last week’s injection was higher than expected, in the
triple digits, and the expectations are for the next few
injections to possibly be equally high,” Carl Neill, an energy
consultant with Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta, said in a
telephone interview. “When you see the increase in rig counts
over the past few weeks with spot prices where they are, it’s
pretty bearish.”  Alberta  gas for November delivery fell 9 cents to C$3.32
per gigajoule ($3.01 per million Btu) as of 12:20 p.m. New York
time, while December gas dropped 8.25 cents to C$3.60, according
to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange
is shipped to users in  Canada  and the U.S. and is priced on
TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Gas for November delivery on the Nymex declined 4.6 cents
to $3.592 per million Btu as of 12:28 p.m.  Gas Flows  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.5 billion cubic
feet, 753 million above the target, as of noon New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.5 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.1 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 516 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.57 billion cubic feet today, about 75 percent of its
capacity of 2.09 billion.  Spectra Energy  reported low linepack conditions on the
Mainline North of the British Columbia system. Shippers are
asked to lower accounts toward zero over the next few days
because of an Alberta East capacity constraint, the company said
on its website.  Volume on the system, which gathers the fuel in
northeastern British Columbia for delivery to Vancouver and the
Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.76 billion cubic feet at 11:20 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  