-- 
Netflix Won’t Face Canadian Broadcast Regulation, CRTC Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-05T16:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/canada-broadcast-regulator-says-study-on-internet-programming-inconclusive.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and other Internet
providers of TV and movies won’t face regulation in  Canada  after
the country’s broadcast regulator said it didn’t find “clear
evidence” that they hold an advantage over cable and satellite
broadcasters.  The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission, in a  statement  on its website, said its “fact-
finding” study didn’t show companies such as Netflix were
harming the traditional broadcast system, though it will
continue to monitor the industry and hold more consultations
next year.  The Gatineau, Quebec-based regulator examined whether
Internet-based movie distributors may need to face regulations,
including a requirement to fund Canadian broadcast content, that
cable and satellite distributors such as  Rogers Communications
Inc. (RCI/B)  must meet.  The evidence doesn’t show on-line providers are “having a
negative impact on the ability of the system to achieve the
policy objectives,” the regulator said.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , has been at the
center of disputes with cable and satellite companies in Canada
since it began offering unlimited movie downloads for C$7.99
($7.67) a month last year. The service has signed up 10 percent
of the broadband households in Canada, a feat that took six
years in the U.S., Ted Sarandos, chief content officer, said at
a Sept. 14 conference.  Threatens Revenue  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  offers on-line viewing through Apple TV, while
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  owns YouTube, which also offers a movie-rental
service.  Canada’s major distributors have argued the increased
competition threatens to reduce revenue and will make them less
able to contribute to the fund for local content production.  “There is no clear evidence that Canadians are reducing or
canceling their television subscriptions,” the regulator said
today. On-line and mobile programming appears to complement
broadcaster programming, it said.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government also has quelled
efforts by companies such as Montreal-based BCE and  Rogers
Communications  of Toronto to force smaller  Internet service
providers  to stop unlimited-use billing, citing concern that it
would stifle Internet-based providers such as Netflix.  ‘Colossal’ Investment  Quebecor Inc. Chief Executive Officer Pierre Karl Peladeau
said in June the arrival of companies such as Netflix is
spawning an uneven playing field for Canadian carriers, which
are subject to regulatory restraints and have made “colossal”
investments into network infrastructure.  Netflix has said that Canadian companies are exaggerating
the threat it represents, claiming its service has increased
competition in the market, encouraging Canadian companies to
introduce their own on-line video services.  By seeking help from regulators to slow down Netflix,
Canadian telecom companies are trying to “create another
competitive barrier to entry,” Netflix lawyer David Hyman said
in an April 27 letter to the regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  