-- 
Cantor Tells CEOs ‘Alarming’ Skilled-Worker Exodus Needs Action

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-10-05T18:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cantor-tells-ceos-alarming-skilled-worker-exodus-needs-action.html
House Republican Leader  Eric Cantor 
told a gathering of chief executive officers and university
leaders that the U.S. must grant visas to skilled workers from
overseas more quickly to halt an “exodus” from the country.  “We have an alarming rate of exodus, if you will, of
foreign nationals in this country who come here to attend your
universities and then find it too difficult to stay here,”
Cantor, of  Virginia , said at the event sponsored by  Harvard
University  and the  Business Roundtable  and hosted by Bloomberg
News. “We intend to try and address that.”  Cantor stopped short of pledging to move to pass the visa
issue alone instead of as part of a broader immigration overhaul
as many lawmakers want. A partial bill emerged as the favored
idea of the five CEOs and seven university leaders during the
roundtable discussion in Washington earlier this morning.  “There are jobs today that are open because we don’t have
the skilled workforce here,” said  Ellen Kullman , CEO of DuPont
Co. “If we want to continue to create economic growth we have
to fill those jobs with the best and the brightest no matter
where they come from.”  The corporate quest for more immigration to meet workforce
needs has slowed to a crawl in Washington, with the public more
focused on the country’s estimated 10 million illegal
immigrants. That drew frustration from the group at the
“Innovation and the Economy” event today.  ‘A Crisis’  “We have a crisis,” said Bill Green, chairman of the
consulting firm  Accenture Plc. (ACN)  “The sausage-making process of
getting an outcome, I think, puts us at a huge disadvantage.”  Green challenged John Holdren, President  Barack Obama ’s
science adviser, to get the White House to take “smaller
bites” at the issue. Holdren told the group that Obama
administration officials “would like to get the high-tech part
done if we can.”  The issue is economic because workers with essential skills
are leaving the U.S. and contributing to the competition, the
executives and university leaders said. Even though there’s
broad agreement on cutting the wait time for such workers to get
legal status in the U.S., no one wants to pass only that aspect,
said  John Engler , president of the  Business Roundtable .  “The problem politically is that’s the loss leader on the
comprehensive bill, and nobody will let it loose,” said Engler,
whose  Washington  group represents the country’s top CEOs.
“There’s a big deal that could be cut,” though a proposal
would have to “come from outside,” he said.  ‘Not Unanimous’  Republicans who control the House say border security must
improve before other immigration-law changes are considered. At
the same time, House Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith 
and some other Republicans say workers who come to the U.S. from
other countries can crowd out Americans seeking jobs in the
troubled economy.  The U.S. has lost 6.8 million jobs since the beginning of
the last recession in December 2007, and 1.7 million since Obama
took office in January 2009. The  unemployment rate  was 9.1
percent in August, and employers added no net new jobs.  On the other side are forces pushing for a path to
citizenship for the undocumented workers already in the U.S.
Engler said he believes a guest-worker program has to be part of
any deal and that would relieve pressure on the border.  “It’s not unanimous,” Cantor said of the feelings in
Congress on changing immigration laws.  No Tax Revamp  Cantor also told the group he doesn’t expect a special
congressional committee, charged with finding $1.5 trillion in
budget savings by Nov. 23, to propose a broad revamp of the  tax
code . While there isn’t enough time for such comprehensive work,
the group may be able to “lay the groundwork” for later
legislation, Cantor said.  The No. 2 Republican in the House also said he understands
the concerns voiced by Tim Solso, CEO of diesel truck engine
maker  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , about legislation that would punish  China 
for an undervalued currency. Cantor said Obama should take a
position on the issue.  “I share the concern about unintended consequences,”
Cantor said. “Obviously, there is a great political upside to
beating up on a competitor.”  The group emphasized the importance of basic research,
noting that it is a small part of the U.S. federal budget yet
essential to economic revival. The University of  Iowa  sees a
return on investment of as much as 5-to-1 on research, said
Sally Mason, president of the university in Iowa City, Iowa.  ‘Compelling Story’  “I challenge you to find investments today that are giving
you that kind of return,” Mason said. “We’re responsible for 1
in 30 jobs in Iowa. It’s a compelling story in every state.”  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , an Indianapolis-based maker of the
antidepressant Prozac, depends on universities for basic
research while facing pressure from  Wall Street  to develop the
latest new product, said CEO John Lechleiter.  “They say, ‘where are all the new medicines?’” Lechleiter
said. “That’s a short-term focus, but obviously it’s a pressure
that we all feel.”  The need for an increased focus on science, math and
engineering education was also a common theme. Cummins plans to
hire 7,000 engineers in coming years, Solso said. Solso said his
company, based in Columbus,  Indiana , depends on nearby  Purdue
University  to help with the supply.  Wilmington, Delaware-based chemical maker DuPont also plans
to hire thousands of engineers, said Kullman. “Young kids and
their parents today have no idea” about the career
possibilities in engineering, she said.  Patent Funding Needed  The roundtable’s participants also said the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office needs to be fully funded to help spur
innovation, and therefore jobs. They said they’re concerned that
Congress may not follow through on a pledge to give the office
more control over its funding.  “One of the great impediments to an effective PTO is the
funding to just get the people power in place and move things
through the system,” said Susan Hockfield, president of
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  