-- 
Carlyle Group Acquires 9% of Mumbai Brokerage India Infoline

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-10-05T13:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/carlyle-group-acquires-9-stake-in-india-infoline.html
Carlyle Group LP acquired a 9 percent
stake in Mumbai-based brokerage  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL) , the second
investment by its Asian buyout fund in the nation.  Carlyle, which bought the stake in the stock market, will
be invited to join India Infoline’s board, the Washington-based
buyout firm said in a statement today. It didn’t disclose the
value of the stake. Based on India Infoline’s market
capitalization of 20.6 billion rupees ($417 million), a nine
percent stake is worth 1.85 billion rupees, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlyle and rivals including Apollo Global Management LLC
are stepping up investments in India as stock offerings dry up
and  interest rates  rise, making Indian companies more willing to
accept private-equity financing. Private-equity firms have
announced $5.54 billion of deals in the country this year, up
from $3.79 billion for all of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  India  Infoline doesn’t have immediate plans to issue shares
to Carlyle, though its finance business may need capital in the
future, Nirmal Jain, chairman of the Mumbai based brokerage said
in a telephone interview from Mumbai.  Assessing Needs  “We will assess our requirements and reach out to them if
they are willing and the terms are agreeable,” he said. “There
are no discussions yet.”  The investment in India Infoline was made by Carlyle
Mauritius Investment Advisors Ltd., a part of Carlyle Asia
Partners whose first major investment in India was a 2007
acquisition of a $650 million stake in home-loans provider
Housing Development Finance Corp., according to Bloomberg data.  “We think the current environment presents good
opportunities to work with good managements and companies for
investing in India,” said Devinjit Singh, managing director of
 Carlyle Group ’s Indian unit.  CLSA Ltd.’s former India country head H. Nemkumar, sales
director Bharat Parajia and two other executives joined India
Infoline in 2007, lured by signing bonuses of as much as 440
million rupees and the option to buy shares at below-market
prices. India Infoline shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  Carlyle sees an Indian buyout market emerging in the “next
couple of years,” though in the “near term,” it will confine
itself to mostly minority investments, Singh said.  Carlyle, the second-largest manager of private-equity funds,
registered for an initial public offering of $100 million by
next year, the company said in a Sept. 6 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. That figure is a placeholder
to calculate filing fees; the final amount may vary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in  Mumbai  at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net 
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  