-- 
Catalonia Aims to Sell School, Police Buildings to Raise Funds

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-10-05T09:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/catalonia-aims-to-sell-school-police-buildings-to-raise-funds.html
Catalonia,  Spain ’s biggest region and
second-most  indebted , may sell schools and police buildings next
year as part of plans to raise $1.06 billion to cut the deficit,
according to Jacint Boixasa, the director of assets for the
area.  “We plan to raise 800 million euros ($1.06 billion) from
real-estate sales next year,” Boixasa said in an interview in
 Barcelona  last week. “Some of that will come from selling the
underlying real estate -- but not the management -- of schools,
police stations and first aid centers.” He declined to say how
many public installations would be included in the plan.  Catalonia, the wealthiest of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous
regions with an economy the size of  Portugal ’s, had the fourth-
largest budget gap in 2010, at 3.86 percent of its gross
domestic product. It also had the second-highest debt, at 19.2
percent of GDP in the second quarter.  Catalonia is already working against the clock to close the
sale of 37 publicly owned properties for 550 million euros
before year-end to meet its 2011 budget deficit target.  Spanish regions, which control more than a third of public
spending, will play a pivotal role in the nation’s effort to cut
its deficit to 6 percent of GDP this year from 9.2 percent in
2010 as the country tries to avoid following Greece, Ireland and
Portugal in requiring a bailout. In July, Moody’s Investors
Service put Spain’s credit rating on review for a downgrade,
citing the worsening finances in the regions.  Debt Levels  The debt burden of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions’
surged to a record 133.2 billion euros, or 12.4 percent of GDP,
in the second quarter from 11.6 percent in the previous three
months as  tax revenue  from slumping real estate and land sales
dropped.  All the regions except Catalonia pledged to limit their
deficits to 1.3 percent of GDP to help cut the national budget
gap, currently the third highest in the euro region after Greece
and Ireland.  Following local elections last year, the incoming
government of Catalonia said the 2010 deficit was 60 percent
wider than its predecessors had acknowledged. It plans a deficit
equal to 2.7 percent of GDP this year, more than twice the
official goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net .
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  