-- 
Cement Plant to Meet EPA Rule Industry Says Can’t Be Met

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-05T16:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cement-plant-to-meet-epa-rule-industry-says-can-t-be-met.html
Lehigh Hanson Inc. wants to head off
U.S. pollution rules it says industry can’t meet. At a plant in
Union Bridge,  Maryland , the cement maker has pledged to achieve
required mercury standards a year ahead of a 2013 deadline.  Lehigh, the U.S. unit of  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , is among
companies lobbying for legislation scheduled to be debated today
in the Republican-led House that would require the Environmental
Protection Agency to scrap and rewrite regulations on cement
plants, one of the biggest sources of toxic mercury emissions.  Meeting the EPA’s deadline would cost $3.4 billion and may
lead to shutting down 18 of about 100 U.S. cement plants,
according to the  Portland Cement Association , a trade group. The
EPA says the cost would be no more than $950 million, and
environmental organizations say the industry’s claims are belied
by actions such as Lehigh’s plans in Maryland.  “Cement plants can reduce their emissions when they want
to,” James Pew, a staff attorney at EarthJustice in  Washington ,
who filed lawsuits pushing for the regulation, said in an
interview. “The argument that they can’t is purely for
political consumption.”  In addition to the cement rules to be considered today, the
House has on its agenda this week a measure to put off for 15
months EPA regulations for industrial boilers, used at paper
plants, hospitals and schools. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
today urged lawmakers in a letter to back both measures, while
President Barack Obama’s administration issued veto threats on
Oct. 3.  Behind Coal Plants  Cement plants melt limestone and other minerals to go into
concrete, used in roads, bridges and buildings, at temperatures
that can exceed 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit (1,649 degrees
Celsius), generating  mercury  pollution that ranks second behind
that from coal-fired  power plants , according to the EPA.
Mercury, typically ingested by eating contaminated fish, poses
the biggest risk to fetuses and children, in whom it can cause
long-term damage to thinking, memory and the nervous system,
according to the agency.  The EPA rules also mandate cuts in acid gases, sulfur
dioxide and particulate matter, which may require different
control technology.  Lehigh  pledged in 2009  to cut mercury emissions from its
plant in Union Bridge to 86 pounds a year from 400 pounds a
year. The agreement with state regulators calls for the
facility, located about 40 miles (64 kilometers) from Baltimore,
to meet the EPA’s standards a year in advance of the federal
deadline.  Limestone Quarries  The company is still figuring out how it will deliver on
that pledge, and the solution can’t simply be replicated from
plant to plant, according to Tom Chizmadia, senior vice
president for government affairs for the division of
HeidelbergCement of Heidelberg,  Germany . The company employs
12,000 people in  North America .  “Mercury ties back to the composition of the limestone,”
which is usually drawn from a quarry nearby, Chizmadia said in
an interview. “And not all the plants have mercury as their
biggest issue. There is no single technology” to meet all the
pollution standards, he said.  As it lobbies to get the EPA rules rolled back, the company
is working to meet the pollution standards at each of its 11
U.S. plants, he said.  For its cement plant in Cupertino,  California , the company
installed a carbon-injection system this year, which it said in
a letter to local officials would reduce mercury emissions by 30
percent.  Lehigh isn’t alone in acting to meet standards it wants
Congress to invalidate.  879 Pounds  Ash Grove Cement Co. (ASHG) ’s plant in Durkee,  Oregon , was the
nation’s largest emitter of mercury from cement plants, with 879
pounds sent up its smokestack last year, according to EPA data.  The company, which supports the House legislation, spent
$20 million on  activated-carbon injection  equipment that would
remove 90 percent of the mercury from its emissions, according
to Jacqueline Clark, a spokeswoman.  “We did it proactively, voluntarily ahead of the EPA rule-
making,” Clark said in an e-mail.  Those Lehigh and Ash Grove plants are among the top six
mercury polluters among cement plants nationwide, according to
EPA data.  The Portland Cement Association, based in Skokie, Illinois,
is lobbying to block the EPA rules on behalf of companies such
as Cemex SAB, the largest producer of cement in the U.S., and
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)   Time to Comply  “We’re not averse to being regulated, but the rules need
to be achievable and we need time to comply,” Jason Morin, the
U.S.-based vice president for environmental and government
affairs for Holcim of Jona,  Switzerland , said in an interview.
“And it’s coming at a time that is difficult for us as an
industry.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, invited
Spencer Weitman, president of National Cement Co. of  Alabama , to
be his guest when Obama addressed Congress on Sept. 8. The
company blamed the EPA rules for its decision to suspend a $350
million expansion project.  Contractors, road builders and unions, such as the United
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, also support
the House legislation, saying the EPA rules will raise their
concrete costs as they struggle to recover from the housing
collapse and recession.  “Cement is the lifeblood of our industry,” Sean Thurman,
senior manager for policy at the Associated Builders and
Contractors Inc. in Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview.
The rules “would reduce domestic production and create gaps in
supply.”  The cement legislation is H.R. 2681.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 