-- 
Chile’s Richest Family Risks Golden Touch With Shipping Purchase: Freight

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-10-05T20:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/chile-s-richest-family-risks-golden-touch-with-shipping-purchase-freight.html
Chile’s Luksic family became the
country’s wealthiest by buying underperforming businesses and
turning them around. With shipping company Cia. Sud Americana de
Vapores SA, it may have lost its way.  Quinenco SA (QUINENC) , the Santiago-based holding company controlled
by the Luksic brothers, said Sept. 2 it would buy as much as $1
billion of a $1.2 billion share increase in CSAV,  Latin
America ’s largest container shipping company. That will probably
give the Luksics control after shareholders approved the
transaction today. Since the announcement, shares in CSAV, as
the company is called, have slumped 45 percent.  Guillermo Luksic, who became chairman of CSAV after
Quinenco bought 10 percent of the company from Chile’s Claro
family in March, is following billionaire U.S. financier  Wilbur Ross  in making a contrarian bet on the slumping shipping market.  With world stock markets and global growth both slowing, it
will take a “very long time” for the purchase to pay off, if
ever, said Jorge Rios, an analyst for Santiago-based Corpbanca,
 Chile ’s fourth-largest bank by market value.  “This company is generating value destruction,” said Rios
in a telephone interview. “There is no way the stock is going
up in the short term.” Rios has a “hold” rating on the shares
and said he will change that to “sell” within a month.  Valparaiso, Chile-based CSAV lost $525 million in the first
half of this year on the slowing global economy, rising fuel
costs and a worldwide glut of vessels, after earning $171
million in 2010. Third-quarter losses will be close to the $339
million posted in the second quarter before a recovery begins in
2012, the company said in a statement on Sept. 26.  ‘Vital’ Volatility Reduction  The stock has dropped more than 80 percent from its 12-
month high on Oct. 28, 2010. The shares slid 3.8 percent to
120.99 pesos in Santiago trading today, while Chile’s main stock
index advanced 2.6 percent. Quinenco, which has fallen 34
percent this year, rose 2.5 percent to 1,130 pesos today.  CSAV said today that it needs to take risks by expanding
amid prospects of a recovery in the global shipping industry.  While the company’s results this year will be “very
negative” and a slump in developed economies signals tough
times ahead, the industry has an “attractive” longer-term
outlook, Oscar Hasbun, head of container shipping at the
company, told shareholders in Valparaiso today. Losses will
continue into the first half of next year, he said.  ‘Difficult Moment’  “It’s an attractive industry passing through a difficult
moment,” Guillermo Luksic said today at the same meeting.
“Ninety percent of the world’s commerce moves around in
boats.”  CSAV didn’t respond to requests for comment about the share
purchase. It did say the capital increase “is vital to reduce
the volatility of the results and improve the competitiveness of
CSAV, since only by increasing the proportion of owned fleet the
company may be in levels more suitable with the industry,” in a
 regulatory filing  on Sept. 2.  CSAV said it will seek to take on a larger industry partner
and plans to spin off Sudamericana Agencias & Maritimas SA, or
SAAM, its port logistics business. The unit needs capital to
expand, Hasbun said today.  Luksic was unavailable for comment, according to Maria
Teresa Soza of b2o, a Santiago-based PR firm that handles
Quinenco’s affairs.  Family Fortune  The Luksic patriarch, Andronico, who died in 2005, built
the family fortune by purchasing a century-old, money-losing
railroad operator in the Atacama Desert in 1980 and turning it
into London-based copper miner  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , which last year
had $4.58 billion in revenue. Guillermo and his brothers Jean-
Paul and Andronico have since expanded the family business into
other areas of Chile’s economy.  In 2001, the family boosted its stake in Banco de Chile to
52.7 percent from 12 percent. The bank’s market value has risen
tenfold since the acquisition to about $9.5 billion from $992
million at the end of 2001, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Citigroup Inc. joined as a partner in 2008 and
boosted its share of the Banco de Chile holding company, LQ
Inversiones Financieras SA, to 50 percent in March, 2010.  Quinenco also runs Cia. Cervecerias Unidas SA, the
country’s largest brewer and the second-biggest in  Argentina ,
with Heineken NV. Annual revenue grew to $1.79 billion in 2010
from $1.12 billion in 2006, according to a company presentation
prepared for investors.  Negotiating Skills  “They aren’t among the most efficient in each industry
where they participate, but they know how to negotiate good
relationships,” said Patricia Pellegrini, a Santiago-based
analyst at Chilean brokerage LarrainVial SA.  The container-shipping industry, which had about $200
billion in revenue last year, is expected to lose between $2.5
billion and $3 billion in 2011,  Philip Damas , director of liner
shipping and supply chains for London-based Drewy Shipping
Consultants Ltd, said in an interview in August.  “The industry as a whole burned cash in the second
quarter,” said Menno Sanderse, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
 London , in a Sept. 27 telephone interview. “Things are not
getting better, they are getting worse.”  CSAV, including its Norasia CSAV subsidiary, is the world’s
eighth-largest operator of  container ships , according to
Containerisation International, a London-based provider of data
and analysis.  Company History  Founded in 1872, CSAV’s fleet expanded from 97 ships at the
end of 2009 to as many as 147 by the third quarter of 2010,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker.  The container-shipping market is fragmented beyond the
industry leaders,  Denmark ’s A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and
 Switzerland ’s Mediterranean Shipping Co., which use large, fuel-
efficient vessels, said Diego Ocampo, a Buenos Aires-based
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s . He cut CSAV’s credit rating to B-
from B, below investment grade, on Sept. 29.  Smaller competitors such as CSAV may have to lay up their
smaller, higher-cost vessels, according to Oslo-based investment
bank RS Platou Markets AS on Sept. 27.  Quinenco bought its initial 10 percent stake in CSAV from
Maritima de Inversiones SA, which is owned by Chile’s Claro
family. Grupo Luksic, controlled by brothers Guillermo,
Andronico and Jean-Paul, bought an additional 8 percent from the
Claros on April 6.  “They never thought that this year would be so bad,”
Pellegrini said. She told clients to sell CSAV stock after the
company lowered its outlook for the rest of the year in its
second-half earnings statement Sept. 26.  Financial Strength  The family has the financial wherewithal to ride out a long
shipping slump. Iris Fontbona, the widow of mining magnate
Andronico Luksic, heads the clan, which boasts a net worth of
$19.2 billion, according to Forbes Magazine this year.  The Luksics aren’t the only billionaires to seek
opportunities in shipping in 2011. Ross, chairman of private-
equity firm WL Ross & Co. in  New York , is part of a group of
investors that bought 30 ships hauling gasoline, diesel and
other refined products for about $900 million on Sept. 27.  The industry is “relatively close” to the bottom of its
business cycle, Ross told the Bloomberg Link’s Dealmakers Summit
on Sept. 27.  CSAV investors must hope he’s right.  “The question is how much cash will you burn between now
and when assets become expensive again,” Morgan Stanley’s
Sanderse said. “You don’t have endless time unless you have
bottomless pockets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 