-- 
Christie Says New Jersey ‘Stuck’ With Him After Spurning White House Bid

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/christie-says-new-jersey-stuck-with-him-after-spurning-white-house-bid.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
spurned Republican calls to run for president next year, saying
he wants to overhaul his state’s education system and pass
tougher ethics laws. He left the door open for 2016.  The former federal prosecutor, who has more than two years
remaining in his first term, said yesterday that he couldn’t
“walk away” from his commitment to voters.  “New Jersey, whether you like it or not, you’re stuck with
me,” Christie, 49, said in a news conference called to end
speculation about a presidential run. “There’s a lot more to do
here: This state was pretty messed up when I took it over. We’re
making great progress toward fixing it, but we’re not there
yet.”  Christie turned down the urgings of party fundraisers
including Kenneth Langone, the co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ;
hedge-fund manager  Paul Singer  and industrialist David Koch.
People close to Christie said some members of his party stepped
up pressure following stumbles by Texas Governor  Rick Perry  in a
Sept. 22 debate.  Christie said he’ll remain in Trenton to guide his plans
for instituting merit pay for teachers, expanding  charter
schools  and making it easier to fire underperforming educators.
Both the Senate and the Assembly are controlled by Democrats.
While all 120 seats are up for election in November, Christie
has said he doesn’t expect Republicans to capture either body.  Christie took office last year after defeating incumbent
Democrat  Jon Corzine  amid voter dissatisfaction over the highest
property taxes in the U.S. and a sluggish economy. He cut $10
billion in projected spending on schools, pensions and towns and
required public workers to pay more for health care.  Unemployment, Ratings Cut  Unemployment in  New Jersey  stood at 9.4 percent in August,
above the national average of 9.1 percent, and  Fitch Ratings  on
Aug. 17 lowered the state’s general-obligation bond rating by
one step to AA-, citing mounting fiscal pressure from pensions
and benefits.  Moody’s Investors Service dropped its rating one level, to
Aa3, in April, after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its grade to AA-
in February. The ratings are all fourth-highest.  “In the end, my commitment to this state is what overrode
everything else,” Christie told reporters. “I asked for this
job, I fought hard to get this job and my job here isn’t done.”  Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Bergen County
who has served in the Legislature since 1980, said Christie has
been effective at gaining the support of Democrats, whom he
needs to enact his legislation.  “I am glad he made the decision that he did because I
agree with him that there is a great deal more for him to do,”
Cardinale said in a telephone interview. “He has been able to
reach across the aisle and get people from both parties to work
with him.”  Pension, Benefits Overhaul  Christie rose to national prominence after securing passage
of a pension and benefits overhaul intended to save $120 billion
over 30 years by requiring state workers to pay more. Thousands
of teachers, government workers and firefighters protested
outside the state Capitol. In July 2010, he capped annual
increases in local property taxes, the highest in the nation,at
2 percent.  Last month, he jumpstarted a series of town-hall-style
public meetings when he called for greater financial disclosures
by those in the executive and legislative branches and said he
wants to end dual office-holding.  Christie was criticized by One New Jersey, a political-
action committee aligned with the  Democratic Party , for vetoing
an income-tax increase for residents earning at least $1
million, to help balance spending. Christie’s decision to scale-
back property tax rebates and cut aid to schools last year left
the average homeowner paying about 24 percent more out of
pocket, according to the political-action committee.  Democratic Criticism  “Christie finally realized that to run for president, it
helps to have been an effective governor,” John Wisniewski,
chairman of the state Democratic Party, said in a statement.
“On Christie’s watch, our bond rating has been downgraded by
two of the bond rating agencies, our  unemployment rate  remains
above the national average and middle-class residents and
seniors continue to be squeezed.”  For the past year, Christie had denied plans to make a run
for the White House.  “My job here in New Jersey is my ultimate passion,”
Christie said yesterday. “I’ve always meant it when I said I
feel like the luckiest guy in the world to have this job. I’m
doing a job I love, in the state I grew up in, on behalf of some
of the toughest and greatest people in this country.”  Door Open  By leaving the door open for a presidential run in 2016,
Christie will still face criticism from Democrats that he’s
using the governor’s office to play to Republicans outside the
state, said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute of
New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  Since taking office, Christie has headlined fundraisers in
states including  New York  and  Pennsylvania , and built up a
wellspring of support in his party as he campaigns for
Republicans from  Massachusetts  to  New Mexico . Donors from
 Florida  to  Colorado  helped drive a 12-fold increase in financing
from other states for the New Jersey Republican party this year.  “Democrats will still get mileage out of accusing the
governor of running for president and burnishing his national
credentials,” Dworkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 matannen@bloomberg.net . 