-- 
Citigroup Sues to Block Arbitration of Saudi Investors’ Claim

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/citigroup-seeks-to-bar-saudi-investors-arbitration-of-383-million-claim.html
A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit sued two Saudi
investors seeking to block Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority arbitration of their $383 million claim that the bank
“wiped out” their family’s wealth.  Abdullah and Ghazi Abbar, a father and son from Jeddah who
put family money into  hedge funds , have no customer agreements
or accounts with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a New York-based
broker dealer that they blame for mismanaging their family’s
life savings, according to a complaint the Citigroup unit filed
yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan .  The Citigroup entities that handled two leveraged option
transactions and a private-equity loan for the Abbars are based
in the U.K.,  Switzerland  and the  Cayman Islands  and aren’t
subject to arbitration by Finra, a Washington-based brokerage
regulator, according to the complaint.  “We are confident this matter will be appropriately
resolved when it is reviewed by legal authorities in the
jurisdictions that the parties agreed to when they executed
their trades,” Natalie Marin, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said in an e-mail.  John Rich, an attorney for the Abbars, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left after regular business hours
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The Abbars, whose money comes from food products importing,
travel and tourism, oil investments and other businesses, were
courted by top bank officers, including Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  and former global wealth management chief  Sallie Krawcheck , to maintain or expand business with the New York-
based company, they said in their Finra claim.  ‘Gross Misconduct’  “Due to a pattern of gross misconduct by CGMI and its
employees and affiliates, from late 2005 to present, the
considerable family wealth which the Abbars entrusted to
Citigroup has been virtually wiped out,” the Abbars said in the
claim they filed with Finra on Aug. 17.  The Abbars said their family was lured to Citigroup in 2006
after their Deutsche Bank AG banker moved to Citi Private Bank
Geneva. The Abbars put $343 million of their hedge fund
investment assets into a leveraged option swap transaction to
which Citigroup’s London affiliate was a last-minute
counterparty, a move designed to shield the bank from U.S.
regulatory and legal obligations, according to the claim.  Voting Shares  As part of the hedge-fund financing transaction, Citigroup
Global Markets had all the voting shares of the entities that
held the family’s investments. The bank failed to monitor the
investments, which became over-leveraged and totally collapsed
in late 2008 when the full force of the financial crisis hit,
the Abbars alleged.  “Citigroup took over management of the remaining positions
in the hedge fund portfolio and put in place a program for
redeeming the entire portfolio,” they said in the Finra claim.
“Citigroup will unjustly benefit in the amount of approximately
$70 million from redemption of such investments after repayment
of the loan and interest.”  The Abbars also set up a credit facility with Citigroup
under Cayman law providing for loans of as much as $110 million
and were persuaded to use the facility to invest in bank-related
private-equity investments. The Citigroup entities involved in
the day to day management of the credit deal “were ultimately
responsible” to Finra-registered personnel in  New York , they
said in the claim. They said the credit structure eventually
collapsed because of borrowings related to the Citigroup
investments.  The Abbars seek damages of $147 million in connection with
a credit facility that was set up to pay for capital calls in
the family’s private-equity investments. They are also seeking
$198 million tied to the hedge fund transaction and recovery of
$38 million they injected into the Citigroup deals, according to
their claim.  The case is Citigroup Global Markets v. Abbar, 11-6993,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  