-- 
More Drugs Mean More Disease as China Fails to Control Use of Antibiotics

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-06T08:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/clandestine-drug-sales-hamper-china-s-fight-against-superbugs.html
In a Beijing pharmacy, near the
headquarters of  China ’s  State  Food and Drug Administration , a
clandestine transaction takes place involving antibiotics.  Twenty-four amoxicillin capsules are sold without a
prescription for 23 yuan ($3.60) by a middle-aged pharmacist in
a white coat. The druggist scribbles the Chinese character for
“medicine” onto a receipt, whispering that the vague
description is in case of an audit. If caught, the pharmacist
could receive a warning or a  fine  of as much as 1,000 yuan.  Now health officials want those dispensing prescription
antibiotics without the obligatory doctor’s note to be stripped
of their license. The tougher penalties are part of a plan to
rein in a market worth more than $11 billion. Reckless use of
the life-saving pills is making them lose their potency faster
than new ones can be developed, researchers say.  “We are seeing more patients display  drug resistance ,
which is why it is very important now to manage the use of
antibiotics,” said Ma Xiaojun, an infectious diseases doctor at
Peking Union Medical College Hospital, who serves on a panel
advising the Ministry of Health on rational antibiotics use.  A ministry plan to curb consumption of bacteria-fighting
drugs may be introduced as early as this month. Drugmakers have
lobbied to delay its implementation, and some companies have
already slowed production in anticipation of a drop in demand in
the second half of the year, said Jacqueline Mei, a Shanghai-
based health-care analyst at CLSA Ltd.  United Labs, Lijun  United Laboratories International Holdings Ltd. (3933) , whose
products include amoxicillin capsules, has plunged 65 percent on
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange this year. The shares gained 0.7
percent to end trading at HK$5.56 at the 4 p.m. close. Lijun
International Pharmaceutical (Holding) Co., which got 60 percent
of its revenue from antibiotics in 2010, has slumped 70 percent
since Jan. 1 and closed 3 percent higher at HK$0.68.  Lijun reported a 12 percent slide in first-half antibiotic
sales. It’s trying to cut its reliance on the medicines to about
30 percent of revenue by the end of the year, Chief Executive
Officer Wang Xian Jun said in an interview.  “There is pressure on our sales,” Wang said. “It will be
as bad in the second half.”  Antibiotics generated 71.5 billion yuan ($11 billion) in
hospital sales alone in 2010, according to  IMS Health , a
pharmaceutical research company based in Danbury,  Connecticut .
The country’s top three sellers were Harbin Pharmaceutical Group
Co.,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , and closely held  Yangtze River Pharmaceutical
Group . The medicines account for about 20 percent of China’s
pharmaceutical sales, compared with 10 to 15 percent of global
drug sales, CLSA’s Mei said.  Seventy percent of hospital patients take antibiotics and
half of outpatients get the medicines, according to the health
ministry. It wants to  cut  antibiotic use to one in five
prescriptions and half of inpatients by the end of the year.  Antibiotic Overuse  “China is definitely overusing antibiotics,” Mei said.  The problem is illustrated by the speed at which penicillin
and cephalosporin-based medicines are losing their effectiveness
against E. coli, the biggest cause of urinary tract infections.
The proportion of infections caused by the bowel-dwelling bug
resistant to both groups of antibiotics in China tripled to 65
percent in 2009 from 21 percent in 2002, researchers reported in
a  study  last year.  The use of any antimicrobial for any infection forces
microbes to either adapt or die in a process known as
“selective pressure,” the  World Health Organization  says.
Germs which adapt and survive carry genes for resistance that
can spread from one person to another.  No Miracle Cures  “The world is on the brink of losing these miracle
cures,” WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said in an April 6
 speech  for  World Health Day , which was devoted to antimicrobial
resistance. “In the absence of urgent corrective and protective
actions, the world is heading towards a post-antibiotic era.
Many common infections will no longer have a cure and, once
again, kill unabated.”  China is taking action. The government will “strictly
control” overuse of antibiotics nationwide by giving regulators
greater powers to inspect and intervene on the prescriptions
made by doctors and hospitals, the health ministry said in an e-
mailed response to questions last month.  Under health ministry proposals, doctors caught
“unreasonably” administering antibiotics face warnings and may
have their authority to prescribe suspended. The ministry also
wants to identify the medicines by the frequency in which they
ought to be given -- from “unrestricted” to use “only in
special situations.”  Unethical Doctors  Overuse of the medicines is being driven by hospitals’
reliance on drug sales to generate revenue, unlawful marketing
by pharmaceutical companies, “unethical” doctors and patient
demands, the ministry said.  The use of antibiotics is “inappropriate” in 58 percent
of cases, according to a review of 1,000 patient records at 10
hospitals in Beijing and four provinces from 2005 to 2010, said
Yang Li, an associate professor of health-care policy at Peking
University’s School of  Public Health .  In hospitals and clinics across China, patients often sit
in rows of chairs or on gurneys in “infusion rooms,” where
treatments are injected into a vein via a drip attached to an
overhanging bottle or bag. Last year, 87 percent of the
antibiotics used in China's hospitals were administered 
intravenously, compared with 42 percent in  Japan  and 53 percent 
in the  United Kingdom , according to IMS.  “Chinese have sort of a superstition when it comes to
medicines,” said Ma, the Peking Union Medical College Hospital
doctor. “They feel that drugs are all good and it doesn’t hurt
to take more.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  