-- 
Cloning Methods Create Embryonic Stem Cells From Patients, Researchers Say

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-10-05T23:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cloning-methods-create-embryonic-stem-cells-from-patients.html
Researchers have created embryonic
 stem cells  using human eggs for the first time, a feat that may
bring scientists one step closer to treatments that can be
devised from a patient’s own cells.  Researchers from the New York Stem Cell Foundation
Laboratory and  Columbia University Medical Center  took DNA from
skin cells of patients with Type 1 diabetes, and placed it into
unfertilized human eggs from donors. The research is the first
to show that the cells could thrive long enough to create
embryonic stem cells with the DNA from patients, according to
the results published today in the journal Nature.  The findings may reignite excitement about the potential
for creating stem cells from a patient’s own genetic material
that could be used to treat diseases. That goal, though, has
been difficult to achieve as stem cells produced from the latest
research had three sets of chromosomes, an abnormality making
them useless for therapeutic purposes, researchers said.  “I would call it a major advance,” George Daley, director
of the stem cell transplantation program at Children’s Hospital
Boston, said in a telephone interview. “It is a big deal.”
Daley, who wasn’t involved in the research, wrote an editorial
accompanying the study.  Altered Technique  The method used by the New York scientists is similar to
the one used to create Dolly the cloned sheep in 1996, though
the goal wasn’t to clone a human. The approach, known as
somatic-cell nuclear transfer, involves replacing the genetic
material inside an egg cell, whose nucleus has been removed,
with that of an adult cell. The method, however, hasn’t worked
in human eggs. The New York scientists altered the technique by
adding the adult cell to an egg that still had its nucleus.  The new research was only partly successful because the
stem cells contained DNA from two sources. To advance to
personalized medicine, stem cells need to be specific to the
patient.  “This research brings us an important step closer to
creating new healthy cells for patients to replace their cells
that are damaged or lost through injury,” said Susan L.
Solomon, chief executive officer of the  New York Stem Cell
Foundation , in a statement.  Reprogrammed cells could be used directly to treat disease,
and also may be helpful for testing for drugs, and studying the
cause of ailments such as Alzheimer’s disease and amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, or ALS, commonly known as  Lou Gehrig ’s
disease.  No Immediate Implications  While today’s finding didn’t have immediate medical
implications, it may provide insights that help improve another
method for creating-patient specific stem cells that doesn’t
involve donor eggs, Daley said. This technique, called induced
pluripotent cells, may be more practical for large-scale use in
the long run, he said.  “What we really want to do now is directly compare the
molecular state and behavior of the IPS cells to the nuclear
transfer cells,” Daley said in a telephone interview. “What I
hope is that the nuclear transfer study will teach lessons that
will allow us to make IPS cells more efficiently.”  While the nuclear transfer method has worked in various
laboratory animals, it has been difficult to perform in human
cells, until now.  In 2004, South Korean researcher Hwang Woo Suk published a
study claiming to have created stem cells from DNA placed into a
donor egg. The study and a follow-up turned out to be faked, a
2006 Seoul National University investigation found.  In a statement, the New York Stem Cell Foundation
researchers said they were confident they would be able to
develop reprogrammed cells containing only the patient’s DNA in
the “not-too-distant future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at  