-- 
Commodities Climb From 10-Month Low as Bernanke Vows Steps to Boost Growth

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-10-05T22:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/commodities-climb-from-10-month-low-as-bernanke-vows-steps-to-boost-growth.html
Commodities rebounded from the lowest
in 10 months after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
that the central bank may take further steps to sustain an
economic recovery.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials rose 2.8
percent to settle at 592.03 at 3:48 p.m.  New York  time, the
biggest gain since Sept. 27. Energy and agricultural prices led
the rally. Crude oil had the biggest increase since May, while
wheat advanced the most in two months. Yesterday, the commodity
gauge touched 572.92, the lowest since Nov. 26.  Bernanke affirmed a plan to keep  interest rates  low at
least through mid-2013. The Fed may reduce the rate paid on
banks’ reserve deposits or buy more securities, he said. Today,
U.S. data on payrolls and service industries topped forecasts by
analysts. The MSCI All-Country Index of equities gained as much
as 2.1 percent.  “Commodities are rallying on the back of higher risk
appetite and prospects of more Fed action,” said  Eugen Weinberg , the head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “It’s a macro- and sentiment-driven rally after the
massive losses recently, and may continue for a while, though
the risks remain to the downside.”  Oil in New York jumped 5.3 percent after the U.S.
government reported an unexpected supply decline. Wheat in
Chicago gained 3.5 percent as exports climbed from the U.S., the
world’s biggest shipper.  The GSCI has dropped 6.3 percent this year. The gauge is
down 22 percent from a 32-month high in April on persistent
concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis will hinder the global
economy, eroding demand for raw materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 