-- 
Congress Must Ensure Patent Office Funds, University Leaders Say

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-05T19:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/congress-must-ensure-patent-office-funds-university-leaders-say.html
Congress must keep its pledge to let
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office have control over all the
fees it collects to promote innovation and spur  job creation ,
university leaders and corporate executives said today.  “One of the great impediments to an effective PTO is the
funding to just get the people power in place and move things
through the system,” Massachusetts Institute of Technology
President Susan Hockfield said during a panel discussion today
in  Washington . The event was sponsored by  Harvard University  and
the  Business Roundtable , an association of corporate leaders,
and hosted by Bloomberg News.  “We have had a massive acceleration in the amount of work
we sent to these people,” Hockfield said. “They are just tied
in knots trying to develop a system to make processing these
patents efficient.”  Under legislation signed by President  Barack Obama  on Sept.
16, the agency would be able to set its own fees and have
greater control to use all of the money it collects. The law
would eliminate a practice under which Congress has diverted
almost $1 billion since 1990 from the agency, which pays for
itself through fees collected from patent and trademark
applicants and owners.  The measure, which marks the biggest change to the U.S.
patent system since at least 1952, passed with broad bipartisan
support after a decade of discussions and negotiations among
industry groups. The law seeks to bolster legal protection for
inventions by setting new rules on applications and creating
procedures to review issued patents.  Innovation Leader  “It relaunches the U.S. as the world’s leader in
innovation policy,” said PTO Director David Kappos. The goal,
he said, is to “get the science transferred quickly from the
lab to the commercial space.”  The agency’s funding has already been thrown into doubt
just weeks after the bill’s passage. A provision that would
ensure the patent office has access to all of the fees it
collects wasn’t in a bill to keep the government running through
Nov. 18 that was signed today by Obama. That means the agency is
limited to spending at a rate based on the $2.1 billion budget
for fiscal 2011, rather than the $2.7 billion projected for the
current fiscal year, which started Oct. 1.  “We are continuing to work with Congress as well as within
the Administration to explore mechanisms that might enable the
USPTO to access funds” above the $2.1 billion level for fiscal
2011, patent office spokesman Peter C. Pappas said in an e-mail.  Reduce Backlog  The PTO has said it needs full funding to hire more workers
and improve its computer system to reduce a backlog of 670,000
applications awaiting first review by patent examiners.  “We need to get the money” to the patent office, said
Stanford University President John Hennessy. “We’ve got to
invest in order to make this process faster. That’s an American
competitiveness issue.”  The corporate executives and university leaders said the
patent legislation could serve as a template for other issues
facing the business community, such as visas granted to skilled
foreign workers.  “We worked this out because we recognized it’s in our
mutual interest to do that,” said  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief
Executive Officer John Lechleiter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  