-- 
Cook Shares Stage With Deputies to Tout Apple Innovations in Post-Jobs Era

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-10-05T13:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/cook-shares-stage-to-pitch-new-apple-gadgets-in-post-jobs-era.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook , at the introduction of the newest iPhone yesterday,
left off the “one more thing” cliffhanger that came at the end
of product unveilings under his predecessor, Steve Jobs.  Jobs’s absence was palpable throughout the 90-minute
introduction of the iPhone 4S yesterday at Apple’s headquarters
in Cupertino,  California .  “This is my first product launch since being named CEO,”
Cook said, the only Jobs reference, if veiled, at the entire
event. “I’m sure you didn’t know that.”  Jobs was renowned for stirring, meticulously rehearsed
pitches, and while he wasn’t usually the only speaker, he
typically discussed the most whiz-bang features or new gadgets
himself. Cook, after remarks delivered slowly and methodically,
let deputies tout Apple’s coolest new wares.  “ Steve Jobs  is the world’s greatest communicator, there is
nobody who comes close, so unfortunately Tim Cook has very big
shoes to fill,” said Carmine Gallo, who has  written  about
Apple’s presentations. “Tim Cook decided to share the stage.”  Cook, whose blue button-up shirt and Levi’s contrasted with
Jobs’s trademark black mock turtleneck and jeans, hung back as
his deputies took the stage. Eddy Cue, who runs iTunes and the
 App Store , showed off iCloud, a new service that lets users sync
music and other media files across devices.  Phil Schiller, senior vice president of product marketing,
got the plum job of introducing the iPhone itself. It was he who
discussed the iPhone 4S’s faster processor, more advanced camera
and antenna system designed to improve call quality.  ‘One Thing Out’  Schiller then told the audience, “We left one thing out,”
before handing the spotlight to mobile-software chief  Scott Forstall  to plug Siri, the iPhone’s voice-recognition
capabilities.  Yesterday’s wasn’t the first product presentation without
Jobs. Then-CEO Jobs missed the 2009 unveiling of the iPhone 3GS
because he was out on medical leave -- one of three times he
ceded day-to-day operations while combating a rare form of
cancer.  “This is the same formula they’ve used when Steve wasn’t
able to be there the last three times,” said  Tim Bajarin ,
president of consulting firm Creative Strategies. “People don’t
buy Apple’s products because of Steve Jobs. His stage presence
may help, but they buy products for what they do for them.”  Still,  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. who
was in attendance, said the event lacked some of the excitement
and energy of those in the past.  “There’s no way to replace Steve Jobs -- and there were
times during the performance that you felt that,” Munster said.  Apple fell $7.62, or 2.1 percent, to $364.88 at 9:35 a.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had gained
15 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  