-- 
Corn Rises Most in Five Weeks, Soybeans Gain on Signs of Rebounding Demand

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T20:18:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/corn-soybean-futures-rebound-in-chicago-on-speculation-demand-will-rise.html
Corn futures gained the most in five
weeks and soybeans rebounded from an 11-month low as demand
rebounded from producers of food, livestock feed and biofuels
following the September slump in prices.  The U.S. reported bigger hog and feedlot-cattle herds last
month, and gasoline futures climbed as much as 3.5 percent
today. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that the central bank may take more steps to sustain an economic
recovery. In September, corn tumbled 23 percent, the most since
at least 1959, and soybeans had the biggest drop in three years.  “With the price decline, profits are back for the cattle,
hog and ethanol producers,” Jim Gerlach, the president of A/C
Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a telephone interview.
“Whatever demand destruction was occurring at higher prices is
now reversing. The Fed is signaling it is ready to help boost
economic growth.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 17.75 cents, or 3
percent, to close at $6.055 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the largest gain for a most-active contract
since Aug. 26.  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 3.75 cents, or
0.3 percent, to $11.6375 a bushel. Yesterday, the oilseed
touched $11.52, the lowest since Oct. 11, 2010. The commodity
slumped 19 percent in September.  Corn may rise on lower global inventories, and soybeans
might gain as Chinese demand remains “resilient,” said  Abah Ofon , an analyst in  Singapore  at Standard Chartered Bank.  “The deep decline in grain markets plays into the hands of
buyers,” Ofon said in a report.  China  will “relish the recent
collapse of prices, given it has been grappling with high
domestic demand for corn,” he said.  Drought in  Argentina  and dry weather in parts of  Brazil  may
hurt crops, Oil World, a research company, said in a report.
Planting began last month in those nations, the world’s leading
exporters of corn and soybeans behind the U.S.  Corn is the largest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  