-- 
Crude Rises for a Second Day After U.S. Stockpile Drop, Jobs Increase

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-06T12:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/crude-oil-trades-near-four-day-high-on-shrinking-supplies-u-s-job-growth.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New York 
as shrinking U.S. crude supplies, better-than-expected economic
data and signs Europe can control its debt crisis allayed
concern that fuel consumption will suffer.  Futures, which rose the most in almost five months
yesterday, gained as much as 1.8 percent today. They pared some
of their advance after the  European Central Bank  kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged. Crude inventories fell 4.7 million
barrels, the Energy Department reported yesterday. The Labor
Department may say tomorrow employment growth in the U.S.
resumed last month after stagnating in August. European leaders
are working on plans to boost bank capital, an International
Monetary Fund official said.  “ Oil prices  have been quite resistant to the turbulence in
the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Oslo who expects Brent to remain at $100 a barrel for
the next few weeks and average $110 this quarter. “The latest
macro figures have not been as disappointing. It’ll take
something worse to bring prices down.”  Crude for November delivery rose as much as $1.47 to $81.15
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $80.19 at 1:29 p.m. London time. The
contract gained 5.3 percent yesterday. Prices are down 12
percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement was little changed at
$102.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$22.53 to New York crude, compared with a record of $26.87 on
Sept. 6.  Cushing Supplies  Crude is extending gains in New York as the technical
chart’s five-day stochastic oscillators have fallen below 30,
signaling futures have dropped too quickly, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to buy contracts when
prices are deemed to be oversold.  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York-traded futures, tumbled 831,000 barrels to 30.1 million
last week, the lowest level since March 2010, according to the
Energy Department report. Supplies declined for a tenth week.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 1.14 million barrels, the report
showed. The median of 15 analyst projections in the Bloomberg
survey was an increase 1.5 million barrels. Inventories of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, fell by 744,000 barrels.  U.S. total fuel demand, as measured by products supplied by
refiners, averaged 18.9 million barrels over the previous four
weeks, the Energy Department report said. That’s 1.3 percent
lower than the same time last year.  European Crisis  Oil has fallen this year on speculation Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen a global economic slowdown, curbing
demand for commodities. EU officials are working on plans to
increase bank capital, Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said yesterday in Brussels. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said she’s ready to discuss recapitalizing banks
at this month’s EU summit.  Tomorrow’s Labor Department report may show U.S. payrolls
climbed by 59,000 jobs in September after no change the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The department said today applications for jobless benefits
increased by 6,000 last week to 401,000. Economists projected
410,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. The monthly average dropped to the lowest level
since the end of August.  Data from ADP Employer Services yesterday showed U.S.
companies added 91,000 workers in September after an 89,000 gain
in August, Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP said yesterday. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for an addition of
75,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  