-- 
Daimler Guarantees Permanent Employees’ Jobs Through 2016

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-10-05T16:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/daimler-extends-guarantees-on-permanent-employees-jobs-until-end-of-2016.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest
maker of  luxury vehicles , will guarantee the jobs of 130,000
permanent employees through 2016 in exchange for continued
flexibility to hire temporary workers.  The deal, which extends protections in place since 2004,
allows the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, buses and trucks to use
temporary staff for up to 8 percent of production employees, the
Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker said in a statement today.  “They are ensuring an adequate work structure which would
allow them to react in the case of a possible downturn in
2012,” said Jose Asumendi, a London-based Royal Bank of
 Scotland  analyst who recommends buying the shares. “If demand
drops off 15 or 20 percent next year, they can cut the temps.”  Mercedes,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi are targeting all-time sales highs this year. Still,
Daimler’s sales growth has slowed in recent months. Deliveries
at the Mercedes-Benz brand rose just 2 percent in September, the
carmaker said today.  The protection from forced layoffs covers about 130,000
workers at the manufacturer, which currently employs about 4,500
temporary staff, spokesman Markus Mainka said. The agreement
comes two years after Daimler asked workers for 2 billion euros
($2.7 billion) in concessions, including fewer hours and a
delayed wage increase in response to the financial crisis. The
earlier job-guarantee agreement was due to expire this year.  Shares Rise  “We are securing necessary and important personnel
flexibility to be able to optimally react to demand at any
time,” Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said in the
statement.  The shares rose 1.64 euros, or 5.3 percent, to close at
32.61 euros in Frankfurt trading today. The stock has dropped 36
percent this year, valuing the company at 34.8 billion euros.  Daimler’s move follows similar agreements at other German
companies.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemicals maker, last
November granted  job security  for the 33,000 workers at its
Ludwigshafen plant.  Siemens AG (SIE) , the biggest German company by
market value, said in September of last year it would
indefinitely secure locations and jobs for all its 128,000
domestic employees.  “This is a sign of sustainable employment policy that’s
very appropriate in light of the company’s current outstanding
situation,” said Erich Klemm, Daimler’s top labor
representative, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  