-- 
Daley: No Expectation of Double-Dip Recession

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-10-05T21:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/daley-says-no-expectation-of-double-dip-recession-for-u-s-1-.html
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said the administration expects the U.S. will avoid
falling into another recession even as the debt crisis in  Europe 
remains “of great concern.”  “We’re very concerned about the possibility, but the
expectations as of right now is that we would not see a double
dip,” Daley said at a forum in Washington sponsored by the
 Aspen Institute  and the Atlantic magazine.  President Barack Obama is in close contact with his
European counterparts, and “the expectation is that they will
take action to prevent serious negative results” for the global
economy, Daley said.  He said the president’s $447 billion package of tax cuts
and spending aimed at spurring hiring will help create “some
buffer” for the  U.S. economy  as growth remains sluggish. It’s
clear that the forecasts for economic expansion that were made
at the start of this year “are not going to be fulfilled,”
Daley said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the
central bank can take further steps to sustain a recovery that
is “close to faltering.”  The state of the economy means Obama will face a “very
tough and close election” in 2012, Daley said. He called the
political sentiment in the country “extremely volatile” and
criticized Republican lawmakers, who he said have take a “hard-
line position of ‘no,’” to anything Obama proposes.  Potential Challengers  He refused to say who among the candidates for the
Republican presidential nomination would be the toughest
opponent for Obama.  “Whoever the Republican Party nominates will be a
formidable candidate because the nation is very divided,” he
said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.8 percent to
1,144.03 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , adding to yesterday’s 2.3
percent surge. Reports depicting faster-than-forecast growth in
payrolls and service industries and rising fuel demand tempered
concern the economic recovery was in jeopardy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  