-- 
David Bailey Swaps Nude Photos to Paint Hitler, Donald Duck

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-10-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/david-bailey-swaps-nude-photos-for-painting-hitler-donald-duck-interview.html
David Bailey is putting down his
camera and picking up a paintbrush. The man who shot some of the
best-known images of the past 50 years is returning to his
childhood memories to draw  Mickey Mouse  and  Adolf Hitler .  For Bailey, this isn’t a radical departure. He started
sketching long before buying his first Rolleiflex. He’s an
artist, not a painter, he insists.  They are all just images, he says, gesturing across his
London mews studio. He has photos of  Mick Jagger , the Beatles,
Rudolph Nureyev, Jean Shrimpton and  Andy Warhol  as well as
thousands of fashion shoots, nudes and landscapes.  These have won many awards: Bailey got his first prize when
he was 12 in a City & Guilds contest, for a drawing of Bambi.
Disney and London’s wartime bombing helped inspire the
paintings. Rolling StoneRonnie Wood’s son James organized
Bailey’s show at his  London  gallery  Scream  under the title
“Hitler Killed the Duck.”  “I spent most of the war down the cellars and air-raid
shelters,” Bailey, 73, recalls. “I used to go to the cinema in
Upton Park. One morning, I woke up and Hitler had bombed it -- a
bit of a blow. I was probably six at the time. Hitler has always
been a dark angel in my life.”  Nod to Bacon  Some of the paintings are as childlike as Bailey’s photos
are stylish. They include primitive Hitler portraits, the
wartime character  Chad  peering over walls, and slogans: “Wot no
beer?” and “1942 WAS A BAD YEAR.” There are many religious
references and a self-portrait of Bailey dressed like a pope
with a striptease artist. It’s a wry homage to Velazquez and to
 Francis Bacon , who was inspired by the Spanish artist’s work.  “Bacon tried to pick me up once when I was about 20,”
Bailey says. “I didn’t know who he was. I said, ‘Who is this
old guy who is buying me Scotch and sodas?’  “I don’t believe in God or anything of that nonsense,” he
says. “I love myths. I think we have to have some mystery in
our lives. If you are too practical it takes away all the magic
in life. I don’t believe I’m going to go to heaven and sit in a
nice comfortable chair with Jesus.”  The paintings pay homage to Picasso’s curvy nudes. Bailey
is an admirer of the female form: He has been married four
times. His mixed-media works marry photos of La Cicciolina,  Kate Moss , Jerry Hall and others with oil, canvas and silk. Asked
about a frontal picture of Hall covered with orange and red
brushstrokes as if she is on fire, the asthmatic Bailey wheezes
with laughter and says, “Well she’s a very hot lady, that
one.”  Books on Delhi  Bailey has published more than 30 books and is working on a
raft more: two on Delhi, one of Polaroids he shot in  Australia ,
maybe three on the East End of London and Warhol.  He left school on his 15th birthday with no education and
dyslexia. His teacher told him, “somebody has to sweep the
roads.” Bailey remarks, “People say, ‘Why do you do what you
do?’ I say, ‘Because I can’t do anything else.’”  He wastes no time in taking charge of the video shoot
during the Bloomberg interview, directing the camerawoman,
setting the angle and lighting, constantly firing off questions:
“Do I look like I’ve got personality?”  “And then some,” I say.  He praises his friend Jagger’s “SuperHeavy” CD,
criticizes  Tony Blair  over  Iraq  and rattles off anecdotes such
as his bafflement at seeing a blind man in a camera shop.  Bailey’s advice to someone wanting to be a photographer?  “What should people be doing?” he says. “Be true to
yourself, as simple as that. Use your common sense.”  “Hitler Killed the Duck” runs at Scream, 34 Bruton
Street, London, W1J 6QX, through Nov. 12. Information:
 http://www.david-bailey.co.uk , 
 http://www.screamlondon.com  or +44-20-7493-7388.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 