-- 
DeMark Says 3.8% S&P 500 Rally Tomorrow May Lead to Drop

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   A d a m   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T22:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/demark-says-s-p-500-rally-tomorrow-may-precede-sharp-decline-.html
A 3.8 percent rally tomorrow in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index would create a pattern that may
result in a “sharp decline” a day later, according to Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators for identifying turning points
in securities.  “Tomorrow is a very important day for us,” DeMark said in
an interview on Bloomberg television’s “Street Smart” hosted
by Lisa Murphy and  Adam Johnson . “We’ve just got to monitor
closely tomorrow’s trading. If it’s very strong and if the news
on Friday is either positive or negative, we could have sharp
decline to undercut yesterday’s low.”  The  stock index  closed at 1,144.03 today, and would send a
bearish sign if it reached 1,188 tomorrow, he said.  “People are not smart off of market bottoms,” DeMark
said. “If you do get three up closes off a low, we’ll see a
vacuum in the market and that vacuum will accent the decline
even more than the upside.”  DeMark, the founder of Market Studies LLC, said on Sept. 22
that the  S&P 500  might fall as low as 1,076 before investor
panic abated and stocks advanced. The benchmark index for
American equities fell yesterday to 1,074.77 and has gained 6.4
percent since. On Aug. 16, DeMark said European banks were
“bottoming” and  Societe Generale  SA and BNP Paribas SA “look
like buys.” Societe Generale has plunged 22 percent and BNP 21
percent since.  Too Aggressive  “We are at a pivotal and crucial point right now,” DeMark
said today. “The market short-term reacted too aggressively
yesterday and it almost indicates that the market could be
responding more to short covering than real investing.”  Stocks reversed losses yesterday, rallying in the final
hour of trading, amid speculation European Union officials are
examining how to recapitalize the region’s banks. The S&P 500
extended its loss to more than 20 percent intraday, meeting the
common definition of a  bear market , before rebounding.  “Typically when markets have three up closes and do move
that quickly, that is a sign of the termination of a short-term
move,” Demark said. “Instead of looking forward and expecting
the market to move higher, it could have a very sharp decline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  