-- 
House Democrats Resist Colombia Free-Trade Pact Backed by Obama

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-05T17:18:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/democrats-resist-colombia-free-trade-accord-on-lack-of-worker-protection.html
Democrats on the House Ways and Means
Committee said they oppose legislation for a  Colombia  free-trade
agreement submitted by President  Barack Obama  because it does
too little to protect that nation’s workers.  The Colombia deal, one of three debated in the committee
today, was reached under President  George W. Bush  and revised by
Obama. The accords had been stymied in a stalemate with
Republicans over aid for workers who lose their jobs to foreign
competition. Obama submitted legislation on Oct. 3 after Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he would consider the
worker assistance in tandem with the trade deals.  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , senior Democrat on
the panel, said he plans to oppose the Colombia agreement
because labor-rights assurances Obama won from the South
American nation in a so-called Action Plan aren’t in the bill.
Levin said he will support the  South Korea  pact after Obama
negotiated terms for auto tariffs and the Panama deal after
Obama reached agreement on exchanging tax information.  “There remain troubling problems with how Colombia is
addressing key elements related to the Action Plan,” Levin
said. “The flaws are magnified by the failure to incorporate
the Action Plan in the implementation bill as a result of the
adamant refusal of Republicans, and the Obama administration’s
acquiescence to that refusal.”  Union Opposition  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions and a frequent Democratic
ally, has urged lawmakers to oppose the Colombia deal, saying
the nation remains the world’s most dangerous for workers.
Fifty-one Colombian union members were killed last year, up from
47 in 2009, according to the National Union School, a labor-
rights organization based in Medellin, Colombia.  The three trade pacts are “lousy” deals that will destroy
159,000 jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas,
Trumka said yesterday in a Washington speech. The U.S. Chamber
of Commerce says the trade agreements will prevent the loss of
380,000 jobs.  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  Not all Democrats are opposed to the Colombia legislation.
Representative Ron Kind of  Wisconsin  said he didn’t share
Levin’s concern that leaving out Colombia’s labor-rights
assurances means that nation wouldn’t honor the pledge. The
Obama administration has taken sufficient steps to ensure the
improvement of security for Colombian workers, he said in vowing
to support the bill.  “The longer we’re on the sidelines, the greater the market
share we’re going to be losing in these countries,” he said.  The bills are H.R. 3078 for Colombia, H.R. 3079 for  Panama 
and H.R. 3080 for South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  