-- 
Dexia May Be Left as Bad Bank as Governments Shun Injections

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-10-05T17:08:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dexia-may-become-a-bad-bank-as-governments-avoid-injecting-new-capital.html
Dexia SA (DEXB)  may be left with the
lender’s worst assets under plans that would allow the French
and Belgian governments to avoid injecting more capital into the
bank, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  Under the option most favored by the French, the two
governments would guarantee Dexia’s borrowings before splitting
up the lender, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Belgium may then assume Dexia’s
assets in that country, while France’s state-owned La Banque
Postale and Caisse des Depots et Consignations would buy Dexia’s
French municipal-lending unit, leaving Dexia as the “bad
bank,” the people said.  That would avoid an immediate recapitalization of the
Belgian municipal lender, which would then sell its legacy
assets over time, the people said. If the lender transferred its
“bad” assets to a new company, the bank would need more
capital because a sale would crystallize what are at the moment
paper losses for Dexia, one of the people said. A final decision
hasn’t been made and the talks are still fluid, the people said.  “Whether or not this structure would benefit shareholders
depends on the prices at which  France  and Belgium would pay for
their national assets,” said Alphavalue Bank analyst Christophe Nijdam. “One should bear in mind that the two states are ‘judge
and jury’ as they are the majority direct and indirect
shareholders of Dexia SA.”  2008 Bailout  Dexia’s breakup, three months after it got a clean bill of
health in European Union regulators’ stress tests, transplants
 Europe ’s banking crisis from the continent’s periphery to its
heartland. The Brussels- and Paris-based bank, which received a
bailout in 2008, is being rescued again after its short-term
funding evaporated as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis worsened.  Dexia “is a good example of how a sovereign debt crisis
can become a banking crisis,” Julian Jessop, chief global
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” today.  The bank will pool its troubled assets into a “bad bank”
with Belgian and French government guarantees to protect
depositors and its municipal-lending unit, Yves Leterme,
 Belgium ’s prime minister, said yesterday. The “legacy”
division had about 113 billion euros ($150 billion) of assets on
June 30.  Board to Meet  La Poste  and Caisse des Depots will today discuss the
takeover of Dexia’s French municipal-lending business, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. The board of directors
of La Poste, the French postal service, will also meet tonight
to discuss the matter, said another person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  In France, the lender had 82.6 billion euros of outstanding
municipal and project-finance loans supported by 3.8 billion
euros of deposits at the end of the first half.  France will announce more details about Dexia’s rescue
tomorrow, French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  told RTL radio
today. Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said guarantees
that will be provided will be “inferior” to the ones granted
in 2008, when Belgium’s share exceeded 90 billion euros. He also
said that Belgium has “no intention” of chalking up losses and
will collect a fee in return for the guarantees. Dexia paid 489
million euros last year for them, according to company filings.  Dexia may also seek buyers for its Belgian bank, Denizbank
AS in Turkey and its asset-management division, according to a
person with knowledge of the talks.  Dexia Shares Rise  The French-Belgian bank won’t go bankrupt and France will
guarantee deposits, French European Affairs Minister Jean Leonetti said in an interview on Canal Plus television today.
“Coming to the rescue of a bank is not necessarily a bad
deal,” he said.  Spokesmen for Dexia, La Poste and CDC declined to comment
about the negotiations. The shares, which rose as much as 10
percent in Brussels trading today, closed up 1.3 percent at
1.021 euros for a market value of 1.99 billion euros.  Investors are shunning European lenders, whose shares are
down 33 percent this year, on concern that the sovereign debt
crisis has undermined their ability to fund themselves. U.S.
money-market funds cut their holdings of commercial paper sold
by foreign financial firms, mostly European, by 31 percent in
the third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB Funding  The  European Central Bank  has been providing banks with as
much short-term euro funding as they need at its benchmark rate
against eligible collateral since October 2008, after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global
recession. It has been forced by the debt crisis, spreading
beyond Greece to Italy and Spain, to extend those measures and
in August reintroduced longer-duration, six-month euro loans.  The ECB also joined with the U.S. Federal Reserve and other
central banks on Sept. 15 to lend dollars to euro-area banks
with three-month loans to ensure lenders have enough of the
currency through the end of the year.  Europe’s banks are paying close to the highest premium to
borrow in dollars in the swaps market since December 2008, with
the three-month, cross-currency  basis swap  falling to 106.5
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate.  French banks including Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are particularly vulnerable to deterioration
in market confidence as they have large balance sheets,
significant wholesale liquidity needs across different
currencies and reduced prospects to rebuild capital, Jean- Francois Neuez, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in London,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  ‘By No Means Alone’  The cost of insuring the debt of France’s three biggest
banks rose yesterday, with Societe Generale up 32 basis points
to 384, Credit Agricole 24 basis points higher at 287 and BNP
Paribas SA up 23 basis points to 286, according to CMA prices.
An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit quality .  “Dexia is by no means alone in terms of being at risk
here,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF
Global Ltd. in London. “There are plenty of other banks out
there that have grown their assets way in excess of their
deposit base like Dexia. That makes them massively exposed. It
feels like the capitulation has started, and people are saying
we’ve had enough of this state of affairs and something concrete
needs to be done.”  Dexia’s Roots  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
France and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in Belgium
and a private bank in Luxembourg.  Over the past decade, the Franco-Belgian bank sought to
combine with another retail bank in France and elsewhere in
Europe to reduce its reliance on wholesale funding. It failed to
merge with Italian lender Sanpaolo IMI SpA in 2004.  That dependence on wholesale funding hobbled Dexia as money
markets seized up after Lehman collapsed, and the lender turned
to emergency funding from central banks. It was one of the
largest euro-area users of emergency loans from the Fed,
borrowing $58.5 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro loss for the second quarter,
the biggest in its history, after writing down the value of its
Greek debt. Once the world’s largest lender to municipalities,
it received a 6 billion-euro bailout from Belgium, France and
its major shareholders in September 2008.  ‘A Bit Late’  “Dexia’s model is vulnerable because it is dependent on
short-term funding,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “But the bank could have
sold its legacy sovereign bonds portfolio over time and earlier.
It didn’t want to take the losses. Now it’s a bit late.”  The bank, which marked down some of its Greek debt by 21
percent, may have to take additional losses if it writes down
those loans to market prices.  “Dexia is a very specific case,” said  Francois Chaulet ,
who helps manage about 250 million euros at Montsegur Finance in
Paris, including shares in  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and Societe Generale.
“You can’t compare it to BNP Paribas or Societe Generale. It
faces huge exposures after selling toxic products to local
regions, and it’s very highly leveraged.”  Dexia passed the EU stress tests in July with regulators
saying it had sufficient capital to withstand a recession and
losses on its sovereign debt. The lender’s core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, was 10.4 percent in the
test’s adverse scenario, surpassing the 5 percent minimum
required by the European Banking Authority.  ‘Dexia Didn’t Work’  “The decision to maintain Dexia as it is after the 2008
bailout was not a viable option,” said Alphavalue’s Nijdam, who
wrote in 2010 a report on Dexia titled “Unpalatable recipe of
kebab-wrapped froglegs marinated in Belgian beer.” “From day
one, the creation of Dexia didn’t work.”  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc passed the
EU’s examinations in 2010, while Anglo Irish Bank Corp. wasn’t
tested. Later that year, a liquidity shortfall caused when
depositors withdrew funds from Irish lenders helped prompt EU
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  to agree on an
85 billion-euro bailout for the country.  “The European stress tests lacked a critical element,
which is full harmonization of capital,” KBW’s Lambert said.
“In the case of Dexia, because it’s a Belgian bank, it was able
to exclude the paper losses on its sovereign bonds to calculate
its  capital ratios . Basel III is going to help harmonize the
accounting method.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 