-- 
Dexia’s Breakup May Make Its Shareholders Losers Holding Little of Value

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-10-06T18:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dexia-breakup-may-make-shareholders-losers-holding-little-value.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s planned breakup to protect
its Belgian depositors and its municipal-lending business in
France may leave little value for its shareholders.  About 15 years after the French-Belgian bank was created in
a merger and after about 100 billion euros ($133 billion) in
public guarantees and funds kept the lender afloat in the 2008-
2009 period, France and Belgium are trying to split up its
assets in a manner designed to avoid injecting more capital.  Under an option favored by France, Dexia SA may be left
holding a “bad bank” with the lender’s worst assets, while
Belgium assumes control of operations in that country and state
entities in France buy up the French municipal-lending business,
two people with knowledge of the plans said. Dexia’s market
value has tumbled 42 percent in the past four days on concern
shareholders will be the losers in a possible breakup.  “Whether or not this structure would benefit shareholders
depends on the prices France and  Belgium  would pay for their
national assets,” said AlphaValue Bank analyst Christophe Nijdam. “One should bear in mind that the two states are judge
and jury as they are the majority direct and indirect
shareholders of Dexia.”  Belgian entities own 44 percent of Dexia and French state-
linked ones hold 26 percent. France may announce details on
Dexia’s rescue today, French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin 
told RTL radio yesterday. Dexia today said its board will meet
Oct. 8 to discuss the options for the future of the lender.  ‘Ruined’ Shareholders  In the first step toward its dismantling, Dexia today said
there’s an investor interested in its profitable retail and
private banking unit in Luxembourg. Dexia, which fell 22 percent
on Oct. 4, slid as much as 17 percent after Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden mentioned the possible sale. Trading was
suspended until the morning of Oct. 10. The shares have fallen
more than 90 percent since the 2008 capital injection.  “It’s hard to tell how much Dexia is worth, but
shareholders are ruined, with the core assets in France and
Belgium back at their starting blocks,” said  Francois Chaulet ,
who helps manage 250 million euros at Paris’s Montsegur Finance.  On Oct. 4, Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said Dexia
is pooling its troubled assets into a “bad bank” with Belgian
and French government guarantees. Dexia, which was bailed out by
the two governments in 2008, will put its “legacy” division,
which held 113 billion euros of assets at the end of June, into
the bad bank, Leterme said.  The Rescue  “It’s impossible to have an idea of the final losses”
from the troubled assets, said Chaulet. “Sharing this burden is
the last touchy balancing act for a bank where management has
always been difficult. Since Dexia’s inception, the two
nationalities have been competing for executive direction.”  For Dexia shareholders to retain value from owning a bad
bank, the total cost of its debt financing and fees for use of
the government guarantees will need to be lower than the
interest the bad bank collects, said Dirk Peeters, an analyst at
KBC Securities NV in Brussels. That’s not the case for Dexia’s
legacy division right now, he said.  Peeters reduced his price estimate for the shares to 2
euros from 3.50 euros, saying his valuation can change
“materially” pending disclosure of the governments’ measures.  That’s more than double the 90 cent-a-share price estimate
of Jean-Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in
 London . He cut his estimate on Oct. 4.  French Plan  The French-backed plan involves the two governments
guaranteeing Dexia’s borrowings before splitting up the lender,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. Belgium may then assume Dexia’s assets in that
country, while France’s state-owned La Banque Postale and Caisse
des Depots et Consignations would buy Dexia’s French municipal-
lending unit, leaving Dexia as the bad bank, the people said.  That would avoid an immediate recapitalization of the
lender, which would then sell its legacy assets over time, the
people said. If Dexia transferred its bad assets to a new
company, the bank would need more capital because a sale would
crystallize what are at the moment paper losses, one of the
people said. A final decision is yet to be made and the talks
are still fluid, the people said.  “Both the French and the Belgians have a common interest
in overcoming this difficult period,” Kris Peeters, the leader
of Belgium’s Flemish regional government, said on public
broadcaster VRT yesterday. “But we must be vigilant, unite the
Belgian shareholders and find solutions that are beneficial for
the bank and the group.”  Belgian View  The Flemish region holds a direct stake, having bought 500
million euros of Dexia stock in the bailout three years ago.  “The fair distribution of the burden is a very sensitive
and crucial element in the negotiations,” Belgian Prime
Minister Leterme said on RTL radio today. “To save Dexia, we
need a fair division of responsibility.”  The French-backed plan may force the Belgian government to
nationalize Dexia Bank Belgium and shield it from the bad bank,
dipping into public coffers even though Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said he was looking “not to spend taxpayer’s money on
a dossier such as this one.”  The  bond market  is seeing Belgium as a loser in the Dexia
plan. Belgian  government bonds  slumped for a second day on
concern Dexia’s rescue will inflate the country’s debt load. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian bonds instead of
German equivalents of similar maturity widened 6 basis points to
216, the highest yield difference since Sept. 14.  Stress Test  “The French viewpoint is likely to be pushing for a
solution where lending to municipalities in France is
preserved,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam. “The Belgian side
doesn’t want to be burdened by the so-called bad portfolio as
they consider it a legacy from Dexia’s French operations.”  Dexia’s breakup, three months after it got a clean bill of
health in European Union regulators’ stress tests, has
transplanted  Europe ’s banking crisis from the continent’s
periphery to its heartland. The Brussels- and Paris-based bank
is being rescued after its short-term funding evaporated as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis worsened.  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
 France  SA and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest
municipal lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit
Local, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in
Belgium.  ‘Didn’t Work’  Over the past decade, the Franco-Belgian bank sought to
combine with another retail bank in France and elsewhere in
Europe to reduce its reliance on wholesale funding. It failed to
merge with Italian lender Sanpaolo IMI SpA in 2004.  That dependence on wholesale funding hobbled Dexia as money
markets seized up after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
and the lender turned to emergency funding from central banks.
It was one of the largest euro-area users of emergency loans
from the Fed, borrowing $58.5 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dexia posted a 4 billion-euro loss for the second quarter,
the biggest in its history, after writing down the value of its
Greek debt. Once the world’s largest lender to municipalities,
it received a 6 billion-euro bailout from Belgium, France and
its major shareholders in September 2008.  “The decision to maintain Dexia as it is after the 2008
bailout was not a viable option,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam.
“From day one, the creation of Dexia didn’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 