-- 
Companies Face Pressure to Hike Dividends

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dividends-at-three-year-low-mean-pressure-builds-as-cash-rises.html
Pressure is building for higher
dividends as U.S. companies from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  sit on record cash stockpiles and payouts remain at three-
year lows.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies paid 27 percent of
earnings in dividends in the second quarter, down from 30
percent in 2008 and below a 30-year average of 41 percent,
according to Wells Fargo & Co. Company cash, equivalents and
short-term marketable securities jumped 63 percent to $2.77
trillion in the same period, according to Bloomberg data.  “Companies are hoarding a lot of cash and they’re getting
a very low return for it,” said Richard Sichel, chief
investment officer at Philadelphia Trust Co., which manages $1.6
billion. “That’s all the more reason for them to pay bigger
dividends.”  Investors gave dividends less importance while stocks
soared during the middle of the last decade, said Gina Martin Adams, a Wells Fargo equity strategist in New York. Now
investors want companies to pay out more of the cash they are
holding to make up for low equity returns in the past year, said
 Keith Wirtz , who helps manage $16.7 billion as chief investment
officer at Fifth Third Asset Management Inc. in Cincinnati.  The  S&P 500 ’s ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization has dropped to
2.6 from 5 in mid-2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project this year’s earnings will
increase 18 percent to about $100 a share.  Total Return  “Why are they sitting on all this cash, earning close to
zero, when they could at least be putting it in the hands of
shareholders?” said Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5
billion at Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston.  Companies are harboring cash because the economic and
political outlook remains cloudy, said  David Sowerby , a fund
manager with Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based Loomis Sayles &
Co., which manages $150 billion. Before dividends are increased,
Sowerby said he wants more share buybacks from companies that
see their stock as cheap.  The cash also would come in handy for acquisitions in
markets with slow organic growth, said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Fort Lee, New Jersey-based Palisade
Capital Management LLC, which manages $3.4 billion. Companies
would have to use cash instead of shares because of depressed
equity values, he said.  “We’re going to be faced for some time with a slow
environment for organic-type growth,” he said.  General Electric  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were
among companies that cut dividends during the recession as
global financial-industry losses and writedowns from the credit
crisis surpassed $1 trillion in December 2008. Shareholder
payouts haven’t been brought back to pre-recession levels.  GE in 2009 lowered its quarterly dividend for the first
time since 1938 to 10 cents a share from 31 cents. The world’s
biggest provider of power-generation equipment and services has
increased the payment three times since to 15 cents and Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt has told investors that raising
the dividend and accelerating share repurchases will be
priorities over large acquisitions in the “near term.”  Cash and short-term investments at Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE rose to $136 billion at the end of the second quarter,
from $89 billion in the first quarter of 2009.  CBS, Valero  CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. television network,
trimmed its dividend 81 percent in 2009 to 5 cents from 27
cents. The New York-based broadcaster bought back stock and
lifted the payout this year to 10 cents after trimming debt and
as profit margins improved. Cash and near cash items have risen
to $1.3 billion in the latest reported quarter from $239 million
at the beginning of 2009.  Valero, the largest independent U.S. crude refiner, has
more than doubled its cash holdings since 2009 to $4.1 billion.
The San Antonio-based company cut its 15 cents dividend in 2010
to 5 cents, where it remains today.  “Distribution of dividends and other forms of income
streams will become even more important over the balance of this
decade in contribution of total return,” Wirtz of Fifth Third
said of companies in general. “That’s very much on our mind.”  Companies are earning almost nothing by sitting on cash at
a time when the stock market may be entering another lost decade
similar to the 1970s, Fiduciary Trust’s Mullaney said. They
should be a “bit more generous with their payouts,” he said.  Attracting Investors  The S&P 500 has dropped 17 percent in the five years ended
yesterday. In the 1970s, it gave an average annual return of 2.4
percent. The index has tumbled 11 percent this year, and is down
18 percent from a 52-week closing high on April 29.  With an outlook of low growth for stocks over the next few
years, the time for higher dividends has arrived, said  Barry James , president of James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,
Ohio, which manages $2.5 billion of securities. James favors
companies like Indianapolis-based drugmaker  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
which has a dividend yield of about 5.3 percent.  A more aggressive dividend policy would help attract
investors, who are migrating to fixed income, back to equities,
Mullaney said.  “That’s one way companies can differentiate themselves as
far as being better total-return prospects if they do pay up
more in dividends during rough times,” he said.  Share Buybacks  The S&P 500’s dividend yield had risen to 2.31 percent as
of yesterday, the most since November 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate is higher than the yield on 10-
year Treasuries, only the second period since the 1950s in which
that was the case. Dividends topped U.S. government bonds in
2008 and 2009, after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy
spurred the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  At least 60 companies in the S&P are likely to raise their
dividends, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , according to a Bloomberg analysis of seven criteria
including company guidance, dividend history, regression
analysis and put-call parity.  Some companies including  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and Intel Corp.
have turned to share buybacks, giving each remaining share a
bigger slice of earnings.  S&P 500 companies were paying out about 1.92 percent of
their stock price in dividends at the end of the second quarter.
When the value of share repurchases is added in, the stock yield
jumped to 4.88 percent, according to data from S&P. That’s up
from 3.4 percent in the first quarter of 2010 and down from
about 7.5 percent at the end of 2008.  Financial Companies  A lot of the dividend malaise can be blamed on financial
companies, said Martin Adams of Wells Fargo. U.S. banks are
holding cash as Europe grapples with the threat of sovereign
debt defaults and as they await clues on changes in financial
regulations, she said.  Citigroup, the U.S. bank that received the largest
taxpayer-funded bailout, had a quarterly payout as high as $5.40
in 2007, trimming it in 2008 before discontinuation in 2009. The
New York-based bank reinstated the dividend in June of this year
at 1 cent a share, after a reverse split of common stock. The 1-
cent quarterly payout produces an annualized dividend yield of
about 0.08 percent, among the lowest of S&P 500 companies that
pay a dividend, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which had the largest cash holdings
among S&P 500 companies with $414 billion, raised its quarterly
dividend to 25 cents a share this year from 5 cents. The payout
is less than the 38 cents the New York-based bank paid at the
beginning of 2009.  Technology Companies  Technology companies also have been hesitant to pay
dividends because they’re seen as a symbol of dwindling growth
prospects, Martin Adams said. Google, which has increased its
cash pile to $39 billion from $16 billion in 2008, and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , which sits on $28 billion of cash, don’t pay dividends.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , which had the 13th-highest cash-to-assets ratio
in the S&P 500 at midyear, also pays no dividend. The Round
Rock, Texas-based company has about $1 of cash for every $3 of
assets on its balance sheet, according to Bloomberg data. That’s
more than double the ratio of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , which pays a
dividend of 46 cents, and three times the ratio of Hewlett-
Packard Co., which increased its dividend this year to 12 cents.  “Dividends are going to grow more and more important, and
you’ll see more companies paying them and more investors focused
on them,” James said. “Ten years ago the dividend yield was an
afterthought.”  Getting Louder  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest holder of cash among non-
financial S&P 500 companies at the end of June with $52.8
billion, boosted its quarterly dividend 25 percent to 20 cents a
share this year. Neil Herman, an analyst at Ticonderoga
Securities LLC, had urged the Redmond, Washington-based software
maker to double the dividend as a way to juice the share price.  Microsoft has a “balanced approach to allocating capital”
that includes investment in its markets, acquisitions, share
buybacks and dividends, Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein told
analysts last month, according to the transcript of the meeting.  “As time goes on, investors will get increasingly louder
that they want the dividend, that they want some form of yield
off their equity investment,” Martin Adams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  