-- 
Doctor Shortage Looms Amid Hospital Funding Gap

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/doctor-shortage-looms-as-teaching-hospitals-fight-for-funding.html
With a shortage of doctors
looming that may damage patient care in the U.S., teaching
hospitals say President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-reduction plan
could make things worse.  After doctors graduate from medical school they must train
at teaching hospitals, which get some of their funding through
Medicare, the health program for the elderly and disabled.
Obama’s proposal to cut $248 billion from Medicare over 10 years
includes $1 billion in trims to teaching hospitals, which could
lead to fewer residency slots for doctor training programs.  “We are doing things to find costs we can take out so we
don’t cut people, but there’s only so far you can go with
that,” said Herbert Pardes, New York-Presbyterian Hospital’s
chief executive officer. “What else are you going to cut when
most of your budget is people?”  The teaching hospital of Columbia and Cornell universities,
New York-Presbyterian receives Medicare funding for about 1,600
residents and pays for an additional 200 with money raised
through philanthropy, Pardes said. Further cuts to Medicare
could mean the hospital eliminates some of those slots, he said.  Obama is expanding health coverage to 30 million more
people, swelling the demand for medical services. By 2020, there
will be a shortage of 90,000 doctors, the  Association of
American Medical Colleges  estimated.  Pardes isn’t alone in predicting a crisis. Forty physician
and hospital groups this week sent a letter to the Joint Select
Committee on  Deficit Reduction , saying the cuts will worsen an
“already problematic” national physician shortage.  Reduced Training Programs  “My guess is you’ll have a significant number of
institutions reduce the size of their training programs,” said
 Atul Grover , chief advocacy officer of the Washington-based
association, known as AAMC. The group represents all 135
accredited medical schools in the U.S., as well as teaching
hospitals and health systems.  Teaching hospitals get about $3 billion a year through
Medicare for doctor training and related expenses, or about 23
percent of the total cost, according to the AAMC. They also get
$6.5 billion from Medicare for indirect medical-education costs
such as maintaining burn units and organ transplant centers.  The  American Medical Association  and the National
Association of Children’s Hospitals were among the groups that
appealed to the deficit-reduction committee. In their  letter ,
they said they were “gravely concerned” about cuts in Medicare
support for graduate medical education.  Primary Care Physicians  “We are sensitive to the need for more primary-care
physicians,” said Meg Reilly, a spokeswoman for the White House
Office of Management and Budget. She said Obama’s plan doesn’t
affect payments that directly fund resident slots. Instead it
“modifies indirect medical education payments” used for
patient-care costs at teaching hospitals, she said.  With lower reimbursements and tighter budgets, it will be
more cost efficient for hospitals to hire nurse practitioners
and physicians’ assistants, who can fulfill some, not all, of a
resident’s duties, said  Richard Cooper , emeritus professor of
medicine at the Hospital of the  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia.  “The response of hospitals to the decreased availability
of funds is to cut residency positions,” Cooper said. “I don’t
really think that hospitals will be highly motivated to add
funding.”  The number of medical school graduates has been increasing.
There were about 15,500 in 2002, growing to about 17,000 this
year, and that number will climb to about 21,000 in 2015,
according to Grover. The gains come from schools adding seats to
existing programs and as new medical colleges open.  Seventeen
additional programs  are in development, including nine medical
schools that have enrolled students. Among them are Hofstra
University in Hempstead, New York;  University of Central Florida 
in  Orlando ; and  Oakland University  in Rochester,  Michigan .  ‘Disastrous Consequences’  “The entire health-care system is predicated on having
well-trained physicians,” said Adam Wulkan, who completed his
third year at the University of Miami  Miller School of Medicine 
and is taking a year off to do research. Reimbursement cuts to
teaching hospitals “would have pretty disastrous
consequences,” he said. “You don’t leave four years of medical
school and have any capability of taking care of patients
completely on your own.”  Hospitals spend about $13 billion annually to train
residents, Grover said. That breaks down to about $145,000 per
resident, including the average first-year salary of $46,000, he
said.  ‘Tremendous Costs’  “Teaching hospitals carry tremendous additional costs to
provide training,” said Sam Hawgood, medical school dean at the
 University of California ,  San Francisco . “It’s not simply
hiring a resident and putting them to work. A huge amount of
infrastructure is required.”  For the past six or so years, there’s been enough of a
margin on clinical revenue to pay for some extra residencies,
said Grover. Low reimbursements for patients on Medicaid, the
government’s health program for the poor, and a tighter private
insurance market, are shrinking those margins.  U.S. Senators  Bill Nelson  of  Florida ,  Charles Schumer  of
New York and Majority Leader  Harry Reid , all Democrats,
reintroduced a bill Sept. 23 to increase the number of Medicare-
supported residency slots for doctors in training by about 15
percent, or 15,000 slots, over five years.  “There needs to be more residency slots,” said Susie Ahn,
health counsel to Nelson.  Graduate medical education is “such an obvious target”
amid the talk about cutting Medicare, said  Richard Abrams ,
director of the internal medicine program at Rush University
Medical Center in  Chicago , which has about 675 residents and
fellows, or doctors in post-graduate training programs, even
though it is capped by Medicare at about 500.  “Politically, it would be a whole lot more popular than it
would be to cut services to patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at   hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 