-- 
Dodgers Probably Won’t See Others’ TV Contracts, Bankruptcy Judge Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-05T22:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dodgers-probably-won-t-see-tv-contracts-of-other-league-teams-judge-says.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers probably
won’t be allowed to defend  Frank McCourt ’s ownership of the team
by comparing how Commissioner  Bud Selig  handled the TV contracts
of the other 29 Major League Baseball clubs, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
said at a hearing today that he’s skeptical about the Dodgers’
effort to compare Selig’s treatment of McCourt with his
treatment of other owners.  Gross said he is “likely” to refuse a Dodgers’ request to
review the television contracts of the other teams for evidence
that Selig is biased against McCourt. Gross said he will issue a
written ruling within days.  The judge ruled last week that the Dodgers can’t seek
information from, or about, the other baseball clubs to prepare
for an Oct. 31 court hearing involving television rights. The
Dodgers have asked Gross to reconsider how much information they
can get from  Major League Baseball .  Gross must decide whether to force McCourt to sell the
team, as Selig has demanded, or let McCourt keep the team and
raise the money he needs to get the Dodgers out of bankruptcy by
auctioning the rights to televise future games.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
refused to approve a new TV contract McCourt had negotiated with
the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  In a related ruling, Gross agreed to move to Oct. 12 a
hearing on whether to disqualify the Dodgers’ bankruptcy law
firms. Major League Baseball has asked Gross to remove Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP from the
case, claiming they represent McCourt’s interests and not those
of the Dodgers.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 