-- 
Dodgers Seeking ‘Irrelevant and Confidential’ Data on TV Deals, MLB Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-10-05T15:11:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dodgers-seek-irrelevant-and-confidential-data-on-tv-deals-mlb-says.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  shouldn’t see
the confidential television contracts of the other 29 Major
League Baseball clubs, baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in
court papers.  The team is asking for “irrelevant and confidential
information about the other MLB clubs and different decisions by
the commissioner,” Selig said in papers filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . The request “is
baseless,” he said.  The two sides will be in court in Wilmington today for a
fight over so-called discovery, the formal process during which
litigants exchange information before a contested hearing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross ruled last week that the
Dodgers cannot seek information from, or about, other MLB clubs
to prepare for a showdown between team owner Frank McCourt and
Selig scheduled for the week of Oct. 31. The Dodgers have asked
Gross to reconsider how much information they can get from MLB.  Gross must decide whether to force McCourt to sell the
team, as Selig has demanded, or let McCourt keep the team and
raise the money he needs to get the Dodgers out of bankruptcy by
auctioning the rights to televise future games.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
refused to approve a new television contract that McCourt
negotiated with the current broadcaster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports. The team seeks to compare Selig’s treatment of other
clubs’ TV contracts with his rejection of the Fox deal.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 