-- 
Dollar Weakens as Stocks Post Gains, Damping the Demand for Safety Assets

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-05T21:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/dollar-weakens-as-stocks-post-gains-damping-the-demand-for-safety-assets.html
The dollar dropped against most of
its major counterparts as stocks rallied, boosting demand for
higher-yielding currencies as investors shunned the safety of
the greenback.  The euro weakened earlier against the dollar and yen as
speculation increased the  European Central Bank  may introduce
policy measures to shore up the region’s economy. The pound
declined against the dollar and euro after a report showed U.K.
economic growth slowed during the second quarter. Currencies of
countries linked to growth, such as  Mexico ’s peso and  Brazil ’s
real, advanced after a report showed U.S. service industries
expanded last month.  “There seems to be some more risk back on, although not
that much,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of
capital markets in  Washington  at the currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “There’s some general optimism surfacing
about the  U.S. economy .”  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the greenback against six
major currencies, dropped 0.2 percent to 78.938 at 5 p.m. in  New
York , from 79.063 yesterday.  The euro was little changed at $1.3348, from $1.3349. The
dollar was little changed at 76.79 yen. Mexico’s peso rose 1.4
percent to 13.5538 per dollar and Brazil’s real added 1.4
percent to 1.8327 versus its U.S. counterpart.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.8 percent.  Economic Indicator  Riskier assets were boosted earlier after a report showed
U.S. service industries expanded in September by more than
forecast. The Institute for Supply Management’s non-
manufacturing index fell to 53 from 53.3 in August, higher than
the 52.8 forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The ISM numbers are consistent with slow growth and not a
recession in the U.S. and I think that’s the view that the
market has been shifting to,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “Some of
the fears of renewed recession have eased over the past couple
of weeks.”  The U.K. economy expanded 0.1 percent from the first
quarter, lower than the 0.2 percent previously published, the
Office for National Statistics said today in  London . Consumer
spending plunged 0.8 percent, the most since the first quarter
of 2009. The slow growth is adding pressure on the central bank
to keep  interest rates  low. The Bank of  England  meets tomorrow.  The pound dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5467.  Central Banks  Turkey’s and  Russia ’s central banks separately intervened
in the currency market in an effort to prop up their currencies.  Turkey ’s central bank sold $750 million of liras in a daily
auction, its biggest such sale on record. The lira rose 1.1
percent to 1.8678 per dollar, after falling to a record low of
1.9096 yesterday.  Bank Rossii sold about $8 billion to shore up the ruble
last month, the most since it arrested the currency’s
devaluation in January 2009, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said. The
central bank intensified sales yesterday, selling $1.15 billion
in the currency market, after the ruble plunged to the weakest
level against the dollar in more than two years yesterday.  The ruble rose 0.5 percent to 32.5551 per dollar after
touching 32.8935 yesterday, the weakest since August 2009.  Franc Falls  The Swiss franc dropped the most among the major
currencies, falling 0.7 percent to 92.32 centimes per dollar and
weakening 0.7 percent to 1.2321 per euro. The  Swiss National
Bank  last month imposed a ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro to
curb the franc’s appreciation.  Traders increased bets the ECB will lower borrowing costs
tomorrow to fuel growth as the region’s debt crisis rattles
markets. Eleven of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
the central bank will cut its benchmark rate by at least a
quarter-percentage point from the current rate of 1.5 percent.
The others expect no change.  “The focus today, as it has been in recent days, is very
much on figuring out how much investors want to square short
risk and short euro positions going into the ECB,” said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s rating three levels
to A2 from Aa2, citing concern the government will struggle to
reduce the region’s second-largest debt amid weak growth.
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Italy on Sept. 20 for the first
time in five years.  EU Moves  The Financial Times quoted European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn as saying there’s an
“increasingly shared view” the region needs a coordinated
approach to halt the debt crisis. He said today that there’s no
concrete plan to recapitalize banks. Speculation about the
effect of euro area bank holdings of Greek debt has helped
weaken the euro 5.5 percent in the past month.  “We just need to know that there’s a bold policy response
that European policy makers are willing to take to avert a
meltdown,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The euro has been whacked
so much lately that any accommodative policy from the ECB is
likely to bring down the risk premium and that might support the
euro.”  The euro is down 4.1 percent during the past year among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen is up 9.6 percent and the dollar has
added 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  