-- 
Don’t ‘Stand By Me,’ Sony Tells Daniel Ortega on Song Use in Nicaragua

-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-10-06T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/don-t-stand-by-me-sony-tells-ortega-on-song-use-in-nicaragua.html
Sony Music  has ordered Nicaraguan
President Daniel Ortega to stop using the classic rhythm and
blues tune “Stand By Me” in a  campaign ad  that asks voters to
elect the former guerrilla leader to a questioned third term.  The request to pull the advertisement from television and
radio under the threat of legal action was made in a letter that
Sony/ATV Music Publishing sent to Ortega’s party, the Sandinista
National Liberation Front, on Aug. 22. Use of the song, recorded
in 1960 by Ben E. King, constitutes a “serious infringement”
of Sony’s copyright, the  Santa Monica , California-based company
said in the cease and desist order, a copy of which was
 published  yesterday by Managua-based newspaper La Prensa.  “We don’t allow our songs to be used by political
campaigns,” Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in  New York ,
said in a phone interview.  Beginning in July, a Spanish version of the famous song,
re-titled “Nicaragua Will Triumph,” began airing on television
with footage or Ortega from 1979, when he commanded the
Sandinista rebels that toppled the U.S.-backed dictatorship of
Anastasio Somoza.  The five-minute video opens with black and white images of
early 20th century revolutionary Augusto Sandino, the
ideological father of Ortega’s movement, set to the lyrics
“when the sun went away.” It then flashes forward to 2007 and
an image of Ortega receiving the presidential sash to the chorus
“when the sun came back.”  Top Song  “Stand By Me” was listed fourth in the “ Top 100 Songs of
the Century ” on American radio and television published in 1999
by Nashville, Tennessee-based Broadcast Music Inc. It was also
featured in director Rob Reiner’s 1986 movie by the same name.  The order to pull the ad was addressed to Sandinista
legislator Edwin Castro, the head of Ortega’s party in the
National Assembly. Castro did not respond to calls or an e-mail
from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Ortega is favored in polls to win re-election Nov. 6 after
the pro-government majority in the  Supreme Court  overrode a
boycott by opposition justices and lifted a constitutional ban
on incumbent presidents seeking consecutive re-election or a
third term.  Ortega, who was previously president from 1985 to 1990 and
elected a second time in 2006, had the support of 45.8 percent
of those surveyed by Managua pollster CID-Gallup. Fabio Gadea
was backed by 33.5 percent of those polled followed by 10.1
percent for former President Arnoldo Aleman. The poll of 1,200
people was taken Sept. 10-16 had a margin of error of 2.95
percent.  To win the Nicaraguan election, the top candidate must earn
more than 40 percent of the vote or have 35 percent with at
least a 5 percent lead over the second place finisher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams at   rjameson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  