-- 
Drug Resellers in the U.S. Probed for Marking Up Scarce Medicine 80-Fold

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-10-05T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/drug-resellers-probed-by-lawmaker-for-80-fold-markup-on-scarce-medicines.html
Companies that buy up critical drugs
in short supply and resell them to hospitals and pharmacies at a
markup of as much as 80 times their price are under
investigation by a U.S. lawmaker challenging the practice.  While so-called gray-market resellers can offer life-saving
drugs that are in low supply, they charge the typical contract
price sevenfold on average, with some surgical and other
medically critical treatments increasing 20-fold, according to a
survey by the Premier Healthcare Alliance.  Representative Elijah Cummings, a  Maryland  Democrat,
launched the investigation as the U.S. faces record drug
shortages. The scarcity is causing some hospitals to change
medical practices and in some cases, use less-effective
medicines, doctors and pharmacists say. Cummings said he found
that one reseller charged a hospital 80 times the typical price
for cytarabine, a pediatric cancer drug.  “Price gouging for drugs that treat cancer in children is
simply unconscionable,” said Cummings, the senior Democrat on
the  House Oversight and Government Reform Committee , in an e-
mailed statement. “We want to know where these companies are
getting these drugs, and how much they are making in profits.”  More than half of hospitals and medical centers reported
that shortages compromised patient care last year, according to
a survey of 1,322 pharmacy directors conducted in November by
the  American Society of Health-System Pharmacists , a Bethesda,
Maryland-based trade group. About 97 percent said the shortages
drove up costs.  Cancer, Sedation Drugs  Lifesaving therapies for cancer, seizures and sedation are
among the list of more than 180 medications unavailable this
year, according to the Utah Drug Information Service, which
keeps a comprehensive list sent to pharmacists in collaboration
with the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists.  “We’ve seen a dramatic increase in the last three to four
years, steadily increasing last year,” said Cynthia Reilly,
director of the Practice Development Division for the American
Society of Health-System Pharmacists, in a phone interview.  The letters went to Allied Medical Supply, of Miami;
Superior Medical Supply Inc., of Superior,  Colorado ; Premium
Health Services Inc., of Columbia, Maryland; PRN
Pharmaceuticals, of Rockville, Maryland; and Miami-based
Reliance Wholesale Inc. All are closely held companies. Cummings
has demanded a response by Oct. 19.  All of the companies targeted by the letters attempted to
sell medicine at similarly steep mark-ups, Cummings said.
Superior Medical offered paclitaxel, a breast and ovarian cancer
drug, at seven times a typical contact price of $65 per vial and
Premium Health Services sold leucovorin, another cancer drug,
for $270 per vial, 50 times its typical price, he said.  Industry Response  Brian Greenwald, president of PRN, says his industry
doesn’t hoard drugs to drive up prices.  “It’s like Gordon Gecko in ‘ Wall Street ,’ saying we could
buy enough of a stock to cause a price increase,” he said in a
telephone interview today before the release of the letters.
“It just doesn’t happen. We don’t have the resources,”  The markups claimed by critics of the industry don’t
reflect the reseller’s costs, Greenwald said. He pays higher
prices than hospitals for scarce medicines, carries storage and
shipping costs, and pays employees for the time it takes them to
find the treatments.  “We do above-the-board business,” he said.  Greenwald, who wouldn’t comment on his company’s revenue,
said he blames distributors such as San Francisco-based  McKesson
Corp. (MCK) ,  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , of Dublin,  Ohio , and
 AmerisourceBergen Corp. (ABC) , based in Chesterbrook,  Pennsylvania  --
the three largest by revenue -- for his industry’s reputation.  Distributors Compete  “We’re competition for those big guys,” he said. “They
have a lot of money and a lot of power, so what they’re going to
try and do is to claim as much of the industry for themselves as
they can. If they’re inefficient, there’s going to be an
industry that helps more efficiently distribute products.”  Anthony Minnutto, CEO of Allied Medical Supply, confirmed
receiving a letter from Cummings and said his company would
respond. Reseller prices are high because the drugs have been
bought and sold many times over before finding their final
buyer, he said. A drug originally purchased at $10 may be marked
up each time it’s resold, he said.  His company, with revenues of about $5 million a year, made
only a 20 percent margin on that revenue, he said.  “It’s nowhere near price gouging,” he said in a phone
interview. “If companies like us went away, that doesn’t mean
the shortage goes away,”  Telephone messages left with the other three companies
targeted with letters from Cummings’ office weren’t immediately
returned.  Little Regulation  Joseph Pinto, director of pharmacy services for Nyack
Hospital in Nyack,  New York , said he’s uncomfortable buying from
resellers because there’s no way to know for sure where the
drugs came from and if they’ve been stored properly -- known in
industry as the drug’s pedigree.  “Some of them I have spoken to say that they do have a
pedigree, but I can’t confirm that,” Pinto said in a phone
interview. “I wouldn’t know and I wouldn’t be comfortable.”  There is little regulation of the resellers, Howard Koh,
the U.S. assistant secretary for health, said at a September
hearing by the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  “We know very little about the products in the gray
market,” he testified.  The  Institute for Safe Medication Practices , a Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based nonprofit educational group, has found
similar pricing offers to those cited by Cummings. In one case,
a drug reseller offered a supply of propofol, an anesthesia drug
whose brand-name version is sold by  AstraZeneca PLC (AZN)  as Diprivan,
for $25,000, instead of the usual price of $1,500, a 15-fold-
mark up, according to a survey by the group.  Hoarding Cited  Dr. Michael Link, a pediatric oncologist at  Stanford
University  in  Palo Alto , California, said he had to deal with a
shortage of cytarabine, a chemotherapy drug manufactured by
Petach Tikva, Israel-based  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   “When the drug is available and distributors are hoarding
the drug, people are buying the drug at a markup,” Link said in
a telephone interview. His hospital “paid up to 100 times what
the former going rate was to make sure that we had a supply.”  The sales pitches to pharmacy managers come over phone, e-
mail or fax, with offers of hard-to-find medicines, according to
the medication practices institute and pharmacists.  “We are seeing our members who are receiving faxes from
companies where the cost of the drug is hundreds and maybe
thousands times more with the normal price is,” said Cynthia
Reilly, director of the practice development division of the
American Society of Health-System Pharmacists.  Shortages Tripled  Reilly said she advises pharmacists to contact their state
attorney general’s office and report what she calls the
inappropriate pricing.  The number of shortages has tripled in five years, according
to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration . The Washington-based
agency tracks only shortages that threaten patient health, and
found the number rose to 178 last year from 56 in 2006.  When the drugs aren’t available, hospitals ration what’s
left or find alternatives, Nyack Hospital’s Pinto said. In one
shortage, the pharmacy reserved the steroid dexamethasone for
chemotherapy patients, who get it for nausea, and found a
substitute for patients who use it as an anti-inflammatory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 