-- 
The Real U.S. Map, a Country of Regions (Part 5): Colin Woodard

-- B y   C o l i n   W o o d a r d
-- 
2011-10-05T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/the-real-u-s-map-a-country-of-regions-part-5-colin-woodard.html
     Oct. 5 (Bloomberg) - In “American Nations,” I’ve sought to
show how our Balkanized past has informed our divided present,
in the hopes of fostering a better understanding of the American
identity and predicament. But inevitably people ask what this
means for the future.  The short answer is, of course, that nobody knows. But
given the challenges facing the U.S., Mexico and, to a lesser
extent,  Canada , it seems unwise to simply assume that North
America’s political boundaries will remain as they are today.  The U.S. is wracked by internal discord between two blocs
formed by seven of its 11  regional nations  -- the conservative
bloc that includes the Deep South, Tidewater and much of greater
Appalachia, pitted against the more liberal alliance of
Yankeedom, New Netherland, the Midlands and the Left Coast.
Increasingly, through American history, the conflict between
these two blocs has been driving the nation apart.  The country has been exhibiting the classic symptoms of an
empire in decline. Kevin Phillips -- the political strategist
who, back in 1969, used regional ethnography to accurately
predict the ensuing 40 years of American political development -
- has pointed out parallels with late imperial Holland and
Britain. Like its superpower predecessors, the U.S. has built up
a staggering trade deficit and sovereign debt while overreaching
militarily. As financial services have come to account for a
larger and larger share of national output, religious extremists
have come to play a bigger and bigger role in political life.  Indebted and Divided  Once a great exporter of innovations, products and
financial capital, the U.S. is now deeply indebted to  China , on
which America relies for much of what it consumes and,
increasingly, for the scientists and engineers who are needed by
research and development firms and institutions. The U.S.
citizenry is divided along regional lines. The country’s
military has been mired in expensive and frustrating
counterinsurgency wars in Mesopotamia and Central Asia, while
barbarians have stormed the gates of  Washington  and  Wall Street ,
killing thousands in the surprise attacks of September 2001.  Add in the damage to public confidence in the electoral
system caused by the 2000 election, the near-total meltdown of
the financial sector in 2008, and extreme political dysfunction
in the capital, and it’s clear the U.S. hasn’t started the 21st
century auspiciously.  To the south, the Mexican federation is in even worse
shape. For years, leading foreign-policy experts have been
describing it as a failed state. It’s not hard to imagine Mexico
shattering in a time of crisis -- a climate-change-related
disaster, a global financial collapse, a major act of terrorism
-- freeing the Mexican half of El Norte to look northward.  In Canada, national fractures have been obvious for some
time, with New France pushing for outright independence through
1995. In that year, 60 percent of  Quebec ’s Francophones voted in
support of independence. The measure was narrowly defeated
(because English-speakers, immigrants and the First Nation
section of Quebec rejected it). The lower house of the federal
parliament recognizes Quebec as a “distinct society,” and New
France-style multiculturalism has become the civic religion of
Canadians everywhere.  Today, Canada is perhaps the most stable of the three North
American federations. Unlike the U.S., it has, in effect,
rejected any illusion of having a single dominant culture, and
adjusted accordingly. Whether that will be enough to preserve
the federation in the long term remains to be seen.  Unlikely Compromise  In the U.S., one approach to maintaining the status quo
might be for its 11 nations to follow Canada’s example and
compromise their respective cultural agendas for the sake of
unity. Unfortunately, neither the Dixie bloc nor the Northern
alliance is likely to make major concessions. Most Yankees, New
Netherlanders and Left Coasters simply won’t accept an
evangelical Christian theocracy with weak or nonexistent social,
labor or environmental protections, public school systems, and
checks on corporate power in politics.  For their part, most Deep Southerners will resist paying
higher taxes to underwrite a public health-insurance system; a
universal network of generously funded, unionized and avowedly
secular public schools; tuition-free public universities;
government-subsidized transportation, high-speed rail and
renewable energy projects; or strict regulations on financial
services,  food safety , environmental pollution and campaign
finance.  Instead, the “red” and “blue” nations will continue to
wrestle with one another for control over federal policy, each
doing what it can to woo “purple” nations to their cause, just
as they have since they gathered at the First Continental
Congress.  Another outside possibility is that, faced with a major
crisis, the federation’s leaders will betray their oath to
uphold the U.S. Constitution, the primary adhesive holding the
Union together. In the midst of, say, a deadly pandemic or the
simultaneous destruction of several cities by terrorists, a
fearful public might condone the suspension of civil rights, or
the dissolution of Congress. Some regional nations would be
happy with the new order and others, deeply opposed. With the
Constitution abandoned, the federation could well disintegrate,
forming one or more confederations of like-minded regions.  Chances are, any such new sovereign entities would be based
on state boundaries, because, in such a scenario, governors and
legislators would be the most politically legitimate actors.  New
York ,  New Jersey  and states in New England, the Great Lakes
region and the Pacific Northwest might form one or more
confederations. States controlled by the Deep South --  South
Carolina ,  Georgia , Alabama, Mississippi and  Louisiana  -- might
form another. The mountain and plains states of the Far West
would constitute an obvious third.  Cross-Border Coalitions  The situation might be more complicated within the often-
divided Greater Appalachia or the nationally mixed states of
 Texas ,  California ,  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and  Arizona . It isn’t
impossible to imagine some of the resulting coalitions extending
into Canada or, in the case of El Norte, into  Mexico .  Or perhaps the federation would simply reach accommodation
over time as its component nations came to realize that the only
issue on which they could find common ground was the need to
free themselves from one another’s veto power. Perhaps they’d
join together enough to pass laws and constitutional amendments
granting more powers to the states and liquidating many of the
functions of the central government. The U.S. might continue to
exist, but its powers would be limited to national defense,
foreign policy and the negotiation of interstate trade
agreements. It would, in other words, resemble the European
Union or the original confederation of 1781.  If that were to happen, the states could be counted on to
behave in accordance with their respective national heritages.
The 11-nation format would be useful as a predictor of behavior.
Yankee New Englanders might cooperate closely with one another,
much as the Scandinavian countries do within  Europe . Texans
might finally assert their constitutional right (under the terms
of their annexation to the U.S.) to split into as many as five
individual states. Illinoisans might agree to divide downstate
from Chicagoland. California might split into southern, northern
and interior states.  The external borders of this retooled U.S. might remain in
place, or perhaps some Canadian or Mexican provinces might apply
for membership in the looser federation. Far stranger things
have happened in history.  Preserving the U.S.  One thing is certain: If Americans want the U.S. to
continue to exist in something like its current form, they will
need to respect the fundamental tenets of our unlikely union. It
can’t survive if we end the separation of church and state or
ban the expression (or criticism) of offensive ideas. We won’t
hold together if presidents appoint political ideologues to the
 Supreme Court , or if party loyalists try to win elections by
trying to stop people from voting. The union can’t function if
national coalitions continue to use House and Senate rules to
prevent decision-making on important issues.  Other sovereign democratic states have central governments
more dysfunctional than our own, but most can fall back on
unifying elements we lack: common ethnicity, a shared religion
or near-universal consensus on many fundamental political
issues. Our constitutional order -- an arrangement negotiated
among the regional cultures -- assumes and requires compromise
in order to function at all.  And the U.S. needs its central government to function
cleanly, openly and efficiently because it’s one of the few
important things that bind us together.  (Colin Woodard, a correspondent for the Christian Science
Monitor and the Chronicle of Higher Education, is the author of
“The Lobster Coast,” “The Republic of Pirates” and “Ocean’s
End.” This is the last in a five-part series excerpted from his
new book, “American Nations: A History of the Eleven Rival
Regional Cultures of  North America ,” published Sept. 29 by
Viking. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Colin Woodard at  colin@colinwoodard.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 