-- 
Early States Use Sharp Elbows in Choosing U.S. Presidents: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-05T00:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/early-states-use-sharp-elbows-to-leverage-u-s-presidential-primary-view.html
(Corrects percentage of  U.S. population  voting in 2008 Iowa
caucuses in fifth paragraph.)  Rick Perry  wants Social Security
turned over to the states -- or at least he seemed to say so in
his recent book.  Mitt Romney  thinks that’s a dumb idea, but says
health-care policy should be left to the states. The Republican
budget, proposed by Representative  Paul Ryan , would turn over
Medicaid (health care for the poor) to the states.  Before they get too carried away about the glories of the
Nifty Fifty, these Republicans ought to consider the farce that
the states are making of the Republican presidential primary
schedule. The chairman of the South Carolina  Republican Party ,
Chad Connelly,  announced  this week that  South Carolina ’s primary
will be Jan. 21. That’s five weeks earlier than the previously
scheduled date. Connelly says South Carolina was forced to make
the move because of Florida’s  decision  last week to hold its
primary on Jan. 31.  Nobody wants the formal presidential campaign to start in
January. In fact, the Republican Party has a  rule  prohibiting
states from holding primaries before Feb. 1. But states find the
attention, glamour and dollars that accrue to the early-primary
(or early-caucus) states irresistible. They’ll even take the
official punishment -- a loss of up to half of their convention
delegate quota -- for the chance of spying  Diane Sawyer  or
 Anderson Cooper  working out in the local gym. And hometown
operators of TV and radio stations appreciate the extra millions
that early states reap in political advertising.  Ancient Tradition  By ancient tradition,  New Hampshire  holds the first
primary. And just to be sure that tradition is respected, New
Hampshire has a law that says, in effect, “Our primary comes
seven days before anybody else’s, no matter what, so don’t
bother trying to jump ahead.” Most other states don’t bother to
try. But lately troublemakers like Florida -- which jumped the
gun in 2008 and liked the experience so much it’s doing it again
-- have been creating chaos.  The only state that has managed to leapfrog New Hampshire
on the calendar is Iowa, with its caucuses, which were
discovered by the national news media back in 1976 and are now
accepted as a sacred part of our democratic process, though only
people who show up at a caucus on a midwinter night in  Iowa  get
to vote -- 354,000 of them, or 0.1 percent of the U.S.
population, in a record-shattering turnout in 2008.  Because it has never been obvious why Iowans and New
Hampshirites should be super-empowered citizens who set the
agenda in presidential politics every four years, goo-goos,
political scientists and other civic-minded sorts have long
championed reform of the primary system.  Rotating Calendar  There is no shortage of alternatives. A national primary.
Six regional primaries over six weeks, starting in the east and
going west. Or eight, over eight months, starting west and going
east. We prefer a rotating calendar that would enable every
state to cycle through the early limelight before politely
moving to the back of the line. But we would happily support
virtually any proposal that breaks the ill-gotten influence of
the early-primary states.  We look forward to the day when candidates trek through the
Ozarks in January eager for a leg up in the make-or-break
Arkansas primary. (At least it begins with “A,” which is more
than the current crop of early states can say.) The trouble is,
we’re unsure how the political desperados of Iowa and New
Hampshire could be made to abide by this, or any, equitable
agreement. And  Florida  would jump the gun.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 