-- 
Lebanon Weathers Worst Mideast Selling in Year as Union Buys: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-10-06T09:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lebanon-weathers-worst-mideast-selling-in-year-as-union-buys-arab-credit.html
Lebanon’s bonds weathered the worst
performance of regional markets in a year, beating OPEC member
Qatar, as investors bet that  Europe ’s crisis won’t affect cash-
rich domestic banks holding most of the country’s debt.  The average yield on regional sovereign bonds surged 18
basis points, the most since November 2010, to 5.15 percent on
Oct. 4, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index, as Europe’s debt
crisis prompted investors to sell riskier emerging-market notes.
The yield on seven of Lebanon’s bonds fell, while rising less
than 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, on its other 10
notes, the data show.  “I was buying and adding more Lebanese sovereign bonds
since they seem relatively strong in this environment, like a
relative safe haven,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5
billion of emerging-market bonds at Union Investment Privatfonds
in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail on Oct. 4. The bonds are
“supported by huge cash at Lebanese banks and still solid
inflows from the Lebanese diaspora.”  Lebanese banks have no “exposure” to Europe’s sovereign
debt because regulations restrict the scope of their
investments, Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh, who has held
the job since 1993, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
ratio of loans to deposits at domestic banks is about 35
percent, compared with 106 percent in Qatar at the end of August
and 98 percent for the  United Arab Emirates , of which  Abu Dhabi 
is the capital, according to official data.  Safe Havens  Investors and analysts, including Nomura Holdings Inc. have
touted the bonds of Qatar and Abu Dhabi as the safest assets in
the  Middle East  and North Africa, largely because of their
energy resources. Abu Dhabi holds about 7 percent of the world’s
proven oil reserves while Qatar is the world’s biggest exporter
of liquefied natural gas. Both are rated AA at  Standard &
Poor’s , the third-highest investment grade, while Lebanon is
rated B, the fifth-highest junk grade.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Middle East debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  fell seven basis points on Oct. 5 to 453,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. Emerging-
market debt spreads on average retreated nine basis points
yesterday to 475, reversing a 22 basis-point jump over the
previous two days, the data show.  Lebanon’s default risk fell for a second day, declining
seven points to 433, according to data provider CMA. Credit
default swaps for Qatar dropped six basis points to 127, while
Abu Dhabi’s contracts declined to 128, according to CMA, which
is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated markets.  ‘Strong Banking System’  “The pillars of the Lebanese economy are a strong banking
system supported by a respected central bank, domestic banks
that hold and have a vested interest in public debt, and the
U.S. dollar peg,” Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, Dubai-based senior
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said by e-mail. “Contrary
to its Gulf peers, the Lebanese sovereign debt is part of some
of the major global emerging-market debt indexes, which implies
that its debt will be bought almost automatically” by funds
following benchmark measures, he said.  The yield on Lebanon’s 6.1 percent dollar bond due in
October 2022 fell one basis point on Oct. 4 to 6.09 percent and
another three yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on Qatar’s 5.25 percent dollar bond
maturing in January 2020 surged 21 basis points to 4.15 percent
on Oct. 4, before retreating seven basis points yesterday. The
yield on Abu Dhabi’s 6.75 percent dollar bond due in April 2019
climbed 33 basis points to 3.97 percent on Oct. 4. The yield was
little changed yesterday.  Political Wrangling  Still, domestic political wrangling and unrest in
neighboring  Syria  slowed the Lebanese economy this year. The
 International Monetary Fund  sees 1.5 percent growth in 2011, the
slowest since 2006. Public debt reached about $52.6 billion last
year, the equivalent of about 137 percent of gross domestic
product.  The uprising in Syria against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad, which began more than six months ago, is hurting
tourism in Lebanon, which many travelers reach via Syria. The
number of visitors to Lebanon fell 24 percent in the first eight
months of the year from the same period in 2010, according to
the Tourism Ministry, which says the industry accounts for about
a fifth of the country’s GDP.  The appetite of Lebanese banks for  government bonds  helps
shield the securities from turmoil in international markets,
 Nassib Ghobril , chief economist at Beirut-based  Byblos Bank SAL (BYB) ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Domestically Held Debt  “Foreign institutional investors hold a small percentage
of Lebanese eurobonds,” he said. “Lebanese eurobonds have
outperformed emerging market bonds because the overwhelming
majority of Lebanese eurobonds are held domestically by Lebanese
institutions.”  The stability of Lebanon’s pound, pegged at about 1,500 to
the dollar since 1993, coupled with  interest rates  that were as
high as 8 percent in 2008, have attracted a steady flow of funds
into the country. Bank deposits grew 10 percent last year to
$110 billion. About 66 percent of deposits are in foreign
currencies, said Salameh, the central bank governor, who now
sees demand for local-currency deposits rising.  “The demand for the Lebanese pound and the Lebanese paper
has increased,” he said yesterday. “This is a clear sign of
confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  