-- 
Tech Stocks Outperform as Excess Cash Beats U.S. Cyclical Risk

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/tech-outperforms-as-excess-cash-beats-u-s-cyclical-risk-on-low-valuations.html
Technology companies are
outperforming the U.S. stock market as excess cash and cheap
valuations attract investors amid rising concerns that the two-
year recovery may be ending.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index,
which includes  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , has fallen 3.4 percent since June 20, compared
with with a 12.1 decline in the  S&P 500 Index .  While it’s unusual for a cyclical industry to outperform
when economic growth decelerates, “there’s probably a lot less
downside here than in any other cyclical sectors,” said Doug Cliggott, a Boston-based U.S. equity strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Strong balance sheets for technology companies may be
“counterbalancing” the cyclical risk, according to Todd Coupland, an analyst at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto. The
industry may top $700 billion in cash on hand this year,
trailing only financial services, he said.  “Having a big cash balance is defensive; it’s a buffer,”
said Rick Campagna, chief executive officer of 300 North Capital
LLC, who manages $500 million at the Pasadena, California-based
investment firm.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, after almost stalling with a 0.4
percent gain in January-March, Commerce Department data show.
GDP will rise 1.6 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
expanding 3 percent in 2010.  Mergers, Acquisitions  Some companies are using their cash for mergers and
acquisitions as they try to “continue growth in the face of a
slowing economy,” Coupland said.  Celestica Inc. completed its acquisition of the
semiconductor-equipment contract-manufacturing operations of
Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based Brooks Automation Inc. in June.
This allows Celestica to maintain operating targets amid
declining customer forecasts, said Coupland, who maintains a
“sector outperform” rating on the Toronto-based electronics
company.  In the absence of a potential takeover, the “preferred
strategy” for companies with excess cash is to repurchase their
stock rather than increase dividends, according to Coupland.
Armonk, New York-based IBM bought back $4 billion worth of
shares in the three months ended June 30, while Microsoft in
Redmond,  Washington , repurchased $1.3 billion during the same
quarter and is planning a $40 billion buyback program that runs
until 2013, the companies said in July. Both also have boosted
their dividends.  Earnings Projections  Beyond health balance sheets, low valuations and modest
earnings expectations are attracting investors, Cliggott said.
Earnings are projected to grow 10 percent in 2012, compared with
16 percent for industrials and 14 percent for basic materials,
setting the bar “low for tech stocks relative to other
cyclicals,” he said.  Technology companies are trading at a multiple of about 12
times consensus earnings expectations for this year, similar to
the  S&P 500 , whereas they’ve historically traded at a “modest
premium,” he said.  “This mitigates downside risk for investors if the economy
were to slow further,” Cliggott said.  A change in the business composition of the tech index has
made it less economically sensitive, said Gina Martin Adams, an
equity strategist in  New York  with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC .
Information-technology services are increasingly significant,
representing almost 30 percent of the total market
capitalization of the sector, compared with a five-year average
of 10.8 percent, she said.  ‘Stickier’ Services  “Services are just stickier,” Martin Adams said. “When
there’s a cyclical correction, spending on tech services tends
to decline less than hardware.”  Still, “there’s absolutely some downside risk” if the
companies miss expectations when they report their earnings in
mid-October, particularly given the recent outperformance,
Cliggott said.  The earnings likely will be “very inconsistent,” as
winners and losers emerge in the race to develop new, innovative
products and services, Campagna said. He holds positions in
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI) , which may be on “the
winning side.”  The Cupertino, California-based maker of iPhones and iPads
is up 18 percent since June 20; Analog Devices, the Norwood,
Massachusetts, maker of chips used in cars, consumer electronics
and telephone networks, is down 12 percent.  Neutral, Underweight  Managers may want to include some cyclicality in their
portfolios if the economy rebounds soon, Cliggott said. The
technology sector is his only “neutral” rating among cyclical
industries; he maintains “underweight” recommendations on all
the others.  Campagna is buying tech stocks now because there may be
some “light at the end of the tunnel” in the economic
slowdown. If growth stabilizes sooner than expected, these
companies will continue to outperform the market, he said.  “Some tech stocks don’t look too risky because
expectations aren’t that high and valuations are good,”
Cliggott said.  -- Editors: Melinda Grenier, Daniel Moss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  