-- 
Tecnion’s Shechtman Wins Nobel in Chemistry for Quasicrystals Discovery

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-10-05T14:17:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/technion-s-shechtman-wins-chemistry-nobel-for-discovery-of-quasicrystals.html
An Israeli scientist won the  Nobel
Prize in Chemistry  for changing the prevailing views about the
atomic structure of matter with his discovery of quasicrystals.  Dan Shechtman, 70, of the Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology in Haifa, will get the 10 million-kronor ($1.4
million) award, the  Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  said at a
press conference in  Stockholm  today.  Shechtman persevered in the face of doubt and ridicule in
describing a form of crystal whose patterns are regular but
never repeat, a notion that shattered scientists’ belief that
all crystals consist of recurring patterns. The structure endows
quasicrystals with unique properties that may lead to better
frying pans, LED lights and  diesel engines , the academy said.  “His discovery of quasicrystals revealed a new principle
for packing of atoms and molecules,” said Lars Thelander, who
leads the Nobel Committee for Chemistry at academy. “This led
to a paradigm shift within chemistry.”  Quasicrystals look like the aperiodic mosaics found on the
walls of the Alhambra Palace near Granada,  Spain . They are hard
but fracture easily, like glass, and have non-stick surfaces.  Shechtman was working at the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology when he made his  initial discovery . He
had rapidly chilled a molten mixture of aluminum and manganese
on the morning of April 8, 1982. It seemed strange, and when he
examined it with his electron microscope, he couldn’t believe
what he saw: concentric circles, each made of 10 dots at the
same distance from each other. The atoms were arranged in a way
that flouted the laws of nature, the Nobel committee wrote in a
document describing Shechtman’s achievements.  Resistance and Ridicule  “There can be no such creature,” he said to himself in
Hebrew. In his notebook, he wrote three question marks,
according to the Nobel committee document.  Scientists greeted Shechtman’s discovery with resistance,
even ridicule, the committee said. The head of his laboratory
suggested he read a textbook on crystallography. When Shechtman
persisted in his experiments, he was asked to leave the research
group.  “He’s an independent thinker, determined and brave,” Yoav
Shechtman, one of the scientist’s four children and a Ph.D
student in physics, said in a telephone interview. Reached on
the phone, Shechtman himself said he couldn’t comment until a
press conference arranged for 2 p.m. local time in Haifa.  Shechtman turned back to Technion, where he had earned his
doctorate in 1972, for advice about his findings, contacting a
colleague there named Ilan Blech. After consulting other
scientists in the U.S. and  France , Shechtman published the data
in November 1984.  Modest Scientist  The article spurred crystallographers around the world to
reconsider their own beliefs, according to the Nobel committee.
Soon other patterns once thought impossible began appearing. The
arrangements resembled those of medieval mosaics found at the
Alhambra and at the Darb-i Imam shrine in  Iran , the Nobel
committee said. Those mosaics employ a limited number of tiles
to create patterns that never repeat.  “The main lesson that I have learned over the years is
that a good scientist is a modest and attentive scientist,”
Shechtman said at a press conference in Haifa. Regarding the
impact the prize will have on his life, he said “I will return
to teach at the Technion. Life will return relatively quickly to
normal, I imagine.”  The International Union of Crystallography altered its
definition of a crystal in 1992, broadening it as a result of
Shechtman’s findings. Scientists first reported naturally
occurring quasicrystals in 2009, in a new kind of mineral found
in the Khatyrka River in eastern  Russia .  Nobel’s Will  “This was a scientist that had an idea that people didn’t
think was possible and he was able to convince others that it
was,” Nancy Jackson, president of the American Chemical
Society, said in a phone interview from  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico .
“That’s the most exciting thing that can happen in science.”  Last year’s Nobel in chemistry was awarded to Richard F.
Heck, Akira Suzuki and Ei-Ichi Negishi for developing tools to
synthesize carbon-based molecules found in nature, which paved
the way for new medicines and plastics.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who died in
1896. The  Nobel Foundation  was established in 1900 and the
prizes were first handed out the following year.  The first  Nobel Prize  in Chemistry was awarded to Jacobus
H. van ‘t Hoff for his work on rates of reaction, chemical
equilibrium and osmotic pressure.  Saul Perlmutter, Brian P. Schmidt and Adam G. Riess won the
Nobel Prize in Physics yesterday for discovering that the
universe’s expansion is accelerating, shattering their own
expectations and raising questions about the dark energy behind
the surge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 