-- 
Education Management Asks Court to Dismiss U.S. Lawsuit Over Recruiting

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T21:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/education-management-asks-court-to-dismiss-u-s-lawsuit-over-recruiting.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest U.S. for-profit college chain, asked a judge to
dismiss a U.S. lawsuit over its recruitment policies, saying the
complaint is flawed and the company complied with federal
regulations.  The  Justice Department  alleged in a complaint in August
that the company used improper recruitment practices to secure
more than $11 billion in student aid. The civil suit accused the
company, which is 41 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
funds, of illegally paying recruiters based on the number of
students signed up.  “The narrow legal issue in this case is whether the sole
basis for EDMC’s compensation of admissions officers was
enrollment numbers,” Bonnie Campbell, a former Iowa attorney
general who is advising Education Management, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The company’s compensation plan complied
with the law by requiring the consideration of five quality
factors along with enrollments to determine salaries.”  For-profit colleges have been under scrutiny by Congress,
state lawmakers, and  attorneys general  who are investigating
sales practices and students’ debt loads. Eleven states and the
 District of Columbia  are plaintiffs in the case along with the
government.  Meets Regulations  Prosecutors have failed to state a claim to support its
complaint and don’t present any facts showing a company-wide
sham to defraud the government, Education Management said in
papers filed today in federal court in Pittsburgh.  The Pittsburgh-based company said its compensation plan
“falls squarely” within the 2002 U.S. Department of Education
Safe Harbor regulation. The law allows schools to compensate
admissions staff based on student enrollments as long as that
isn’t the sole consideration, Education Management said
in the filing.  “The government attempts to distract from insurmountable
deficiencies in its case with overblown criticism of lawful
recruiting actions by EDMC that are irrelevant to this case,”
Campbell said in the statement. “Federal law allowed EDMC to
recruit students and to encourage its admissions officers to
recruit.”  Education Management rose 19 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
$15.44 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have dropped 15 percent this year.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management Corp., 07-00461,
U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 