-- 
‘Catastrophic’ Mechanical Failure Not Indicated in N.Y. Crash, NTSB Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 
2011-10-05T23:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/helicopter-in-new-york-east-river-crash-recovered-with-damaged-rotor-blade.html
The  National Transportation Safety
Board  has found no signs of ``catastrophic'’ mechanical failure
in a helicopter that crashed into  New York City ’s East River
yesterday, killing one passenger and injuring three others.  The pilot realized the flight, which took off from the 34th
Street Heliport, was in trouble at about 15 feet above the
ground, said Board Member Mark Rosekind. The aircraft had
maneuvered about 45 degrees into a right turn, and the pilot
told investigators he opted not to turn left because that meant
heading into a populated area, Rosekind said.  The helicopter was missing part of one rotor blade when it
was recovered, the board said earlier today, without indicating
whether the damage occurred before the  Textron Inc. (TXT)  Bell 206B
hit the water or during the crash.  Investigators have uncovered no indication that the
aircraft struck birds or that its engine caught fire, Rosekind
said at a news conference near the crash site this afternoon.
The aircraft flipped after crashing and was found upside down on
the riverbed.  Built in 1976, the helicopter was configured for five
passengers and its pilot, Paul Dudley of Linden,  New Jersey , has
been flying since 1985, the board said. Three women passengers
were sitting in the rear, and a male passenger occupied the left
front seat.  One of the women, Sonia Marra, 40, was killed, the New York
Times reported. The other passengers were Marra’s mother,
Harriet Nicholson, 60; Nicholson’s husband, Paul, 71; and a
friend, Helen Tamaki, 43, the newspaper said, citing a city
official it didn’t identify.  Tamaki and Harriet Nicholson were in critical condition
today at Bellevue Hospital, a spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  