-- 
Emanuel Shuns Transparency After Promising Chicago a New Day: Muni Credit

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-10-05T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/emanuel-shuns-transparency-after-promising-chicago-a-new-day-muni-credit.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a former
investment banker who promised to end “business as usual,” is
maintaining predecessor  Richard M. Daley ’s two-decade tradition
of shunning competitive bids in his first bond sale.  Emanuel’s proposed issue of up to $500 million of general
obligation bonds and $250 million of sales-tax revenue debt is
scheduled to be presented to the Chicago City Council today. The
mayor took office in May, and his administration is searching
for ways to eliminate a projected $635.7 million budget deficit
in the third-largest U.S. city.  Municipal borrowers from Buffalo, New York, to the Dallas
Independent School District, are breaking a pattern of
negotiation to cut borrowing costs by selling securities at
public auction. So far this year, almost one-fourth of the
$171.8 billion of U.S. municipal-bond sales have been sold
through competitive bidding, which compares with 19 percent in
the first nine months of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “A competitive sale removes any doubt about whether you
got the lowest bid,” said Larry Throm, former chief financial
officer of the Dallas district, which took bids on just more
than $1 billion of bonds last year, ending 14 years of
negotiated sales.  Emanuel, a 51-year-old Democrat, has embraced competition
in other facets of government. Just this week, he announced
plans to expand his call for competitive bidding to the city’s
recycling program, saying it will “save money for taxpayers.”
The terms of new bond sales, though, will still be negotiated.  Alderman Unconvinced  The  Chicago  City Council’s finance committee approved
Emanuel’s plans by voice vote yesterday. Alderman Richard Mell
said afterward that he was unconvinced the city is getting the
best deal by negotiating the terms.  “I’ll talk with Rahm about it,” Mell, a member of the
committee, said in an interview. “I’d like to know what the
reasoning is.”  Alderman Edward Burke, who chairs the finance committee,
said he has no concerns about the sales not being bid as the
city works to fill the deficit in its $3.2 billion budget.  “The tradition here in Chicago has always been to
negotiate deals,” Burke said in an interview. “They’ve never
been competitively bid, and we place great faith in our CFOs to
get the best deal possible for the taxpayers.”  In competitive sales, or auctions, banks submit bids
offering issuers the lowest  interest rate  to win the right to
underwrite bonds. In negotiated deals, a chosen banker or group
of bankers agree on fees and rates in discussions with issuers.
The underwriter buys the debt at the agreed price, which may not
be the lowest in the market on a given day, and markets it to
investors.  Disco-Era Change  Until the 1970s, almost all states and municipalities sold
bonds competitively, inviting sealed bids from bankers. In
recent years, more than 80 percent of U.S. municipal debt was
issued through negotiated deals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Academic studies and a U.S. Government Accountability
Office report in 2008 have shown that municipalities pay more
than necessary to borrow when they don’t seek competitive bids.
Securities sold in negotiated transactions are underpriced by as
much as 4.7 percent, according to a study this year by Craig
Brown, who teaches finance at the  National University  of
 Singapore .  Emanuel said during his campaign that he would end the
“business as usual” of Daley’s 22-year tenure.  New Boss, Same Deal  “New times demand new answers, old problems cry out for
better results,” Emanuel said in his May 16 inauguration
speech. “This morning, we leave behind the old ways and old
divisions and begin a new day for Chicago.”  A Chicago general obligation bond maturing in 2026 yielded
4.191 percent in recent trades, about 1.4 percentage points more
than top-rated benchmark municipal bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That is unchanged since trades early in
the year. Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard
& Poor’s  all cut their ratings of the city’s debt last year.  In announcing the first bond issue of Emanuel’s
administration, the city said last month that Chicago-based Loop
Capital Markets would be the top underwriter on the sales-tax
bonds and that BMO Harris would lead the general obligation
sale.  Lois Scott, the city’s chief financial officer, defended
the negotiated sales. Scott, who ran a financial advisory firm
that worked on city deals before Emanuel appointed her, said the
administration considered several factors.  Defending Negotiated Sales  “Chicago uses the negotiated form of bond sale, drawing
upon the sales force of bond underwriters to get the best
possible interest rates,” Scott said in a statement. “In
addition, the city has set and achieved targets for minority and
women owned underwriters who are largely shut out of the
competitive bidding process by the more highly capitalized Wall
Street firms.”  Illinois is required by law to sell 25 percent of its bonds
through competitive auction, according to John Sinsheimer, the
director of capital markets. “Theoretically” a competitive
deal may be cheaper, Sinsheimer said, while a larger deal done
that way runs the risk of some bonds not selling.  “We make a decision on competitive versus negotiated on a
deal-by-deal basis, wherever we feel we can get the best
results,” Sinsheimer said.  Illinois Debt  After Illinois on Feb. 23 sold $3.7 billion of bonds
through negotiation to fund pensions, the Chicago-based Civic
Federation said the state might have saved money with
competitive bids. The underwriters had orders totaling $6.1
billion, a sign that they could have had bidders compete, the
federation, a nonpartisan government research organization, said
in a  March 3 report .  Sinsheimer defended the sale, saying the underwriters
created strong demand by “hustling their investors to get the
orders.”  In a competitive auction of taxable Build America Bonds in
June 2010, Illinois got a lower borrowing cost than it did a
month later in a negotiated sale of the same type of debt. The
competitive bonds priced at yields of 28 basis points to 72
basis points lower than benchmark U.S. Treasury securities of
the same maturities as the negotiated issue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup was both the winning bidder and
underwriter. A basis point is one one-hundredth of a percent.  ‘Dirty Secret’ in  Dallas   In Dallas, Throm had to argue against school board members
who opposed his attempt to take competitive bids for $950
million of Build America Bonds and $70 million of tax-exempt
debt last November. Throm said in an interview after the sale
that the district’s board pushed for a negotiated deal because
“it’s a dirty little secret” that board members like to award
underwriting work.  Right up until the board voted on the method of sale Oct.
28, underwriters wanting some of the deal pressured board
members, he said.  “We wanted an open, competitive sale where everyone had an
opportunity to bid,” said Throm, who left the district at the
end of 2010. The district locked in an average cost of 4.03
percent, while comparable borrowers got 4.056 percent that day,
he said.  Buffalo,  New York , did its first competitive bond sale in
24 years in December and another in June. Before the December
issue, Buffalo hadn’t sold debt through public auction since the
1980s because of its low credit ratings, according to a press
release in June. The city drew nine bidders for its on-line sale
of $22.4 million of bonds for improvement projects.  Deputy Comptroller Darby Fishkin said in an interview that
interest-rate bids ranged from 3.56 percent to 4.81 percent,
showing the sale provided “the lowest interest cost for the
taxpayers of Buffalo.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt:  PALM BEACH COUNTY SOLID WASTE AUTHORITY, which provides
sold waste and recycling services to 1.4 million residents and
businesses in the county, plans to sell $600 million of revenue
bonds as soon as tomorrow to refund debt. The bonds are rated
AA+, Standard & Poor’s second-highest grade. Citigroup Inc. will
lead a syndicate of banks on the transaction. (Updated Oct. 5)  The STATE OF  WASHINGTON  plans to borrow $1.289 billion in
general obligation bonds as soon as Oct. 10. Of that, $516.7
million of the transaction is new issuance and will help fund
the Floating Bridge and Eastside Project, while the remainder
represents refunding to realize debt-service savings. The state
is rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, their second-highest rating.
JP Morgan will lead a syndicate of banks on the deal. (Added
Oct. 5)  PHILADELPHIA HOSPITALS AND HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES
AUTHORITY will issue $270 million in hospital revenue bonds as
early as this week. The sale will help finance capital projects
including construction of an ambulatory care center and parking
garage. The bonds are rated AA by Standard & Poor’s, its third-
highest grade. JP Morgan will lead a syndicate of banks
marketing the transaction.  The STATE OF MICHIGAN is to borrow $138.7 million of
general obligation bonds as early as Oct. 12. The transaction
will help finance school loan programs and refund environmental
program debt. The bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s, the agency’s
third-lowest ranking. Robert W. Baird & Co., Incorporated, will
lead the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  