-- 
Temasek Says Hsieh Fu Hua Steps Down as One of Company’s Two Presidents

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-10-05T06:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/temasek-says-hsieh-fu-hua-steps-down-as-president.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said Hsieh Fu Hua stepped down
as president, becoming the second executive to leave the post in
three months.  Hsieh relinquished his executive position after 13 months
“to make room for personal priorities,” Stephen Forshaw, a
spokesman for Temasek said in an e-mailed statement today. The
former chief executive officer of  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  will
continue with his non-executive responsibilities as a Temasek
board member, and chairman of Fullerton Fund Management Company
Ltd., ST Asset Management Ltd. and the Stewardship and Corporate
Governance Centre, which is backed by the investment firm.  Temasek has faced changes at the top in the past two years
since it parted ways with former BHP Billiton Ltd. head Charles
“Chip” Goodyear, who was going to replace Ho Ching as CEO,
over differences in strategy. Hsieh’s former counterpart,  Simon Israel , Temasek’s former executive director and president,
retired from his executive and board roles in July.  “If you have too many changes in too short a span of time,
it can’t be good for the organization,” said Melvyn Teo,
professor of finance at  Singapore Management University .
“Especially in the kind of organization like Temasek, which
takes a long-term view on their investments, it’s important to
have a stable pool of senior management at the helm.”  The firm, which managed S$193 billion ($147 billion) as of
March 31, last year named Hsieh as president, along with  Israel 
and Gregory Curl, once a candidate for CEO of Bank of America
Corp. Curl will remain as Temasek’s only president, said Forshaw.  New Hires  Temasek has hired executives and made internal promotions
effective Oct. 1, Forshaw said.  “Executive movements in Temasek are part of our continual
efforts to further strengthen our talent pool and deepen our
leadership bench strength, both from within and from external
hires,” Forshaw said in the statement.  Chia Song Hwee, former chief operating officer of
Globalfoundries Inc., will join Temasek as co-head of  portfolio
management , Forshaw said. Tan Chong Lee, previously the head of
corporate and investment banking in  Southeast Asia  at Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore, will join as chief
investment officer-designate, the spokesman said.  Manish Kejriwal decided to step down as head of Temasek
 India  to “explore a new fund platform” in the South Asian
nation and will continue to support the state-investment firm as
an adviser, Forshaw said. Rohit Sipahimalani, Kejriwal’s co-head
in India, will take the helm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  