-- 
Emerging Europe Must Repair Budgets, Cut Bad Loans, IMF Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-10-05T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/emerging-europe-must-repair-budgets-cut-bad-loans-imf-says.html
Governments in emerging European
nations should increase fiscal discipline and help banks reduce
bad loans to better cope with the euro region’s sovereign-debt
crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The IMF predicts the region will grow 4.4 percent this year
and 3.4 percent in 2012 as “the global slowdown makes itself
felt,” the Washington-based lender said today in its Regional
Economic Outlook for  Europe .  Emerging Europe’s export-led recovery from the recession
that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse is
being undermined by a slower  U.S. economy  and Europe’s worsening
debt crisis. It depends on sales of goods to the euro region to
drive growth, while three-quarters of its banking industry is
controlled by western European lenders.  “The region is now caught in the downward trend of
advanced countries, and the euro-area turbulence creates
significant risks,” the IMF wrote. “Policymakers will need to
make headway with addressing the legacies of the 2008-09 crisis,
which include large fiscal deficits and high non-performing loan
ratios.”  The region needed more than $100 billion in emergency loans
in 2008 and 2009, with the IMF providing about $65 billion of
bailouts to countries including  Hungary ,  Latvia ,  Ukraine ,
 Romania  and Serbia.  ‘Dire Repercussions’  The fund’s definition of emerging Europe includes Albania,
Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary,
Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro,
 Poland , Romania,  Russia , Serbia, Turkey, and Ukraine. The
 European Union’s  10 eastern nations will expand 2.9 percent this
year and 2.8 percent in 2012, the IMF forecasts.  Downside risks to the projections “are significant,” the
IMF said. Should the euro area’s debt crisis escalate, “the
repercussions for emerging Europe would be dire,” with a new
credit crunch the most likely outcome, it said.  Governments should rein in spending and propose fiscal
limits in legislation, the IMF said.  “Fiscal rules can help ensure” budget overruns are “not
repeated in future upswings,” it wrote. “Fiscal rules can
enhance the credibility of consolidation plans and entrench
fiscal discipline.”  The region’s fiscal deficit is projected to decline to less
than 2 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and 2012 from
4.5 percent in 2010 and 6.2 percent in 2009 with “large
differences across countries,” the IMF said.  This year, budget deficits exceed 4 percent of GDP in
 Croatia , Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Serbia,
while public debt tops 50 percent of GDP in Albania, Hungary,
and Poland, the IMF said. Still, there are “rapid
improvements” in fiscal balances in Poland, Romania, Ukraine,
and the Baltic countries, it added.  Non-Performing Loans  Governments in the region must seek to reduce bad debt in
the private sector as “high levels of unresolved” delinquent
loans “are likely to hold back economic recovery and structural
change,” the IMF said.  The financial crisis left loan portfolios impaired after
credit dried up and currency declines made it trickier for
borrowers to repay foreign-currency loans.  In Latvia, Lithuania, Montenegro, Serbia, and Ukraine, non-
performing loans exceed 15 percent of total outstanding credit,
according to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  