-- 
Emerging Market Currencies Advance on Intervention From Turkey to Russia

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-05T21:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/emerging-market-currencies-advance-on-intervention-from-turkey-to-russia.html
Emerging-market currencies rallied
and the lira jumped from a record low after policy makers in
 Turkey  and Russia stepped up sales of foreign-currency reserves
to counter a selloff in developing-nation assets.  Turkey’s central bank sold a record $750 million for liras
in an auction today, increasing the total intervention since
Aug. 5 to almost $4 billion. Russia sold $1.15 billion
yesterday, a “bigger than usual” amount, and $8 billion last
month, Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said today in
Moscow. The lira rose 1 percent versus the dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York and the ruble gained 0.5 percent.  After struggling earlier this year to curb currency gains
caused by capital inflows, central banks in Poland,  Malaysia  and
the  Philippines  are intervening to shore up markets amid concern
the global economic recovery may stall.  South Korea ’s foreign-
exchange reserves fell the most in almost three years in
September, the  Bank of Korea  said today. Taiwan’s central bank
said it “doesn’t favor” currency weakness.  “Whether interventions will be successful or not depends
on how much panic we’ll see in markets,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , a Copenhagen-based strategist at Nordea Bank AB.
“Right now markets have calmed down a bit.”  Emerging-market bonds and stocks rallied today amid
speculation European leaders are examining measures to shield
banks from the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Twenty-four of 25
major emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg gained
versus the dollar.  Stocks Rally  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 475, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The MSCI emerging-markets stock index climbed
0.6 percent after closing at the lowest level since September
2009 yesterday.  Emerging-nation equity funds have posted nine straight
weeks of outflows, losing $21 billion as the MSCI gauge sank as
much as 31 percent from this year’s high, according to research
firm EPFR Global. Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  has dropped 18
percent from this year’s peak on May 3, while Russia’s Micex has
retreated 32 percent from its 2011 high.  The lira rose to as strong as 1.8630 versus the dollar
today, from 1.8878 yesterday. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds
dropped 2 basis points to 8.54 percent.  ‘Just Begun’  Policy makers intensified their support of the lira after
the currency sank more than 17 percent against the dollar this
year, the second-worst performer among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Turkey’s previous biggest
dollar sale at an auction was in June 2006, when the central
bank sold $500 million. The bank offered to sell as much as
$1.35 billion today.  The decline in emerging market currencies has “just
begun” and the lira may fall another 6 percent against the
dollar, Kubilay Cinemre, managing partner at Fokus Yatirim
Holding AS in Istanbul, said in an interview. “There will be
more volatility generally,” as policy makers intervene, he
said.  The ruble pared this year’s decline to 6.2 percent.
Outflows of capital from  Russia , the world’s biggest energy
exporter, reached an estimated $18.7 billion in the third
quarter, bringing this year’s total to $49.3 billion, Bank
Rossii said in a statement late yesterday.  Russian Reserves  The Russian central bank drained more than $200 billion of
currency reserves in the six months through January 2009 to stem
a 35 percent devaluation of the ruble to the dollar as  oil
prices  collapsed amid the global financial crisis. Russia had
about $526 billion of foreign-exchange and gold reserves as of
Sept. 23, according to the central bank.  “The success or failure of intervention is going to depend
on the relative forces of capital outflow and trade deficit
servicing on the one hand and central bank currency purchases on
the other,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in  New York , said in e-mailed comments.  South Korea’s foreign-exchange reserves shrank to $303.4
billion from $312.2 billion in August, the biggest drop since
November 2008, the Bank of Korea said in a statement in  Seoul 
today. The government will act to stabilize the financial
markets when needed, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said at a
government meeting today. The won strengthened 0.3 percent
against the dollar.  Taiwan’s dollar snapped a four-day decline, rising 0.2
percent versus the U.S. currency.  Poland Rates  The central bank “doesn’t favor Taiwan dollar
depreciation,” Governor Perng Fai-nan said in reply to
questions from lawmakers in Taipei today. Taiwan’s exchange rate
is determined by market supply and demand, and the island is
facing less “hot money” pressure, he said.  Poland ’s central bank left borrowing costs unchanged for a
third meeting today as a weaker zloty and inflation concerns
keep policy makers from stimulating the economy with lower
 interest rates . The central bank sold foreign-exchange to
bolster the Polish currency for the first time in at least a
decade on Sept. 23. The zloty strengthened 0.4 percent against
the euro today, paring this year’s decline to 9.8 percent.  Brazil  used derivatives to shore up the real last month
after the biggest five-day plunge since 1999. The central bank
sold currency swap contracts in auctions on Sept. 22, which is
equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market. The real
strengthened 1.4 percent versus the U.S. currency today, while
 Mexico ’s peso jumped 1.4 percent after a report signaled higher-
than-forecast  job creation  last month in the U.S., the
destination for about 80 percent of the country’s exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  