-- 
EMI Bids Said to Likely Come in Lower Due to Tight Debt Markets

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/emi-takeover-bids-said-to-likely-come-in-lower-due-to-tight-credit-markets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  may receive lower bids
than expected for EMI Group Ltd. due to tight credit markets,
and may be forced to break up the record label or halt the sale,
several people with knowledge of the matter said.  Second round bids for EMI, home to the Beatles and
Coldplay, may total $3 billion to $3.2 billion, said two of the
people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. A piecemeal
sale could fetch $3.75 billion, one person said. The bank could
also try again when debt markets improve, they said.  Offers are due this week, these people added, with
Citigroup expected to pick winning bids in two to three weeks.
Six different parties are expected to bid, said the people, with
some seeking either the recorded music business or the
publishing assets, and others bidding for all of the company.
Some plan to make two offers -- for the whole company and for a
piece of the business, one of these people added.  Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group and billionaire Ron Perelman are each vying for all of London-based EMI, and may bid
for the recorded music business if the parts are sold
separately, two people said. Billionaire  Ron Burkle  has a
partner and is also preparing a bid, people said.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  is interested in EMI’s
recorded-music business, these people said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and KKR &
Co.-controlled BMG Rights Management Gmbh are separately
interested in EMI’s publishing, said two people.  Some of the bidders are lowering their offers after
Citigroup disclosed additional liabilities for pensions and
leases the company signed for U.K. music stores that were later
shuttered, these two people said.  Liabilities  A pension that covers 21,000 U.K. employees may have a
liability of at least 400 million pounds ($619 million), said
one bidder. Citigroup has pegged the cost closer to 150 million
pounds, people said. EMI is also liable for leases of several
closed  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  retail locations in the U.K., they said.  Citigroup seized control of EMI in February after the
label’s owner Terra Firma  Capital Partners  failed to meet debt
terms.  The bank began the sale process in June when borrowing
costs for private-equity funds and some corporate borrowers were
lower. Over the summer, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimated EMI
may be valued at about $4 billion in a takeover. That price was
higher than the $2 billion to $2.8 billion value Fitch Ratings
estimated in January.  Dylan Jones , a spokesman for EMI, declined to comment, as
did Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  