-- 
Elderly Americans Unlikely to Benefit From End-of-Life Surgeries

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/end-of-life-surgery-may-not-reflect-seniors-needs-study-finds.html
Age and where they live may have more
to do with whether elderly Americans undergo surgery in the last
year of their lives than their medical need or desire for the
procedures, a Harvard study found.  Almost one-third of the 1.8 million Medicare recipients who
were at least 65 years old and died in 2008 had surgery in the
year before their deaths, researchers at the  Harvard School of
Public Health  reported in a  study  published online in the
medical journal  The Lancet .  Many of the procedures probably failed to improve dying
patients’ lives, said  Ashish Jha , a professor of health policy
and management at Harvard and the study’s lead author. Medicare
is the U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled.  “In a lot of places, we’re doing a lot of these surgeries
I think unnecessarily,” Jha said in an interview. “We’re not
having the kinds of conversations with patients that we need to
have, about what they want out of their last few days and how we
help them achieve those goals.”  End-of-life surgeries were most common in Muncie,  Indiana ,
where more than 34 percent of elderly Medicare recipients had
operations in the year before they died, according to the report
released yesterday. Honolulu had the lowest rate, with less than
12 percent undergoing surgery in that period. High rates of
surgery among dying elderly patients drive up overall Medicare
spending, the research showed.  Disparities by Age  The likelihood of undergoing end-of-life surgery declines
as patients age, the study found. More than 38 percent of
Medicare recipients who died in 2008 at age 65, and 35 percent
of those who died at age 80, had surgery in their last year of
life. Fewer than 24 percent of those who died from the ages of
80 to 90 underwent such procedures.  “My sense is that a lot of surgeons are still
uncomfortable with doing surgery on the very elderly, and that’s
why they back off,” Jha said.  Many physicians also shy away from frank discussions about
how dying patients want to spend their final days, Jha said.  “We need a much more concerted effort to encourage and
train physicians to talk to their patients about their wishes at
the end of life,” he said.  Doctors and hospitals may have a financial incentive to
operate on dying seniors “regardless of the patient’s
preferences or goals,” because Medicare is guaranteed to pay
for the procedures, said  Amy Kelley , an assistant professor of
Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine at  Mount Sinai School of
Medicine  in  New York .  “Policy makers must align incentives for insurance plans,
health-care institutions, and providers with individual
patients’ goals,” Kelley said in a commentary that accompanied
the Harvard study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 