-- 
Energy Puts at Two-Year High as No Bottom Seen in Crude: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-10-05T19:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/energy-puts-at-two-year-high-as-no-bottom-seen-in-crude-options.html
Options protecting against declines
in U.S. energy stocks have surged to the most-expensive level in
30 months versus contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
amid concern oil will extend losses as the economy slows.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Energy
Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded fund is 12.5 points more than
the level for the SPDR  S&P 500  ETF Trust and almost double the
average since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest publicly
traded oil company, bearish options are trading at the highest
level relative to bullish ones since November 2008.  Energy companies have helped lead the S&P 500 lower amid
speculation the European debt crisis will curb demand for fuel.
Analysts estimate the group will post the third-slowest increase
in profit next year among 10 industries in the stock index, and
price-earnings ratios for the group have sunk to the lowest
levels versus the S&P 500 since 2009. Oil sank to a one-year low
of $74.95 a barrel yesterday.  “It’s a pure play on the commodity, and the thinking is
with a dramatic slowdown in growth, there will be a collapse in
demand,”  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee $55 billion as chief
investment officer for Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The sentiment is really
that we don’t know if there’s going to be a recession and so
there’s not a lot of demand for those stocks right now.”  Peak in April  Energy stocks in the S&P 500 have retreated 26 percent
since April 29, when the stock index peaked and crude oil
climbed to the highest level since September 2008. That’s the
third-biggest decline among 10 groups. Losses accelerated after
July 22, the S&P 500’s high point before S&P cut the U.S.
government’s credit rating.  Oil futures tumbled 17 percent in the third quarter for the
worst performance since the last three months of 2008, adding to
the 11 percent decline during the second quarter.  Brent crude 
slumped 12 percent during the past six months.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, tumbled 10 percent to 40.82 yesterday for the
biggest decline since Aug. 26. It extended losses after the S&P
500 surged 4.1 percent in the final 50 minutes of trading. The
volatility gauge dropped 6.7 percent to 38.08 as of 2:52 p.m. in
New York today. The VStoxx Index, which tracks options on the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, fell 9.6 percent, its biggest loss in more
than a month, to 45.6 today.  Implied volatility for Exxon Mobil options priced 10
percent below the stock price on Oct. 3 was 11.1 more than
contracts 10 percent above the shares, the highest level for the
relationship known as skew since December 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Irving, Texas-based company then
had the fourth-biggest skew among the 30 Dow Jones Industrial
Average companies, the data show.  ‘Gets Much Worse’  “Downside puts have been very well bid in many large-cap
energy names as investors look to limit their risk in a world
where the macroeconomic environment gets much worse,” Max Kaplan, the senior energy stock options trader at Barclays Plc
in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
options markets are starting to price in some probability that
that could happen.”  Profit growth for S&P 500 energy companies will slow to 8
percent next year from 40 percent in 2011, according to the
average analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The group
trades for 10.4 times reported profit, or 15 percent less than
the multiple for the  stock index  and 43 percent lower than the
industry’s average price-earnings ratio since 1992, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Risk Trade’  “Energy and commodities are trading more in line with the
idea that we’re going to back in a recession,” Peter Cecchini,
chief equity derivatives strategist at New York-based Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
risk trade is off.”  International investors expect the world economy will
contract, with more than one in three forecasting a global
economic recession within the next year, according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll conducted Sept. 26. The  International
Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for global growth last month
and predicted “severe” repercussions if  Europe  fails to
contain its debt crisis.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s government is seeking to
defuse the fastest gains in consumer prices since 2008 without a
collapse in  China ’s growth, the strongest among the major
economies. Twelve percent of global investors in the Bloomberg
poll last week predicted growth in China will slow to less than
5 percent within a year, a pace unseen in the past two decades.  Lower Forecast  The  International Energy Agency  cut global oil demand
forecasts last month. The Paris-based adviser reduced its
estimate for 2012 consumption by 400,000 barrels a day, and for
2011 by 200,000 a day. Worldwide demand will rise by 1.2 percent
to 89.3 million barrels a day this year and by 1.6 percent to
90.7 million next year.  “I can’t see that oil is going to collapse,” Michael Bristow, head of institutional options trading at VT Brokers LLC
in  San Francisco , said in a phone interview yesterday. “With
worldwide consumption going higher, the commodity will trade on
a longer-term upward trend. And if the recovery does start to
take off you’ll see oil and energy move up.”  Seven of the 10 contracts on the Energy Select Sector SPDR
with the biggest increase in open interest in the past week are
bearish, Bloomberg data show. Those include December $60 puts,
March $55 puts and March $35 puts. The ETF rose 3.3 percent to
$58.37 yesterday.  “Energy-sector stocks are notorious for moving together,
so that tends to make the index more volatile,” Chicago-based
 Christopher Rich , head options strategist at JonesTrading
Institutional Services LLC, said in a telephone interview. “If
all of a sudden a stock gets cut in half, you have to re-price
your volatility because this thing is scarier and riskier than
you thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  