-- 
English Soccer Chairman Bernstein Concerned About Extent of FIFA Reforms

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-05T16:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/english-soccer-chairman-bernstein-concerned-about-extent-of-fifa-reforms.html
English soccer chairman  David Bernstein  said he wouldn’t “hold his breath” that FIFA
President Sepp Blatter makes major reforms when he unveils
measures to tackle wrongdoing later this month.  Blatter was re-elected to a fourth term earlier this year
after his only opponent, Mohamed Bin Hammam, withdrew amid vote-
buying allegations. He promised structural changes after
soccer’s world governing body received criticism from fans,
sponsors and clubs.  Bernstein, who failed to have the presidential vote
suspended at the  FIFA  Congress in June, said most of his 53
counterparts in the European confederation also expressed little
hope that real changes will materialize from Blatter’s
announcement on Oct. 20.  “We had a  UEFA  strategic meeting two weeks ago in Cyprus
and there was great disappointment expressed there about the
lack of progress that FIFA are making in terms of governance,”
he told an audience at the Leaders in Football conference in
 London .  “There is a FIFA executive committee this month and we are
hoping something will come out of that but I wouldn’t hold your
breath,” he said. “Running 210 nations or so is not an easy
job. UEFA has influence, but is one fifth of FIFA and every
nation has one vote. It’s a difficult nut to crack, we will just
have to see what Mr. Blatter will do.”  Caribbean Voters  Bin Hammam, who was head of soccer in  Asia , received a life
ban from the sport after an inquiry led by former Federal Bureau
of Investigation director  Louis Freeh  concluded he tried to pay
Caribbean voters $40,000 each to choose him over Blatter. Bin
Hammam denies the allegation.  Jack Warner , a former FIFA vice president who’d been with
the organization for more than two decades, was also under
investigation for arranging Bin Hammam’s meeting but quit the
sport before a verdict could be passed.  Blatter’s reform needs to be agreed upon by FIFA’s 24-
member decision-making panel. At one point, one-third of that
body was either under investigation or suspended amid corruption
allegations linked to the vote for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups
and the presidential election.  Bernstein also said he’d received an apology from Julio Grondona, a FIFA vice president and head of soccer in  Argentina ,
over comments made about England at the FIFA Congress.  “We always have attacks from  England  which are mostly lies
with the support of journalism, which is more busy lying than
telling the truth,” Grondona, 78, told FIFA’s 208 members.  Bernstein said he was “pleased to receive a letter of
apology from the Argentinean president Grondona following his
unacceptable comments about England in Zurich.”  Editors: Bob Bensch,  Christopher Elser .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  