-- 
EPA Seeks Changes to Cross-State Emission Rules After Complaints

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-10-05T22:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/epa-seeks-cross-state-power-rule-changes-after-complaints-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency proposed amending its regulation affecting power-plant
emissions that cross state boundaries, a measure that’s drawn
complaints from industry and  Texas  government officials.  The suggested changes are being reviewed by the White House
Office of Management and Budget, according to the budget
office’s website. Details aren’t made public until the
examination is complete.  The EPA “often makes technical adjustments based on
updated information as we flexibly work to implement Clean Air
Act rules,” agency spokesman  Brendan Gilfillan  said in an e-
mail today. “We make these adjustments because data, including
data in some cases provided by industry, turns out to be
incorrect, outdated or incomplete.”  The Cross-State Air Pollution Rule, set to take effect next
year, imposes caps on sulfur dioxide and other pollutants that
drift across borders. It applies to Texas and 26 eastern states.  The regulation gives pollution allowances to power
generators and provides limited opportunities for those
companies to trade the credits. The changes are likely to affect
a small number of those allowances and some statewide targets,
according to John Walke, a former EPA official who is clean-air
director for the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council.  Texas Blackouts  “It will relieve industry of some of the cost of complying
with this rule,” Walke said in an interview. “This is
basically an accounting” change, he said.  The largest Texas grid operator, the Electric Reliability
Council of Texas, said Sept. 1 that the regulation could lead to
blackouts. Texas filed a lawsuit Sept. 20 in the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  seeking a delay in the
rule.  That case and others like it are likely to get a boost from
EPA’s proposal to make changes, according to Christine Tezak, an
analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in McLean,  Virginia  who said
in a note to clients yesterday that the EPA may propose changes.  “Data that is ‘incorrect, outdated or incomplete’ only
bolsters the case, in my view, that the petitioners are right”
and the regulation should be delayed, Tezak said in an e-mail
today. “The rule needs further review before implementation.”  Separately, the  National Association of Manufacturers 
petitioned the EPA today to reconsider the cross-state pollution
restrictions, saying the regulation might lead to increased
energy costs for its members.  “If this rule is implemented, companies will be forced to
shutter plants, directly resulting in job losses and harming our
 energy security ,” Chip Yost, vice president of the Washington-
based trade group, said in a statement. “Now is the time for
the EPA to act to protect jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  