-- 
Europe’s Rescue Fund Is Only Last Resort: Merkel

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-05T22:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/merkel-signals-more-greek-investor-losses-readiness-to-boost-bank-capital.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
that Europe’s rescue fund will only be used as a last resort to
save banks and that investors may have to take deeper losses as
part of a Greek rescue.  Merkel’s comments, her most explicit on banks’ role in
fighting the debt crisis since the spillover from Greece began
to threaten  France  and Italy, followed talks with European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  in Brussels. Financial shares
rose yesterday amid speculation that euro-area policy makers are
working on plans to boost bank capital to contain the crisis.  “Time is running out” to establish if recapitalization is
necessary, Merkel told reporters. Troubled banks need to first
seek capital on their own and national governments will help if
that’s not possible, she said.  “If a country cannot do it using its own resources and the
stability of the euro as a whole is put at risk because the
country has difficulties, then there’s the possibility of using
the EFSF,” the European Financial Stability Facility, she said.
Using the rescue fund is “always tied to a certain
conditionality.”  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to accept bigger losses as part of
a Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues. Moody’s
Investors Service followed its three-level downgrade of  Italy  on
Oct. 4 by warning that euro-area nations rated below the top Aaa
level may see their rankings cut.  ‘An Adjustment’  Merkel said that “if needed, there will be an adjustment”
in investors’ share of a 159 billion-euro ($212 billion) second
aid package for Greece, pending a report by international
auditors on Greece’s finances due before a meeting of European
finance ministers next month.  She said that she supports recapitalizing European banks
“if there is a joint assessment that the banks aren’t
adequately capitalized” and finance officials develop “uniform
criteria.” Germany is ready to discuss possible bank aid at
this month’s EU summit, she said.  France’s  Credit Agricole  SA and Dexia SA led the 46-member
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index up as much
as 4.8 percent yesterday. Credit Agricole climbed 9.9 percent to
5.17 euros at the close of Paris trading, while Dexia was up 1.3
percent to 1.02 euros.  Capital Needs  European banks may need more than 140 billion euros of
capital through a program similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset
Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts say.  “Policy makers increasingly want to build a large solvency
buffer,” the analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in a note.
“We think banks in core Europe need to be recession proofed and
banks in the periphery depression proofed.”  EU officials are working on plans to boost bank capital to
contain the debt crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “There is no secret at all that European authorities and
the European Commission are all working together on a plan to
bring more official capital, more public-sector capital, into
the banking sector,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said yesterday in Brussels. “We would
recommend that it move to a European approach,” he said. “More
should be done on a cross-border basis.”  No ‘Concrete Plan’  EU spokesmen moved to damp speculation triggered by a
Financial Times report late on Oct. 4 on progress toward a bank-
recapitalization plan.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn “doesn’t
speak of a concrete plan in hand,” his spokesman,  Amadeu Altafaj , said. “He speaks of an initiative, of discussions in
progress and he pleads for a European approach.”  The speculation about efforts to support banks followed a
finance ministers’ meeting in Luxembourg in which officials
signalled their intent to prod investors to cover more of the
cost of bailing out Greece. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said that  Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund, set up in October
2008 during the financial crisis, may need to be reinstated, his
spokesman told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  “Many euro countries have now realized that the July deal
is too advantageous for investors and there’s too little
investor burden sharing,”  Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said in Helsinki. “This was discussed at Monday’s
euro group; how can we find a way to increase burden sharing? No
solution’s been put forward so far.”  Greek Swap  Banks are negotiating a bond swap with Greece that would
cut the nation’s debt load at a cost to investors estimated at
about 21 percent. They pushed back at suggesting deeper losses.  It would be “counterproductive” to reopen the Greek deal
now that investors have signaled support and the euro area’s 17
parliaments are close to ratifying the agreements,  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of International
Finance  said, said by phone. IIF represents more than 450 banks
and took part in the negotiations that led to the second rescue
package for  Greece .  When the bailout was announced, banks and other bondholders
were expected to contribute about 50 billion euros alongside 109
billion euros in public funds and a proposed 20 billion-euro
debt buyback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  