-- 
Merkel Ally Roesler Takes Insolvency Plan to Baroin in Paris

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-10-05T11:20:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/merkel-ally-roesler-takes-insolvency-plan-to-baroin-in-paris.html
German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler travels to Paris today to push his proposals to allow an
insolvency in the euro area as soon as next year, a plan he says
would avoid the market chaos that would follow a Greek default.  Roesler, the leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner, is due to meet with Economy
and Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  to “discuss his proposals for a European stability
culture,” the German Economy Ministry said in an e-mail. His
trip takes place four days before Merkel hosts French President
Nicolas Sarkozy for talks in Berlin.  Roesler, who is also vice chancellor, goes to  France 
armed with a plan to allow indebted euro-area economies to be
declared insolvent under the post-2013 permanent rescue fund,
while offering them a path back to economic health. His proposal
seeks to balance calls within his party to let Greece default
with his determination to hold to the FDP’s pro-European ideals
and keep struggling euro members in the currency area.  “No one can say with certainty” what would happen if
 Greece  defaults, Merkel told members of her Christian Democratic
Union party late yesterday. A default would lead to speculative
attacks on other highly indebted euro countries, trigger “a
gigantic loss of confidence” in euro-area sovereign bonds and
risk sending German economic growth into reverse, she said.  Merkel’s Leap  “Before I make a nifty step into an adventure, I have to
ask whether we can really handle this and can we oversee what we
are doing?” Merkel said.  Roesler’s proposal seeks to make what he calls resolvency a
centerpiece of the permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, which Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said he
would support being brought into force in mid-2012, a year
earlier than planned.  Unlike the current rescue fund, ESM rules permit euro-
region members to become insolvent. Resolvency acknowledges the
precedent while offering those states help to return “to
fitness and competitiveness,” Roesler said in a letter to the
 Finance Ministry  distributed to news organizations yesterday. A
resolvency could involve restructuring of debt.  The plan envisages setting up tools to establish insolvency
and “avoiding political assessment” that can now influence the
process. A “European Monetary Fund” would take over control of
select fiscal and economic policy in an insolvent state,
substituting powers that lie with sovereign governments. Other
tools would include negotiating new terms with investors on bond
repayments and selling member states’ assets.  Any mention of default may be unwelcome in France, whose
banks are the most exposed to Greek debt. It’s also unclear what
support Roesler’s plan enjoys from Merkel or Schaeuble, both of
whom are  Christian Democrats .  Norbert Barthle , the CDU’s ranking member on parliament’s
budget committee, said that he backed Roesler proposals over
those of his FDP colleagues who urge Greece to exit the euro.  It makes sense “to explore how we can, in constructing the
future permanent rescue mechanism, keep any struggling euro
region member states in the currency,” Barthle said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  