-- 
Merrill Fined, Repsol Probe Request, Fannie Mae: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-05T12:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/merrill-fined-repsol-probe-request-fannie-mae-argentina-compliance.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch
unit will pay $1 million to resolve claims that supervisory
failures enabled a Texas-based representative to operate a Ponzi
scheme using a company account.  Bruce Hammonds, who worked for Merrill Lynch in San
Antonio, persuaded 11 people to invest more than $1 million in a
fraud he created and ran as B&J Partnership for more than 10
months, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said
yesterday in a statement.  Finra, the Washington-based brokerage regulator,
permanently barred Hammonds from the securities industry in
December 2009, according to the statement. Merrill Lynch
reimbursed all harmed investors, Finra said.  The brokerage firm failed to capture accounts opened by
employees if their Social Security number wasn’t the primary
account number, Finra said. As a result, Merrill Lynch failed to
monitor 40,000 accounts associated with employees from 2006 to
2010, Finra said.  “The firm detected the irregularities with the accounts,
terminated Mr. Hammonds, alerted the authorities and compensated
affected clients,”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of
America, said in an e-mailed statement. “We have extensive
monitoring in place today and continually take steps to enhance
our monitoring systems.”  Merrill Lynch, which was acquired by Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America in 2009, resolved the claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Finra said.  Compliance Policy  EU Makes Deal on Derivatives Proposal to Bridge Gap With U.K.  European Union finance ministers reached an agreement on
how to move forward with derivatives legislation in a way that
satisfies the concerns of the U.K.  The agreement doesn’t widen the scope of the current
derivatives legislation, as the U.K. had sought. Instead, it
provides for an EU declaration that forthcoming financial market
legislation will cover any derivatives that aren’t forced into
central clearing by the proposal.  Finance ministers agreed to restore a provision that would
allow “open access” to clearinghouses for all trades, which
had been removed from earlier drafts. Blocking an action by an
EU country would require the support of the other 26 member
states.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
central clearing in a bid to cut some of the risks attached to
derivatives trading. The Financial Stability Board has said that
clearinghouses should in turn face  tougher regulation  because a
crisis at one of them could threaten the global financial
system.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  The EU is developing draft rules to mandate what types of
derivatives should be centrally cleared. The final version of
the law will need to be completed in negotiations with the
European Parliament. Yesterday’s agreement means the current
legislation will cover a broad swath of over-the-counter
derivatives, which the EU estimates includes 90 percent of all
derivatives trades.  For more, click here.  Special Section: European Parliament  Leaders Discuss Credit Ratings, Bank Capitalization, Dexia  In Brussels yesterday, Steven Maijoor, chairman of the
European Securities and Markets Authority, told the  European
Parliament  that credit-ratings companies have been slower to
register with the agency than he had hoped.  The agency will manage inspections at credit-ratings
companies registered in the region.  “We’re looking forward to starting our inspections; we can
only start when they are registered,” he said at the parliament
yesterday. The checks will include the way the companies conduct
ratings of sovereign debt.  Maijoor also said the agency will publish guidelines on
exchange-traded funds by the end of the year.  Separately, Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking
Authority, said yesterday that bank-capitalization issues will
be the “main course” at today’s meeting of the agency.  “We are in a really dangerous interconnection between
sovereigns and the banks,” he said at the European Parliament.  Enria also said the agency will discuss the situation at
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  in a confidential meeting today.  It’s important that Dexia’s funding problems are fixed as
soon as possible, otherwise they “could spread to other
banks,” he said at the parliament in Brussels yesterday. The
meeting will discuss plans of French and Belgian regulators, he
said.  Compliance Action  Repsol Said to Ask Spain Market Regulator to Probe Trading  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  asked Spain’s stock market regulator to
investigate trading in the oil company’s shares during the past
two months, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Repsol asked the regulator to investigate “abnormal or
unusual movements” in its shares in August and September, the
person said, citing the letter from Repsol’s audit committee
dated Oct. 3. It argues that volumes were higher than usual as
were the number of Repsol shares being lent, said the person,
who declined to be identified as the letter isn’t public.  Repsol Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antonio Brufau
is seeking ways to stall Petroleos Mexicanos and  Sacyr
Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , who agreed Aug. 29 to pool their votes and push
for Repsol to appoint a separate CEO.  A spokeswoman for the regulator, who asked not to be named
in line with official practice, said the agency received a
letter from Repsol yesterday asking it to look into share
movements. A spokeswoman for Sacyr declined to comment, and no
one was immediately available at Pemex.  Fannie Mae  Delayed Acting on Paperwork Abuse, Watchdog Says  Fannie Mae waited for two years before acting on a tip from
one of its shareholders about abuses by lawyers handling the
mortgage firm’s foreclosures, a government watchdog reported.  The inspector general of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, released a
report yesterday on outside law firms hired by the government-
sponsored firm to handle mortgage defaults.  Among other things, the report said, Fannie Mae didn’t act
on the December 2003 allegation from an unidentified shareholder
until it hired a law firm two years later to look into the
matter. In May 2006, the law firm reported to Fannie Mae that
Florida-based foreclosure attorneys were “routinely filing
false pleadings and affidavits.” Fannie Mae didn’t notify its
regulator of the findings, according to the inspector general.  State attorneys general and federal regulators have been
investigating whether banks and mortgage servicers used false
documents and signatures, a practice known as robo-signing, to
justify foreclosures as they coped with millions of defaults in
2008. Settlement talks among the states, the Justice Department
and banks have been under way for most of the year.  The inspector general’s report was prompted by a request
from Congress.  Fannie Mae spokeswoman  Amy Bonitatibus  declined to comment
on the IG report. She said that Fannie Mae’s internal 2006
report “identified a specific issue with the practice of filing
lost note affidavits, which was immediately addressed.”  Argentina Keeps Bond Sale Option Open in 2012, Statement Says  Argentina may issue bonds next year to finance obligations,
according to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  In 2012, the government “is planning to finance debt
services with a variety of sources” that include primary
surplus, new debt from multilateral organizations and new debt
issuances aimed at alleviating debt services, according to the
Sept. 30 filing, known as an 18-K.  The government made a similar statement last year and
hasn’t sold bonds since.  Argentina has been blocked from international debt markets
since its record $95 billion default in 2001. The government’s
SEC filing doesn’t specify whether it would issue debt locally
or in international markets.  The government will have to pay 44.8 billion pesos ($10.7
billion) in interest payments for bonds issued in the 2005
restructuring next year, while 176.4 billion pesos of principal
payments are due, according to the statement.  Courts  Premier League, Pubs Get Split EU Court Ruling on TV Rights  The Premier League’s geographic restrictions on
broadcasters such as  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  showing
its soccer matches breach European Union antitrust rules, the
bloc’s highest court said in a ruling that may still limit what
pub and bar owners can show customers.  The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled that
territorial licenses are “contrary” to competition law “if
the license agreements prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts.” While the
court said anyone can watch such broadcasts, pubs can’t show the
feeds via foreign decoder cards without the permission of the
copyright owner, such as the broadcasters and the league.  The Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool,
started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) U.K.
television contract in August 2010, and receives a further 1.4
billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast rights.
The ruling offers something for the league and the U.K. pub
owner who tried to show local matches from a Greek provider.  BSkyB spokesman Robert Fraser declined to immediately
comment.  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v. QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v. Media
Protection Services Limited.  For more, click here.  Chicago  Lawyer Agrees With U.S. to Stop Touting Tax Shelters  John E. Rogers, a Chicago tax attorney, consented to a
court order barring him from promoting tax shelters that the
U.S. claimed were phony.  He agreed to the entry of orders against him and two
businesses, Sugarloaf Fund LLC and Jetstream Business Ltd.,
without admitting to allegations made in a federal complaint
filed last year in federal court in Chicago.  The U.S. Justice Department accused Rogers of using
distressed Brazilian debt to improperly reduce his customers’
reported income, leading to more than $370 million in
deductions. U.S. District Judge Samuel Der Yeghiayan signed the
orders on Sept. 30.  Rogers, reached by phone at his Chicago law office,
declined to comment on the court orders.  The case is U.S. v. Rogers, 10-cv-07068, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  S&P Rating Based on ‘Imagined Events,’  Australia  Lawyer Says  Standard & Poor’s , under investigation by U.S. over the
nation’s credit downgrade, gave its highest rating to notes
whose value was dictated by “imagined events,” a lawyer for a
group of Australian investors told a court.  Two Australian towns and an insurer sued the U.K. arm of
S&P’s owner McGraw-Hill Cos. and financial-services firms,
including Royal Bank of Scotland’s Australian unit, which were
involved in the sale of AAA-rated securities that plummeted in
value during the global financial crisis in 2008.  Noel Hutley, lawyer for the plaintiffs, told Federal Court
Justice Jayne Jagot yesterday in Sydney at the start of a
scheduled 10-week trial that the note was “just a series of
rules,” which were  supposed to be affected by external events,
yet were “akin to a game” with “imagined events” dictating
the outcome, Hutley said.  Bathurst regional council and Corowa Shire Council seek to
recoup losses of more than A$900,000 ($847,000) they incurred
from the purchase of securities in 2006, according to the
statement of claim.  The case is Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd., NSD936/2009, Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  BNY Sued by U.S.,  New York  Over Foreign Currency Trading  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  was sued by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  and the New York attorney general
for allegedly defrauding clients in foreign-currency trades.  The bank earned $2 billion through a 10-year fraud in which
it misrepresented to customers its pricing practices, according
to a complaint by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
and the City of New York. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a
separate suit in federal court.  The two filings couldn’t immediately be confirmed in online
court records.  The bank’s scheme defrauded thousands of clients
nationwide, according to the New York complaint. Victims
included public and private pension funds and federally insured
financial institutions, officials said in court papers and in
statements. New York City pension funds, including the Teachers’
Retirement System of the City of New York, lost tens of millions
of dollars, they said.  The lawsuits come after attorneys general in Florida and
Virginia sued BNY Mellon in August. Like New York, those states
allege the bank overcharged public retirement funds in foreign
exchange transactions. The New York complaint supersedes, or
replaces, a whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2009, Schneiderman’s
office said in a statement.  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on the same
“flawed analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global
foreign-exchange market, he said in an e-mail, describing the
suits as “prosecutorial overreach.”  The lawsuits may add to legal expenses at BNY Mellon, which
is already suffering from rising costs.  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee to Begin Distributions to Victims Today  The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm said he will
start distributing money today, starting with $312 million to go
to victims of the fraud who have approved claims.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , said yesterday in a statement
that he will begin paying the money to the holders of 1,230
Madoff accounts, reimbursing 4.6 percent of the money they lost
in Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .  This will be an “initial distribution” to Madoff’s
defrauded customers, Picard said in the statement. Additional
funds are currently unavailable “due primarily to appeals,”
Picard said.  Picard has filed more than 1,000 suits against banks,
feeder funds, former Madoff investors and others he claims
profited from the fraud. He said he has recovered about $8.7
billion, or about half the $17.3 billion in principal he claims
was lost.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  EU Finance Tax Could Cut High-Frequency Trading, Bergmann Says  A proposed European tax on financial transactions could cut
high-frequency trading by as much as 90 percent “in some market
segments,” Manfred Bergmann, a  European Commission  official,
said in a speech in Oxford,  England , yesterday.  The tax could “re-establish a link with the non-financial
economy and consolidate inflated volumes,” Bergmann said,
citing a commission study.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Conley Deputy General Counsel on Litigation, Appeals  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission named Michael
Conley, an 11-year veteran of the agency, deputy general counsel
for enforcement matters, appellate cases and adjudication.  Conley, 48, is taking over the position from Anne Small,
who left the SEC to take a position at the White House, the
agency said yesterday in a statement. He was promoted from
deputy solicitor, a position he has held since 2009.  Conley, who will be one of two deputies reporting to
General Counsel Mark Cahn, will work on litigation of
enforcement matters, challenges to agency rules and appeals of
sanctions meted out by self-regulatory organizations, including
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the SEC said.  While serving as deputy solicitor, Conley was involved with
the SEC’s positions regarding bankruptcies, including that of
Bernard Madoff’s firm, and the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., the federally chartered nonprofit that works to restore
funds to customers when brokerages collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 