-- 
Tesco Says Bank Delays to Hurt Profit Amid Weaker U.K. Sales

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-10-05T10:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/tesco-says-bank-delays-to-hurt-profit-amid-weakening-u-k-sales.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said delays to banking products will reduce
profit by 40 million pounds ($61 million) this year, adding to
the grocer’s struggle to revive growth in its domestic market.  The retailer is deferring the introduction of mortgages
until 2012 and slowing a switchover to new information systems
following the end of a tie-up with Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, the Cheshunt, England-based grocer said today. Tesco also
reported a 0.7 percent drop in second-quarter U.K. same-store
stores, excluding gasoline and value-added tax, the worst
performance in at least six years.  “The bank is not quite delivering and that is the big
issue here,” Chris Hogbin, an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein,
said by phone. “The U.K. performance is OK, a lot is going on
and I can see how it might get better.” Hogbin has an
“outperform” recommendation on Tesco shares.  Tesco’s U.K. sales trailed rival  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , which
today reported same-store growth of 0.9 percent, excluding
gasoline and value-added tax. Tesco is more vulnerable to
reduced spending on discretionary items because it sells more
non-food merchandise such as televisions and appliances. The
retailer last month cut prices of 3,000 basic items such as milk
and vegetables and said today that the so-called Big Price Drop
campaign has been well received by shoppers.  Tesco rose 3.95 pence, or 1 percent, to 384.05 pence at
11:47 a.m. in London trading, trailing gains in the broader
market. Sainsbury advanced 4.4 percent to 286.9 pence.  Non-Food Decline  Trading profit at the banking division fell by 66 percent
to 44 million pounds, after a 57 million-pound increase in a
provision for payment-protection insurance. Excluding the
provision, the unit’s profit declined 22 percent.  Tesco Bank plans to slow the introduction of new products
such as mortgages and current accounts after “technical
issues” in the summer left some customers without access to
their online accounts, the company said. This will lead to an
extended period of “double running costs,” hurting profit.  Early signs from changes to supermarket pricing and non-
food ranges are “encouraging,” Tesco Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said today on a conference call. Same-store sales
of non-food ranges slumped 4.8 percent in the first half as
shoppers visited large-format Extra stores less often, he said.  Last month’s price cuts are “the biggest change to our
pricing policy for a number of years,” the CEO said. “We’re
trying to make it a bit easier for customers.”  U.S. Loss  Tesco’s first-half trading profit, a measure which excludes
property gains, rose 3.7 percent to 1.77 billion pounds.  Losses at the U.S. chain Fresh & Easy, which Tesco started
in 2007, narrowed to 73 million pounds from 95 million pounds a
year earlier. Tesco is opening new outlets in northern
 California  and building customer numbers by adding in-store
bakeries and freshly prepared meals. A plan to break even in the
U.S. in fiscal 2013 is showing “promising early results.”  Trading profit in  Asia , where Tesco last month announced it
plans to exit  Japan , rose 19 percent, buoyed by gains in
Malaysia, China and  Thailand . In  Europe , where the retailer has
stores in the  Czech Republic ,  Poland , Hungary, Slovakia and
 Turkey , profit rose 12 percent.  In the U.K., where Tesco still gets about two-thirds of
revenue, trading profit rose 4.5 percent to 1.27 billion pounds.  Still, Tesco’s share of U.K. grocery spending fell to 30.4
percent in the 12 weeks through Sept. 4 from 30.8 percent a year
earlier, according to Kantar Worldpanel research.  The company said it’s “broadly comfortable with current
market consensus forecasts” for fiscal 2012, adjusted for the
provision at the banking unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 