-- 
Tesco Profit Gains on International Businesses

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-10-05T07:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/tesco-first-half-profit-rises-as-asian-gains-offset-slackening-u-k-sales.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the biggest U.K. retailer,
said first-half profit climbed 3.7 percent as gains in  Asia  and
a narrower loss in the U.S. helped offset the company’s worst
U.K. sales performance in at least six years.  Trading profit, a measure which excludes property gains,
rose to 1.77 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) in the six months
ended Aug. 27, the Cheshunt, England-based company said today.  The initial reaction to Tesco’s Big Price Drop campaign has
been “very positive,” Chief Financial Officer Lawrie McIlwee
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. The retailer cut
prices on 3,000 every-day items such as bread and milk last
month to help reverse four years of market-share erosion. Tesco
is also focusing on improving returns on capital in its 13
international markets and said a plan to break even in the U.S.
in fiscal 2013 is showing “promising early results.”  “I am pleased that excellent growth in  Europe  and Asia, as
well as an encouraging performance in the United States, have
supported further progress in the first half, despite the
challenges of subdued demand in the U.K., particularly in non-
food categories,’” Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said
in the statement.  Tesco’s sales at U.K. stores open a year or more fell 0.6
percent, excluding fuel and value-added tax.  Stock Rises  Tesco fell as much as 2.1 percent in London trading and was
down 7.6 pence, or 2 percent, at 372.5 pence at 8:25 a.m. The
stock has declined 12 percent this year, less than Carrefour
SA’s 37 percent drop and the 25 percent slide by smaller U.K.
rival  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)   Losses at the U.S. chain Fresh & Easy, which Tesco started
in 2007, narrowed to 73 million pounds from 95 million pounds a
year earlier, the grocer said. Tesco is opening new outlets in
northern  California  and building customer numbers by adding in-
store bakeries and freshly prepared meals.  Trading profit in Asia, where Tesco last month announced it
plans to exit  Japan , rose 19 percent, buoyed by gains in
Malaysia, China and Thailand. In Europe, where the retailer has
stores in the  Czech Republic , Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and
 Turkey , profit rose 12 percent.  In the U.K., trading profit rose 4.5 percent to 1.27
billion pounds as new store openings helped boost revenue.  Smaller Market Share  Tesco’s share of U.K. grocery spending fell to 30.4 percent
in the 12 weeks through Sept. 4 from 30.8 percent a year
earlier, according to Kantar Worldpanel research.  The retailer unveiled the Big Price Drop campaign last
month in a bid to win shoppers from rivals including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda, cutting 500 million pounds from the price of
basic items such as milk and vegetables.  The company said it’s “broadly comfortable with current
market consensus forecasts” for fiscal 2012, adjusted for a
provision at its banking business. The company reported a 57
million-pound increase in its provision for payment-protection
insurance at Tesco Bank.  Trading profit is from Tesco’s continuing operations and
excludes results from the Japanese unit that the company has
decided to sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  