-- 
EU Banks May Need $186 Billion of Capital, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-10-05T10:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/eu-banks-may-need-186-billion-of-capital-morgan-stanley-says.html
European banks may need more than 140
billion euros ($186 billion) of capital through a program
similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, Morgan
Stanley analysts estimated.  “Policy makers increasingly want to build a large solvency
buffer,” the analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in a note
today. “We think banks in core  Europe  need to be recession
proofed and banks in the periphery depression proofed.”  That may require recapitalizing banks in core European
countries to an 8 percent core Tier 1 capital level and to 12
percent in countries like  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  after
applying European Banking Authority stress tests and a 50
percent writedown on sovereign Greek debt, they said.  European Union finance ministers have a “sense of
urgency,” and a “shared view” of the need for a “concerted,
coordinated approach in Europe” on bank recapitalization, EU
Commissioner for Economic Affairs Olli Rehn told the Financial
Times. The $700-billion TARP was started in 2008 to inject
capital into banks after the collapse of the U.S. housing market
and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Recapitalization of banks in Europe may include some
“convertibility features,” Morgan Stanley analysts said,
adding that for example convertible instruments could be issued
that become core Tier 1 capital if government aid isn’t repaid
and the bank doesn’t reach a pre-determined capital level within
three years.  “This is less dilutive for banks if it allows them to
recap in a more orderly fashion when there is less stress in the
markets,” the analysts said. Relief for bank funding stress is
also needed to “reassure credit and equity markets,” they
said.  Some of the biggest U.S. lenders, including Bank of America
Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo &
Co . received TARP money in the wake of the subprime mortgage
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  