-- 
EU Derivatives Deal May Grant Clearinghouses Trade-Data Access

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-05T16:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/eu-derivatives-deal-may-grant-clearinghouses-trade-data-access.html
Planned European Union rules for
derivatives trading may require exchanges and other venues to
share some data on trades with rival clearinghouses following an
agreement yesterday between governments in the region.  Trading venues would be expected to provide the information
“on a non-discriminatory and transparent basis” to
clearinghouses, according to a copy of the proposals obtained by
Bloomberg News. Exchanges would have to provide “full reasons”
for refusing access requests.  The plans stop short of enabling buyers and sellers to
use different clearinghouses to complete their derivatives
trades. The measures would also allow exchanges to refuse access
requests if they posed a threat to the functioning of markets.  European Union finance ministers yesterday reached an
accord on derivatives rules that allayed concerns of U.K.
Chancellor  George Osborne , who had pressed for the scope of the
law to go further. The compromise includes an EU declaration
that future legislation will increase the role of central
clearing.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Yesterday’s deal would cover a broad swath of over-the-
counter derivatives, which the EU estimates includes 90 percent
of all derivatives trades. Derivatives that don’t meet that
definition -- and which aren’t covered by specific exemptions --
will face a central clearing requirement in future legislation.
The final version of the rules must be agreed between
governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament.  Deutsche Boerse   Deutsche Boerse is one of the firms that would be most
affected by the changes. The open-access clause may help its
competitors bid for market share.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, has said
he will ensure that his probe into Deutsche Boerse’s plan to
combine with NYSE Euronext will be “very well coordinated”
with EU governments and lawmakers working on new derivatives
legislation.  Separately, associations representing international banks
and fund managers said that the proposals may do too little to
prevent clearinghouses from discriminating between trading
venues when deciding which transactions to process.  Regulators should ensure that “a clearinghouse must accept
instruments for clearing regardless of the venue on which they
are traded,” the groups, which include the  International Swaps
and Derivatives Association  and the European Fund and Asset
Management Association, said in a letter to  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services commissioner, dated Sept. 30.  Also, venues should “provide data feeds and other
assistance to any clearing house that wants to clear the
instrument in question,” the groups said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Luxembourg at  Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  