-- 
EU’s Farm-Policy Reforms Reduced Market Distortion, OECD Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-05T11:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/eu-s-farm-policy-reforms-reduced-market-distortion-oecd-says.html
European Union agricultural-policy
overhauls in the past two decades reduced the share of the most
market-distorting support and lowered the portion of aid in
farmers’ incomes, the OECD said.  Assistance that was potentially most distorting fell to 29
percent of estimated producer support in the 2008-10 period from
92 percent in 1986-88, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report published today.
That category includes measures such as price support and
output-based payments.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, will
propose changes next week to the 27-nation bloc’s Common
Agricultural Policy. The EU spent 58.2 billion euros ($77.4
billion) on agriculture and rural development in 2010, according
to commission data.  CAP reforms “have substantially and continuously increased
the market orientation of the sector,” the OECD said in its
report, “Evaluation of Agricultural Policy Reforms in the
European Union.” The share of most-distorting payments is set
to fall to 27 percent in 2012, according to the study.  The least-distorting farm payments, which have no link to
production, rose to a 44 percent share in 2008-10 from zero in
1986-88, according to the OECD. Such support will account for 46
percent of EU agricultural aid next year, the organization said.  New Rules  “Negative trade effects of the CAP decreased significantly
as commodity regimes were gradually reformed,” the OECD said.  Future changes should continue to increase the market
orientation of EU agriculture and reduce distortions, mainly
from remaining market-price support, the OECD said.  Changes to EU policies mean more land is used for pasture
than would have been the case without reform, the OECD said.
Combined with smaller herds and lower fodder yields, that has
reduced livestock density in the EU, it said.  “While the policy mix favored arable crops over livestock
at the beginning of the period, successive reforms have
increased support to pasture,” the OECD said.  Grain and oilseed prices within the bloc have increased as
output declined, according to the OECD.  “As production on marginal land is abandoned, cereal
yields increased, but production decreased and this led to
higher domestic prices for cereals,” the OECD said. “The same
impacts are found for the oilseed sector.”  The area planted with durum wheat, protein crops and
tobacco showed a “sharp decrease” as specific premiums for
those crops were abandoned, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 