-- 
Euro’s Teutonic Fault Line Finds German-Speaking Italians Savoring No Debt

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-10-05T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/euro-s-teutonic-fault-line-finds-german-speaking-italians-savoring-no-debt.html
In the Italian mountains of South
Tyrol, Luis Durnwalder wishes more of the country could be like
his German-speaking province.  Two days after Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s credit
rating for the first time since 1993, South Tyrol’s governor
says the nation needs to pay off its debt to protect the euro.  “We in South Tyrol don’t have debts, we have our
autonomy,” said Durnwalder, who has led the region’s government
for the past 22 years, speaking from the capital of Bolzano, or
Bozen in German. “The euro is working really well in South
Tyrol. It would be impossible to imagine living without it.”  South Tyrol  lies at the fault line between the economic
stability of northern Europe and the indebted Mediterranean
south. As German Chancellor Angela Merkel lectures countries
such as Greece and Italy about the virtues of austerity, the
southern nations are struggling to overcome decades of  tax
evasion  and growth that trails the European average.  Italy suffers from weak economic growth making it difficult
to reduce debt, Moody’s said. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimates that Italy will expand by 0.3 percent in 2012,
compared with growth of 1.3 percent for Germany. Moody’s cut
Italy by three levels to A2, one below Slovakia and  Estonia , the
newest and poorest members of the euro.  Doing Homework  Moody’s said in the Oct. 4 statement that the euro area is
facing “a profound loss” in investor confidence as policy
makers fail to halt the crisis from spreading. Italy’s rating is
now five levels below the AAA standing of Germany,  Austria  and
 Switzerland .  “If you don’t do your homework then you will get
downgraded, that happens also at school,” said Stefan Pan, 51,
managing partner of  Pan Tiefkuehlprodukte GmbH , a company in
South Tyrol that makes frozen strudel, an Austrian pastry. “We
need decisions within the next couple of days.”  South Tyrol is a blend of Latin and Teutonic influences,
reflected by signposts in both Italian and German and restaurant
menus offering sauerkraut and pork roast alongside penne pasta
and lasagna. About 70 percent of people speak German, 25 percent
Italian and 5 percent a local language called Ladin, according
to the latest census by the local government in 2001.  The region, with its apple orchards and vineyards, was
handed to Italy in 1919, occupied by Nazi  Germany  in 1943, and
became a linguistic battleground that culminated in a bombing
campaign by a German-speaking group in the 1950s and 1960s
before autonomy in 1972. South Tyrol is now among Italy’s three
richest provinces, based on  output per capita .  ‘Tax Moral’  Control over its own financial affairs created wealth in
the province because it meant it was able to keep almost 90
percent of the tax raised there,  Hans Karl Peterlini , a local
author, said by telephone from his home in Bolzano.  “South Tyrol pays a lot of taxes and there is a high tax
moral, so that meant there was a lot of money,” he said.  About 74 percent of South Tyrol’s economy is based on
services such as tourism, while agriculture accounts for 4.1
percent, according to ASTAT figures from 2009. Its only debt
results from the ownership of  SEL AG , a local energy company,
according to the provincial government.  While Italy’s debt pile was about 20 percent bigger than
its economy in 2010, South Tyrol sticks to spending what it
raises from local taxes on its 510,000 people. The region’s
government predicts growth in gross domestic product of 1.7
percent this year, more than twice the rate forecast for Italy,
according to ASTAT,  the statistical office  in Bolzano.  ‘Germanic Mentality’  “We always had the attitude that at some point you have to
pay your debts,” said the 70-year-old Durnwalder, who grew up
on a farm. “A farmer will never spend more than he earns.
Generally we also have a more Germanic mentality for saving.”  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  needs to respond now,
according to South Tyroleans.  Italy approved last month a 54 billion-euro ($72 billion)
austerity plan, including a 1 percentage-point increase in the
value-added  tax rate  to 21 percent, a surcharge on incomes over
300,000 euros and a higher  retirement age  for women.  European finance ministers met this week in Luxembourg to
consider further strengthening a bailout fund as Greece’s debt
rises this year to 62 percent more than its economy. Member
parliaments are in the process of approving the 440 billion-euro
 European Financial Stability Facility .  Staying on Board  With its mix of languages, trade with northern  Europe  and
tourism spending one currency, South Tyrol is a symbol of the
integration of the past 50 years. The border dispute between
Italy and Austria over the region was settled in 1992 during the
run up to Austria’s EU membership.  “Europe is like a big ship, so you can’t throw over board
someone who isn’t performing, but at the same time if you want
to be part of Europe, you need to adhere to certain rules,” Pan
said from Laives, about a 15-minute drive south of the regional
capital of Bolzano. “The euro creates union. It allows a
cohesion that even my grandfather would not have dreamt of.”  Yields on 10-year Italian bonds reached a euro-era record
of 6.4 percent on Aug. 5. The increase led the  European Central
Bank  to approve the purchase of Italian and Spanish bonds to try
to stop contagion from the debt crisis in the markets. The yield
rose 3 basis points to 5.53 percent yesterday, while 10-year
Greek rates stood at 23.2 percent.  “We still feel the effects of the austerity packages
because our local administration needs to make cuts and that
leads to worries we are being dragged from a prosperous economy
into the Italian abyss,” said Peterlini, 50, the author.  Mussolini’s Program  South Tyrol was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until
the end of World War I, when it was transferred to Italy.
Fascist dictator  Benito Mussolini  initiated a program to boost
the proportion of Italians living in the region, a drive that
continued after World War II, triggering a campaign for self-
rule in the 1950s and 1960s.  Peterlini has written books on the region, including “We,
Children of the South Tyrol Autonomy” in 2003 and “The Bombing
Years of South Tyrol,” a look at events such as the blowing up
of electricity pylons in 1961.  Average GDP per head in the area around Bolzano was 34,600
euros in 2008, exceeding Lombardy, which includes the financial
center of Milan, according to  Eurostat . That compared with an
average of 26,200 euros for Italy and 30,200 euros for Germany.
The highest was Luxembourg on 81,200 euros.  Distress Signal  “If the ship Italy gets in distress, then those in second
class will be in distress as much as those in first class,”
Durnwalder, whose  South Tyrolean People’s Party  has governed in
the region since 1948, said by telephone.  While saying Italy is in better shape than  Greece , he
raised doubts about Berlusconi’s ability to solve his end of the
crisis. The 75-year-old premier is on trial for paying for sex
with an underage exotic dancer, along with separate cases
alleging  tax fraud  and bribery. He denies any wrongdoing.  “I just have been in Nepal and on the border when they saw
my passport instead of saying ‘buongiorno’ to show that they
speak Italian, they said ‘bunga bunga,’” said Durnwalder “That
is really not an international reputation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  