-- 
European Stocks Climb Amid Speculation of Assistance for Banks

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-10-05T16:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/european-stock-futures-rise-amid-speculation-of-bank-assistance.html
European stocks advanced for the
first time in four days amid speculation policy makers are
examining measures to shield banks from the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  snapped a four-day plunge after France and Belgium
said a “bad bank” will be set up to hold its troubled assets.
BNP Paribas SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s biggest
lenders, climbed more than 8 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group led mining
companies higher. European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose
5.7 percent after saying 2011 will be a “very good” year.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 3.1 percent to 224.15
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest increase in a
week. The gauge had declined 5 percent in the previous three
days, leaving it trading at 9.1 times estimated earnings, near
the cheapest since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It seems politicians behind the scenes are making a
determined effort to get more ahead of the curve dealing with
the euro debt crisis,” said Witold Bahrke, a Copenhagen-based
senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S, which manages $45 billion.
“Politicians may be moving closer to securing a
recapitalization of banks and a more drastic solution on
 Greece .”  The Financial Times quoted Olli Rehn, European Union
commissioner for economic affairs, late yesterday as saying
there’s an “increasingly shared view” that the region needs a
coordinated approach to halt the debt crisis. EU officials are
working on plans to boost bank capital to contain the euro-
region’s debt crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  ‘Working Together’  “There is no secret at all that European authorities and
the European Commission are all working together on a plan to
bring more official capital, more public-sector capital, into
the banking sector,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said today in Brussels. “More should be done
on a cross-border basis.”  Benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European markets,
with the exception of Iceland. The DAX climbed 4.9 percent in
Frankfurt.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 4.3 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE
100 advanced 3.2 percent.  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, tumbled
9.6 percent to 45.6, the biggest drop in five weeks.  Signs that the debt crisis is hampering growth have
prompted speculation the ECB will lower borrowing costs at a
policy meeting tomorrow. Eleven of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg say it will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by at
least a quarter-percentage point from the current rate of 1.5
percent. The others expect no change.  Retail Sales  European retail sales declined in August as the debt crisis
and slowing economic growth prompted households from Germany to
Ireland to cut spending. Sales in the 17-nation euro region
decreased 0.3 percent from July, when they rose 0.2 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office said. That matched the median
forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Today’s relief will be short-lived as in the past
weeks,” said  Markus Wallner  a senior equity strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It all depends on policy news and
the rise today is not sustainable. If politicians want to get
ahead of the game they’ll have to respond faster.”  Data from ADP Employer Services showed U.S. companies added
91,000 jobs last month, beating the average estimate of 75,000
workers in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The release comes
two days before the Labor Department’s employment report for
September, which is forecast to show an increase of 60,000 jobs
in the world’s largest economy.  Dexia Gains  Dexia rose 1.3 percent to 1.02 euros after a four-day, 34
percent tumble.  Belgium ’s biggest bank plans to pool its
troubled assets into a “bad bank” with Belgian and French
government guarantees to protect depositors and its municipal-
lending business.  The Belgian-French lender bailed out by the two governments
in 2008 will put its “legacy” division, which held 113 billion
euros ($150 billion) of assets at the end of June, into the bad
bank, Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  told reporters in
Brussels yesterday. Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said
details of the plan will be released after talks with partners.  Dexia emerged from the 1996 merger of Credit Local de
France and Credit Communal de Belgique SA, the biggest municipal
lenders in their respective countries. Unlike Credit Local de
France, which relied exclusively on wholesale funding for its
lending, the Belgian firm also operated a retail bank in Belgium
and a private bank in Luxembourg.  Banks Climb  BNP Paribas (BNP)  rallied 8.5 percent to 29.49 euros as a gauge
of European banks rose 4.6 percent. Societe Generale advanced
8.7 percent to 19.60 euros and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  increased 9.9
percent to 5.17 euros.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank and
insurer by market value, jumped 15 percent to 17.18 euros, the
largest gain since May 2010.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, gained 8.8 percent
to 9.70 euros after the company reiterated its earnings target
and said the balance sheet remains solid. The insurer still
expects 10 percent annual growth in per-share operating earnings
through 2015, the company said in a presentation on its website.  Basic resources shares jumped 5.8 percent for the second-
biggest gain among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Rio
Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company, rallied 7.1
percent to 2,905.5 pence and BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest,
gained 6.7 percent to 1,778 pence.  ‘Very Good’ Year  EADS, the parent of planemaker Airbus, advanced 5.7 percent
to 20.96 euros. Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer Marwan
Lahoud said in an interview on BFM radio that the company will
have a “very good” 2011, helped by recovery in the global
aviation market.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS)  and CGGVeritas led a rally in
oilfield-services companies, with both stocks rebounding from
the lowest levels in more than two years. PGS climbed 11 percent
to 57.95 kroner and CGGVeritas, the world’s largest seismic
surveyor of oilfields, advanced 12 percent to 13 euros.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  jumped 14 percent to 25.68 euros, the biggest
gain since 2003. Europe’s largest computer-services company
hasn’t yet seen significant spending cuts from clients and still
expects full-year revenue growth of 9 percent to 10 percent, Dow
Jones reported, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer
Paul Hermelin.    J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-biggest supermarket
company, climbed 3.6 percent to 284.6 pence after saying second-
quarter sales rose at the same pace as the first three months of
the year as shoppers bought more of its own-brand food ranges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  