-- 
Stocks Gain, Commodities Reverse Drop as U.S. Economic Data Beat Forecasts

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-05T21:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/euro-weakens-most-asian-stocks-drop-on-italy-rating-commodities-rebound.html
Stocks rallied and commodities
snapped a three-day slump as U.S. economic data topped estimates
and optimism grew European leaders will recapitalize banks.
Energy shares helped lead gains as oil surged following an
unexpected drop in supplies. Treasuries retreated.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.8 percent to close
at 1,144.03 at 4 p.m. New York time, adding to yesterday’s 2.3
percent surge to mark the biggest two-day gain in a month. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 3.1 percent, halting a three-day
tumble. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities increased 2.8 percent
as oil surged 5.3 percent to $79.68 a barrel, rebounding from a
7.9 percent plunge over the previous three sessions. Ten-year
Treasury note yields climbed six basis points to 1.89 percent.  Reports depicting faster-than-forecast growth in payrolls
and service industries and rising fuel demand tempered concern
the economic recovery was in jeopardy. European Union officials
are working on plans to boost bank capital to contain the debt
crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said, a day after a
Financial Times report describing the discussions triggered a
4.1 percent surge in the S&P 500 in the final hour of trading.  “We are headed for the mother of all counter-trend rallies
in equities into the end of the year,” said Michael A. Gayed,
chief investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC in New York.
“There’s likely to be some kind of reevaluation of the
financial sector. It could be because of the realization that
we’re going to have some sort of recapitalization in Europe. The
 bond market  is starting to confirm the move back into risk-on.”  Producers of energy and raw materials led the S&P 500’s
gain today, with gauges of both groups rising at least 3.3
percent. Chevron Corp. climbed 3.5 percent and Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. surged 7.1 percent to pace the rally.  Oil Inventories  Oil surged the most since May and had the biggest advance
among commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI, with 20 of 24 raw
materials rising. Crude supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for West Texas Intermediate oil, tumbled 831,000
barrels to 30.1 million, the lowest level since March 2010.
Stockpiles at the hub have dropped 10 weeks, the longest stretch
since 2007. Gasoline supplies declined 1.14 million barrels to
213.7 million last week, the report showed.  “Fuel demand has been holding up better than expected in
recent weeks,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston. “It does signal that demand it is holding
up well and it doesn’t signal a recession.”  Yahoo! Inc. surged 10 percent, the biggest gain in three
years, after Reuters reported that Microsoft Corp. was
considering a bid for the  Internet company .  S&P 500  financial
rallied for a second day, climbing 1.2 percent after earlier
falling as much as 2.3 percent. The 81 banks, insurers and
investment firms has led the S&P 500’s 16 percent slide from a
three-year high on April 29, plunging 27 percent as a group.  Morgan Stanley Surges  Morgan Stanley climbed 3.4 percent, building on yesterday’s
12 percent surge, after Fox Business Network’s Charles Gasparino
reported that Chief Executive Officer James Gorman told
investors everything is “OK” and the firm’s third-quarter
earnings will beat rival Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Monsanto Co.
jumped 5.2 percent as the world’s largest seed company forecast
higher-than-expected earnings.  U.S. stock futures gained before the open of exchanges
after companies in the U.S. added 91,000 jobs in September,
according to data from ADP Employer Services, topping the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for an advance
of 75,000. A Labor Department report in two days is forecast to
show a 91,000 increase in private payrolls and a net 59,000 gain
in non-farm payrolls, according to the median economist
estimates in a survey, with the  unemployment rate  projected to
remain at 9.1 percent.  ‘Tortoise-Like’  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 53 from 53.3 in August. The median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a drop to 52.8. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction in services, which cover about 90 percent of the
economy. Orders picked up, the report showed.  “Those are positive,” Abigail Huffman, who helps oversee
$163 billion as director of research at Russell Investments in
 New York , said of today’s economic data. “It’s a slow moving
economy that’s moving forward and we’re seeing good data points.
With this tortoise-like economy the trends are positive but
they’re just not positive enough for the market to sustain an
advance.”  Bear Market Averted  The S&P 500 closed 2.3 percent higher yesterday following
the FT report of discussions to recapitalize European banks. It
was the 10th time since 1985 that the index posted a loss of 1
percent or more at 3 p.m. and was up when the market closed,
according to data compiled by Bespoke Investment Group LLC in
Harrison, New York. The rebound occurred after the index slid
below 1,090.888 during the day, a level that would have marked a
bear-market plunge of more than 20 percent from the April peak
if breached on a closing basis.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, will mark
the unofficial start of the earnings-reporting season when it
reports results on Oct. 11. Third-quarter profits for S&P 500
companies are projected to have grown 13 percent, according to
analyst forecast compiled by Bloomberg, down from an estimate of
17 percent when the index traded at a three-year high at the end
of April.  ‘Surprise to the Upside’  Brian Belski , chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer &
Co. in New York, predicted a “nice year-end rally” in stocks
after profits come in higher than analyst estimates.  “Earnings will surprise to the upside, earnings estimates
have been slashed too much,” Belski said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track With Deirdre Bolton and Erik
Schatzker.” “Corporate America has gone through so much
structural reform in the last 10 or 12 years that they continue
to be positioned to under-promise, over-deliver.”  Banks in the Stoxx 600 climbed 4.6 percent as a group and
contributed the most to the index’s advance. Dexia SA, the
Belgian lender that has slumped 59 percent this year, snapped a
four-day plunge after  France  and Belgium said a “bad bank”
will be set up to hold its troubled assets. The shares rose 1.3
percent, paring a rally of as much as 10 percent after two
people with knowledge of the talks said the plan may leave Dexia
holding the worst assets.  BNP Paribas, SocGen  BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA, France’s biggest
lenders, climbed more than 8 percent. Rio Tinto Group led mining
companies higher. European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose
5.7 percent after saying 2011 will be a “very good” year.  A measure of how much European banks pay to fund in dollars
fell. The one-year cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks pay
to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was at 72 basis
points below the euro interbank offered rate as of 5 p.m. in
 London , down from 75 basis points yesterday. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  EU ministers have a “sense of urgency” and a “shared
view” of the need for a “concerted, coordinated approach in
 Europe ,” EU Commissioner for Economic Affairs Olli Rehn said,
according to the FT. “Capital positions of European banks must
be reinforced to provide additional safety margins and thus
reduce uncertainty,” the newspaper quoted him as saying.  Rehn “doesn’t speak of a concrete plan in hand,” his
spokesman,  Amadeu Altafaj , told reporters in Brussels today.
“He speaks of an initiative, of discussions in progress and he
pleads for a European approach.” German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said that Europe’s rescue fund will only be used as a
last resort to save banks and that investors may have to take
deeper losses as part of a Greek rescue.  ‘Gut Feel’  “My gut feel is that the European situation still might
need to get worse to provoke the type of response the market
really wants but such a day is no doubt getting closer,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, wrote in a note to investors.  Ten-year Italian bond yields increased three basis points
to 5.50 percent. Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s rating
three levels to A2 from Aa2, with a negative outlook, and said
other European countries rated below the top Aaa level may face
downgrades. S&P lowered Italy’s grade on Sept. 20 for the first
time in five years.  Signs that the region’s debt crisis is hampering growth
have prompted speculation the ECB will lower borrowing costs at
a policy meeting tomorrow. Eleven of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said it will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by at
least a quarter-percentage point from the current 1.5 percent.
The others expect no change.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, fell 0.8 percent to halt a five-
day increase. The euro weakened against 12 of 16 major peers and
was little changed at $1.3346.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.3 percent and is down 6
percent in four days.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated
0.9 percent, paced by a 4 percent drop in Fast Retailing Co.,
after Asia’s biggest apparel chain said same-store sales at its
Uniqlo casual clothing stores in Japan fell 10.7 percent in
September from a year earlier.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.8 percent,
rebounding from a two-year low. Hungary’s benchmark index surged
5.7 percent and Chile’s rallied 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  