-- 
Europe Bank Plan Is Right Focus to End Crisis, Berglof Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-10-05T15:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/europe-bank-plan-is-right-focus-to-tackle-crisis-berglof-says.html
European Union plans to boost bank
capital are the “right” approach to contain the euro region’s
debt crisis, said  Erik Berglof , chief economist at the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  “I feel confident that the focus is now on the right
things,” Berglof said in an interview with  Owen Thomas  on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” “They are trying to
have a coordinated capitalization of the banks. I think this is
the right way to go.”  EU officials are working on a plan to inject more
“official” and “private” funds into the bloc’s lenders,
Antonio Borges, the International Monetary Fund’s European
department head, said today in Brussels. The recapitalization of
Europe’s banks must continue, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday.  The London-based lender, which fosters the transition to
market economies in  Europe ’s former communist nations, led
efforts following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. to persuade western banks to roll over funding for their
eastern units and inject fresh capital if needed, averting a
region-wide banking crisis.  European banks may need more than 140 billion euros ($186
billion) of capital through a program similar to the U.S.
Troubled Asset Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a
research note today.  Italy Downgraded  Europe’s debt crisis intensified as Moody’s Investors
Service lowered Italy’s debt grade by three steps late
yesterday, warning that euro-area nations rated below the top
Aaa level may see their rankings cut.  Eastern Europe faces fallout from the debt crisis, with
about three-quarters of the region’s banking industry owned by
western lenders such as  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Berglof said. The IMF warned today in a
report that “the repercussions for emerging Europe would be
dire,” with a new credit crunch most likely.  “In almost any scenario you can think of now there will be
some impact on the subsidiaries of these banks,” Berglof said.
The task is “figuring out which subsidiaries depend
particularly on their parents or need new capital.”  Recapitalization plans within the euro region aimed at
relieving the crisis must include the east European units of
western lenders, Berglof said at an event in Brussels today.  “Support must be extended to the subsidiaries,” Berglof
said, speaking at an event in Brussels today. “The deleveraging
process is threatening what’s been achieved. We really need to
be careful not to take measures in western Europe to
jeopardize” banking presence and economic growth in the east.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  