-- 
European Bank Rescue May Cost Up to $2 Trillion, Fink Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-10-05T22:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/europe-bank-rescue-may-cost-2-trillion-blackrock-s-fink-says.html
Governments and private-sector
partners may have to spend as much as $2 trillion to rescue
 Europe ’s banks, said Laurence D. Fink, the chairman and chief
executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “Stabilizing Europe is very costly,” Fink, who heads the
world’s largest asset manager, said today during an event in
Toronto. “It could be as much as a couple trillion dollars.”  World equity markets have plunged over the past two months
amid concern the European debt crisis is intensifying. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth
last month and predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe
fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock
over a fiscal plan.  Fink said his firm has purchased equities this week
including  Morgan Stanley (MS) , after the MSCI All-Country World Index
slumped 22 percent between May 2 and Sept. 30. BlackRock oversaw
$3.66 trillion in assets as of June 30.  “The hysteria is so rampant now, it’s probably a good time
to invest,” he said.  A European rescue program would be more of an investment
opportunity than a bailout, Fink said today. On Sept. 14, he
recommended a $1 trillion plan similar to the U.S. Troubled
Asset Relief Program. He said today that he envisioned Europe
needing an additional $1 trillion public-private partnership.  “It’s not lost money,” he said. “It’s no different than
what the U.S. government did with TARP. In most cases, the U.S.
got its money back.”  ‘Euro Two’  Greece  is unlikely to leave the euro region, as returning
to a single-country currency would be too disruptive to credit
markets, Fink said.  “If there is a restructuring of the euro, it would be good
countries leaving the euro and creating the ‘euro two,’ and all
the other countries keeping the euro,” he said.  A solution to the European crisis will return the world’s
attention to the U.S. and the lack of progress toward reducing
the country’s budget deficit, Fink said. The failure of U.S.
politicians to compromise on taxes and spending is leaving
Americans too uncertain about the country’s future to return to
the markets, he said.  Reducing the deficit will probably require less spending
and increasing taxes or changing the  tax code , he said.  Fink said he is pessimistic the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to
buy longer-term debt, known as Operation Twist, will improve the
economy.  “This program is really baffling me,” he said. “U.S.
companies are sitting on trillions of dollars of cash. Lowering
finance costs by 1 percent for 10-year money, I don’t see how
that can stimulate the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  