-- 
Europe Should Boost Bank Financing Measures, UniCredit CEO Says

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-10-05T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/europe-should-boost-bank-financing-measures-unicredit-ceo-says.html
The biggest need for European banks
from the region’s regulators is help with financing to prevent
the debt crisis from worsening, said  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief
Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni .  “For the banking sector the focus is more on liquidity
rather than capital,” Ghizzoni said in an interview in Milan.
“Here we need regulators supporting the market, giving easier
access to banks to liquidity.”  The region’s lenders are increasing their reliance on
European Central Bank funding after U.S.-based money-market
funds pulled back from the region amid concern that  Greece , the
first euro-area nation to be bailed out last year, may default.
At the same time, financial institutions are reluctant to lend
to each other, limiting short-term funding options.  “The  interbank market  is focused on short-term
maturities,” said Ghizzoni, 55, the head of Italy’s biggest
bank by assets. “It’s difficult to have maturities beyond three
months.”  Policy makers around the globe are seeking ways to prevent
Europe’s debt crisis from pushing banks to fail and to keep the
global economy from slipping into recession. Concern that Italy
isn’t doing enough to reduce spending and its debt burden, the
second highest in the  euro zone  after Greece, has pushed the
average funding cost of Italian banks to the highest since 2008.  Boost Capital  European Union officials are working on plans to boost bank
capital to contain the euro-region’s debt crisis, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday. European banks may
need more than 140 billion euros ($186 billion) through a
program similar to the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program,
Morgan Stanley analysts said.  The IMF has offered a slate of options to the EU to revamp
the euro area’s main rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, said Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head.  In a subsequent statement, Borges retreated from some of
these suggestions. “We are not contemplating any market
involvement with the EFSF,” he said. “Any alternative lending
modalities to what we do now would require a different legal
structure and the use of a different source of financing. We
have not discussed these issues with our membership.”  Ghizzoni said the EFSF is an important instrument to
bolster governance in  Europe . “We need strong commitment from
the single governments in terms of fiscal policy.”  Strategy  The crisis will lead banks to rethink their business
models, focusing on costs, efficiency and productivity,
according to the UniCredit CEO. “Banks have to accept that for
the next two to three years their revenue will not grow too
much,” he said. “Banks need to be leaner, in their structure
and more focused on their core business.”  At UniCredit, “what we are doing is to leverage more on
lending to get more revenue.”  UniCredit is reviewing its strategy after being the only
Italian bank to face the European stress tests without raising
capital. The bank, which aims to deliver its new business plan
by the end of the year, is cutting costs and risks and is
focusing on its core markets to increase profitability.  “We have started to become very selective on the lending
side versus the profitability of the relationship as a whole,”
Ghizzoni said.  Almost 60 percent of the bank’s revenue comes from outside
 Italy .  UniCredit, which has already completed its 32 billion-euro
funding needs for 2011, said second-quarter quarter profit more
than tripled after lower provisions and higher trading income
countered losses on holdings of Greek government debt. Net
income rose to 511 million euros in the period, while loan-loss
provisions dropped 31 percent to 1.18 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  