-- 
European Soccer Body UEFA Plans Broadcasts to Boost National Teams, Income

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-05T15:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/european-soccer-body-uefa-plans-broadcasts-to-boost-national-teams-income.html
European soccer’s governing body is
planning to broadcast six consecutive days of national team
qualification matches as part of a new centralized media and
marketing program.  Gianni Infantino, general secretary of Nyon, Switzerland-
based  UEFA , said the move to take control of qualifiers for
international tournaments like the  World Cup  and European
champions was the “the biggest sporting project of UEFA since
the creation of the Champions League in 1992.”  “We think we should raise the status of national team
football, raise it to the top level,” Infantino told an
audience at the Leaders in Football conference at Chelsea’s
Stamford Bridge in  London .  The proposal means national sides could play Thursday,
Friday or Saturday and followed by another game two days later,
with the final match taking place on Tuesday. Infantino said
 UEFA  wanted to create a brand for the national qualifiers
similar to the  Champions League , which has its own anthem, a
group of sponsors and fixed kick-off times on Tuesdays and
Wednesdays.  The group’s main decision-making body needs to agree to the
proposal before they can come into force. Infantino said that’s
likely to be a formality after UEFA’s 53-member associations
“unanimously” supported it at a meeting in Cyprus last month.  Centralizing the rights allows smaller nations to focus on
soccer development without having to fret about drawing a
popular national team like  England  or  Germany  to boost revenue,
Infantino said.  Clubs’ Resistance  UEFA’s plan for centralization has met resistance from the
European Club Association, a body that represents about 200 of
the continent’s top teams. They argue that the governing body
has pushed ahead with its program without consulting teams and
is likely to provide competition for broadcast and sponsorship
partners.  “They are going to the same pockets in  Europe ,” Umberto Gandini, an ECA board member and director of Italy’s AC Milan
said in an interview in July. “The pockets that are paying for
the Champions League in 2014, they are going to have UEFA who’s
going to offer them, against interest of clubs, the centralized
activities of the national teams.”  Qualification matches for the 2016 European Championship in
 France  will be the first to be marketed centrally and appear
under the “Week of Football” banner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Stamford Bridge via the London newsroom
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  