-- 
European CLO Fund Managers Seek Life in Listed Loan Funds: Credit Markets

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-10-05T15:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/european-clo-fund-managers-seek-life-in-listed-loan-funds-credit-markets.html
Mutual funds are helping to fill the
gap left by collateralized loan obligations in Europe as
borrowers search for ways to refinance 200 billion euros ($267
billion) of leveraged loans.  Vanguard Group Inc. and  Fidelity Investments , the two
largest U.S. mutual fund companies, are leading a record $833
million of investment in Europe-listed loan funds. NB Global
Floating Rate Income Fund and Babson Capital Management LLC,
which traditionally invested in loans via CLOs, announced plans
to raise $382 million in the equity market to buy the debt.  Hobbled following the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and unable to recover amid Europe’s sovereign
crisis, CLOs have withdrawn as the biggest loan investors. At
their peak in 2007, the funds purchased 62 percent of the debt
in Europe, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary &
Data. The securities raised 285 million euros this year compared
with a record 35 billion euros in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Listed loan funds could be the new version of CLOs for
European investors,” said Joseph Lynch, a Chicago-based
managing director at Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC, which
listed NB Floating Rate Income Fund in an April IPO that raised
$507 million. “The CLO market is unlikely to come back in
Europe anytime soon.”  Funding Hole  As the “vast majority” of European CLOs wind down by
2015, the companies that depended on them for 61 billion euros
of leveraged loans due by 2015 might lose their source of
capital, S&P said in an Aug. 25 report.  CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  “The question is what will replace CLOs in Europe,” said
Leland Hart, head of loans at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in  New York , the
world’s biggest  money manager . “We like loan funds because they
give a very solid dividend and a high degree of income certainty
notwithstanding the recent debt crisis in the market. Given the
price of loans today, the appeal is pretty self-evident.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds worldwide rather than government
debentures rose 8 basis points to 277 basis points, or 2.77
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the top-ranked
portion of bonds backed by commercial mortgages jumped to the
highest since February 2010, according to a Barclays Capital
index.  Credit Default Swaps  Spreads on the BarCap CMBS AAA Super Duper Index widened 29
basis points yesterday to 323 basis points, or 3.23 percentage
points. Relative yields have climbed from 2.26 percentage points
since the end of July as investor concern has mounted that
Europe’s debt crisis will hurt bank balance sheets and derail
the faltering global economic recovery.  William Lyon Homes missed its second bond interest payment
in two months as the homebuilder discusses reorganization with
lenders. Garden Ridge Corp. increased the discount at which it
will sell a $250 million  term loan .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 1 basis point to a mid-price of 146.3
basis points, as of 11:35 a.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd.  The index typically declines as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Loan Prices Fall  William Lyon, the builder of single-family homes, didn’t
pay $7.5 million in interest due on Oct. 1 on its $138.8 million
of 10.75 percent notes maturing in April 2013, according to a
regulatory filing. The  Newport Beach , California-based company
said it must make the payment by Oct. 31 to prevent a default.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index declined 1.14
cent to 87.02 cents on the dollar, the lowest level since
December 2009. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has dropped from 94.41
cents at the end of July.  Garden Ridge, a retailer of home décor products, will sell
the loan to finance the company’s buyout by AEA Investors LP at
90 cents on the dollar, compared with 93 cents previously
proposed, said a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Debt Through Equity  Fidelity made its first investment in a listed loan fund in
Europe earlier year by investing in Blackstone Group LP’s
 Carador Income Fund Plc (CIFU) , which pays more than 10 percent
dividend yield, said Eugene Philalithis, a London-based money
manager at Fidelity.  “Listed funds allow you to trade more frequently and fund
managers don’t have to worry about having to raise funds to meet
redemptions,” Philalithis said. “You are getting access
through an equity vehicle to buy debt instruments. Market
sentiment has an impact on share price but the underlying asset
value of these funds is what drives the longer-term
performance.”  Carador and  Greenwich Loan Income Fund Ltd. (GLIF)  rewarded
investors with share price increases of 15 percent to 35 percent
this year, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a price
decline for bonds tracked by Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield
Constrained Index to 84 percent of face value from 94 percent.  Tetragon, Henderson  Shares of  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG) , a Guernsey company
traded on Euronext Amsterdam that invests in bank loans mainly
through equity tranches of CLOs, rose as much as 7.1 percent
today to $6.16, the biggest gain since Aug. 12. They have gained
36 percent in the past year while net asset value per share
increased 52 percent to $11.77. Henderson Diversifed Income Ltd.
rose 2.1 percent today to 73 pence, the biggest increase since
Aug. 22.  In comparison, prices of European CLO equity rose about 8
percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
data.  Issuance of bonds from CLOs in Europe fell to 10 billion
euros in 2008 and was zero in 2009. This year’s sole issuer
European Capital, a unit of Bethesda, Maryland-based based
 American Capital , retained about two-thirds of an 858 million-
euro deal in June.  Half of the $37.4 billion of loans for private-equity
funded buyouts were placed with institutional investors
including CLOs this year, compared with 58 percent in 2010,
according to Bloomberg data. Issuance of leveraged buyout loans
in  Europe  more than doubled from $16 billion in 2010.  Growing ‘Very Quickly’  European companies acquired by LBO firms will struggle to
refinance more than 200 billion euros of debt as investors
eschew risky securities, according to a Sept. 28 report by  Fitch
Ratings .  CLO managers including Avoca Capital Holdings and New
Amsterdam Capital Management LLP may follow Babson Capital to
create loan investment trusts listed in  stock exchanges ,
according to officials from the funds.  “The market for listed credit funds is growing very
quickly in Europe,” said Miguel Ramos-Fuentenebro of GSO
Capital Partners International LLP, the investment manager of
Blackstone-owned Carador. “We believe there’s no reason why
loans shouldn’t suit a very large pool of investors.”  New Amsterdam Capital Management LLP is considering
floating some of its assets as a way to grow the business
without having to issue CLOs, founding partner John Seal of the
London-based firm said. Avoca Capital Holdings won’t “rule
out” a similar vehicle, said Alan Burke, the Dublin-based chief
executive of Avoca Capital Holdings, which oversees 6 billion
euros.  “We will see more funds being created to have shares
traded on stock exchanges in the next 12 months, probably
quicker,” said Burke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  