-- 
Ex-Lehman Officials Win Dismissal of Retirement Account Case

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-10-06T02:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ex-lehman-officials-win-dismissal-of-claims-over-retirement-account-losses.html
Former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
officers and directors won a dismissal of a lawsuit alleging
they failed to protect against losses in the company’s savings
plan.  The case was brought under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act, according to the ruling by U.S. District Judge
Lewis A. Kaplan in  Manhattan . Plan beneficiaries argued the
company officials failed to prevent the losses while knowing of
Lehman’s deteriorating condition.  Kaplan said the amended complaint’s allegations “do
nothing to connect the plan committee defendants to anything
specific that alerted or should have alerted them to the alleged
dire situation at Lehman.”  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in September 2008, has been settling disputes and gathering
votes since July for its $65 billion liquidation plan. Lehman
filed for bankruptcy with assets of $639 billion.  Mark Rifkin, a plaintiffs’ attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement that he will appeal the ruling “exonerating the
fiduciaries of the Lehman retirement savings plan from liability
to thousands of former Lehman employees, who lost hundreds of
millions of dollars of retirement savings when Lehman filed for
bankruptcy.”  “We believe the decision overlooked the facts and
misapplied the law,” Rifkin said.  The savings retirement plan for Lehman employees at issue
in the case allowed contributions as a percentage of pay, and
permitted employees to allocate the contributions in different
types of accounts, such as the Lehman Stock Fund, which invested
only in Lehman common stock, cash and short-term fixed income
securities, according to the ruling.  The cases are In Re Lehman Brothers Securities and ERISA
Litigation, 09-md-02017, and In Re ERISA Litigation, 08-
cv-05598, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  