-- 
Texas’s Energy-Fed Reserve Will Reach $7 Billion by 2013, Estimator Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-05T20:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/texas-reserve-fund-will-reach-7-billion-by-2013-estimator-says.html
Texas  will have $7 billion in its
main  reserve fund  by January 2013, the state’s chief revenue
estimator told lawmakers, a projection deemed overly pessimistic
by a senior Republican legislator.  The so-called rainy-day fund, financed by taxes on oil and
gas production, will reach $6.1 billion by December and should
rise by about $1 billion next year, based on stable energy
prices, John Heleman, the estimator for Comptroller Susan Combs,
a Republican, told a  House of Representatives  panel that met
today. The reserve has exceeded $4 billion since 2008, he said.  “That $7 billion estimate sounds lower than I expected,
given how robust oil and gas has been,” state Representative
Harvey Hildebran, a Kerrville Republican who leads the House
Ways and Means Committee, said in an interview after the
meeting. “I’ve been thinking that it will be $10 billion on the
optimistic side and maybe $7 billion on the pessimistic side.”  Legislators closed a  budget deficit  for the two years that
began this month by cutting expenses, shortchanging schools and
pushing some Medicaid spending into fiscal 2013. The actions
adhered to Governor  Rick Perry ’s pledge to avoid raising taxes
and limit using the reserve fund for the current spending plan.  More than $4 billion of reserves are likely to be used in
2013 to cover expenses for Medicaid, the health-care program for
the poor, Hildebran said. The Legislature, which isn’t scheduled
to meet again until January 2013, didn’t provide for about $4.8
billion in Medicaid costs in the two-year budget passed in June.  Fund Cushion  “Texas only used its rainy-day fund relatively later in
the downturn, which means at this point that they still have a
cushion that is more significant than many other states,” said
Nick Samuels, a Moody’s Investors Service analyst in  New York .
“That cushion has really helped buffer Texas.”  The state had the second-largest reserve fund in the U.S.,
trailing only  Alaska , according to a National Association of
State Budget Officers’ study earlier this year.  The “healthy budgetary cushion” provided by the fund
helped Texas retain a top  credit rating  and a stable outlook
from Moody’s in August. Analysts including Samuels cited their
expectations for the state’s economy to recover faster than the
nation’s as a whole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  