-- 
Extending Payroll Tax Cut Is Hard Sell as 2011 Benefit Unproven

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/extending-payroll-tax-cut-is-hard-sell-as-2011-benefit-unproven.html
In selling an expanded payroll  tax
cut  to lawmakers, the Obama administration faces the predicament
it confronts in defending its $825 billion stimulus package:
making a case that the economy would be worse without it.  “Politically, it’s difficult to make that argument,” said
 Chris Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. “It
was not easy to get that tax cut through, and it will be even
harder to extend it.”  The most expensive part of President Barack Obama’s $447
billion jobs plan is expanding and extending a reduction in the
payroll tax that funds  Social Security . Economists say the
results of this year’s payroll tax cut have been limited because
much of the extra money workers took home went to cover rising
 gas prices , which reached a three-year high in May.  “Beyond allowing folks to spend more money on food and
gasoline, spending is not apparent anywhere else in the
economy,” said  Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells Fargo
Securities in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Without the break, the  U.S. economy  likely would have fared
worse. FTN’s Low estimates it added about .25 percent to the
gross domestic product. Allowing the payroll cut to expire at
the end of this year would cause a drag on economic growth in
2012, some economists said.  ‘Saved Us’  “It probably saved us from recession,” said  Mark Zandi ,
chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “The reason it didn’t juice up average spending
is because it had to go to pay for higher prices.”  Because the U.S. personal savings rate remained steady at
about 5 percent this year, it shows people were spending the
additional money, Zandi said.  The aim of the payroll tax cut is to give workers more
money, in an effort to spur  consumer spending  and stimulate the
economy. The problem is it’s difficult to measure the effects
because it’s impossible to know what would have happened without
the cut, said Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the  Tax
Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in Washington.  “We don’t know how bad things would have been,” Williams
said. “Taking it away would pull a lot of money out of
consumers’ hands, and that would almost certainly have a
negative impact.”  Personal spending grew at a 0.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter of 2011, the weakest since the end of 2009,
according to the Commerce Department. The average gain in
household purchases this year has been 0.1 percent.  Jobs Plan Centerpiece  The  payroll tax  cut would cost the Treasury $240 billion in
forgone revenue and is the centerpiece of Obama’s jobs plan. If
Congress doesn’t act, the tax in 2012 would revert to 12.4
percent, with workers contributing half, or 6.2 percent.  This year, workers are paying a lower 4.2 percent tax, a
temporary reduction that was part of a comprehensive tax deal in
December to extend the Bush-era tax cuts.  The Obama administration wants to further cut workers’
share to 3.1 percent in 2012. That would give a family earning
$50,000 annually an extra $1,550 in after-tax pay. Obama also
wants Congress to cut the employer’s portion of the tax to 3.1
percent on the first $5 million in payroll.  The Senate plans to take up Obama’s jobs proposal this
month, said White House spokesman  Jay Carney .  Less Than Hoped  Joel Slemrod , an economist at the  University of Michigan  in
Ann Arbor who studies the public’s response to government
stimulus, said recent tax cuts haven’t provided as big an
economic boost as hoped for.  An analysis Slemrod co-authored last year found that only
13 percent of households said they “mostly” spent the extra
money from the 2009 “Making Work Pay” tax credit that also
aimed to stimulate economic growth. The payroll tax reduction
was designed as an alternative to extending that credit.  In comparison, 33 percent of households in the analysis
said they mostly saved the money and 54 percent said they used
it to pay down debt.  Preliminary results show a similar percentage of households
are spending money from year’s payroll tax cut, Slemrod said.  “These are pretty low and suggest that the multiplier
effect through consumer spending would be low, though not
zero,” he said.  ‘Already Uncertain Economy’  Republicans in Congress are expressing reservations about
the cut. In a Sept. 16 memo to colleagues, House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and other Republican leaders raised concerns
that expanding the tax break would lead to a bigger tax increase
when the payroll tax reverts to the full rate in 12 months.  “There may be significant unforeseen downsides to large
temporary tax cuts immediately followed by large tax
increases,” the memo said. “In short, we are creating
significant new uncertainty in an already uncertain economy.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
this week didn’t rule out House consideration of the reduction
in payroll withholding taxes, saying that while such a move may
not be “the most generative” for job-creation, “certainly
it’s part of the discussion.”  The argument that economic growth would have been weaker
without the tax cut echoes what defenders say about Obama’s 2009
stimulus package.  Curtailing Job Losses  While Republicans say an  unemployment rate  hovering at 9
percent for more than two years is evidence that the economic
injection didn’t work, Democrats and the Obama administration
say it curbed job losses.  An August  report  by the non-partisan  Congressional Budget
Office  concluded that the 2009 stimulus increased the number of
people working in the second quarter of 2011 by between 1
million and 2.9 million. The CBO said the stimulus reduced the
jobless rate by between 0.7 percent and 1.8 percent in 2010.  Chris Varvares , senior managing director of  Macroeconomic
Advisers  in  St. Louis , said the payroll tax cut likely prevented
a drop in consumer spending even though “there’s no compelling
evidence either way.”  “If I had to make a bet on whether it helped support
consumer spending, it probably did,” he said. “Many of the
folks receiving it are financially stressed and could use the
increase in the after-tax income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  