-- 
Exxon Seeks to Sell 25% of Brazil Prospect After Dry Holes

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-10-05T18:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/exxon-seeking-to-sell-25-stake-in-offshore-brazilian-prospect.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest  oil company , is offering for sale a 25 percent stake in
an offshore Brazilian oil prospect after drilling two wells that
failed to strike crude.  The prospect, known as Block BM-S-22 in the Santos Basin,
may hold as much as 1.5 billion barrels of recoverable crude,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said in an offering document on
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ’s oilfield-marketing website. One of Exxon’s
partners on the project,  Hess Corp. (HES) , last year wrote down the
value of two of the three wells already drilled at the prospect
after they came up dry.  The block lies beneath a layer of salt below the sea floor
in the same region that yielded discoveries such as Tupi, a 6.5
billion-barrel field now known as Lula, Exxon said in the
offering document.  Exxon owns 40 percent of the prospect and is the operator
of the project. Hess of  New York  holds a 40 percent stake, and
Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  owns the rest. Hess
expensed its share of costs for the Exxon-drilled Sabia-1 and
Azulo wells during the fourth quarter of 2010, Gregory Hill,
Hess’ executive vice president of worldwide exploration, said
during a Jan. 26 conference call with analysts.  Agreement  Exxon and partners Hess and Petrobras, as the Brazilian oil
company is known, “agreed to seek a fourth co-venturer” for
the project, Patrick McGinn, a spokesman for Exxon’s exploration
unit, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “We remain interested in future opportunities in Brazil,”
McGinn said in the e-mail.  In the offering document, Exxon said an investor must fund
the drilling of one well in the prospect in exchange for the 25
percent stake. The site has already received drilling permits
from the Brazilian government, Exxon said. A data room is being
set up in Houston for prospective buyers.  “This opportunity should appeal to companies looking to
gain access to the significant pre-salt play in  Brazil ,” Exxon
said in the offering document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Houston at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren  at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  