-- 
Fed Isn’t Repeating Japan Error, Nomura’s Sheard Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-05T15:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/fed-not-repeating-japan-s-deflation-error-nomura-s-sheard-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. has avoided monetary policy
missteps that should prevent it from following  Japan  into a
deflationary spiral while Europeans haven’t been so adept,
according to Nomura Securities International’s Paul Sheard.  “Japan slipped into deflation and stayed there, and that
was due largely to policy error,” said Sheard, global chief
economist in  New York  at the unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt. “I don’t think those policy errors are being
repeated in the U.S., and I don’t see the U.S. falling into
deflation and into a long-term nominal stagnation.”  Efforts of the  Federal Reserve  to keep borrowing costs low
have helped stave off concern that the U.S. is starting to look
like Japan in the 1990s, when the  Bank of Japan  struggled to
revive the economy, said Sheard, whose firm is one of the 22
primary dealers that trade directly with the U.S. central bank.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a congressional committee
yesterday that policy makers stand ready to take additional
steps to boost U.S. growth and cautioned lawmakers against
budget moves that would harm a “sluggish” recovery.  The central bank announced Sept. 21 that it will replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries in an effort to support the economic recovery by
keeping borrowing costs low. The decision came after the Fed
purchased $2.3 trillion in debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing.  View on Europe  European policy makers haven’t done enough, and what they
have done has been slow in coming and hesitantly administered,
according to Sheard.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at
a parliamentary hearing in Brussels yesterday that the bank
isn’t in a position to assume governments’ responsibilities. The
ECB is scheduled to meet tomorrow.  Officials of the European Union are working on plans to
boost bank capital to contain the euro-region’s debt crisis,
Antonio Borges, the International Monetary Fund’s European
department head, said today in Brussels.  “Policy makers seem to be replicating the mistakes of
Japan in the sense that they are not acting quickly, they are
not acting boldly and they are not acting across all policy
margins they have,” said Sheard, a former chief economist for
 Asia  at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “Markets want policy
makers to do something quickly, but it’s very difficult for them
to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  