-- 
Fed Urges Banks Including Goldman Sachs to Control Risk Tied to Worker Pay

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T16:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/fed-urges-banks-including-goldman-sachs-to-improve-pay-risks.html
The Federal Reserve urged  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and 22 other
large banks to take additional measures to control employee-pay
practices that can put an entire company at risk.  All the banks have made progress based on guidance from
regulators, the Fed said today in  Washington  in a report based
on appraisals that began in late 2009. “Yet every firm also
needs to do more” in reforming compensation practices that
“were a contributing factor to the financial crisis,” policy
makers said.  The report didn’t single out any individual company. Most
of the banks should do more to account for the “full range of
risks” in employee pay, and some are still trying to identify
mid- and lower-level workers whose compensation arrangements
could generate excessive risks, the Fed said.  A June 2010 statement from the Fed and other U.S. agencies
said many big banks were “deficient” in curbing excessive
risk-taking that helped fuel the financial panic that began in
2007. The central bank didn’t repeat that word in today’s
report.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, last month discovered a
$2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading and New York-based
Goldman Sachs agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million in a
settlement after the Securities and Exchange Commission claimed
the bank misled investors about the way its investment bankers
put together a subprime mortgage security.  Vesting Policies  “Banking organizations in the horizontal review have made
progress in improving deferral practices, but many still have
work to do on performance conditions for vesting,” the Fed said
in the report.  The firms in the Fed review also included  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  New York ’s  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , as well as the U.S. operations of
Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS.  The report focused on several methods to control excessive
compensation and to “promote safety and soundness,” including
deferring pay for executives so that eventual cash payouts are
based on longer term results, and reducing pay of company
officials if they produce profits by creating large risks for
their firms.  More than 60 percent of the incentive pay of senior
executives at the 25 banks reviewed was deferred on average, and
some had more than 80 percent deferred, the Fed said.  ‘Imprudent Risks’  Prior to the credit crisis, firms that deferred some pay
typically didn’t cut the awards if there were ultimately bad
outcomes, according to the report. “Some employees were
provided incentives to take imprudent risks,” the Fed said.
Now, the deferred pay, typically for three to five years, can be
reduced later if there are poor results.  Most of the firms also have claw-back provisions on pay if
officials engage in malfeasance or if financial results must be
restated, according to the report.  The Fed also noted that, in a change from past practices,
risk-management employees are involved in designing compensation
arrangements.  “Yet every firm needs to do more,” the Fed said. “As
oversight of incentive compensation moves into the regular
supervisory process, the  Federal Reserve  will continue to work
to ensure progress continues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  