-- 
Glass Cube, Athens Cemetery on 2012 Monuments Watch List

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-10-05T17:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/fifth-avenue-glass-cube-athens-cemetery-on-monuments-fund-2012-watch-list.html
A Fifth Avenue Manhattan bank
building, an Athens cemetery and many areas in  Japan  damaged by
the March earthquake are among 67 sites around the world that
need to be preserved, the  World Monuments Fund  announced today.  The fund’s 2012 World Monuments Watch includes Charleston,
 South Carolina , which has seen a growth in tourism and cruise
ships “which obstruct views of the harbor and the town.” The
Fund also listed the centuries-old Palace of the Nanyue Kingdom
in  China  and the remains of the Cathedral Church of St. Michael
in Coventry,  England , which was bombed during World War II.  “The Watch List really does seem to move a few people to
sit down and focus on a problem to see how they can fix it,”
Monuments Fund President Bonnie Burnham said in an interview.
“Usually after a short period of time after the announcement,
the governments will come through with a commitment. Our Watch
List can be influential just in terms of creating priorities.”  The New York-based nonprofit, founded in 1965, has worked
to preserve 688 architectural and cultural sites in 132
countries, from the  New York Studio School of Drawing, Painting
and Sculpture , chosen today, to  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in  London .
The fund placed the nation of Iraq on its list four years ago.  The Fund also announced that American Express Foundation
has pledged $5 million to support the Monuments Fund’s mission
during the next 5 years. American Express has given more than
$12 million to the nonprofit since 1996, helping to fund the
conservation of more than 150 heritage sites around the world.  Revealing Bank  The 4-story glass-and-aluminum Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Co. building at 510 Fifth Avenue in  New York , a Modernist
structure designed by architect Gordon Bunshaft, is admired for
the facade’s transparency that reveals interiors. Completed in
1954 and regarded as an architectural trendsetter, it  received
city landmark status  in 1997. Preservationists have opposed
renovations to the doorways and escalators that the owner,
 Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , wants to make.  “This selection confirms that this is a globally
significant building,” Theodore Grunewald, founder of the ad
hoc group Coalition to Save Manufacturers Hanover Trust, said in
an interview. “It’s been the source of inspiration for more
than two generations of architects, designers and artists.”  Other sites listed in the U.S. are the  Orange County
Government Center  in Goshen, New York;  Manitoga /the Russel
Wright Design Center in Garrison, New York; and the  Walpi
Village , a scenic Navajo Indian enclave in Arizona that has been
inhabited for more than 1,000 years.  ‘Stewards of the Earth’  “The Watch reminds us of our collective role as stewards
of the earth and of its human heritage,” Burnham said.  The sites that made the list represent 41 countries and
territories. They include the First Cemetery of  Athens ,  Greece ;
Vietnam’s floating fishing villages along Ha Long Bay, known for
its “spectacular natural as well as its cultural
significance”; the Haydarpasa Railway Station in Istanbul; and
the historic center of Salvador de Bahia in  Brazil .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 