-- 
Finra Backs Bachus Bill on Regulating Advisers: Luparello

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-10-05T20:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/finra-backs-bachus-bill-on-regulating-investment-advisers-luparello-says.html
Legislation authorizing one or more
self-regulatory organizations to oversee registered investment
advisers is “directionally, exactly what we want,” said
Stephen Luparello, vice chairman of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  “As we look at it now, I don’t think there’s anything in
there that would compromise us or any other organization that
wanted to step up and be an SRO,” said Luparello of a draft
bill circulated by Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama
Republican, at a Financial Services Institute Inc. conference in
 Washington  today.  Much of the costs of assuming oversight of investment
advisers as a self regulator are already embedded in Finra’s
infrastructure, according to Luparello, who oversees regulatory
operations for Finra, which is funded by the brokers it
regulates.  His comments came as Congress is considering whether to
name a self regulator for registered investment advisers.
 Richard Ketchum , chairman and chief executive officer of Finra,
told a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee
Sept. 13 that his group was “uniquely positioned” to handle
the job.  Bachus, who leads the full committee, proposed draft
legislation last month that would charge one or more self-
regulatory groups, under the authority of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, with overseeing registered investment
advisers. The proposal didn’t specify whether the self regulator
should be Finra or another group.  SEC Report  The SEC released a  report  in January recommending three
options for enhancing oversight of registered investment
advisers including levying user fees on advisers to fund
examinations by the SEC, authorizing a self-regulatory
organization to oversee the industry and giving Finra authority
to examine advisers that are also registered as broker-dealers.  Ketchum told lawmakers that Finra would create a separate
unit with separate governance to oversee registered investment
advisers if that’s what Congress decides.  “Self regulation is by definition suspect because it’s the
industry regulating itself,” said David Tittsworth, executive
director of the Investment Adviser Association, which represents
SEC-registered investment advisers. “The SEC is fully
accountable to Congress and to the public.”  Necessary Experience  Finra has the necessary experience, resources and track
record to oversee investment advisers, William Dwyer, chairman
of the Financial Services Institute and president of national
sales and marketing for Boston-based LPL Investment Holdings
Inc., said in a written testimony to the Capital Markets
Subcommittee on Sept. 13. The Financial Services Institute is a
membership and lobbying group for independent broker-dealer
firms.  The draft legislation from Bachus is “an overreaching
solution to inadequate SEC funding,” Jack Herstein, president
of the  North American Securities Administrators Association ,
said to the conference yesterday. His group, which represents
state securities regulators, “vigorously” opposes a self-
regulatory organization that would oversee state-registered
investment advisers, he said.  “If the goal is investor protection, then the shortest
distance to that goal is to ensure the SEC is adequately
funded,” he said. “We see little benefit in constructing a new
layer of bureaucracy.”  Cultural Clash  There would be a cultural clash if Finra were to regulate
investment advisers because the group’s oversight of brokers
tends to focus on standards around products, said Knut Rostad,
president of the Institute for the Fiduciary Standard, a group
of financial professionals that advocates for a standard to apply
to all those who provide investment advice.  “When you look at what brokers must be most attuned to in
the trenches, it’s all revolving around the distribution, the
communication about and the advertising about the product, as
opposed to the overriding focus of the SEC with advisers, which
is focused on putting investors’ interests first,” Rostad said.  Finra would tailor its oversight to the  investment-adviser 
business if it became the industry’s self regulator, Luparello
said.  “We would not force broker-dealer requirements on
investment advisers,” he said.  The group may set up a separate affiliate with a board of
public representatives and members of the adviser industry if it
became the regulator for investment advisers, Luparello said.  Adviser Examinations  There were about 11,888 federally registered investment
adviser firms managing about $38.3 trillion in 2010, according
to the January SEC report. The number of advisers has increased
by about 39 percent from 2004 when there were 8,581 advisers
managing about $24.1 trillion. Registered investment adviser
firms provide advice to investors including individuals and
institutions.  The average registered investment adviser is reviewed by
the SEC less than once every 11 years given the current rate of
examinations, according to the report. Finra and the SEC examine
about 55 percent of broker-dealers each year by contrast,
Luparello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 