-- 
Former Gartmore Trader Rambourg Said to Start Paris Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-10-05T09:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/former-gartmore-trader-rambourg-said-to-start-paris-hedge-fund.html
Guillaume Rambourg, the former
 Gartmore Group Ltd. (GRT)  money manager who quit last year amid a
regulatory probe, will start a Paris-based hedge fund, said
three people familiar with the matter.  Rambourg’s Verrazzano Capital will trade stocks, as he did
at London-based Gartmore, said the people, who declined to be
identified because his plans are private. Rambourg has hired
Karim Moussalem, who was previously head of the Delta One
trading unit for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  Europe , the people
said.  A probe by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority into
whether Rambourg had improperly directed buy and sell orders to
favored brokers ended seven months ago, without any disciplinary
action being taken against the trader. Rambourg had earlier been
suspended by Gartmore, setting off investor withdrawals and the
eventual sale of the firm to  Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  for 391 million
pounds ($604.6 million).  A spokesman for Rambourg declined to comment. Financial
News in July reported Rambourg’s plans to start a Paris-based
hedge fund and his hiring of Moussalem, whose Goldman Sachs unit
handled the firm’s cash-trading and derivatives-flow business.  Verrazzano Capital has hired 15 employees, including Tomas Pinto, a former Gartmore senior analyst, said the people. The
firm plans to start marketing to investors this year and will
start trading in 2012.  The day Gartmore suspended Rambourg in March 2010, its
shares plunged 31 percent. He returned to Gartmore a month later
as an investment analyst, only to quit after the FSA announced
it had opened an investigation into his actions. He managed 8.1
billion pounds, or more than a third of Gartmore’s assets at the
time, with Roger Guy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  