-- 
Friendly Ice Cream Chain Files for Bankruptcy After 76 Years

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-06T01:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/friendly-ice-cream-chain-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-after-76-years.html
Friendly Ice Cream Corp., the 76-
year-old restaurant chain known for its ice cream and burgers,
sought  bankruptcy protection  from creditors four years after
being bought by private-equity firm Sun Capital Partners Inc.  The company, which opened at the height of the Great
Depression with one shop in Springfield,  Massachusetts , plans to
sell itself at an auction with a Sun Capital affiliate as the
lead bidder, according to papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The sale will “quickly restructure the company” and allow
it “emerge stronger and more competitive,” Friendly said in a
statement. Friendly attributed the bankruptcy partly to “the
challenges of the current economic downturn,” rising costs for
commodities such as cream, and above-market rents.  The company requested court permission to hold a Dec. 1
auction, followed by a Dec. 5 hearing to approve the sale. Under
the proposed timeline, all bids must be submitted by Nov. 24.
Potential buyers would have to offer at least $122.6 million in
cash to qualify for the auction.  The Sun Capital affiliate is bidding about $120 million,
including cash to pay secured lenders and an amount for
unsecured creditors. Second-lien noteholders, majority-owned by
Sun Capital affiliates, will bid debt owed on $267.7 million in
notes.  Closed Restaurants  The restaurant company, commonly known as “Friendly’s,”
closed 63 sites as part of the filing. Another 424 locations
will stay open, Friendly said. The Wilbraham, Massachusetts-
based company has franchising operations and makes ice cream
products for supermarkets and retailers throughout the U.S.  Debt is about $297 million and assets are valued at more
than $100 million, according to court documents. First-lien
lenders are owed about $21.5 million. Revenue for the year’s
first eight months was $329.7 million, court papers showed.  The 20 largest unsecured creditors include Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp. as the trustee for unsecured noteholders with a
claim of $7.8 million; FM Facility Maintenance LLC, with a claim
of $3.49 million; and KSL Media Inc., with a claim of $3.36
million.  DIP Loan  Friendly will seek court approval at a hearing tomorrow to
borrow about $50.6 million to help fund operations while it
restructures, company lawyer Laura Davis Jones said in an e-
mail. Sun Capital affiliates are offering about $71.3 million in
so-called debtor-in-possession financing.  Friendly’s shares were publicly traded from 1968 until
1979, when it was bought by Hershey Foods Corp., which
introduced the candymaker’s products into its sundaes as
toppings. In 1988, the company was bought by Donald N. Smith,
who launched the Cyclone soft-serve dessert and renamed the
chain “Friendly’s” in 1989.  The company went public again in 1997 at $18 a share and
was bought by Sun Capital in 2007 for about $395 million, or
$15.50 a share.  The chain joins other restaurants that have filed for
bankruptcy in the past three years amid an economic slump,
including Perkins & Marie Callender’s, operator of full-service
restaurants; Sbarro Inc., operator of more than 1,000 pizza
restaurants; and Bennigan’s and Steak & Ale, both owned by
Metromedia Restaurant Group.  Sun Capital  The Souper Salad and Grandy’s brands, owned by affiliates
of Summit Investment Management Inc. and Sun Capital, filed for
Chapter 11 in September.  Sun Capital, based in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , owns other
restaurant operators including Boston Market, Captain D’s
Seafood Kitchen, Fazoli’s Restaurants, Smokey Bones Bar & Fire
Grill and Real Mex Restaurants, according to its website. Real
Mex and affiliates Chevys, El Torito and Acapulco filed for
bankruptcy yesterday in the Delaware court.  The case is In re Friendly Ice Cream Corp., U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington), 11-13167.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 