-- 
FSA Proposes Tougher Liquidity Rules for Clearinghouses

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-10-05T16:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/fsa-proposes-tougher-capital-liquidity-rules-for-clearinghouses.html
The U.K.  Financial Services Authority 
proposed tougher capital and liquidity rules for clearinghouses
the day after a European Union agreement on measures to force
more derivative trades through central counterparties.  Clearinghouses should have a liquidity buffer as part of
their capital reserves to meet sudden short-term needs for cash,
the FSA said in a report  on its website today . Central
counterparties, which backstop derivative trades between two
parties, should also carry out stress tests to determine how
much capital they would need to hold in times of crisis.  “We will consider whether a stress-testing plan provides
for an appropriate range of adverse scenarios that adequately
reflects the recognized body’s exposure to financial shocks,
given its over-arching risk profile,” the FSA said.  EU finance ministers reached an agreement yesterday on
rules to improve transparency in trading of over-the-counter
derivatives. The Financial Stability Board has said
clearinghouses should in turn face  tougher regulation s because a
crisis at one of them could threaten the global financial
system. The final version of the EU law will need to be
completed in negotiations with the European Parliament.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Systemic Risk  Yesterday’s deal would cover a broad swath of over-the-
counter derivatives, which the EU estimates includes 90 percent
of all derivatives trades. Derivatives that don’t meet that
definition -- and which aren’t covered by specific exemptions --
will face a central clearing requirement in future legislation.  “It’s clear that the potential  systemic risk  due to
concentration through central counterparties and clearinghouses
is of concern to regulators,” James Babicz, head of risk at
business analytics firm SAS U.K., said in an e-mailed statement.
“What is unclear is how this will be adequately addressed.”  The increasingly important role central counterparties have
to play in the global financial system means that “it is
appropriate that the financial standards recognized bodies have
to meet should be set conservatively,” the FSA said in the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  