-- 
Garanti Gives Up Loan Growth Limit as Turkey Eases Curbs, Profit Declines

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-06T15:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/garanti-bank-gives-up-loan-growth-limit-as-turkey-eases-curbs-sezgin-says.html
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s
biggest listed bank, is abandoning efforts to stem loan growth
that cut third-quarter profit as authorities signaled a
reluctance to enforce curbs, said Mehmet Sezgin, general manager
of the credit card unit.  Garanti’s third-quarter net income was lower than the
previous three months and will recover as lending growth
persists, he said. Economy Minister Ali Babacan said June 7 that
banks could be penalized for boosting loans by more than 25
percent a year as the government sought to ease inflation and
stem credit-fueled demand for imported goods. Babacan said Sept.
13 the administration would no longer enforce the limit for
individual banks as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens growth.  The past three months were “the quarter when everyone took
25 percent seriously,” Sezgin said in an interview at Garanti’s
headquarters in Istanbul. Babacan’s latest remarks suggest the
limit no longer is required, he said.  Loan growth for Garanti may exceed 25 percent this year,
and the bank may expand credit about 23 percent next year even
as growth in the economy slows, Sezgin said.  Turkey ’s economy
expanded by 8.8 percent in the second quarter, following 11.6
percent growth in the first, faster than China. The ratio of
outstanding loans as a proportion of gross domestic product is
33 percent in Turkey compared with 29 percent in  Brazil ,
according to International Monetary Fund data.  ‘Balance’  “Every emerging market is trying to find a balance between
not overheating and at the same time continuing to grow,”
Sezgin said.  Garanti reported net income of 919.9 million liras ($492
million) in the second quarter and 855.2 million liras in the
first. Third-quarter earnings are due next month.  The bank’s shares fell 1.5 percent to 6.66 liras at the
5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. The shares have fallen 17 percent
this year, more than the benchmark  ISE National 100 index (XU100) ’s 14
percent decline.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added Garanti to its “focus sell
list” yesterday, saying the stock’s gain last month was based
on optimistic macroeconomic assumptions that don’t account for a
“relatively high probability” of a recession.  Central bank governor Erdem Basci, concerned that record
economic growth and low  interest rates  may further swell the
current-account deficit and fuel inflation, has raised banks’
reserve requirements for lira deposits six times since September
2010 to help curb loans, with the most recent move coming in
April. Inflation was 6.2 percent last month compared with a
four-decade low of 4 percent in March.  Lending Surge  Turkish lending accelerated to an annual 38 percent in the
week to Sept. 23, according to data from the Ankara-based
banking regulator, raising concern that the borrowing will
continue to fuel imports. The current-account reached a record
$74.6 billion deficit in July, equivalent to about 10 percent of
gross domestic product.  Consumer loans at Turkish banks have increased 23 percent
over last year’s figure in the year to Sept. 16, driven by a 31
percent increase in general purpose personal loans, central bank
data showed. That compares with a 33 percent increase in 2010,
including a 42 percent increase in general purpose loans.  Garanti’s year-to-date loan growth in 2011 is in line with
industry averages at 23 percent, while consumer loan expansion
is lower at 19 percent, according to Sinem Ozonur, a vice
president in charge of  investor relations .  State-Run Banks  “We always go for the mid-20s for both loans and deposits,
and we expect to meet that target next year,” Sezgin said.
State-run banks including TC Ziraat Bankasi AS, the country’s
largest bank by assets, have extended lending faster this year
than non-government banks, and the trend is expected to reverse
next year, he said.  The Turkish banking industry is healthy and “I don’t see a
danger of loan defaults going up,” Sezgin said. “Actually
defaults have been going down since 2008.”  Industry-wide non-performing loan rates are 2 percent on
consumer loans and 6.7 percent on credit cards, nearly half the
total default rate in 2009, with Garanti’s figures lower than
average, Sezgin said.  Defaults  Renaissance Capital , the broker half-owned by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , forecast the value of non-
performing loans in Turkey will increase 73 percent next year to
comprise 4.1 percent of total loans, according to a report e-
mailed to clients today. The biggest rate of default was
foreseen in  car loans , at 8.1 percent, followed by credit cards
at 8 percent, according to the report.  Borrowing in Turkey is low as a percentage of household net
worth compared with other markets, and “it’s normal for people
to go out and spend money,” Sezgin said.  The ratio of outstanding loans as a proportion of gross
domestic product is 46 percent in the U.S., 56 percent in  France 
and 108 percent in  China , about three times higher than Turkey’s
33 percent, according to data from the IMF’s  Financial Access
Survey .  Expansion in general purpose consumer loans is likely to
continue to grow as Turks use the lower-cost borrowing to pay
off credit card debt that’s more expensive to service, Sezgin
said.  The Turkish economy will probably expand around 4 percent
next year, according to Garanti Bank. “If Turkey grows in real
terms, we won’t have increased non-performing loan rates,”
Sezgin said. Garanti Yatirim, the bank’s broker, cut its 2012
growth forecast to 1.5 percent yesterday from 4 percent.  The IMF predicts Turkey’s economy will grow 2.5 percent
next year, down from a 7.5 percent forecast for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  