-- 
Geithner: Europe Has Been Moving ‘Too Slowly’

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 
2011-10-05T22:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/geithner-europe-has-been-moving-too-slowly-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that  Europe  has been moving “too slowly”
in dealing with its financial crisis, and that the U.S.
government has been forceful and aggressive in communicating its
views to European leaders.  “They recognize they’ve been behind the curve of this,
that they’re moving too slowly,” Geithner said at the
Washington Ideas Forum at the Newseum. “They’re moving not as
fast as markets move in today’s environment, and they have to do
more to build more confidence that they are going to act to hold
this thing together.”  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to accept bigger losses as part of
a Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues. Moody’s
Investors Service late yesterday followed its three-level
downgrade of  Italy  by warning that euro-area nations rated below
the top Aaa level may see their rankings cut.  Geithner said Europe has the financial resources to deal
with its sovereign debt crisis and the question is one of moving
“more quickly and more forcefully,” which he expects Europe to
do. Geithner is scheduled to take part in a meeting of Group of
20 nations finance ministers and central bankers on Oct. 14-15
in Paris.  Europe, U.S.  Geithner said Europe requested U.S support through the
 International Monetary Fund  and by means of Federal Reserve swap
lines with the  European Central Bank .  “We will have some views about what makes sense in that
context and we have been very forceful and aggressive in
communicating those views, but my experience has largely been
they welcome the support for giving and they welcome the advice
while they like to remind people that the U.S. has a lot of
challenges to do, too,” Geithner said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that Europe’s rescue
fund will only be used as a last resort to save banks and that
investors may have to take deeper losses as part of a Greek
rescue.  Domestically, Geithner said the U.S. caused an “enormous
damage to our credibility in the world in allowing a financial
system to get to the point where it did.”  He urged Congress to act on President Barack Obama’s $447
billion American Jobs Act proposal.  “If Congress does not act then growth will be weaker here
and with growth weaker we will be vulnerable to other things
happening that are beyond our control,” Geithner said. “You
can think about this as protection from the challenges we’re
facing, seeing Europe grapple with.”  Jobs Plan  Obama unveiled his jobs plan Sept. 8 in an address to a
joint session of Congress. It would extend and expand a  payroll
tax  that expires at the end of this year, increase
infrastructure spending, offer more aid to cash-strapped state
governments and extend jobless benefits.  Geithner said today that bankers “resent the huge amount
of anger they’ve been subjected” to and would like the
government to heal the public’s confidence in them.  “They react to what is pretty modest, common sense
observations about the system as if they are deep affronts to
the dignity of their profession. And I don’t understand why they
are so sensitive,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  