-- 
German Life Insurers Remain Stable Amid Crisis, Fitch Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-10-05T11:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/german-life-insurers-remain-stable-amid-crisis-fitch-says-1-.html
The outlook for German life insurers,
including units of  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Munich Re , remains stable as
conservative investment strategies mean that risks related to
the debt crisis could be “digested,” Fitch Ratings said.  “German life insurers’ investment portfolios are well
balanced and able to generate sufficient investment yield to
meet the guarantees of existing life insurance portfolios,”
Fitch analyst Stephan Kalb said in  Frankfurt  today. “There are
also additional sources of income that can be drawn.”  Low  interest rates  and volatile capital markets are “the
main challenges” for companies such as Talanx AG, Munich Re’s
Ergo Versicherungsgruppe and Allianz,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
the ratings firm said. Pressure from low interest rates is
partly offset by reduced risks in the industry’s investment
portfolios and earnings from underwriting, Fitch said.  “Balance sheets today are stronger than before the
beginning of the financial crisis,” Chris Waterman, head of
EMEA insurance ratings at  Fitch Ratings , said at the briefing.  As German life insurers have a “small direct exposure” to
peripheral euro zone sovereign bonds, “even larger losses in
their market values could be digested,” Kalb said. The impact
of low yields on German  government bonds  is limited as they only
represent about 13 percent of industry investments, he said.  Insurance Returns  The yield gap between Italian and German 10-year bonds
widened today as rival ratings firm Moody’s Investors Service
lowered  Italy ’s grade by three levels to A2 from Aa2.  German life insurers are likely to be able to pay customers
guaranteed returns even as their earnings are eroded by low
interest rates,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week. S&P estimates
an average investment return of 3.5 percent to 4 percent for
German primary insurers this year, compared with an average
return guarantee for life insurance customers of about 3.1
percent.  Germany  is Europe’s third-biggest insurance market by
premium income behind the U.K. and  France , according to
 statistics  by Brussels-based  CEA , the European insurance and
reinsurance federation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  