-- 
Italian Bonds Decline After Moody’s Cuts Debt Rating; German Bunds Drop

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/german-10-year-bunds-decline-as-european-stock-futures-advance.html
Italy ’s bonds fell after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating by three levels
and said it may lower those of other European countries with
debt rankings below its top level.  Ten-year Italian yields climbed from near a two-week low
even as the  European Central Bank  was said to buy the country’s
government securities along with Spanish debt. German 10-year
bonds fell for the first time in four days as European stocks
rallied, damping demand for safer assets.  Belgium ’s bonds fell
as euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank in
September, adding to signs of a deepening economic slowdown.  “The Italian downgrade was probably anticipated by many
people but three notches in one go is quite punchy,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London .
“We’ve had some fairly disappointing data, it’s probably
helping push spreads a little bit wider,” he said, referring to
the yield difference between 10-year euro-region securities and
German bunds.  Italian 10-year yields rose three basis points to 5.53
percent at 4:16 p.m. in London after falling to 5.48 percent on
Oct. 3, the lowest level since Sept. 16. The 4.75 percent
security due September 2021 dropped 0.235, or 2.35 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,335) face amount, to 94.670. Two-year rates were
little changed at 4.24 percent.  Italian Spread  The spread between 10-year Italian and German bonds
narrowed eight basis points to 369 basis points, after earlier
widening to 384 basis points.  Moody’s said yesterday it cut Italy’s rating on concern
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government will struggle to
reduce the region’s second-biggest debt pile.  All European nations with ratings below the Aaa level may
face downgrades as governments face “a profound loss” in
investor confidence due to the failure of policy makers to stop
the debt crisis spreading, Moody’s said.  The potential for further downgrades “is worse news than
the actual downgrade of Italy,” said Norbert Aul, a European
interest-rate strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.
“Spain will be in the focus being on review for a downgrade by
Moody’s. Two-thirds of Moody’s rationale for downgrading Italy
can be applied to Spain as well.”  That may mean a cut of “two notches” for  Spain , Aul said.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s 10-year bond yields were little changed at 5.09
percent, after rising four basis points to 5.14 percent. Two-
year notes yielded 3.49 percent.  The yield on Belgium’s 10-year bond increased 17 basis
points to 4 percent after reaching 4.02 percent, the highest
since Sept. 15.  Belgium has the second-highest rating at S&P, Moody’s and
 Fitch Ratings . S&P said June 14 there’s a one-in-three chance it
will cut Belgium’s ranking within two years. Belgian Prime
Minister  Yves Leterme  said yesterday that Dexia SA, the
country’s biggest bank, plans to pool its troubled assets into a
“bad bank” with guarantees from the French and Belgian
governments.  Bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal , and bond
purchases by the ECB haven’t kept the debt crisis from
threatening to engulf Italy and Spain. The ECB began buying
Spanish and Italian securities on Aug. 8 to curb a surge in
yields in the bonds of the two economies, according to traders
who deal with the central bank.  The Frankfurt-based central bank bought Italian securities
today, according to five people with knowledge of the
transactions who asked not to be identified because the trades
are confidential, and also purchased Spanish debt. A spokeswoman
for the ECB declined to comment.  Bunds Slide  Germany’s 10-year yields fell 1.14 percentage points last
quarter as the debt crisis intensified and data added to
speculation the economy is slipping back into recession.  The 10-year bund yield climbed 11 basis points to 1.84
percent, after dropping to a record 1.636 percent on Sept. 23.
Two-year yields rose four basis points to 0.50 percent.  The Europe Stoxx 600 Index gained 2.5 percent. European
Union authorities are working on a plan to recapitalize the
banking sector, said Antonio Borges, European department head at
the  International Monetary Fund .  Germany  sold 4 billion euros of two-year notes today at a
0.46 percent, the lowest yield at an auction of the securities
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1996. Investors
submitted bids for 7.8 billion euros. The previous time Germany
auctioned two-year notes, on Sept. 14, it sold 4.1 billion euros
of the securities at an average yield of 0.51 percent.  Economic Slowdown  Markit Economics said today its composite index based on a
survey of purchasing managers in services and manufacturing fell
to 49.1 in September from 50.7 in the previous month. That’s
less than an initial estimate of 49.2 published on Sept. 22.
Another report showed retail sales in the 17-nation euro region
declined in August.  The ECB is forecast to leave its benchmark rate at 1.50
percent at a meeting tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey
of 52 economists. Five predicted the central bank will cut
borrowing costs to 1.25 percent and six say it will slash the
rate to 1 percent, the survey shows.  German  government bonds  have returned 8.7 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Italian bonds
have lost 2.6 percent and Spain’s rose 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  