-- 
Google’s $700 Million Purchase of ITA Software Is Cleared by U.S. Judge

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-05T20:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/google-s-700-million-purchase-of-ita-software-approved-by-federal-judge.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $700 million purchase
of travel-information company  ITA Software Inc.  was cleared by a
federal judge after the search-engine company agreed to
conditions imposed by the U.S. government.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in Washington today
approved a consent decree between Google and the Justice
Department that allows the acquisition as long as Google makes
travel data available to search-engine rivals and lets the
government review any complaints it’s acting unfairly. Wilkins
said he found the agreement to be in “the public interest.”  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine,
agreed to license ITA’s travel-information software to third
parties, to put up firewalls protecting client data and to
establish an arbitration process for fee disputes. The  Justice
Department  and Google reached the consent decree in April after
an eight-month review.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Kayak.com,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and other Google
competitors banded together as FairSearch.org to oppose the
acquisition of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based ITA, whose
software provides data for online travel sites such as Orbitz
Worldwide Inc. They said the deal would reduce competition and
called on the Justice Department to impose conditions.  “We’re excited about the new features and tools we’re
already developing for our users with ITA Software,” Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-based
Google, said in an e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Google, 11-cv-00688, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 