-- 
Michael Lewis Slams Wall Street, Leadership Deficit: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/michael-lewis-slams-wall-street-leadership-deficit-interview.html
Michael Lewis ’s “Boomerang: Travels
in the New Third World” begins with Kyle Bass, a Texas hedge
fund manager who’s buying guns and gold bricks.  Bass is also betting against European governments.  Following on last year’s “The Big Short: Inside the
Doomsday Machine,” Lewis’s exploration of the subprime mortgage
debacle, “Boomerang” is a collection of articles Lewis wrote
about his adventures in  Iceland ,  Greece , Ireland and Germany,
with a bonus look at the parlous state of  California .  Films based on his books, like “Moneyball” and “The
Blind Side,” have brought Lewis wider success. “Liar’s
Poker,” about his short-lived Wall Street career, may finally
start shooting. He has a couple of television series
in the works and is a columnist for Bloomberg View.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: You’re writing the script for “ Liar’s Poker .”
Who should play you? John Gutfreund?  Lewis: Jonah Hill, after he gains some weight. I’d like to
see  Jeff Bridges  play John Gutfreund.  Lundborg: You’re clearly on a roll, so what are you doing
with all that money?  Lewis: I’m always cautious, so I’m not a barometer of the
times. I always have about 40-50 percent in the stock market,
and it’s all in large-cap, high-dividend-paying battleship
companies that can withstand recession.  Dog Food  Lundborg: So you aren’t buying guns and gold like Kyle
Bass?  Lewis: The difference between me and Kyle Bass is that I
just assume if it gets to that point, I’m dog food. He thinks he
can defend his gold.  Lundborg: Where’s the smart money now?  Lewis: It’s impossible to predict what the markets are
going to do, but if you’re asking me what smart people are
doing, they have been for some time in metals, very risk-averse,
out of debt entirely.  They make a persuasive case that we’re living in very
perilous times.  Lundborg: What do you think of the Occupy  Wall Street 
protesters?  Lewis: They’re right to be angry, but they have to figure
out what they want if they’re going to have any effect. If there
were specific demands, it would start to get very interesting.  Lundborg: Has Wall Street changed since the meltdown?  Big Is Bigger  Lewis: The changes have been incremental. I would have
radically restructured the financial industry, nationalized the
banks. I just assume there were really good reasons I don’t
understand that prevented the Obama administration from doing
it.  Lundborg: Like Summers and Geithner?  Lewis: They had their reasons. But some of the changes have
been disturbing. The big have gotten even bigger, so there’s
even more of an advantage being Citigroup or Goldman Sachs or
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , when it should be less of an advantage.  Pay has changed -- more pay is in the form of restricted
stock. There is a real attempt to try to orient interests toward
the longer term rather than the short term.  Lundborg: What’s the worst thing you’ve been seeing?  Lewis:  The way the big firms meddled in the legislation to
reform the financial industry after the crisis drives me batty.  I don’t think they should have had any place at that table,
and they manipulated the legislation in ways that are not good
for the rest of us.  There doesn’t seem to be any remoralization of the
financial industry.  Risk Taking  Lundborg: Have the incentives changed?  Lewis: They’re better in the pay area, but they’re worse in
the sense that now their deposits are explicitly government-
guaranteed and they can still engage in hedge-fund-like
activities.  There’s not enough of a market check on their risk-taking.
It’s still unclear 3 years later if the Volcker rule will
actually be implemented or gutted. It feels like it will be
gutted.  Lundborg: You point out the paradox that the Germans
essentially run  Europe  now. And yet the worst toxic deals could
be sold to the “stupid Germans in Dusseldorf.”  How do you explain it?  Lewis: The Germans have the advantage that their people,
not their financiers, behaved very well in the face of
temptation, and the people are outraged at what’s going on.  Financial questions are now political questions. I know
hedge fund managers who have pollsters running around  Germany 
trying to figure out public opinion and how it’s going to
change.  Who’s in Charge?  Lundborg: Figures like Roosevelt, Churchill, Hitler and
Stalin dominated history in the last century in a way that Obama
and Merkel don’t, so are financiers now running the world?  Lewis: Nobody’s running the world, that’s the scary thing.
There’s been a massive decline in authority, and in moments of
crisis it’s very unnerving to realize no one’s in charge.  Lundborg: In the piece on California, you say they have a
system that delivers “maximum contempt for elected officials.”  Lewis: Here you have extreme democracy where the people
vote by initiative on all important fiscal matters, and then
they complain about what it generates.  What they want is services without paying for them, so it’s
a problem of public morals.  Killing Parasites  Lundborg: You say that when confronted with a dark room
filled with money, Americans grabbed as much as we could.  Lewis: The common theme between public employee unions,
say, and Wall Street bankers is an excessive focus on the short
term and a weird blindness about the long term.  It’s unsustainable behavior, parasites everywhere killing
their hosts.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 