-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Be Nowhere Close to Making a Bid for Web Portal Yahoo

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s ,   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-05T22:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/microsoft-said-nowhere-close-to-yahoo-bid.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  isn’t anywhere close
to making an offer for Yahoo! Inc. and senior executives of the
software maker aren’t involved in discussions, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Microsoft does plan to review Yahoo’s financial
information, due to be circulated as soon as this week, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. Yahoo doesn’t regard Microsoft as a
serious bidder, said a person familiar with Yahoo’s thinking.  Yahoo shares surged 10 percent today after Reuters reported
that Microsoft may make an offer. Yahoo is fielding inquiries
from potential buyers after ousting Chief Executive Office  Carol Bartz  and starting a review of its strategic options last month.
Yahoo rose $1.46 to $15.92 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading, the biggest gain since October 2008.  Yahoo turned down a $47.5 billion offer from Microsoft in
2008, rankling investors. The two companies later forged a 10-
year agreement to outsource Yahoo’s search engine to Microsoft,
diminishing the chance of a full acquisition. Since then, Yahoo
has struggled to invigorate sales growth and beat back
competition from Facebook Inc. and Google Inc.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman at Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, and Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, declined to comment.  ‘Multiple Parties’  Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal, said in a September
memo to employees that its advisers have fielded inquiries from
“multiple parties” interested in unspecified options. Last
week, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma said he’s
“very interested” in buying Yahoo, which owns about 40 percent
of his company.  The private-equity firm  Silver Lake  also has discussed a
possible bid for Yahoo, part of a deal that may include Alibaba
and  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies, people with direct
knowledge of the matter have told Bloomberg.  The Silver Lake group contacted Yahoo and its advisers in
recent weeks to inform them of a possible offer, said one
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The discussions are still at an early stage and it’s
not certain that the group will agree to make a bid, the people
said.  Before Yahoo’s stock surge today, the shares had declined
13 percent this year.  Editors: Tom Giles, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  