-- 
Microsoft Will Offer TV Service on Xbox Through Verizon, Comcast Agreement

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-10-05T22:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/microsoft-teams-up-with-verizon-to-offer-xbox-live-tv-service.html
Microsoft Corp.  will offer television
service to  Xbox Live  users through a partnership with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , a bid to use TV
programming to attract more customers to its game console.  The Xbox service will offer content from almost 40
television and entertainment companies, Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft said today in a statement. In addition to
Verizon and Comcast, the partners include AT&T Inc., Time Warner
Inc.’s HBO, Sony Corp.’s Crackle and the BBC.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer wants to lure more
families and casual gamers to the Xbox by making it an
entertainment center, challenging TV services from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Today’s announcement furthers a move started in
2008, when Microsoft added Netflix Inc.’s video streaming and
the music service Last.fm.  “The vision of the Xbox back in 2001 was that it would be
an entertainment hub,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles . “Until they launched Netflix
on Xbox Live, it really wasn’t that. Today we go from Netflix
and Last.fm to 40 vendors.”  Microsoft rose 55 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $25.89 today on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 7.2 percent
this year.  Network Stations  The Xbox, first released a decade ago, accounted for 48
percent of all current-generation consoles in the U.S. between
2005 and June of this year, according to Microsoft data. Xbox
Live, an Internet service with free and paid versions, already
has more than 35 million members.  Microsoft didn’t announce any deals with U.S. network TV
stations, though Comcast and other partners are “quite likely”
to add that kind of content in the future, said Ross Honey,
general manager of content acquisition for Microsoft’s
Interactive Entertainment business. Some network TV content can
already be viewed on Xbox using the Hulu LLC service.  Other partners announced today include  Lovefilm  in the
U.K., a subsidiary of Amazon.com Inc.;  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) ;
and  Mexico ’s Grupo Televisa SA.  Microsoft also plans an application for its Windows Phone
mobile software that will turn phones into an enhanced remote
control for the Xbox service. Users will be able to search for
programs and then set them to play on the Xbox, as well as view
additional information about the program, Honey said.  Apple, Google  The company intends to offer apps that work with the Xbox
TV service for Apple’s iOS software as well, Pachter said,
citing a Microsoft analyst briefing yesterday. Honey declined to
comment on those plans, except to say that Microsoft has been
expanding some products to both iOS and Google’s Android.  Some programming will require customers to be subscribers
to Microsoft’s Xbox Live pay service. Other content, such as the
 BBC  and other public television, will work with the free version
of Xbox Live, Honey said.  Customers won’t have to know which channel or provider
offers the show or movie they want. Instead they can say or type
the name of the program and Xbox’s Bing search service will
return all options for viewing it, including ones the customer
doesn’t currently subscribe to, Honey said.  TV service efforts by companies such as Apple and Google
have gotten little traction with customers. Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has said that his company’s Apple TV
product remains “a hobby business.” In April, Logitech
International SA cut the price of its Google TV device, citing
slow initial sales.  Microsoft has some advantages over those companies, Pachter
said. It already has a big presence in customers’ living rooms:
A total of 55 million Xbox 360 machines have been sold
worldwide. The company also can draw on its search engine, its
Kinect motion-and-voice sensor technology and the new content
agreements.  “Each of those guys has a strength, but nobody has
hardware already in the living room, with voice command that
works,’” he said. “Microsoft has a big advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  