-- 
Tiger Woods Wears Rolex in His First Major Sponsorship Deal After Scandal

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T17:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/tiger-woods-wears-rolex-in-first-major-sponsorship-post-scandal.html
Tiger Woods  agreed to endorse luxury
watchmaker Rolex Group, his first major sponsorship deal since
the scandal that followed the car crash in November 2009 that
led to his admission of marital infidelity and divorce.  Terms of the golfer’s contract weren’t disclosed in a
 statement  on Geneva-based Rolex’s website.  An e-mail seeking comment from Mark Steinberg, Woods’s
agent, wasn’t immediately returned.  TAG Heuer, the Swiss watchmaker owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , ended its endorsement agreement with Woods
when their contract expired in July.  In the previous 19 months, Woods lost endorsement deals
with companies including  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and PepsiCo
Inc.’s Gatorade brand. The 14-time major champion has maintained
commercial contracts with  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ,  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Upper
Deck, Berkshire Hathaway’s NetJets Inc., and TLC Vision Corp. He
began promoting a muscle-relief heat rub made by Japan-based
Kowa Co. in June.  Woods, 35, this week dropped out of the top 50 in the
Official World Golf Rankings for the first time since October
1996. He hasn’t won a tournament since the 2009 Australian
Masters, a week before he crashed his car near his home in
Florida. He was alone in the vehicle and had no major injuries.  Hampered by Achilles tendon and knee injuries, Woods failed
to qualify for the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs this season.  For his career, Woods has 71 PGA Tour wins, third all-time
behind Sam Snead (82) and  Jack Nicklaus  (73). This week he’s
playing in the Frys.com Open.  “Rolex is convinced that Tiger Woods still has a long
career ahead of him and that he has all the qualities required
to continue to mark the history of golf,” said the company,
which also has had relationships with Arnold Palmer, Jack
Nicklaus and Gary Player.  Other Rolex endorsers include fellow golfers Phil Mickelson, Luke Donald, Adam Scott, Rickie Fowler and Lorena Ochoa, and tennis professionals Roger Federer and Caroline Wozniacki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 