-- 
Higher Temperatures in Midwest, Northeast May Curb Gas Demand

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-05T12:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/higher-temperatures-in-midwest-northeast-may-curb-gas-demand.html
The U.S. Northeast and Midwest will
be warmer than normal through Oct. 19, which may mean less
demand for natural gas for heating, according to forecasters.  For the period from Oct. 10 to Oct. 14, Commodity Weather
Group LLC’s  Matt Rogers  predicts temperatures across the Midwest
and Northeast will be 5 degrees to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 to
4.4 Celsius) above normal.  MDA EarthSat Weather  is forecasting
temperatures as much as 8 to 14 degrees higher.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling, and power plants use
about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  In the 11- to 15-day outlooks covering Oct. 15 to Oct. 19,
both forecasting companies predict a continued swath of warmer
weather extending from the Southwest to the Northeast. The
Pacific Northwest, along with northern  California  and  Montana ,
may be cooler, said  Rogers , president of Bethesda, Maryland-
based CWG.  MDA, in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , focuses the potential
cooling on Oregon, Washington and California.  Rogers said one computer forecast model is predicting
cooler weather will arrive in the Northeast late in the Oct. 15
to Oct. 19 period. However, he isn’t sure that will happen.  “So, we will continue to monitor the threat, but
historically the American model is too fast to bring changes,”
Rogers said in a short note to clients.  MDA predicted that average temperatures in  New York  next
week will be in the high 60s to low 70s, ranging about 8 to 10
degrees above normal. In  Boston , the average temperatures will
be in mid-60s to low 70s, 10 to 15 degrees above normal.  Chicago’s average temperatures will hover in the mid-60s, 9
to 12 degrees higher than normal, and in Washington temperatures
in the high 60s are expected, 5 to 8 degrees above normal, MDA
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  