-- 
Miller Buckfire Hires Former Houlihan Lokey Banker McKenna

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-10-05T19:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/miller-buckfire-hires-former-houlihan-lokey-banker-john-mckenna.html
Miller Buckfire & Co., the turnaround
advisory firm that received a $40 million investment from  Stifel
Financial Corp. (SF)  in June, hired former Houlihan Lokey banker John McKenna as a managing director.  McKenna, who was a managing director and co-head of the
eastern region financial restructuring group at Houlihan Lokey
Howard & Zukin until 2006, is on the board of SecondMarket Inc.,
the stock exchange for private companies. He will help Miller
Buckfire use capital markets to seek solutions for struggling
companies, according to Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Buckfire.  “Capital markets already play a major role in large
restructurings such as General Growth Properties,” Buckfire,
53, said in a telephone interview. “The next cycle will depend
even more on capital-market participation. That’s why we brought
John over and that’s why we did our deal with Stifel.”  Miller Buckfire advised  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) ,
which exited the biggest real-estate bankruptcy in U.S. history
last year after listing on the New York Stock Exchange. In June,
New York-based Miller Buckfire announced its deal with Stifel,
the St. Louis-based brokerage and investment firm, saying the
two companies could offer clients combined restructuring and
capital markets expertise.  Miller Buckfire co-founder Henry Miller later said he was
retiring as chairman, and managing director Ronen Bojmel, who
worked on the General Growth restructuring, left the firm. His
departure followed those of other managing directors, including
Sam Greene, who joined Centerview Partners LLP in July, and Durc
Savini, who went to Peter J. Solomon Co. last year.  Additional Hires  Buckfire, who worked previously with McKenna in the
restructuring group at Wasserstein Perella & Co., said Miller
Buckfire intends to make additional senior-level hires next year
and is working with Stifel on two assignments advising clients
on avoiding bankruptcy.  “Miller Buckfire has taken steps to adjust to the fact
that financial restructurings have become much more routine,”
said McKenna, 43, who was previously a board member of US
Airways Group Inc. and is on the board of the New York chapter
of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. “Allying themselves with a
mainstream financial player really differentiates the firm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  