-- 
Lilly CEO Urges U.S. Lawmakers to Extend Research Tax Credit

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T18:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lilly-ceo-urges-u-s-lawmakers-to-extend-research-tax-credit.html
U.S. lawmakers should renew the
research-and-development tax credit to make it easier for
companies to compete globally, said  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief
Executive Officer John Lechleiter.  “Individual countries -- Ireland, the U.K., France,  China ,
Singapore come to mind -- are very aggressively pursuing high-
end research-based kinds of opportunities and jobs” through tax
credits and other incentives, Lechleiter said during a panel
discussion today in  Washington . The event was sponsored by
 Harvard University  and the  Business Roundtable , an association
of business leaders, and hosted by Bloomberg News.  The U.S. sends mixed messages to industry with the
unpredictability of the research tax credit, which is “very
fundamental” and should be made “a permanent part of our
policy infrastructure,” Lechleiter said.  The research-and-development credit is among dozens of
targeted tax breaks set to expire Dec. 31. The research credit
was enacted in 1981 and has been renewed 14 times since then.
President  Barack Obama  has favored making the credit permanent
as a way to spur economic growth, and last year proposed making
it easier for businesses to claim.  In 2008, the most recent year for which data are available,
companies claimed a total of $8.3 billion in research credits,
according to Internal Revenue Service data. Businesses performed
an estimated $289 billion of research and development in 2008,
according to the  National Science Foundation , a federal agency
that provides funding for 20 percent of government-backed
research at U.S. universities.  University Research  Participants in today’s discussion included corporate
executives and university presidents. They emphasized the
importance of boosting research funding to make it easier for
U.S. universities to draw talented scholars.  “We are facing really competitive offers for our faculty
and also a very competitive environment for students thinking
about where they want to be educated,” Harvard President Drew Gilpin Faust said during the panel. Institutions in China,
Singapore and  Europe  “are assuring our faculty that they will
have almost unlimited support for their work,” she said.  The entire federal research-and-development investment in
universities is a “tiny piece of the federal budget,” John Hennessy, president of  Stanford University , said during the
discussion. To cut that funding off “will just result in weaker
economic growth for the country and fewer jobs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  