-- 
Lilly’s Lechleiter Says He’s Uninterested in Pfizer Units

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-10-05T20:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lilly-s-lechleiter-says-he-s-uninterested-in-pfizer-animal-unit.html
Drugmaker  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  doesn’t
plan to buy  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s $3.58 billion animal-health business,
Chief Executive Officer John Lechleiter said.  Pfizer CEO Ian Read said July 7 that he would seek to
divest the animal health and nutrition units of the world’s
largest drugmaker. Lilly Chief Financial Officer Derica Rice
said in July the Indianapolis-based company was interested in
some Pfizer assets, and Pfizer said it wouldn’t break any into
smaller pieces to sell.  “We don’t think we have to make a large acquisition,”
Lilly’s Lechleiter said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Innovation and the Economy roundtable in  Washington . “In our
animal-health business, we’ve got a pretty good mix of organic
growth and growth from smaller acquisitions. I think that’s the
approach we’re going to take.”  Lilly also isn’t interested in New York-based Pfizer’s
nutrition business, Lechleiter said.  “We’re going to more or less stay the course with
innovative medicines,” he said. “I don’t think you should
expect us to do anything around generics or OTC or things of
that sort” referring to over-the-counter medicines. Pfizer’s
unit generated $1.87 billion in revenue in 2010.  Lechleiter was among more than a dozen chief executive
officers and university presidents discussing  job creation  and
the economy today at the Bloomberg forum.  Pfizer shares gained 39 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $17.98 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Lilly
gained 30 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $37.03.  Joan Campion, a Pfizer spokeswoman, said no decisions have
been made about the drugmaker’s units.  “We’re continuing to explore strategic alternatives for
our animal-health business, and are evaluating a variety of
options including a sale, spinoff or other transaction,” she
said in an e-mail. Campion said the company doesn’t anticipate
making an announcement on the units until 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  