-- 
IMF Calls Fed’s Easing Steps ‘Appropriate’; More May Be Needed

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-10-05T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/imf-calls-fed-s-easing-steps-appropriate-more-may-be-needed.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
keep  interest rates  low at least through mid-2013 and to extend
the maturity of its security holdings is “appropriate,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  “Consideration may need to be given to further
unconventional measures should the recovery weaken further,”
the Washington-based IMF said in its Regional Economic Outlook
report released today. “Low interest rates will also support
financial-market stability, although authorities should be
vigilant to bouts of illiquidity arising from financial strains
in Europe.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday signaled to
lawmakers he’s ready to take further easing steps if needed.
Under the plan known as Operation Twist, announced last month,
the central bank will replace $400 billion of short-term debt in
its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries maturing in six to 30
years, aiming to reduce borrowing costs and spur the recovery of
the world’s largest economy.  President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs plan, if
approved in its entirety, “would offset the fiscal tightening
in train for 2012, while being budget-neutral over the medium
term,” the IMF said. It again urged the U.S. to adopt a
“credible medium-term plan” to stabilize its debt.  Authorities need to provide additional support to the
housing market, for instance by expanding programs that
refinance mortgages and assist homeowners who are unemployed,
the IMF said.  “Courts could be allowed to amend the terms of residential
mortgages,” the IMF said. “Government-sponsored enterprises
could play a more active role in principal write-downs.”  The IMF left its forecasts for growth of 1.5 percent this
year and 1.8 percent next year unchanged from a September
 report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  