-- 
IMF Says Latin America Must Be Ready to Inject Stimulus

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-05T20:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/imf-says-latin-america-must-be-ready-to-adopt-stimulus-measures.html
Latin American policy makers must be
prepared to use interest rate cuts and consider fiscal measures
to protect their economies in the event that the global economy
stalls, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Should recessions in Europe and the U.S. materialize and
spill over to  Asia , commodity producers in the region may face a
“triple shock” from weaker terms of trade, declining exports
and tighter global credit markets, the Washington-based lender
said in a report released today.  Fiscal easing should only be utilized if the “severe
downside risks” of lower crude oil and metal prices is induced
by a slowdown in Asia, and Europe’s debt woes unleash a credit
crunch similar to that which followed the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the report said.  “Given the complexity and uncertainties surrounding the
global economy, policy makers must stand ready to adjust
policies should downside risks materialize,” according to the
 93-page report . “In countries with credible monetary
frameworks, where inflation pressures have abated, monetary
policy can be more flexible, serving as a first line of
defense.”  Increased  risk aversion , which wiped $10 trillion off
global equities in the third quarter, has had a limited effect
on the region’s growth prospects so far, and it’s premature for
governments to loosen policies, as fiscal positions weakened by
the 2008 crisis need to be rebuilt, the IMF said.  GDP, Europe Effect  The fund predicts Latin American economic growth will slow
to 4.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2012, compared with a
5 percent expansion in the first half of this year.  The economies of Mexico and  Brazil  will each grow 3.8
percent this year, down from forecasts of 4.5 percent and 4.6
percent in the fund’s April report.  Mexico , Brazil and  Venezuela 
will lag behind the rest of the region in 2012, with 3.6 percent
growth each, while  Panama  will post the fastest expansion of 7.2
percent.  Venezuela will probably have inflation of 24 percent next
year, more than four times the regional average, while in
Argentina prices will rise 11 percent. Peru and Belize will have
the lowest inflation at 2.5 percent each.  “Strong” growth in Latin America and “relatively high”
commodity prices are likely provided Europe contains its debt
crisis, the U.S resolves its budget problems and Asia avoids a
slowdown, Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the International
Monetary Fund’s Western Hemisphere department.  China , Commodities  “China has the capacity to keep stimulating its economy in
the short term and therefore we think the raw material prices
will remain relatively interesting,” Eyzaguirre said today at
an event in  Lima . “In the medium term, if the U.S. and Europe
don’t bounce back, nor China’s exports to these markets, raw
material prices could go belly up.”  Latin America  would be among regions most affected by the
spillover from a banking crisis in Europe, the IMF said. Chile
would be the most affected if Europe’s banks take higher-than-
expected losses on loans from the European periphery, followed
by Brazil and Mexico, the report said.  The IMF urged governments to maintain their guard against
overheating. While slower global growth has reduced such a risk,
there’s still danger that near-zero  interest rates  in advanced
economies could spur capital flows to Latin America if the
European debt crisis is contained.  Credit, Macroprudential measures  Credit expansion in the region is showing little sign of
slowing, with 12 percent average annual growth in June, while
banks rely increasingly on wholesale operations to finance
lending.  “Although these trends are not an immediate threat to
stability, they need to be closely monitored to avoid problems
down the road,” the report said.  Macroprudential measures such as changes to  reserve
requirements  should remain part of the region’s armory against
destabilizing capital flows, although the IMF found they result
in a “moderate” slowdown in credit growth that lasts only four
months.  “Despite their increasing use, the effectiveness of
macroprudential policies in leaning against credit growth and
protecting financial stability remains an open question,” the
report said.  Scenarios  Commodity exports represented 10 percent of  South America ’s
gross domestic product in 2010, up from 6 percent in 1970,
according to the report.  Though the region is better placed to withstand a decline
in commodity prices than in the past, the outlook for Mexico and
much of Central America is bleaker because of their dependence
on U.S. activity.  “A sustained crisis of sovereign and financial confidence
in  Europe  could disrupt global credit markets and lead to a
sudden stop of trade and bank financing,” the report said.
“Another recession in the  United States , triggered by woes in
Europe or persistent weaknesses in private domestic demand
coupled with an overly large up-front fiscal adjustment, could
lead to a considerable slowdown in emerging Asia and much lower
oil and metal prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  