-- 
IMF Sees Europe Working on Bank Plan as Moody’s Predicts Wider Downgrades

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-05T11:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/imf-sees-europe-working-on-bank-plan-as-moody-s-predicts-wider-downgrades.html
European Union officials are working
on plans to boost bank capital to contain the euro-region’s debt
crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said, as Moody’s
Investors Service warned of deteriorating public finances.  “There is no secret at all that European authorities and
the European Commission are all working together on a plan to
bring more official capital, more public-sector capital, into
the banking sector,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said today in Brussels. “We would recommend
that it move to a European approach,” he said. “More should be
done on a cross-border basis.”  European bank stocks climbed, with  France ’s  Credit Agricole 
SA and Dexia leading the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index 2.6 percent higher. Credit Agricole
climbed 9.4 percent to 5.14 euros of 12:50 p.m. in Paris
trading, while Dexia was up 7.2 percent to 1.08 euros.  Signals that European politicians may step up efforts to
aid banks and push investors to take deeper losses as part of a
Greek bailout reflect international pressure to end the debt
crisis and domestic opposition to expanding rescues.  Moody’s Investors Service late yesterday followed its
three-level downgrade of  Italy  by warning that euro-area nations
rated below the top Aaa level may see their rankings cut.  European banks may need more than 140 billion euros ($186
billion) of capital through a program similar to the U.S.
Troubled Asset Relief Program, Morgan Stanley analysts say.  “Policy makers increasingly want to build a large solvency
buffer,” the analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in a note
today. “We think banks in core Europe need to be recession
proofed and banks in the periphery depression proofed.”  Dexia Plans  At the same time, officials in France and  Belgium  are
preparing a bailout for Dexia SA. Dexia will pool its troubled
assets into a “bad bank” with Belgian and French government
guarantees to protect depositors and its municipal-lending
business after struggling to fund itself.  The lender may hive off its French municipal loan book into
a venture funded by state-owned La Banque Postale and Caisse des
Depots et Consignations, and seek buyers for its Belgian bank,
Denizbank AS in  Turkey  and its asset-management division,
according to a person with knowledge of the talks.  EU spokesmen moved to damp speculation triggered by a
Financial Times report late yesterday on progress toward a bank-
recapitalization plan.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn “doesn’t
speak of a concrete plan in hand,” his spokesman,  Amadeu Altafaj , said today in Brussels. “He speaks of an initiative, of
discussions in progress and he pleads for a European approach.”  No New Plan  The commissioner “clearly indicated he doesn’t have a new
recapitalization plan,” the commission’s chief spokeswoman, Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen, said.  The speculation about efforts to support banks followed a
finance ministers’ meeting in Luxembourg in which officials
signalled their intent to prod investors to cover more of the
cost of bailing out Greece.  “Many euro countries have now realized that the July deal
is too advantageous for investors and there’s too little
investor burden sharing,”  Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said today in Helsinki. “This was discussed at
Monday’s euro group; how can we find a way to increase burden
sharing? No solution’s been put forward so far.”  Greek Swap  Banks are negotiating a bond swap with Greece that would
cut the nation’s debt load at a cost to investors estimated at
about 21 percent. They pushed back at suggesting deeper losses.  It would be “counterproductive” to reopen the Greek deal
now that investors have signaled support and the euro area’s 17
parliaments are close to ratifying the agreements,  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of International
Finance  said, said in a telephone interview yesterday. IIF
represents more than 450 banks and took part in the July 21
negotiations that led to a second rescue package for  Greece .  When the bailout was announced, banks and other bondholders
were expected to contribute about 50 billion euros alongside 109
billion euros in public funds and a proposed 20 billion-euro
debt buyback. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters in Luxembourg yesterday that the deal may require
“adjustments” depending on whether Greece has met its
commitments and other developments.  Greek 10-year bonds trade for about 39 cents on the euro
and two-year notes for about 43 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  