-- 
India May Allow 1 Million Tons of Sugar Exports on Supplies

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-10-05T15:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/india-may-allow-1-million-tons-of-sugar-exports-on-supplies.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
sugar producer, may allow exports after the festival season ends
this month and as production surges to a four-year high.  The government may allow exports of 500,000 metric tons of
the sweetener by the end of this month and may permit a similar
quantity by Nov. 30, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said in an
interview today. The sales need approval of a ministerial panel
headed by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , Thomas said.  India’s sugar output may total 25.5 million tons in the
year ending Sept. 30, compared with an earlier estimate of 24.6
million tons, he said. The nation likely produced 24.3 million
tons last year, Thomas said.  Higher production in India may help ease a shortage caused
by a decline in supplies from  Brazil , the biggest producer and
shipper. Futures have declined 21 percent this year on
expectations of increased production from Thailand,  Russia  and
European Union.  Sugar futures reached a six-month high in August on concern
that cane production in Brazil will drop for the first time in
six years because of adverse weather, paring global surplus. Raw
sugar for March delivery increased 0.51 cent, or 2.1 percent, to
25.20 cents a pound at 10:57 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York .  The food ministry revised the sugar output estimate for
2011-12 after meeting with Farm Minister Sharad Pawar today,
Thomas said. India, which regulates sugar sales, allowed mills
to export 2.6 million tons in the year ended Sept. 30.  The festival season this year started with Eid in August
and ends in October with Diwali.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  