-- 
India Stock Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses on Debt, Rupee

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-10-05T02:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-on-debt-rupee.html
Indian stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses amid concerns  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis and a weaker rupee will hurt company earnings.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures for October delivery lost
4.5 points, or 0.1 percent, to 4,774.5 at 10:19 a.m. in
 Singapore , after gaining as much as 0.4 percent earlier. The
underlying S&P CNX Nifty Index lost 1.6 percent to 4,772.15
yesterday, the lowest level in five weeks. The BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, declined 1.8 percent to 15,864.86.  Italy’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
for the first time in almost 20 years as Europe’s finance
ministers discuss ways to coordinate recapitalizing banks. The
weakest rupee in two years is boosting the cost of debt for
Indian companies as record rate increases and accelerating
inflation slow earnings growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said yesterday the central bank is “prepared to take
further action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery.”  “There is no respite for equities given the heightened
fears over the worsening euro-zone debt crisis,” Amar Ambani,
head of research at IIFL - India Private Clients, said in a note
yesterday. “European leaders don’t seem to have a clue on how
to address the region’s fiscal mess. The sentiment will remain
fragile unless and until  Greece  gets fresh rescue funds.”  Foreign-Currency Debt  The Indian rupee’s drop to its weakest level since 2009 is
increasing the cost of repaying overseas debt for the nation’s
companies as yields on dollar bonds surged to a two-year high.  State Bank of India (SBIN)  and Export-Import Bank of India are
among borrowers with about $3 billion of foreign-currency notes
due by Dec. 31, twice as much as the previous quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  State Bank  of India, the nation’s
largest, fell to a two-year low after Moody’s Investors Service
cut the rating on its financial strength, citing deteriorating
asset quality.  The rupee lost 6 percent in September, its sharpest monthly
drop in three years, as Asian currencies slumped on concern the
global economy is headed for a recession, dimming the outlook
for exports and prompting investors to favor safer bets than
emerging-market assets.  Indian software exporters get about three-quarters of their
revenue from overseas.  “With the dollar-bond market shut to Indian borrowers for
two months already, issuers will not be able to raise new funds
to repay obligations,”  Scott Bennett , Singapore-based head of
Asian credit at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees
$298 billion globally, said in an interview.  Deficit Target  India’s Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday
that it may be hard to meet the budget-deficit target in the
current fiscal year as the government plans to sell more debt.
Mukherjee aims to narrow the deficit to a four-year low of 4.6
percent of GDP in the year ending March 31.  India’s manufacturing expanded in September at the slowest
pace in 2 1/2 years, a report showed on Oct. 3, signaling higher
borrowing costs are cooling demand. The Purchasing Managers’
Index was at 50.4 last month from 52.6 in August, HSBC Holdings
and Markit Economics said in the report. That’s the weakest
reading since March 2009. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  India’s economy  may expand 7.9 percent in the year ending
March 31, lower than the 8.2 percent growth estimated in April,
the  Asian Development Bank  said in a report on Sept. 14.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has increased
borrowing costs by a total of 350 basis points starting mid-
March 2010, the fastest round of increases since the central
bank was set up in 1935, to contain prices that are rising the
fastest among the so-called BRICS nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
India,  China  and  South Africa .  Earnings Lag  The  Reserve Bank  of India last raised its repurchase rate
on Sept. 16 to 8.25 percent from 8 percent, after India’s
inflation climbed to a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August.
The RBI meets Oct. 25 for its next policy review.  The Sensex has retreated 23 percent this year amid concern
the European crisis and slowing economic growth in the U.S. may
compound the effects of the rate increases on corporate profits.
The gauge slid 13 percent in the quarter ended September, the
most since the three-months ended December 2008.  Companies in the Sensex trade at 13.4 times estimated
profits, down from 21.5 times in March 2010. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index is valued at 9 times.  Earnings for 47 percent of companies in the Sensex lagged
behind analysts’ estimates in the quarter ended June, compared
with about 33 percent in the previous three months.  ‘Better Returns’  Still, “risk aversion cannot last forever,” Ambareesh Baliga, chief operating officer at Way2Wealth Brokers Pvt. in
Mumbai, said by phone yesterday. “When risk aversion subsides,
money will look for better returns, which the emerging markets
should offer.  India  is growing at a relatively better pace than
the rest of the world.”  Infosys Ltd., the second-largest Indian software services
provider, will report results on Oct. 12, the first company in
the Nifty to post earnings for the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Automakers Tata Motors Ltd. and Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. may
be active after riots and a curfew imposed by the police in the
northern Indian state of Uttarakhand hurt production at their
factories in the area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 