-- 
Indian Services Industry Index Falls for a Second Straight Month

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-10-05T07:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/indian-services-industry-index-falls-for-a-second-straight-month.html
India ’s services industry moderated
in September for a second straight month after the central
bank’s record interest-rate increases.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 49.8 from 53.8 in
August, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-
mailed statement today. The level is the lowest since April
2009. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which has raised borrowing costs
12 times since mid-March 2010, is nearing the end of its
tightening because of signs of easing demand, Deputy Governor
 Subir Gokarn  said last month. In the U.S., services probably
expanded last month at a slower pace, deepening pessimism about
the global economic outlook in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The weak global economic backdrop has also likely
dampened domestic sentiments despite the somewhat limited direct
spillover channels,” Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist
at HSBC, said in the statement. “We are getting close to the
end of RBI’s tightening cycle, but we are not quite there yet.”  He expects the central bank to increase its repurchase rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 8.5 percent this year to
damp inflation that Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last week
remains above the acceptable level.  The yield on the 7.8 percent securities due April 2021 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.56 percent at
12:37 p.m. in Mumbai, the highest level for benchmark 10-year
notes since September 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced
0.8 percent.  Rupee Gains  The  Indian rupee  strengthened 0.4 percent to 49.19 against
the dollar today. The currency has weakened 9.1 percent against
the dollar this year, the biggest drop in a basket of 10 Asian
currencies excluding  Japan ’s yen, according to Bloomberg data,
as investors sold emerging-market assets on concern Europe’s
debt woes may undermine the global economy.  Subbarao has raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by a
total of 350 basis points, the fastest round of increases since
the Reserve Bank was established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August.  Inflation may quicken after Indian Oil Corp., the country’s
biggest refiner, raised gasoline prices in September for the
second time in four months. Losses from selling fuels below cost
are increasing following the rupee’s decline against the dollar,
according to the company’s Finance Director P.K. Goyal.  Price Control  India needs to control rising prices to protect purchasing
power and sustain growth, the  Reserve Bank  has said.  A rate of 4 percent to 6 percent is the “short-term
comfort range” for inflation, Subbarao said Sept. 26. He said
price increases will slow by March 2012, “but more slowly than
initially expected.” Subbarao in July predicted inflation to
ease to 7 percent by March 31.  “The slowdown we are seeing in economic activity is not
surprising, nor a reason to panic about growth,” Eskesen said.
“It’s consistent with a soft landing of the economy and a
needed slowdown in growth” to tame price pressures, he said.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing in India
grew in September at the slowest pace since March 2009, HSBC and
Markit Economics said this week.  Slowing growth may hurt  tax revenue  and cause India’s
budget deficit to exceed the government’s estimate, said
 Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. She expects the budget gap to widen to 5.4 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending March 31, compared with the
government’s target of 4.6 percent, which would be a four-year
low.  ‘Cash Flows’  “It is difficult to maintain the ceiling,” Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told the Bloomberg UTV television
channel in Mirati, his village in the Indian state of West
Bengal, referring to the budget-shortfall goal. “I can’t say
how I will be able to maintain it now without looking at the
cash flows,” he said in the interview that was broadcast
yesterday.  In the U.S., The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index fell to 52.8 in September from 53.3 in
August, according to the median estimate of 75 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  