-- 
Indian Rupee Rises for First Time in a Week on Stimulus Optimism

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-05T13:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/indian-rupee-rises-for-first-time-in-a-week-on-stimulus-optimism.html
India’s rupee strengthened for the
first time in a week on speculation U.S. and European policy
makers will boost monetary stimulus to protect economic growth,
supporting demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency pared gains after the BSE India Sensitive
Index of local shares erased its advance. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the U.S. central bank
can take further steps to sustain the recovery in the world’s
largest economy. The  European Central Bank  will cut  interest
rates  at a meeting tomorrow to shield the economies in the
region from its debt crisis, according to 11 of 52 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The others expect no change. The dollar
index, which tracks the currency’s performance against six major
trading partners, dropped for the first time in six days.  “The rupee trend today would be a short-term one, moving
in line with the news out of the U.S. and its impact on the
dollar,” said Abhishek Goenka, Mumbai-based chief executive
officer at consulting company  India  Forex Advisors. “However,
problems across the global banking sector have begun to permeate
into India and this will pressure the rupee going ahead.”  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 49.3475 per dollar at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations for a
rate of 50.05 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  