-- 
IPad Age Prompts India to Sell $22 Student Tablet to Boost Computer Usage

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-10-05T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/india-to-sell-22-android-tablet-pc-for-students-to-boost-usage.html
India  plans to sell tablet computers,
made popular by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, to schools for as low as
1,100 rupees ($22) as  Asia ’s third-biggest economy aims to boost
computer literacy.  The government will initially buy 100,000 tablets for 2,250
rupees each from  DataWind Ltd. , a U.K.-based company, and sell
it to schools at the subsidized price,  Kapil Sibal , India’s
telecommunications minister, said at a news conference in  New
Delhi  yesterday. India subsequently plans to purchase 10 million
tablets over the next five years, he said.  The 7-inch tablet that can run videos and games and browse
the Internet will be used by educational institutions to teach
students, Sibal said. The world’s second-most populous nation
had 4.2 computers for every 100 people at the end of last year,
according to CyberMedia Research, based near New Delhi, compared
with  63.2  mobile phones per 100 people.  “It’s going to increase the desirability of computing
devices for people who wanted them but couldn’t afford the price
tag,” said Vishal Tripathi, an analyst at  Gartner Inc. (IT)  in
Mumbai. “People who are using this device are not going to get
the seamless experience of an iPad or a Samsung. There’s no
comparison.”  The DataWind tablet runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system like Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab. The iPad 2
range starts at 29,500 rupees in India.  Sky in Hindi  The tablet called ‘Aakash,’ which means sky in Hindi, has
been developed by closely held DataWind and the state-run Indian
Institute of Technology Rajasthan. DataWind won the contract
after offering a price that was at least 15 percent lower than
the next competitor, Chief Executive Officer Suneet Singh Tuli
said, without elaborating.  Aakash has a 366 megahertz processor, 256 megabytes of
memory, 2 gigabytes of storage, two USB ports and Wi-Fi and
cellular connectivity, according to a DataWind statement. It can
run for up to 180 minutes on a charge.  Shipments of tablet devices in India, the world’s second-
largest market for mobile-phone services after  China , may surge
66 percent to 266,000 next year, according to research firm IDC.  “Aakash will ensure that digital illiteracy will be
vanquished,” said Sibal. “Technology that is low cost, that
provides quality access, that can be owned and operated by every
student, would truly empower the child.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  