-- 
Indonesia May Sell More Refined Palm Oil to China, Hurting Global Prices

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-10-05T10:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/indonesia-may-sell-more-refined-palm-oil-to-china-helping-depress-prices.html
Indonesia, the world’s biggest  palm
oil  supplier, may increase sales to  China  and  India  after export
taxes were cut for refined products, weighing on global prices,
said a Malaysian industry association.  The country “will find a much bigger market share
especially in price-sensitive” nations like China, India and
 Pakistan , said Mohammad Jaaffar Ahmad, chief executive officer
of the Palm Oil Refiners Association of Malaysia. “There will
be some buildup in CPO stocks, and once that happens, it will
definitely depress prices.” CPO refers to crude palm oil.  Prices of the tropical oil used in everything from cookies
and potato chips to detergents and fuel have dropped 26 percent
this year on higher harvests and concern that a global slowdown
may curb demand. Declining futures may ease near record food
costs that have jumped 26 percent in the past year, according to
the  United Nations . Indonesia and Malaysia supply more than 80
percent of the world’s palm oil.  “As Indonesian refined exports rise, they will squeeze
Malaysian exporters out of some markets,” said James Fry,
chairman of LMC International Ltd., an Oxford, England-based
advisory company. That may increase stockpiles in Malaysia and
tend to depress crude palm oil, he said in an e-mail Oct. 1.  The most-active December-delivery contract fell 0.9 percent
to end at 2,785 ringgit ($874) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange today, the lowest close in a year. The 26
percent drop this year was worse than the 15 percent slide in
 soybean oil  and the 17 percent loss in the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Agriculture index of eight commodities.  More Supply  “ Malaysia  will have competition,” Derom Bangun, Deputy
Chairman of the Indonesian Palm Oil Board, said by phone from
Medan yesterday. “With more supply of course there will be a
bit of correction in the price, but not much.”  The maximum export tax for refined, bleached and deodorized
palm oil was reduced to 10 percent from 23 percent and the rate
for RBD palm olein was cut to 13 percent from 25 percent, while
the highest tax for crude palm oil was 22.5 percent, according
to a  Finance Ministry Decree . The changes were effective Oct. 1.  Crude oil from Malaysia is subject to a duty based on a
published weekly price and averaging 25 percent, while there is
no export tax on refined products, Mohammad Jaaffar said.  Refiners in Malaysia and other countries which import crude
oil may face constraints as there could be less unprocessed oil
from  Indonesia , Mohammad Jaaffar said. Malaysia imported about 1
million tons of crude oil and 445,066 tons of crude palm kernel
oil mainly from Indonesia last year, he said.  Refineries to Restart  Refining companies in Indonesia will restart idle capacity
and export to India and China, said Bangun. They may have used
only 30 percent to 50 percent of capacity until now, he said.  Some Malaysian companies were looking to invest in
refineries in Indonesia to take advantage of the duty, said IOI
Corp. Executive Director Lee Yeow Chor on Sept. 13.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the world’s biggest-listed palm oil
producer, is building a refinery in South Kalimantan which will
have a processing capacity of 2,500 tons per day and is expected
to be operational in 2013, its Chief Executive Officer Mohd Bakke Salleh said Sept. 21.  Malaysia exported 13.9 million tons of processed oil, out
of 16.7 million tons of palm-oil shipments last year, board  data 
show. Indonesia shipped 6.9 million tons of refined products out
of a total of 15.7 million tons in 2010, according to the
Indonesian Palm Oil Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  