-- 
Intel Chairman Says Board Diversity Must Reflect Global Markets

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-10-05T19:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/intel-chairman-says-board-diversity-must-reflect-global-markets.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chairman Jane Shaw said
the world’s largest chipmaker needs more diversity on its board
to reflect its growing reliance on overseas markets.  “A big issue for Intel is getting some global diversity,”
Shaw said in an interview in Kiel,  Germany , where she was
attending the Global Economic Symposium. “Our biggest market
right now is  China , and we have no global representation on the
board and that is an issue they need to address.”  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , generated more
than 16 percent of its $43.6 billion revenue from China last
year, while 15 percent came from the U.S., according to
Bloomberg data. Personal-computer shipments in China rose 14
percent to 18.5 million units during the second quarter, the
first time they surpassed the number in the U.S., where sales
fell, Bryan Ma, an analyst at research firm IDC, said Aug. 23.  Shaw, 72, who has served on Intel’s board of directors
since 1993, said Intel is improving diversity in recruitment,
including for gender, which benefits the business.  “To me it’s more getting diversity of thought on
approaches to a problem,” she said. “I think women attack a
problem in a different way, and if they bring their insight to a
problem to the board room I think you get a better discussion.”  Gender diversity is “now at about 50-50 at the entry
level, making sure there is pay parity,” she said. Intel is
“particularly looking at diversity on a broader basis,”
including the creation of support and mentoring groups for
members of various ethnicities.  CEO Succession  Paul Otellini , who turns 61 on Oct. 12, succeeded  Craig
Barrett  as chief executive officer in 2005 and has three years
left in his term, according to company bylaws. Shaw, who is set
to retire in May to be replaced by Chief Administrative Officer
Andy Bryant, said the company traditionally appoints insiders
as CEO, and such candidates tend to face a tougher test.  “The hurdle is usually higher for internal candidates
because you know all the warts and pimples,” she said.
“Someone comes in from outdoors and they look much fresher.”  Shaw has been head of the compensation and audit committees
and was lead outside director before taking over as chairman
from Barrett in 2009. Her appointment marked a move away from
Intel’s tradition of awarding the job to former executive
managers.  Intel shares rose 2.9 percent to $21.83 at 3:07 p.m. in  New
York  in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has climbed 3.8
percent this year, giving the company a market value of $114.6
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Kiel, Germany, via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  