-- 
Covepoint’s Wrong-Way Emerging-Market Currency Bet Fuels 38% Monthly Loss

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-10-06T13:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/investors-lose-money-purchasing-bailout-fund-bonds-from-efsf-euro-credit.html
Covepoint Capital Advisors LLC, the
hedge fund founded by Melissa Ko, fell 38 percent in September,
posting its biggest monthly loss after sticking with a bet that
emerging-market currencies would gain against the  U.S. dollar .  The decline left the New York-based firm’s biggest fund
with a loss of about 25 percent for the year, according to
investors, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The $824 million Covepoint Emerging
Markets Macro fund had 84 percent of its assets in currencies,
with a fifth of the portfolio invested in  Mexico , according to
an Aug. 31 letter to clients.  The  Mexican peso , Brazil’s real and the South African rand
have plunged at least 14 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of August on concern that slowing growth in the U.S.
and Europe will hurt export-reliant countries. Investors had
flocked to developing nations earlier in this year on
expectations that they would outperform developed economies.  “Emerging markets haven’t attained a safe-haven status and
they haven’t decoupled” from the U.S. and  Europe , said Alex Bellefleur, an economist at investment-consulting firm
Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. in  Montreal . “When directionally
markets are de-risking, it doesn’t really matter whether the
fundamentals in emerging markets are better. They sell off.”  Hedge funds  focused on emerging markets lost an average of
4.9 percent this year through August, compared with the decline
of 1.9 percent by the broader industry, according to Hedge Fund
Research Inc., a Chicago-based research firm.  “We’ve always been a volatile fund,” said Jonathan Taylor, an official at Covepoint. “Historically we’ve made
higher highs and we’re confident that we’ll do so again.”  More Easing Seen  Ko, whose firm oversees $1.1 billion, told investors at the
end of August that it was likely the U.S. Federal Reserve would
seek to stimulate growth by initiating a third round of asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing. She also said that
efforts by  China  to make the yuan more widely available would
erode the dollar’s value.  “Considering the above factors, we have maintained our
broad directional biases in favor of currencies that will
benefit from global reflation and against the U.S. dollar,” Ko
wrote in the investor letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Fed policy makers at their meeting last month held off on
further quantitative easing. They instead said the central bank
will replace $400 billion of its Treasuries with longer-term
securities in an effort to reduce borrowing costs for businesses
and consumers.  Bear Stearns Roots  The dollar has surged more than 9 percent against the
world’s most traded currencies since stock markets started
swooning in August as investors seek a haven from risky assets.  Emerging-market currencies rallied yesterday after policy
makers in Turkey and  Russia  stepped up sales of foreign-currency
reserves to counter the selloff in developing-nation assets.  Ko’s emerging-markets fund had returned an average of 22
percent since it was started at Bear Stearns Cos. in 2005,
according to the investor letter. JPMorgan Chase & Co. spun out
the fund after buying Bear Stearns in 2008. Ko’s worst month
before September was October 2008, when the fund plunged 28
percent after markets were roiled by the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Hedge funds profiting from wagers that slowing growth would
hurt emerging markets include London-based GLG Partners Inc.’s
Atlas Macro fund, which gained about 16 percent since July, and
Monaco-based Pivot Capital Management Ltd.’s Global Value fund,
which is up 21 percent in the same period, according to
investors. Executives at the firms declined to comment.  Brazil  Options  GLG Atlas Macro, managed by Driss Ben-Brahim and Jamil Baz,
made money betting the dollar would rise against emerging-market
currencies, said a person familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified because the firm is private. Pivot, which
manages $780 million, purchased options that would profit if
 interest rates  fell in Brazil, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The bet stemmed from a prediction that China’s investment
and real-estate boom was unsustainable, and nations such as
Brazil dependent on exporting commodities to the Asian country
would be hurt, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the firm is private.  Pivot’s wager paid off in August when a futures contract
tied to rates on Brazilian government debt due in 2013 plunged
17 percent. Brazil’s central bank unexpectedly cut borrowing
costs Aug. 31 after raising rates at its previous five meetings
to protect the economy from a worldwide slump.  Violent Correction  Pivot’s investment managers predict asset prices in
emerging and developed markets will continue to decline,
undermining stock market gains experienced during the first six
months of the year. The firm’s Global Value fund, which is
managed by Carl George, has gained 361 percent since its
founding in 2002.  “As we entered the second half of 2011, this major
dissonance between the market resilience and grim fundamental
picture has since been violently corrected,” Pivot told clients
in an Aug. 31 letter obtained by Bloomberg News. “This
correction will prove to be the beginning of a new  bear market 
in assets that have been artificially inflated by government
intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  