-- 
Lira Defense to Fail as Further Falls Likely, Cinemre Says

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-05T11:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lira-defense-to-fail-as-further-falls-likely-cinemre-says-1-.html
Turkey ’s record purchase of lira to
shore up the currency is unlikely to halt declines as the debt
crisis in Europe worsens, reducing appetite for emerging
markets, said Fokus Yatirim Holding AS’s Kubilay Cinemre.  A decline in emerging market currencies has “just begun”
and the lira may fall another 6 percent against the dollar even
after the central bank offered $1.35 billion for liras in an
auction today, Cinemre, the former chief of Bank of America
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s Turkish unit, said in an interview at his
 asset management company  in Istanbul. While  Brazil  continues
measures such as higher taxes to try to stem currency declines,
the rout across  developing countries  will persist, he said.  “The unorthodox policies of the Turkish central bank,
Brazil’s taxes on capital outflows -- we will see more of that
and there will be more volatility generally,” Cinemre said.
Falls in other emerging market currencies may be as much as 10
percent, he said.  Turkish policy makers stepped up efforts to curb the lira’s
tumble after it sank more than 17 percent against the dollar
this year, second only to  South Africa ’s rand among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Brazil’s real is down 11
percent. The lira dropped after the current account deficit
widened to $74.6 billion in July, a record 10 percent of
economic output, and the central bank slashed borrowing costs
three times since December.  The lira rose 1.1 percent to 1.8671 per dollar at 2:10 p.m.
in Istanbul, the biggest increase in three weeks. It reached a
record low of 1.9092 yesterday. The currency traded at 1.5299 at
the start of the second quarter and 1.4281 a year ago.  Protection  “You would find 1.85 for the lira against the dollar a lot
at the beginning of summer,” Cinemre said. “I am not thinking
that way, the decline is happening and I am trying to protect
myself. If the Europeans get their act together the trade will
be off.”  Cinemre said he is buying options on the lira weakening
further against a basket of dollars and euros.  There is an 89 percent chance that the currency will fall
to 1.9 per dollar by the end of 2011 and a 49 percent chance it
will decline to 2 per dollar, according to implied probability
calculated from currency options.  The central bank is committed to stopping the lira’s
depreciation and the currency may strengthen to 1.82 per dollar
“in the coming days” should the global situation not worsen,
HSBC strategist  Murat Toprak  said in response to Bloomberg
questions by email from  London .  Cinemre also recommended puts on leading European and U.S.
banks. He also said investors should consider purchasing shares
in “cash-rich” Turkish companies such as media and energy
group Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS, and the biggest listed
banks including  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   Fokus specializes in advisory and asset management
services. Cinemre owns the company with Faruk Isik, formerly
chairman of Bank of America in Turkey, and Uzay Kozak, ex-chief
executive of the Turkish unit of  Lehman Brothers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  