-- 
Iran Aims to Build Antonov-158 Passenger Planes With Ukraine

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-10-05T10:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/iran-aiming-to-build-antonov-158-passenger-planes-with-ukraine.html
Iran , the target of sanctions that
frustrate the country’s efforts to modernize its aging aircraft
fleet, is trying to strike a deal with Ukraine for the joint
production of regional passenger planes.  Iran plans to build Antonov-158s because the twin-jet
aircraft suits its needs, said Manouchehr Manteqi, managing
director of the state-run Aviation Industries Organization,
according to the official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Ukraine’s  Antonov company  has given technological
assistance to Iran for the production of small aircraft and the
two countries aim to build commercial planes together, Manteqi
told Iranian journalists in Tehran yesterday after a meeting
with Ukrainian officials. The Antonov-158, a bigger version of
the  Antonov-148 , can carry as many as 99 passengers, he said.  Iran has been trying to renew its fleet of foreign-built
jetliners, which it operates amid political obstacles to the
purchase of new planes and spare parts from suppliers such as
Chicago-based Boeing Co. and Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS.  The country is under four rounds of United Nations Security
Council sanctions because of its nuclear work, which the U.S.
and its allies accuse of being a cover for developing weapons.
The U.S. stepped up its punitive measures against Iran last
year, targeting foreign suppliers of  aviation fuel  and other
refined-oil products.  Iran and Ukraine are already jointly building Iran-140s,
which are used inside the Persian Gulf country for short
flights, Manteqi said, according to IRNA.  Iran built its first Iran-140 passenger plane, which can
hold 52 passengers, in 2003 after purchasing the production
license for the  Antonov-140  from Ukraine in 2000, according to a
report today by state-run  Press TV . The aircraft is being
manufactured by Iran’s Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Co.,
the Ukrainian company said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 