-- 
Ireland Waits on Best; Samoan Gets New Date for Hearing: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-06T08:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ireland-waits-on-best-samoan-gets-new-date-for-hearing-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of stories
from the 2011 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand .  Flood, Wilkinson  England made four starting changes, including picking  Toby Flood  at inside center outside fly-half Jonny Wilkinson, for the
quarterfinal against  France  in Auckland on Oct. 8.  Flood replaces Mike Tindall, who got a dead leg in the win
over  Scotland , while Wilkinson has shaken off an arm injury.
Mark Cueto returns on the wing for the suspended Delon Armitage.  “You have two guys on the same wavelength, that focus on
the same things with a similar way of sorting out problems,”
Wilkinson said in comments distributed by tournament organizers.
“Having Toby there is very reassuring. It is reassuring knowing
that if I am at the bottom of a ruck, then there is someone
there making decisions and thinking like a 10.”  In the forwards, Nick Easter takes over from  James Haskell 
at No. 8 and Tom Palmer starts at lock ahead of Courtney Lawes.  Botha Ruled Out  South Africa second-rower  Bakkies Botha  will miss the
remainder of the Springboks’ World Cup title defense because of
an Achilles tendon injury, team officials said.  Botha, who’s played 76 Tests, will leave the squad
tomorrow. He’s the second Springbok this week to be ruled out of
the tournament after back Frans Steyn, who injured his shoulder
playing against Samoa on Sept. 30.  The Springboks said they’ll decide on a replacement pending
the result of the Oct. 9 quarterfinal against  Australia  in
Wellington. Botha wasn’t included when South Africa announced
its team for the match earlier today.  “I’ll be sitting at home with my family on Sunday with a
tear on my cheek as the team takes on the Wallabies,” Botha
said in a South African Rugby Union statement.  JP Pietersen successfully passed a fitness test on his
injured knee and will take his place on the right wing against
the Wallabies. Jean de Villiers was named at inside center in
place of the injured Steyn.  SOUTH AFRICA : Patrick Lambie, JP Pietersen, Jaque Fourie,
Jean de Villiers,  Bryan Habana , Morne Steyn, Fourie du Preez,
 Pierre Spies , Schalk Burger, Heinrich Brussow, Victor Matfield,
Danie Rossouw, Jannie du Plessis, John Smit (captain), Gurthro
Steenkamp.  Replacements: Bismarck du Plessis, CJ van der Linde, Willem
Alberts, Francois Louw, Francois Hougaard, Butch James, Gio
Aplon.  Wales Changes Quartet  Wales made four changes to its lineup for the Oct. 8
quarterfinal against Ireland in Wellington, recalling flanker
Dan Lydiate and winger Shane Williams after they recovered from
injuries.  Alun Wyn Jones and Jonathan Davies were promoted from the
replacements” bench to second row and outside center,
respectively. Leigh Halfpenny was chosen at full-back ahead of
the returning  James Hook  and Lee Byrne, who drops out of the 22.  “We had some tough decisions to make with the likes of
Dan, Shane and James returning from injury and the side having
done so well in their recent absence,”  Wales  coach Warren Gatland said. “We believe it is the side which gives us the
best chance of winning this game against an Ireland team which
not only topped their group but beat the Wallabies on the way.”  WALES: Leigh Halfpenny, George North, Jonathan Davies,
Jamie Roberts, Shane Williams, Rhys Priestland, Mike Phillips,
Toby Faletau, Sam Warburton (captain), Dan Lydiate, Alun Wyn
Jones, Luke Charteris, Adam Jones, Huw Bennett, Gethin Jenkins.  Replacements: Lloyd Burns, Paul James, Bradley Davies, Ryan Jones, Lloyd Williams, James Hook, Scott Williams.  Best Chance  Ireland included Rory Best in its team submitted at the
deadline for the quarterfinal against Wales as the hooker
continues his recovery from a shoulder injury.  With all matchday squads of 22 needing to be named 48 hours
before kickoff, Best’s inclusion signals he has a chance of
overcoming a sprained shoulder joint in time to take on the
Welsh. Sean Cronin was named as the backup hooker on the bench.  IRELAND: Rob Kearney, Tommy Bowe,  Brian O’Driscoll 
(captain), Gordon D’Arcy, Keith Earls, Ronan O’Gara, Conor
Murray,  Jamie Heaslip , Sean O’Brien, Stephen Ferris, Paul
O’Connell, Donncha O’Callaghan, Mike Ross, Rory Best, Cian
Healy.  Replacements: Sean Cronin, Tom Court, Donnacha Ryan, Denis Leamy, Eoin Reddan, Jonathan Sexton, Andrew Trimble  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  