-- 
Jackie Kennedy Fave Marimekko to Open New York Flagship

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 
2011-10-05T20:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/jackie-kennedy-fave-marimekko-to-open-new-york-fabric-flagship.html
Marimekko Oyj, the Finnish textile
maker that wowed Jacqueline Kennedy-Onassis and  Chelsea Clinton 
with its bright fabrics, opens a New York flagship tomorrow.  The store on Fifth Avenue is part of the Helsinki-based
company’s quickening U.S. expansion.  “It’s a good time to bring fresh colors, fresh identity to
the market in these difficult times,” Chief Executive Officer
Mika Ihamuotila said in an interview yesterday at the store,
where the fabric’s bright hues contrast with the white,
minimalist space. “And maybe in these turbulent times, it’s
exactly what people are after.”  In July, Marimekko introduced an e-commerce site, selling
home decor, textiles and accessories. A Crate & Barrel supplier
since 1966, Marimekko is opening boutiques at the home-goods
chain and aims to have 23 by the end of 2013. This year, the
fabric maker also teamed up with Converse Inc., releasing a
limited edition collection of sneakers adorned with its designs.  Marimekko’s U.S. expansion comes as new-home sales continue
to decline, in August falling to a six-month low, according to
the U.S. Commerce Department.  Consumer spending  remains
restrained amid fears of a double-dip recession and a 9.1
 unemployment rate .  “I haven’t seen any forecast that would indicate that
there would be a dynamic rebound in housing next year,”  Michael McNamara , vice president of research and analysis at MasterCard
Advisors SpendingPulse, said in a phone interview.  This year’s home decor sales have been declining, said
McNamara, who is based in New York.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “The difficult situation in the U.S. housing market is, of
course, a concern,” Ihamuotila said. “But we also see that
U.S. consumers are willing to change how their homes look. We
see that the U.S. consumer wants to use more colors and more
Scandinavian, more light furniture and textiles than before.”  Marimekko was founded in 1951 by textile artist Armi Ratia.
In 1957,  Giorgio Armani  noticed the bright, bold prints that
stood out in the post-World War II fashion scene, and ordered
Marimekko dresses for a luxury Italian department store, where
the designer was working as a window dresser.  Jackie Kennedy bought nine Marimekko dresses during
President  John F. Kennedy ’s 1960 election campaign, according to
the company, and appeared wearing a red dress on the cover of
Sports Illustrated magazine.  That made the Finnish brand famous in the U.S., though its
popularity waned until Carrie Bradshaw, played by Sarah Jessica Parker, wore a Marimekko bikini and decorated her apartment with
the company’s curtains in  HBO ’s “Sex and the City.”  Marimekko, which has a market valuation of $132 million,
operates 84 stores worldwide, seven of which opened in the last
six months. The shares gained 4.4 percent to 11.25 euros today
and have fallen 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  