-- 
Japan Needs More China, Korea Assets: Okubo

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 
2011-10-05T02:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/japan-needs-more-china-korea-assets-okubo.html
Japan should hold more of its foreign
reserves in emerging market assets to diversify its $1.2
trillion pool, a ruling party lawmaker said.  “We should invest in not just the dollar and the euro, but
our trading partners like  China ,  South Korea  and Thailand,”
Tsutomu Okubo, deputy head of the  Democratic Party of Japan ’s
policy committee, said yesterday in an interview in his office
in Tokyo. “Holding Asian currencies like the yuan, the won and
the  Thai baht  is natural if our trade with  Asia  is going to
grow.”  Japan’s reserves, the world’s second largest after China,
has jumped 14 percent since August 2010 to $1.219 trillion after
repeated government-ordered yen sales to stem surges in the
currency. Lawmakers have discussed creating a fund to boost
returns on the growing pile of dollars as they look for more
revenue to pay back a debt burden twice the size of gross
domestic product.  Okubo, a former derivatives trader at Morgan Stanley, said
 Japan  already has a “clever sovereign wealth fund” because it
is moving up to $100 billion of its reserves to the state-run
Japan Bank for International Cooperation, which in turn is
helping companies buy businesses and secure natural resources
abroad. The measures were announced in August as part of a
program to help exporters cope with the yen level near a postwar
high against the dollar.  “It means Japan is channeling its accumulation of dollars
to the places that most need dollar-funding,” said Okubo, 50, a
member of the upper house of parliament. “We’re moving closer
to a more professional way of managing our dollars.”  Talks With Ministry  That $100 billion in JBIC funding from the nation’s foreign
reserves should be expanded, and he’s in discussions with
 Finance Ministry  officials to make that happen, Okubo said.
Seiji Maehara, the DPJ’s policy-setting chief, asked Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda’ government yesterday to increase the
amount by 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) to accelerate Japan’s
push to maximize the benefits of a strong currency.  The funding could be extended to Japanese commercial banks
and companies in an “emergency” such as the credit crunch in
2008, Okubo said. The finance ministry and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  are
laying the groundwork to “swiftly” make that option available
in the event the European debt crisis leads to a global
liquidity shortage, he said.  After the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
triggered a plunge in Japanese  government bonds  in September
2008, Okubo helped persuade the ministry to buy floating-rate
bonds to stem losses at the country’s banks, he said in an
interview in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  