-- 
Japan Offers $43 Billion Credit Line to Megabanks to Fund Overseas Mergers

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-10-05T07:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/japan-offers-43-billion-credit-to-megabanks-for-m-a-abroad-1-.html
Japan’s three biggest banks received
a combined $43 billion  credit line  from the government to help
finance domestic companies’ overseas takeovers as businesses
seek to counter the strong yen.  The  Japan Bank for International Cooperation , known as JBIC,
is offering a $15 billion credit line to  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) ’s banking unit, the state-run lender said
in a statement on its website today. Units of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  each
received $14 billion in credit under the pact.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is under pressure to help
Japanese companies weather the yen’s 11 percent rise against the
dollar in the past six months, which has hampered the nation’s
recovery from a record earthquake in March. The deal is aimed at
helping banks to procure dollars and offer loans to companies
planning acquisitions abroad, the statement said.  “This is a preparatory measure for any future event that
may make it difficult for Japanese banks to procure the dollars
in the market,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Still,  Japan ’s government needs to swiftly
reconstruct the earthquake-damaged nation and push domestic
economic growth.”  The yen, which has gained against the dollar as a haven
amid concerns the European debt crisis will worsen, traded at
76.73 per dollar as of 3:57 p.m. in Tokyo.  $100 Billion Program  The credit lines are part of a government program unveiled
in August to release $100 billion of foreign-exchange reserves
to the state-owned lender to fund exporters and spur purchases
overseas, the statement said.  Katsunori Nagayasu, head of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said last month that persistent gains in the yen
might push companies to shift production and research abroad to
control currency-related costs.  Japanese companies have announced overseas takeovers
totaling $56.7 billion so far this year, the highest in three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JBIC was established by the government to promote overseas
development and acquisition of natural resources, improve
Japanese companies’ competitiveness, finance business abroad and
respond to global financial disruptions, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  