-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise, Snapping Four-Day Losing Streak, on Europe Optimism

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-10-06T07:32:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/japan-stock-futures-australia-shares-gain-on-u-s-job-report-europe-debt.html
Japanese stocks rose for the first
time in five days on signs that European policy makers will act
to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis, boosting the
earnings outlook for  Asia ’s exporters.  Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that gets 33 percent of its
sales in the U.S. and  Canada , gained 4.3 after a U.S. jobs
report beat estimates. Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Ltd. led
gains among chip-related companies after an index tracking the
U.S. semiconductor industry gained for a second day.  Sony Corp. (6758) 
rose 4.7 percent after a report the entertainment company got
financing from Abu Dhabi’s investment fund to support a bid for
EMI Group Ltd., the music label home to the Beatles and Coldplay.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.7 percent to 8,522.02
at the 3 p.m. trading close in  Tokyo , snapping a four-day losing
streak after French and Belgian officials said they had made
progress on a plan to split up troubled lender  Dexia SA. (DEXB)  The
broader Topix index gained 1.5 percent to 736.86.  “The fact that governments are going to address banks like
Dexia on a case-by-case basis shows progress is being made to
bolster the safety net for banks,” saidMitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “The economic indicators suggest that the U.S.
isn’t in such bad shape. The market has become too pessimistic
about the economy.”  Europe  Crisis  The Topix lost 10 percent last quarter, the steepest
decline since the three months through June 2010, amid
slowing U.S. growth and an escalating crisis in Europe. The
decline has cut the price of shares on the index to
0.89 times estimated book value, near the lowest since March
2009.  Dexia, a French- and Belgian-owned bank, surged yesterday
after Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said the lender’s
troubled assets would be pooled into a “bad bank” with
government guarantees to protect depositors and a municipal-
lending unit.  “Coming to the rescue of a bank is not necessarily a bad
deal,” French European Affairs Minister Jean Leonetti said on
Canal Plus television.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. The index rose 1.8 percent yesterday in  New York  after a
report showed U.S. employers added 91,000 jobs in September. The
figure beat a forecast for 75,000.  Nissan advanced 4.3 percent to 686 yen. Honda Motor Co.,
which depends on  North America  for 44 percent of its sales,
advanced 1.6 percent to 2,230 yen.  Chip-Related Shares  Dainippon Screen and other semiconductor-related firms
gained after the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which tracks
the performance of 30 industry stocks, rose 3.1 percent
yesterday to a one-week high.  Kyoto-based Dainippon Screen, which manufactures chipmaking
gear, jumped 6.2 percent to 496 yen. Elpida Memory Inc., the
world’s third-largest maker of computer memory, soared 6.6
percent to 500 yen. Sumco Corp., which produces silicon wafers,
climbed 5.7 percent.  Sony climbed 4.7 percent to 1,470 yen after the Financial
Times reported the firm got financing from Mubadala,  Abu Dhabi ’s
investment fund, to support a bid for EMI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 