-- 
JCB to Boost India Sales 15% This Year on Construction Demand

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-10-05T05:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/jcb-to-boost-india-sales-15-this-year-on-construction-demand.html
JC Bamford Excavators Ltd., a maker
of construction excavating vehicles, aims to boost sales in
 India  by 15 percent this year as it taps demand in the nation’s
rural areas.  JCB plans to increase sales outlets in Indian villages
after more than doubling its nationwide stores to 400 in four
years, Vipin Sondhi, the  local unit ’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview yesterday. He declined to say how many new
rural outlets are being planned.  The closely held company started selling a smaller version
of its backhoe in May to fend off competition from local
manufacturers, Sondhi said.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest construction equipment maker, and  Terex Corp. (TEX)  are also
expanding in India as the nation plans to double spending on
roads, ports and power projects to $1 trillion in the five years
through March 2017.  “We’ve no option as a country but to invest in
infrastructure at all points in time,” Sondhi said. “Any
infrastructure project requires earth to be moved in some form
and that’s the demand driver.”  JCB, based in Uttoxeter,  England , sold 21,000 units of
construction equipment last year in India. As much as 80 percent
of the sales came from small family businesses that rent out
backhoes and excavators, according to Amit Gossain, vice
president, marketing.  The equipment maker’s two factories in the nation have an
annual production capacity of 30,000 vehicles, Sondhi said at
the unit’s headquarters in Ballabgarh near  New Delhi . The
company has invested about 6.5 billion rupees ($132 million) in
the India facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  