-- 
Kazakhstan May Pay Up to $1.1 Billion for Karachaganak Stake

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-10-05T15:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kazakhstan-may-pay-up-to-1-1-billion-for-10-of-karachaganak.html
Kazakhstan may pay $700 million to
$1.1 billion for 10 percent of the Karachaganak oil venture led
by  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) , said Timur Kulibayev, the head of
the state wealth fund, Samruk-Kazyna.  The foreign partners, which include  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Russia ’s OAO Lukoil, must settle issues with the Oil and Gas
Ministry before an agreement is reached, Kulibayev told
reporters today in Astana, the Central Asia nation’s capital.  Kazakhstan is seeking to enter Karachaganak, the only major
oil development in which the state doesn’t hold a stake, as it
boosts control of its oil resources. The government has
threatened tax claims and fines for environmental violations and
cost inflation, while saying it will approve the budget for
Karachaganak’s expansion only after joining the project.  “This will be a package deal,”  Oil and Gas Minister
Sauat Mynbayev said today. Yesterday, Mynbayev said the
government won’t drop tax claims against the venture during
their negotiations.  The Karachaganak partners expect to reach an agreement on
expanding the project with the Kazakh government this year,
Chris Finlayson, BG’s executive vice president and managing
director for Europe & Central Asia, said yesterday. He declined
to comment on the stake or tax claims.  Tax Claims, Rebates  The Karachaganak Petroleum Operating BV venture has been in
talks on ceding a minority stake since 2009 after the government
began piling up about $2.5 billion of claims for back taxes,
“illegal earnings,” fines and environmental violations, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in April last year. The
partners had demanded about $1.4 billion in tax rebates.  Kazakhstan  expects the venture to decide on the so-called
third-phase expansion at a cost of $14.5 billion, KazMunaiGaz
National Co., the state energy producer, said in February.
KazMunaiGaz, which is controlled by Samruk-Kazyna, is the
company that would get the stake in Karachaganak.  BG and Eni are the largest shareholders in Karachaganak,
each holding 32.5 percent, while Chevron has 20 percent and
Lukoil holds 15 percent. Karachaganak produced the equivalent of
about 360,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2010, according
to the project’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  