-- 
Kenyan Government Boosts Security Along Coast After Abductions

-- B y   C o n s o l a t a h   L u c a s
-- 
2011-10-05T14:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kenyan-government-boosts-security-along-coast-after-abductions.html
Kenya ’s government tightened security
along its coastline after a foreign tourist was killed and two
others were abducted from a beach resort in the northeast of the
country, Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka said.  The measures include introducing 24-hour patrols along the
East African nation’s 536-kilometer (333-mile) coast to prevent
attacks from the sea, Musyoka told reporters today in the port
city of  Mombasa . Night fishing has also been banned, he said,
urging foreign countries not to encourage their citizens to
avoid traveling to Kenya.  “I am appealing to all the friendly states that have
imposed travel advisories to lift them,” he said.  British tourist David Tebbutt was killed and his wife
Judith was abducted last month at a resort in Kiwayu, 503
kilometers southeast of Nairobi, and is being held hostage in
neighboring  Somalia . On Oct. 1, Marie Dedieu, a 66-year-old
disabled French woman, was kidnapped from a house on nearby
Manda Island by armed gunmen from Somalia’s al-Shabaab rebel
group, Tourism Minister Najib Balala said in a statement posted
on his Twitter account.  The Lamu archipelago, where the incidents took place, is
one of Kenya’s main attractions for tourists who generated 73.7
billion shillings ($729 million) for the country last year, the
second-largest foreign-exchange earner after tea. The U.K.
government changed its travel advice on Oct. 1 to recommend that
visitors to Kenya avoid non-essential travel within 150
kilometers of the border with Somalia, where a civil war has
raged for two decades.  Kenya is counting on a tripling of tourists to 3 million by
2015 to help achieve its goal of 10 percent economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Consolatah Lucas in Mombasa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 