-- 
Kenyan Budget Office Criticizes Central Bank’s Mixed Signals

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-05T09:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kenyan-budget-office-criticizes-central-bank-s-mixed-signals-.html
Kenya ’s central bank is sending mixed
signals on monetary policy that may be fueling speculation in
the weakening currency and eroding investor confidence, the non-
partisan  Parliamentary Budget Office  said.  While the bank is “undertaking quite a number of measures
to control the decline of the Kenyan shilling, it is sending
mixed signals to the market,” the Nairobi-based office, which
researches domestic economic topics to inform Kenyan lawmakers,
said on its  website  yesterday. “This may have caused investors
to lose confidence in the country’s management of the financial
crisis, making them view Kenya as a risky place to invest.”  Inflation accelerated to 17.3 percent in September, rising
for the 11th straight month, as the shilling, the world’s worst
performer, fell to a record low of 104.2 against the dollar,
possibly undermining the country’s economic recovery because
imports are becoming more expensive.  Gross domestic product in  East Africa ’s largest economy
declined 4.6 percent in the second quarter after expansion of 2
percent three months year earlier, as dry weather hurt farming
output and consumers spent less on non-essentials.  Kenya’s monetary policy has confused some investors and
analysts as the central bank unexpectedly cut the key lending
rate to a record low in January, at the same time inflation
exceeded the government’s 5 percent target, and then reversed
the decision two months later.  Mixed Signals  Kenya’s money-market rates soared and then eased in August
after changes to the formula for calculating the overnight
lending rate, which is the interest charged on loans from the
central bank to commercial lenders.  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has blamed the currency’s decline
on speculation, the deteriorating global economy and growing
demand for dollar-paid imports.  “Possibly, the mixed signals are also fueling speculative
tendencies, causing people to hoard dollars with the expectation
that the shilling will slide further,” according to the report.  The shilling fell for the fourth straight session, losing
0.1 percent to 102.1 by 11:50 a.m. in Nairobi, compared with a
close of 101.95 yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  The Central Bank of Kenya’s rate-setting monetary policy
committee is meeting today, less than a month after it raised
the key lending rate by a record 0.75 percentage point to 7
percent at an emergency meeting on Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  