-- 
Kenya Raises Interest Rate by 4 Points to Rescue Shilling

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-05T13:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kenyan-central-bank-raises-benchmark-rate-to-11-as-prices-soar.html
The Central Bank of  Kenya  raised its
benchmark interest rate by a record 4 percentage points,
signaling a policy shift in a bid to combat inflation and rescue
the shilling.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, raised the key lending rate to 11 percent, the Nairobi-
based central bank said in an e-mailed statement today. That was
higher than the 7.75 percent median estimate of nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s move follows the central bank in neighboring
Uganda, which yesterday raised its benchmark rate by the same
magnitude to 20 percent. The worst regional drought in 60 years
has boosted food prices and weakened the currencies of the two
East African nations, both of which have lost about a fifth of
their value against the dollar this year, the worst performers
of more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The Central Bank of Kenya hike is just what was needed
and echoes what we’ve seen in  Uganda ,” Charles Robertson,
global chief economist for  Renaissance Capital , said in an e-
mail today. The increase shows the central bank’s “commitment
to inflation” and it may help the shilling appreciate to 100
against the dollar or stronger, he said.  Shilling Snaps Losses  The shilling snapped three days of losses, gaining as much
as 0.9 percent to 101.03 against the dollar today, and was
trading at 101.25 as of 4 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenya is struggling to bring down an inflation rate that
soared to 17.3 percent in September, more than triple its 5
percent goal. Investors and Kenyan lawmakers have criticized
Ndung’u for failing to curb inflation after he lowered the
benchmark to a record low in January and then reversed the
decision two months later.  “This is perhaps the first good market news we’ve had in a
while,” John Bates, the head of fixed income at London-based
Silk Invest Ltd., said in an e-mail. “Inflation is clearly
ringing alarm bells within the government and it looks like
decisive action is being taken.”  The MPC, which will meet every month from now, indicated in
its statement it will increase  interest rates  if inflation
pressure and currency volatility don’t ease.  ‘Additional Threats’  The committee is “concerned that inflationary pressure
continued to increase and that both the weakening of the
shilling and its volatility posed additional threats,” Ndung’u
said in the statement.  Soaring inflation and a weaker currency are undermining
company earnings.  Total SA (FP) ’s Kenyan unit said on Oct. 3 annual
profit will be “significantly lower” than the previous year
because of high interest rates, the shilling’s slump and rising
prices.  The MPC no longer believes that inflation is a temporary
problem, an assumption that had led to a “gradual” tightening
of monetary policy earlier this year, the committee said.  Drought has curbed agriculture production and crimped
demand in  East Africa ’s largest economy, which contracted by a
seasonally-adjusted 4.6 percent in the second quarter, compared
to an expansion of 2 percent three months earlier, the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics said on Sept. 29.  “This certainly helps in the restoration of confidence in
the central bank,” said Fred Moturi, a fixed-income trader with
Sterling Capital Ltd. who forecast a 3 percentage point
increase. “It’s not going to be the only thing they will have
to do, but it’s a step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  