-- 
Kinetic Concepts Said to Rework Financing Backing Apax LBO

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-10-05T17:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kinetic-concepts-said-to-rework-financing-backing-buyout-by-apax.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a wound care
company, changed the structure and proposed rates on a portion
of a financing backing it’s buyout by Apax Partners Inc.,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  A $2.6 billion term loan B maturing in seven years was cut
to $2.2 billion and a senior secured bridge piece was increased
by the same amount to $1.65 billion, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the deal is private.  The term debt will pay 5.75 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, the people said. Libor, a rate
banks charge to lend to each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor.  Kinetic Concepts  is proposing to sell the loan at 95.5
cents to 96 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds for the
company and boosting the yield to investors, the people said.  Lenders are being offered soft-call protection of 102 cents
and 101 cents, said the person. That means the company would
have to pay 2 cents more than face value to refinance the debt
during the first year and 1 cent during the second year.  The San Antonio-based company is also seeking a $200
million revolving line of credit maturing in five years.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging the deal and lenders
must submit commitments by Oct. 19 in  New York . The deal is
expected to close and fund on Nov. 4, the people said.  Bridge Financing  The senior secured bridge piece will pay 7 percentage
points more than Libor, one of the people said. The lending
benchmark will have a 1.5 percent minimum. A $900 million
unsecured slice will pay 8.5 percentage points more than Libor
and have a 1.5 percent floor, said the person.  Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Credit Suisse Group and
Royal Bank of Canada arranged the bridge financing and lenders
must submit commitments by Oct. 7 in New York.  Kinetic Concepts expects to begin marketing high-yield
bonds next week to replace the bridge debt, the person said.  Mike Barger, a spokesman for Kinetic Concepts, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Kinetic  agreed  to be taken private by Apax, the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and the Public Sector Pension
Investment Board for $68.50 per share.  In a revolving credit facility, the money can be borrowed
again once it’s repaid; in a  term loan , it can’t. A term loan B
is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  