-- 
Kontogiannis Gets 12 Years, 10 Months for $92 Million Fraud

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-10-05T21:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kontogiannis-gets-12-years-10-months-for-92-million-real-estate-fraud.html
Thomas Kontogiannis, a New York
developer serving prison time for his role in laundering bribe
money for former U.S. Representative Randy “Duke” Cunningham,
was sentenced to 12 years and 10 months in a $92 million real-
estate scheme.  Kontogiannis, 62, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto in Brooklyn, New York. He led a scheme
to defraud  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
DLJ Mortgage Capital in connection with the development of
properties in Brooklyn and Queens, New York, said prosecutors in
the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch. He pleaded guilty in
the scheme last year.  “It appears it is one of the largest mortgage-origination
frauds on record,” the judge said before imposing the sentence.  Nine people were indicted in the case in 2009, accused of
obtaining multiple mortgages and staging repeated sales of the
same properties to straw buyers to obtain the home loans. The
fraud began in March 2003 and ran until September 2007,
prosecutors said. Eight defendants, including Kontogiannis,
pleaded guilty last year and one died.  Kontogiannis faced a maximum of 30 years. Because his New
York sentence will run concurrently with the one imposed in
 California , he will spend about nine more years in prison.  ‘Humiliated Man’  “I’m standing before you as a humiliated man,” he told
Matsumoto. “I know that my actions were wrong.”  His lawyer, Gregory O’Connell of De Feis O’Connell & Rose
PC in New York, declined to comment after the sentencing.  Matsumoto put the total loss and restitution owed the two
banks at $98.3 million.  Kontogiannis is serving eight years and one month for
helping launder Cunningham’s bribe money through fraudulent
mortgages that allowed the former congressman to buy a
$2.4 million mansion in Rancho Santa Fe, California.
Kontogiannis was sentenced in  San Diego  in May 2008.  Cunningham, a California Republican, resigned from Congress
after pleading guilty in 2005 to taking $2.4 million in bribes
from defense contractors. Cunningham, 69, is serving a sentence
of eight years and four months.  The defendants in the  Brooklyn  case also allegedly obtained
permits to construct multi-unit housing in Queens and Brooklyn
and, to finance the projects, subdivided the land tracts and
staged sales of the properties financed by the  mortgage loans ,
the U.S. said.  False Filings  They were accused of preparing false loan filings to create
the appearance the properties were being purchased by credit-
worthy individuals.  One defendant provided fraudulent appraisals to support the
price of the properties, even when no buildings existed or had
fictional addresses, prosecutors said.  Loans were financed by lenders controlled by Kontogiannis
and later sold to Washington Mutual and DLJ, prosecutors said.
The defendants stopped making the mortgage payments in 2007.  Kontogiannis pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bank
and wire fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Kontogiannis, 09-cr-360, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 