-- 
Kraft Said to Hire Heidrick in Search for Grocery Spinoff’s CEO

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-10-05T19:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kraft-foods-is-said-to-hire-heidrick-in-search-for-grocery-spinoff-s-chief.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the foodmaker
splitting into two companies at the end of next year, hired
 Heidrick & Struggles International Inc. (HSII)  to find external
candidates to lead its North American grocery spinoff, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Kraft’s board also is considering internal candidates to
run the $16 billion grocery company, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the search is private.  “Our board of directors is carrying out its fiduciary
duties, following a disciplined process before appointing the
leaders of the two companies,” Mike Mitchell, a Kraft
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We have an incredibly talented
team and a very deep bench of leaders around the world.”  Jen Nelson, an Atlanta-based spokeswoman for Heidrick &
Struggles, declined to comment.  Kraft, the world’s second-largest food company, is
splitting up to help the snacks business push products into
emerging markets and make additional acquisitions while the
slower-growing, higher-margin grocery business expands in the
U.S. and returns cash to shareholders.  The North American grocery division is currently headed by
Anthony Vernon, who joined Kraft in 2009. The entity will
include the U.S. beverages, cheese, convenient meals and grocery
units and some other food items, featuring brands such as Oscar
Mayer meats and Maxwell House coffee.  The spinoff will leave a global snacks and candy business
with $32 billion in revenue from brands like Cadbury chocolate
and Oreo cookies, Kraft said in August. Chief Executive Officer
Irene Rosenfeld said last month that she will hold a leadership
role in one of the two companies. Rosenfeld is likely to lead
the snacks company, said Ed Aaron, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Denver.  Kraft fell 18 cents to $32.68 at 3:20 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The Northfield, Illinois-based
company’s shares rose 4.3 percent this year through yesterday.
Chicago-based Heidrick & Struggles dropped 61 cents, or 3.4
percent, to $17.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  