-- 
Kuwait Protesters in Porsches Say Gulf Can’t Spend Way Out of Arab Spring

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-06T09:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/kuwait-protesters-in-porsches-shake-gulf-s-democracy-pioneer.html
Meshal al-Zaidi says he was drawn
into  Kuwait ’s protest movement by political ideals, not the
economic grievances that helped spur revolts in poorer Arab
countries.  “My friend drives a Porsche Cayenne, another a Porsche
Panamera, you’ll see the best cars at Kuwaiti protests,” said
al-Zaidi, a 25-year-old who runs a public relations firm and
attends rallies seeking the ouster of Prime Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah. “It’s not about money, it’s not
about oil, it’s about real democracy.”  Demands for a change of government are growing louder in
Kuwait, where per-capita gross domestic product was about
$39,000 last year and the authorities started food and cash
handouts in February as Egyptian protesters were driving  Hosni Mubarak  from office. That’s a warning signal for other Gulf
rulers who are also betting on accelerated spending to appease
calls for democracy spreading through the Arab world.  Kuwait has gone further down the road toward representative
government than peers in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council, while posting slower economic growth. Its $110 billion
development plan is lagging as opposition lawmakers, with more
powers to block policy than direct it, charge the government
with corruption. The main  stock index  has fallen 15 percent in
the past year, double the drop on Bloomberg’s Persian Gulf
benchmark.  ‘Less Politically Stable’  “The next several months or couple of years in all the
Gulf monarchies are going to be less politically stable than at
any other point in their history,” said Christopher Davidson,
who specializes in the study of the Persian Gulf at Durham
University in the U.K. In Kuwait’s case, “parliamentary
activity is far more advanced than the others, and its ability
to hold up economic development is unprecedented in the Gulf.”  Kuwait created the Gulf’s first elected parliament half a
century ago, and expanded the franchise to include women in
2005. It ranked as the third most democratic Arab state, behind
Lebanon and  Iraq  and above the other five GCC countries, in the
Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010  Democracy Index .  Economic growth, though, has been the GCC’s slowest over
the past five years, according to International Monetary Fund
data. Gross domestic product expanded an average of 2.6 percent
a year, compared with 4.2 percent in the  United Arab Emirates ,
5.7 percent in Bahrain and 18 percent in Qatar.  Confidence Votes  Kuwait’s assembly has no say in the formation of the
Cabinet, traditionally headed by a senior member of the ruling
Al-Sabah family. It can demand the right to question ministers,
and lawmakers are using that power to harry Sheikh Nasser, the
ruling emir’s nephew.  Demonstrations calling for the premier to quit began in
March, and the biggest on Sept. 21 drew several thousand in a
country where Kuwaitis make up only one-third of the 3.6 million
population. Opposition lawmakers such as Musallam al-Barrak and
Jamaan al-Harbash regularly speak at the rallies. Youth groups
including al-Zaidi’s ‘September 16’ cite inspiration from the
Arab Spring and demand a constitutional monarchy and elected
government.  “The continuation of  Sheikh Nasser ’s government is an
insult to the Kuwaiti people,” al-Harbash told a crowd of
thousands at a  meeting in front of parliament  in  Kuwait City 
late yesterday. The protesters, mostly wearing traditional Arab
robes, formed a circle around a central platform where fans were
placed to cool them down.  Sheikh Nasser has survived three confidence votes in
parliament since his appointment in 2006 and been forced to form
seven separate administrations.  ‘Matter of Dignity’  The opposition is threatening a renewed drive to unseat
Sheikh Nasser after the assembly reconvenes on Oct. 25, this
time over a corruption scandal that was a trigger for last
month’s protest.  Eleven lawmakers received unexplained payments of 31
million dinars ($112 million) to their bank accounts, al-Barrak
said in an Oct. 4 phone interview. Al-Barrak said the country’s
two biggest banks,  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  and Kuwait Finance
House, revealed the transfers, and there may be other
“suspicious accounts” still to be disclosed. National Bank and
Kuwait Finance declined to comment.  Sheikh Nasser “will be toppled” if the issue comes to a
parliament vote, al-Barrak said. “This is a matter of dignity
for the Kuwaiti nation.”  The government has drafted an  anti-corruption bill  that it
says will be submitted to parliament this week. The measure will
“ help put an end to this controversial file and to the
accusations” of graft, Oil Minister Mohammad al-Busairy  said
this week .  Gulf Spending Spree  Political ructions are holding back Kuwait’s investment
plans. The Al-Zour refinery, a $14 billion project with planned
capacity of 615,000 barrels a day, was due to be operating next
year. Construction hasn’t started and Kuwait National Petroleum
Co. said last month it’s still awaiting final approval.  Governments across the  Persian Gulf  are opening purse-
strings in response to public demands for higher  living
standards  spurred by the revolts in Tunisia and  Egypt . Among the
six GCC countries only Bahrain, where 35 people were killed as
security forces cracked down on protesters, and Oman experienced
violence.  Saudi Arabia  announced $130 billion of spending on jobs and
homes, in addition to an existing five-year, $380 billion
investment plan. The U.A.E. is spending $1.6 billion to improve
infrastructure in its poorer northern regions. Kuwait’s version
is a four-year program costing 30.8 billion dinars which started
last year.  ‘Change Is Coming’  There’s no shortage of funds. Kuwait has the world’s sixth-
biggest oil reserves and pumped about 2.6 million barrels a day
last month, Bloomberg data show. It has posted budget surpluses
for 12 straight fiscal years, amassing 38 billion dinars in the
past seven. The government in February granted Kuwaitis 1,000
dinars each, along with 13 months of free food staples.  The problem is a lack of government leadership that is
hurting the economy’s ability to compete internationally, said
Jassim al-Saadoun, head of Kuwait-based  Al-Shall Economic
Consultants .  “We have enough funds to finance our own projects, but to
produce what?” he said. “Things are intolerable, change is
coming.”  No Prada  Adding to the turmoil is a wave of strikes, as Kuwaitis in
the private sector demand equality with government employees,
while the latter call for salary increases to match peers in
other departments. A threatened strike in the oil industry,
averted when employees’ demands were met, would have cost the
country $320 million a day, Oil Minister Mohammad al-Busairy
said last month.  Al-Zaidi, the publicist turned activist, says it’s the
corruption allegations that are fueling the most anger.  “Once upon a time we said, okay, let them steal and let
them build our country,” he said. “Now we say, we’re not going
to let them steal and we are going to build our country.”  And he is working to spread the message: “I tweeted my
friend and asked him not to wear his Prada shoes to protest, but
to wear something practical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  