-- 
N.Z. Kiwifruit Industry Fights to Survive Bacteria Disease

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-10-06T04:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/n-z-kiwifruit-industry-fights-to-survive-as-virus-multiplies.html
New Zealand  is failing to slow the
spread of a bacterial disease that threatens the survival of its
kiwifruit industry and could cost the economy as much as NZ$200
million ($153 million) this year.  About 400 kiwifruit orchards, or 12 percent of New
Zealand’s total, are infected with Pseudomonas syringae pv
actinidiae as it continues to multiply almost a year after
appearing, according to industry body Kiwifruit Vine Health Inc.
Export volumes this year may drop 20 percent from last year,
Minister of Agriculture  David Carter  said yesterday in an
interview in Wellington.  The disease threatens one of New Zealand’s most iconic
exports as the nation grapples with the aftermath of earthquakes
and a credit-rating downgrade. Efforts to control PSA are
focused on research to grow a resistant type of kiwifruit as
growers realize that culling their infected vines is probably
futile, Carter said.  “The worst-case scenario is that we lose the kiwifruit
industry,” said Carter, a South Island farmer. “I don’t think
it will get to that. I think they will find varieties that are
resistant to PSA and allow us to salvage the industry.”  New Zealand earned NZ$1 billion from exports of locally
grown kiwifruit in the year through March, according to  Zespri
Ltd.,  the world’s largest marketer of the fruit. The product is
among New Zealand’s biggest horticultural exports, according to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry’s website.  NZ$200 Million  While it’s too soon to quantify the losses, the financial
cost to the kiwifruit industry from PSA this year may reach as
much as NZ$200 million based on last year’s prices, Carter said.  “It’s a very serious situation,” Carter said. “We’re not
stopping the spread.”  Initial signs of New Zealand’s outbreak were discovered in
a North Island orchard in November. The disease, first
identified on green kiwifruit vines in  Italy  in 1992, is spread
by airborne spores and can move easily between plants and
orchards. It carries no risk to human or animal health.  Growers have scaled back an aggressive culling program that
began at the end of last year and instead are using chemical
sprays to protect the vines, Carter said. The disease has two
strains, of which the virulent is more common, he said. The
other strain is more benign and may have been in New Zealand for
many years, he said.  New Zealand’s government, which spends about NZ$180 million
a year on biosecurity, and the kiwifruit industry should have
been more prepared for PSA, Carter said. It had already spread
in  South Korea  and Italy, where New Zealand growers had
investments, he said. The government and the industry agreed on
a NZ$50 million rescue package shortly after the outbreak.  ‘Seriously Impact’  The failure to curb PSA could “seriously impact” the
future earnings of  Seeka Kiwifruit Industries Ltd. (SEK) , the company
said in a Sept. 19 statement. Shares in the company, based in
the town of Te Puke where the first infection was found, have
plunged about 70 percent in the past year.  Growers reported 17 new cases of the more virulent strain
of the disease last week, according to Kiwifruit Vine Health.
The number of New Zealand orchards infected with that strain
rose to 312, with most in Te Puke.  Fifty-eight research programs are under way to find a
kiwifruit variety that’s resistant to PSA, Carter said.  “It better be sooner rather than later,” he said.
“Because this industry’s under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  