-- 
New Hope Rises to Record After Saying It’s Considering Takeover Approaches

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-10-05T06:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/new-hope-reaches-record-after-saying-its-considering-approaches.html
New Hope  Corp. rose to a record in
Sydney trading after the Australian coal producer valued at
A$5.1 billion ($4.9 billion) received takeover offers from
unidentified companies.  New Hope, which operates the Acland coal mine in Queensland
state, climbed 15 percent to close at A$6.10 at 4:10 p.m. in
Sydney, the highest since Sept. 16, 2003. Selected groups will
be invited to submit offers in a process that is likely to take
months, the company said in a statement.  Buying New Hope, based in Ipswich, Queensland, would give
an acquirer thermal coal mines and an export terminal. Prices
for thermal coal, used to produce electricity, are likely to
rise over the next two years, supported by demand in  Asia ,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in note dated yesterday.  Acland produces a “high quality thermal coal product
that’s in high demand,” said Peter Arden, senior equity analyst
at Ord Minnett Ltd. in  Melbourne . The quality of New Hope’s
assets combined with the company’s plans to double output may
attract suitors including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  as well as Japanese power producers, Arden said.  The company has received “numerous” approaches from
potential buyers, Chairman Robert Millner said today in a
telephone interview, declining to identify them. New Hope isn’t
currently in talks with any of them, he said.  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for BHP, and Karen Halbert, a
Melbourne-based spokeswoman for  Rio Tinto , declined to comment.
 James Rickards , a Sydney-based spokesman for Xstrata’s coal
division, also declined to comment.  Coal Deals  New Hope’s expansion plans, strong balance sheet and
ownership of an export facility means the company is worth more
than A$7 a share, implying a value of more than A$5.8 billion,
Angus Aitken, a broker with Bell Potter Securities Ltd. said in
an e-mailed comment.  This year has yielded coal transactions with a combined
value of $33 billion, compared with $38 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium
paid this year is 23 percent, according to the data.  The Acland coal mine may be worth about A$3 billion, Ord
Minnett’s Arden said. The company, planning to double output at
the mine to 10 million metric tons, held A$1.7 billion in cash
and near-cash items as of June 30.  New Hope appointed Pitt Capital Partners as financial
advisers and  Baker & McKenzie  as legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  