-- 
New York Beats London as Top Spot for Real Estate Buys

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-10-05T07:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/new-york-beats-london-as-top-spot-for-real-estate-investment-on-financing.html
New York  overtook London as the No. 1
destination for real-estate investment for the first time since
2007 after improved access to financing spurred more U.S. deals,
 Cushman & Wakefield Inc . said in a report today.  Investments grew 166 percent to $29.7 billion in the New
York area in the 12 months through August, compared with a year
earlier. Investment in greater London increased 2.4 percent to
$27.2 billion, according to the report based on data compiled by
the New York-based broker and Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Buyers are drawn to cities like New York and London because
of a greater focus on the “biggest and best,” Cushman said in
the report. The trend will continue in the next six months, it
said.  Outside of the U.S. real estate lending tends to be tighter
and is still “very focused on prime, leased assets only,”
Cushman said in the report.  Chicago , New York,  Boston  and Atlanta made up four of the
five fastest growing property investment markets by volume, the
report said. Frankfurt and  Germany ’s Rhine-Main area ranked
fourth, with growth of 126 percent.  A resurgence of the commercial mortgage-backed security
market in the U.S. in the first half of this year spurred the
increase in investment, said  Joseph Kelly , director of market
analysis at Real Capital Analytics. That market is now
“starting to slow down,” he said.  Distressed Debt  Distressed debt is a much greater concern in Europe than
the U.S. and that’s holding back new funding in the market,
particularly for second-tier assets, Kelly said. Figures on the
level of distressed debt in  Europe  aren’t available because much
of it is privately held, he said.  Tokyo ’s investment market fell to the third spot from
second following the earthquake and tsunami earlier this year.
Investment dropped 12.6 percent to $18.1 billion.  London kept its spot as the top city for overseas property
investment with $14.2 billion. That was a drop of 9.6 percent.
One in every two dollars spent on real estate investment in
London during the period came from abroad. Kelly said there has
been a “resurgence” in interest in London from U.S. investors  London was followed by Paris, New York,  Singapore  and
Beijing as the favorite destinations for overseas buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  