-- 
New York Mets Cut 2012 Ticket Prices After Third Straight Losing Season

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-10-05T04:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/new-york-mets-cut-2012-ticket-prices-after-third-straight-losing-season.html
The  New York Mets  cut ticket prices
for next season after the Major League Baseball team had a
losing record and fewer spectators for the third straight
season.  The Mets have cut prices for three consecutive years at
the $850 million Citi Field. Game-day attendances have dropped
26 percent to 2.35 million people since 2009.  More than 15,000 seats will cost less than $25 next
season, while prices for 57 percent of seats will be discounted
by 10 percent or more, the Mets said in a  statement  on their
website last night. A drop of 30 percent will be imposed on 18
percent of seats, with 35 percent of ticket prices being cut 20
percent or more.  The Mets went 77-85 this year to finish fourth in the
five-team National League East division, 25 games behind the
 Philadelphia Phillies . The Mets haven’t reached the postseason
since 2006.  “The two most significant factors continue to be the
economy and the challenge for people in terms of disposable
income, and team performance,” Mets Executive Vice President
of Business Operations Dave Howard said. “On the team
performance side, we saw some good things this year. We got off
to a rough start and we finished rough, but in between the team
did play well.”  The biggest reductions come for season-ticket holders in
the Caesars Silver and Gold categories, who will see prices
slump by 39 percent and 34 percent respectively.  The club will allow prices for individual games to vary
throughout the season based on demand and team performance,
Howard said.  “Upward adjustments are going to be because of a really
good team or really good pitching matchup or the team catching
fire and being in playoff contention,” Howard said. “That
should be balanced with some of the off-peak type of games,
where pricing should be reasonable and in many cases might
actually drop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 