-- 
New Democrats Win Fourth Straight Majority in Manitoba Provincial Election

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-10-05T12:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/new-democrats-win-fourth-straight-majority-in-manitoba-election.html
Manitoba Premier Greg Selinger was
re-elected with a majority of seats in the Canadian prairie
province’s legislature, extending the current New  Democratic
Party ’s mandate to four terms.  The NDP, which has been in power since 1999, won 37 of 57
districts, compared with 19 for the Progressive Conservative
Party and 1 for the  Liberal Party , according to results posted
on the provincial election agency’s  website . The ruling party
won 46 percent of the popular vote, compared with 44 percent for
the Progressive Conservatives and 8 percent for the Liberals.  The election comes as Manitoba prepares for a possible
slowdown amid a faltering global economy. With a diversified
economy that includes agriculture, financial services and
transportation, Manitoba avoided the recession that affected the
rest of the country in 2008 and 2009.  The province’s unemployment rate, at 5.4 percent, is the
second-lowest in the country after Saskatchewan and lower than
the country’s 7.3 percent rate. The economy will probably expand
2.1 percent this year before slowing to 1.7 percent growth in
2012, according to TD Group Chief Economist Craig Alexander.  It was Selinger’s first win as leader after he took over in
2009 from former Premier Gary Doer, who is now  Canada ’s
ambassador to the U.S. Selinger, 60, studied social work at the
University of Manitoba and worked as a community organizer
before becoming a city councilor, according to his campaign
website.  Attract Investment  The eastern-most prairie province, with a population of
about 1.25 million, is positioning itself as a transportation
hub for  North America  and building a 20,000-acre inland port and
logistics center in Winnipeg, the provincial capital. The
development aims to attract investment to expand Manitoba’s
trade links and exports of agricultural and other products to
 China , the U.S. and Asian markets.  Selinger’s government projects a C$438 million ($415
million) deficit in the fiscal year that began in April, with a
return to surplus scheduled for the 2014-15 fiscal year.
Manitoba has C$27.9 billion ($26.5 billion) in outstanding
bonds, according to Bloomberg data. The province’s debt is rated
AA by  Standard & Poor’s  with a stable outlook.  The rating reflects “the province’s well-diversified
economy, which remains resilient in the face of sluggish global
economic conditions,” credit analysts Mario Angastiniotis and
Stephen Ogilvie of Standard & Poor’s wrote in a note to
investors in December.  The election was the second of three this week, with Prince
 Edward Island  re-electing a Liberal government Oct. 3, and
voters in Ontario, the country’s most populous province, going
to the polls Oct. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  