-- 
LNG Market May Tighten Further on Japanese Nuclear Shutdown, SocGen Says

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T06:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/lng-market-may-tighten-on-japanese-nuclear-shutdown-socgen-says.html
Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s nuclear
shutdown may exacerbate tightness in the global liquefied
natural gas market as demand for the fuel used in electricity
generation has exceeded estimates, Societe Generale SA said.  Kyushu’s 1,180-megawatt No. 4 reactor at its Genkai atomic
plant shut down automatically yesterday after a malfunction,
according to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Global
LNG supply rose 14 percent in the first seven months of this
year to about 140 million metric tons, compared with the bank’s
full-year forecast of more than 10 percent growth, Thierry Bros,
a Paris-based analyst for the bank, said.  “The closure is more bad news for the Japanese nuclear
industry which looks to face even more difficulties restarting
reactors after planned maintenance and/or automatic shutdowns,”
Bros said. “Without approval to restart reactors down for
maintenance, all of  Japan ’s reactors could be shut by May.”  The Kyushu shutdown left 10 reactors in Japan operational
with a capacity of 8,684 megawatts, or 18 percent of the
nation’s total, SocGen said. The shutdown of all reactors, with
a loss of 275 million megawatt hours of electricity generation,
may lead to additional demand for 40 billion cubic meters of
LNG, according to the note. That’s equivalent to 29 million
metric tons, or about 42 percent of the country’s LNG
consumption last year, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on customs data.  Japan increased spot purchases of LNG to fuel  power plants 
in August to a 35-month high, according to data from the
 Ministry of Finance  posted on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net . 