-- 
Norilsk Shareholders Sell Out to Reap 60% Premium From Buyback

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-05T14:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/norilsk-shareholders-sell-out-to-reap-60-premium-from-buyback.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the Russian
mining company that opened a $4.5 billion buyback a week ago, is
seeing shareholders queue up to tender their stock as the
prospect of a 60 percent premium drives sales.  “In the current market you can buy a $19,000 stake today
and sell it for $30,600 in a buyback,” Vladimir Solodukhin,
managing director of Moscow-based Broker Credit Service, said by
telephone. Retail clients are buying into Norilsk “actively”
to sell for a profit, he said.  Norilsk began repurchasing stock on Sept. 28, opening its
third buyback this year. The nickel producer is offering $306 a
share, or $30.60 per global depositary receipt, a 20 percent
premium to the six-month average price, it said in August. The
stock has tumbled in Moscow trading in the past month, boosting
the premium to more than 60 percent.  The company is seeking to repurchase 7.71 percent of stock
on a pro-rata basis in the monthlong buyback. Tenders of less
than 100 shares, or 1,000 GDRs, avoid the pro-rata rule and can
be bought back in full, according to the prospectus.  That exemption “gives the opportunity to get a good return
on capital,” Dmitry Smolin, a Moscow-based analyst at UralSib
Capital, said by telephone. “UralSib has a lot of clients who
plan to use that option.”  Shareholders are tendering their stock at register offices
in Moscow, Krasnoyarsk and  St. Petersburg . The office in the
capital is servicing about 150 clients a day, an official at the
site said today in an interview, declining to be identified.  Shares for Babushkas  “Some individuals will likely open accounts for friends or
close family members or even babushkas to increase the number of
shares,” Barry Ehrlich and Andrey Lobazov, analysts at Alfa
Bank in Moscow, said in a note. “Owners of small companies are
looking into facilitating the opening of accounts for their
employees en masse.”  Norilsk’s board approved the buyback on Sept. 13, after
shareholder United Co. Rusal rejected an $8.75 billion proposal
to sell a 15 percent stake back to the company. The aluminum
producer, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, and fellow
shareholder Interros Holding Co. have been locked in a feud over
influence on Norilsk’s board and use of its cash since 2008.  Rusal, which holds a 25 percent stake in total, may seek to
block the buyback in court, Yulia Bushueva, managing director of
Arbat Capital Management, said by phone from Moscow. “We also
can’t exclude that Norilsk will cancel the buyback amid the
global financial turmoil, which would lead to a further selloff
in the stock,” she said.  Given the interest from retail clients, institutional
investors may be able to tender only 7 percent of their holding
according to the pro-rata rule,  Alfa Bank  said. That compares
with forecasts from Troika Dialog of 15 percent, and 12 percent
from Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  