-- 
NRC Should Make Cooling-Pool Safety a Priority, Staff Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-05T20:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/nrc-should-make-cooling-pool-safety-a-priority-staff-says-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission should require reactor owners to have sufficient
equipment to keep cooling pools that store nuclear waste safe
during disasters, the agency staff told commissioners.  The agency should consider the requirement “without
delay,” R.W. Borchardt, NRC executive director for operations,
said in an Oct. 3 report released today by the commission.  It’s among eight recommendations from an agency  task force 
that have “the greatest potential for safety improvement in the
near term,” he said. The staff’s selections for top priorities
include proposals to re-evaluate earthquake and flooding
hazards, and to impose rules that help nuclear plants deal with
on-site blackouts.  The NRC is weighing regulations to improve safety at 104
U.S. commercial reactors following meltdowns and radiation leaks
at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant caused by
a March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan . The task force issued
its suggestions in July.  The commission plans a public meeting Oct. 11 to discuss
the report.  All of the task-force recommendations “make sense” and
should be acted on within five years, NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said today during a meeting with reporters in  Washington .  Sept. 9 Memo  Improved cooling-pool equipment wasn’t listed as a concern
warranting immediate NRC action in a Sept. 9 staff memo. Agency
staff made it a priority after determining that resources exist
to improve monitoring instruments, which aren’t often designed
“to remain functional under accident conditions,” according to
the report released today.  The staff also recommended expanding the group of reactors
that should be required to have “hardened” vents to release
pressure and avoid a meltdown. The Sept. 9 memo called for the
added protection at some reactor containment structures designed
during the 1950s and 1960s, similar to the  General Electric Co (GE) .-
designed model that failed at Fukushima.  The agency also should require the vents on a generation of
GE-designed containments that were installed in the early 1970s,
according to the staff report.  Reactor owners are “generally aligned with” the staff’s
priorities for regulatory action, Mitchell Singer, a spokesman
for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry
group, said in an e-mail.  “The industry supports the addition of back-up monitoring
for water temperature and level” in cooling pools, Singer said.
A “detailed evaluation” of some older reactors is needed
before determining whether they need hardened vents, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  