-- 
NYC Land Deal With UN Would Close Waterfront Gap

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T22:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/nyc-land-deal-with-un-would-close-waterfront-gap-correct-.html
(Corrects first paragraph to say United Nations Development
Corp. would purchase the land, not the UN.)  New York City  moved a step closer to
completing an 18-year-old plan for a waterfront esplanade around
 Manhattan  after the United Nations Development Corp. agreed to
pay $73 million for land to build offices, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The transaction would provide cash to fill a  one-mile gap 
between East 38th and 60th Streets, allowing runners, bicyclists
and walkers to use a waterside pathway from the  Hudson River  in
Washington Heights south to the Battery, and then north along
the  East River  past Wall Street to 125th Street. Currently
cyclists and pedestrians have to leave the path and use First
Avenue and other streets on that midtown stretch.  Under the memorandum of understanding, reached after months
of negotiation, the United Nations Development Corp., a public-
benefit corporation separate from the UN, would pay $73 million
to a specially created entity, the Eastside Greenway and Park
Fund, for part of  Robert Moses Playground , just south of its
headquarters. UN officials have sought the land to build an
 office tower  there.  “Today’s agreement puts in place a critical missing link
 -- the last major gap in the Manhattan Greenway -- that will
make the waterfront a resource for the whole city to enjoy,”
Bloomberg said in a prepared statement.  Should the UN decide to go forward, Bloomberg said, it
would expand an institution that’s already one of the city’s
largest employers and create jobs. The Legislature and Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  permitted the city to sell part of the one-acre
playground in July.  Park Improvement  The city would also reap hundreds of millions of dollars
for the esplanade from the sale of United Nations Plaza, two
city-owned buildings where the UN rents offices at below-market
rates, the mayor said.  The playground’s sale would pay to improve St. Vartan Park,
about five blocks south of the UN, to compensate for the loss of
part of the playground.  The  East River Esplanade , a continuous bikeway and walking
corridor with parks and playgrounds, extends from  Wall Street 
north featuring low-energy-consuming lighting, recycled
materials and low-maintenance planted landscaping.  It is a link in the 32-mile  Manhattan Greenway , a project
permitting cyclists to circumnavigate Manhattan, mostly along
its waterfront, and part of a  citywide initiative  to develop and
increase public access to the city’s 520 total miles of
shoreline.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News’s
parent, Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or Katie Spencer at 
 kspencer14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  