-- 
Loan Delinquencies Rise for Second Straight Quarter, ABA Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-05T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/loan-delinquencies-rise-for-second-straight-quarter-aba-says.html
U.S. consumer-loan delinquencies rose
for the second consecutive quarter as consumers wrestled with
high unemployment and continued challenges in the housing
market, the  American Bankers Association  said.  Overall delinquencies across eight loan categories rose to
2.88 percent of all accounts in the three months ending June 30,
from 2.71 percent in the prior quarter, the ABA said today in
its Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin. Home equity loan
delinquencies rose to 4.38 percent, from 4.12 percent, marking
the largest jump in more than a year.  “Lackluster job creation, private sector uncertainty and
public sector job cuts have stalled momentum and increased
pressure on consumers as the economy struggles to find a way
forward,”  James Chessen , the Washington-based group’s chief
economist, said in a statement.  There were “encouraging trends” in the second quarter in
credit card delinquencies, Chessen said, where overdue payments
fell by 18 basis points, to 3.22 percent, to reach the lowest
level in a decade.  The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in August and has been
stuck at 9 percent or higher for five months. Employers added
zero jobs to payrolls in August, down from 85,000 in July,
according to the Labor Department.  More than two years after the 18-month recession ended in
June 2009, the economic recovery is “close to faltering,”
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony
yesterday in front of the Joint Economic Committee.  “Recent indicators, including new claims for  unemployment
insurance  and surveys of hiring plans, point to the likelihood
of more sluggish job growth in the period ahead,” Bernanke
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  