-- 
Obama Lauds Progress of Honduras on Democratic Governance

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-05T20:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/obama-lauds-progress-of-honduras-on-democratic-governance-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  reaffirmed the
U.S. relationship with  Honduras , saying his meeting today with
President Porfirio Lobo “begins a new chapter.”  Obama said Honduras under Lobo has restored democratic and
constitutional practices and that progress since a 2009 military
coup “gives us great hope.”  The two leaders met at the White House for the first time
since Lobo’s election in November 2009. Lobo’s predecessor,
Manuel Zelaya, was ousted earlier that year in a military-backed
coup. That led to Honduras’s expulsion from the  Organization of
American States . The U.S. supported readmission of Honduras
under Lobo in June.  Lobo expressed thanks to the U.S. for that support, saying,
“You were there to help us restore the family that is our
nation.”  Lobo, in an opinion piece in today’s Wall Street Journal,
said Honduras’s economy grew 2.6 percent in 2010, with exports
17 percent higher and a 41 percent increase in direct foreign
investment. At the same time, Lobo wrote that “further American
engagement” is needed in Central America to combat economic and
security challenges.  In the Oval Office with Obama, Lobo said his country is
threatened by the crime and violence stemming from battles among
drug traffickers centered in Mexico and  Colombia .  The U.S. and Honduras had $6.3 billion in trade this year
through July, according to figures from the  Census Bureau . The
total for 2010 was $8.5 billion, an increase from $6.7 billion
in 2009. U.S. exports to Honduras increased 37 percent last year
from 2009. Honduras reached a free-trade agreement with  Canada 
in August.  In its 2011 annual  report  on Honduras,  Amnesty
International  said Lobo’s government hadn’t sufficiently
investigated allegations of human-rights abuses, including
arbitrary detention and mistreatment of protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  