-- 
Obama Prods Cantor With Humor, Ridicule to Get House Jobs Vote

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/obama-prods-u-s-house-leader-cantor-with-humor-ridicule-to-set-jobs-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  used humor and
ridicule to prod House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  into
scheduling a vote on his $447 billion jobs bill.  “I mean, what’s the problem?” Obama said yesterday at a
Texas rally to boost the economy and reduce unemployment for
everyone from teachers to construction workers. “Do they not
have the time? They just had a week off! I -- is it
inconvenient?”  Obama focused on Cantor, a Virginia Republican, as he
promoted the package of tax cuts and spending at a  community
college  in the  Dallas  suburb of Mesquite. Cantor and other
Republicans have been critical of spending portions of the
package, and the majority leader said yesterday the House would
consider pieces of the proposal.  Obama said that on Oct. 3 Cantor said he “won’t even let
this jobs bill have a vote in the  House of Representatives .”  The president challenged Cantor to identify what parts of
the bill he doesn’t “believe in,” wondering whether it was
building roads and bridges, aid for veterans or more teachers in
schools.  “And if you won’t do that, at least put this jobs bill up
for a vote, so that the entire country knows exactly where
members of Congress stand,” Obama said. “Put your cards on the
table.”  The president made his sixth speech on the jobs package in
less than a month as he grapples with Republicans over the best
way to jump-start the economy and create jobs to reduce a
national unemployment rate stuck at 9.1 percent.  ‘Common Ground’  Cantor’s office responded with a statement saying
Republicans have their own ideas about spurring job growth,
“but that shouldn’t prevent us from trying to find areas of
common ground with the president.”  Obama “needs to understand that his ‘my way or the
highway’ approach simply isn’t going to work in the House or the
Democratic Senate, especially in light of his abysmal record on
jobs,” a spokesman for Cantor,  Brad Dayspring , said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, sought to
downplay differences with the administration.  “There’s an honest effort under way to try to find common
ground with those elements that are in sync with those ideas
that we have,” Boehner said at a news conference at the
Capitol. “But you know, nobody gets everything they want.”  While Obama called for Congress to vote on his entire
proposal, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
president would sign legislation that included only portions of
his plan.  Move in Senate  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, tried to force a vote on Obama’s jobs plan yesterday
in the chamber, where Democrats have yet to unite behind the
proposal.  Noting that Obama has been demanding that Congress act on
his plan, McConnell said, “We are more than happy to vote on
it.”  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  called McConnell’s action a
“political stunt.” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he plans to
bring up the jobs measure later this month after making changes
to provisions opposed by some Democrats.  Since announcing his package on Sept 8, Obama’s been
traveling outside  Washington  to urge voters to turn up the heat
on Congress. Leaders of a divided Congress haven’t scheduled any
action.  Republican Territory  Eastfield College, where Obama delivered his remarks, is in
the district of Representative  Jeb Hensarling , one of the
Republican critics of the jobs package. It’s the fourth time
since Sept. 8 that the president has waded into an opponent’s
turf to pitch the program.  Hensarling, chairman of the House Republican Policy
Committee, has dismissed the package as “another round of
stimulus” when the U.S. needs “jobs that earn, not jobs that
cost.”  Obama lobbied for the package on Sept. 13 and Sept. 22 in
Ohio -- Boehner’s home state -- and on Sept. 9 in Richmond,
 Virginia , part of Cantor’s district.  “It’s partly about sharpening differences, but it’s also
about fearlessly taking the fight right into the belly of the
beast,” said  Bruce Buchanan , a professor of government at the
 University of Texas  at Austin.  Republicans say some of Obama’s proposals, such as payroll
tax cuts, are worth considering. They object to spending
proposals and oppose raising taxes to pay for them.  Payroll Taxes  The president’s plan would reduce payroll taxes for
employees and employers, extend jobless benefits, provide $35
billion in aid to states to prevent as many as 280,000 teacher
and first responder layoffs, add $30 billion for high school and
community college modernization and boost spending on public
works projects such as roads and bridges. It also would provide
tax breaks for new employers to hire the unemployed.  “We’re trying to cushion the blow now, keep educators in
the classroom and bring back those who have been laid off,”
Education Secretary Arne Duncan said on a conference call with
reporters.  The package would help avoid a return to recession by
maintaining growth and pushing down the  unemployment rate  next
year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The legislation would increase gross domestic product by
0.6 percent next year and add or keep 275,000 workers on
payrolls, the median estimates in the survey of 34 economists
showed. The program would also lower the jobless rate by 0.2
percentage point in 2012, economists said.  Offsetting Cost  Obama would pay for it by capping itemized deductions for
individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and couples
earning more than $250,000. The plan would treat carried
interest as ordinary income to raise $18 billion, end oil and
gas subsidies for a savings of $40 billion and repeal
accelerated depreciation on corporate jets to save $3 billion.  While in  Texas , Obama held two fundraisers in Dallas for
his re-election campaign. The first was for about 500 people,
with tickets starting at $500 per person. The second event was
for 30 people who donated $35,800 per couple.  The president later flew to  St. Louis  for two fundraisers.
Supporters at one event contributed $25,000 per person or
$35,800 for a couple. They were hosted by wind-farm investor Tom Carnahan, along with Joyce Aboussie, a long-time Democratic
fundraiser in St. Louis, and Bob Clark, chairman and chief
executive of Clayco Inc.  Carnahan, a member of a prominent Missouri Democratic
family, has been tapped by the Obama campaign as its chief
Missouri fundraiser, according to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  Carnahan is chairman of Wind Capital Group, a St. Louis-
based wind energy company. His sister, Missouri Secretary of
State  Robin Carnahan , lost the 2010 U.S. Senate race to
Republican Roy Blunt.  He held a second event at a St. Louis hotel that cost $250
per person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  