-- 
Obama Jewish Support Ebbs in Key Swing State Amid Economic Woes

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/obama-jewish-support-ebbs-in-key-swing-state-amid-economic-woes.html
President  Barack Obama ’s support
among Jewish voters, a bedrock Democratic constituency, is
waning for the same reason he’s losing independents: the
economy.  Rebecca Petterson, a Jewish homemaker from  Pompano Beach ,
voted for Obama in 2008. Then she had three kids; medical bills
came due; the global recession hit her husband’s export
business; and Florida’s real estate market cratered.  “My house is worth half of what I paid for it,” said
Petterson, 42, who pushed twin infants in a double-stroller
while corralling her toddler outside a Whole Foods store in Boca
Raton last week before the Rosh Hashanah holiday.  Although Petterson offered a mixed review of Obama’s
support for Israel, she said that’s “not my primary issue” as
she considers whether to support his re-election. “All the
things I thought mattered -- a woman’s right to choose -- are
taking less precedence when I’m looking at the economic
situation,” she said.  A Gallup Poll released Sept. 16 found Obama’s job approval
at 54 percent among Jewish Americans, down from a high of 83
percent when he took office. Still, his support from Jewish
Americans was higher than his overall job-approval rating of 41
percent.  White House Outreach  The White House is seeking to reassure Jewish voters by
activating a broad network of surrogates, including Vice
President  Joe Biden . A five-paragraph Sept. 27  statement  by
Obama on the Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur holidays cited his
support for Israel three times -- in three successive sentences.
“The bond between our two nations is unshakable,” the
president said.  Republicans are seizing on a Sept. 13 victory in a heavily
Jewish, Democratic congressional district in  New York  as a sign
of Obama’s weakness. In addition, the Republican presidential
frontrunners, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and
Texas Governor Rick Perry, said the president is partly to blame
for Palestinians’ decision to try to achieve statehood through
the  United Nations  -- a move Obama opposed.  Perry said in a Sept. 20 speech that Obama’s pressure on
 Israel  to compromise in peace talks was “naive, arrogant,
misguided and dangerous.” Romney said Obama had thrown “Israel
under the bus and undermined its negotiating position.”  Biggest Swing State  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent support from Jewish
voters, according to national exit polls. Republicans don’t
expect to win over the community outright in 2012. Instead, they
want to win enough Jewish Democrats and independents to change
the outcome in some swing states.  Florida is the biggest swing state with a large proportion
of Jewish residents, 613,000, according to the 2010 North
American Jewish Data Bank, produced by Jewish groups and the
nonpartisan Roper Center for Public Opinion Research.  According to the  National Jewish Democratic Council , a 10
percent loss of the Jewish Democratic vote could shift the
Democratic and Republican vote margins by 98,000 votes in
 Florida , 35,000 in  Pennsylvania , 18,000 in  Ohio  and 8,500 in
 Nevada .  “Florida is the big prize,” said Matthew Brooks,
executive director of the Washington-based Republican Jewish
Coalition. “In these really close elections, a swing in the
Jewish vote can really make an impact and in some cases can be
the difference between winning and losing.”  ‘Uncertain Support’  Rabbi David Steinhardt of the B’nai Torah Congregation in
Boca Raton, a synagogue where Obama held a town-hall meeting in
2008 to address concerns about his position on Israel, said
there’s “a lot of support for him” in the Jewish community.
“But it’s an uncertain support.”  Steinhardt, 58, has been holding weekly “open
discussions” after services for those who want to talk about
politics and the Torah. Obama’s economic and  Middle East 
policies are regular topics, he said.  “I sense that what Obama tried to do in his early
speeches, and certainly the speech in Cairo, was to present
himself to the Arab world, to the Muslim world and to the
Palestinians, as someone who heard their yearnings,” Steinhardt
said. “And in so doing, many in the Jewish community felt
neglected and fearful.” Since then, he said, most in his
congregation have become convinced that “he does understand the
essential need for Israel to have its security defended.”  David Finkelstein, 74, a member of the congregation who
backed Obama in 2008 and a participant in Steinhardt’s talks, is
among those rethinking his support after a string of White House
actions.  Right to Exist  In Obama’s  2009 Cairo speech , aimed at repairing U.S.-
Muslim relations, the president defended Israel’s right to exist
-- adding that Palestine’s right to exist can’t be denied
either. The same year, Obama insisted Israel halt settlement
construction in the West Bank. In May, Obama said Israel must
acknowledge 1967 borders and mutually agreed land swaps in peace
negotiations with Palestinians, comments he was later forced to
clarify.  Finkelstein, an independent voter, said he’s weighing those
remarks against Obama’s pledges of support of Israel. He’s
keeping his options open, even though he’s wary that Republican
candidates such as Romney and Perry are being “political.”  Democratic National Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Jewish congresswoman from Florida, said Republicans
are trying to raise questions about Obama’s commitment to Israel
because they can’t appeal to most Jewish voters on social issues
or environmental policy. “The economy is the most important
issue for everybody right now,” she said.  ‘Better Off’  Ned Siegel, a former ambassador to the Bahamas under
President  George W. Bush  and former chairman of the Republican
Jewish Coalition of Florida, agreed that the economy is the
prime issue -- and said it will drive Jewish voters away from
Obama.  “Israel’s important, but there’s no doubt as we continue,
and if we have a double-dip recession, the mandate is going to
be on: ‘Are we better off than we were four years ago?’,” said
Siegel, a Romney supporter.  A prime target for Siegel are such voters as Gary Caplan,
an independent and a commercial real estate asset manager.
Caplan said he and his wife, Brenda, voted for Obama in 2008
because “we thought he’d be good for the country and he had a
good message -- and our kids wanted us to.”  Now, he’s “disillusioned,” he said. Although Caplan
supported Obama’s stimulus spending, he said it didn’t spread
enough money into the economy to help sufficiently. “We’re also
not crazy about his stance on Israel,” Caplan said.  Businessperson Needed  The Caplans moved to  Boynton Beach , Florida, last month
from  Boston , where they lived during Romney’s tenure as
governor. Caplan said he’s considering supporting Romney. “He
did all right in  Massachusetts ,” Caplan said. “He has a
business sense, and America needs a businessperson.”  Robert Wexler, a former Democratic congressman and
president of the Washington-based S. Daniel Abraham Center for
Middle East Peace, said Obama can win back the Caplans and
Finkelstein by explaining his full record.  Among the accomplishments he should tout is the 2009
authorized sale of bunker-buster bombs to Israel and support for
U.S. funds for its Iron Dome missile defense system, he said.
Obama should also take credit for pressuring Egyptian officials
last month to protect Israelis trapped in their Cairo embassy by
rioters, Wexler said.  Easing Concerns  Michael Adler, a Miami-based real estate executive who
hosted an Obama fundraising event in September with Biden, said
he’s heard concerns about the potential destabilization of the
Middle East by the Arab Spring’s pro-democracy uprisings.
Obama’s Sept. 21 UN speech opposing the Palestinian statehood
bid seemed to “significantly” ease concerns, he said.  Sheri Hillman, 47, an executive recruiter from  Delray
Beach , said she will stand by Obama in 2012. Obama is “really
trying, and I think he’s done a lot of good things,” she said.
Hillman said Obama’s attempts to fix the economy are being
stymied by Republicans and by Americans unwilling to “do their
share.”  “I don’t get it,” she said of the notion that liberal-to-
moderate Jews would abandon Obama, especially if the Republican
nominee were a Christian conservative.  “The rapture really isn’t good for the Jews,” she said of
Biblical prophecy behind some Christian support of Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Boca Raton , Florida, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 