-- 
Obama’s Bill Would Hinder Work Search by Jobless, Langone Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-10-05T20:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/obama-s-jobs-measure-would-hinder-work-search-by-unemployed-langone-says.html
Unemployed job applicants would find
it harder to get hired under an anti-discrimination provision in
President Barack Obama’s jobs bill, according to  Home Depot Inc. (HD) 
co-founder Kenneth Langone.  The president’s bill, submitted to Congress on Sept. 12,
would allow companies to be sued for discrimination if they
exclude unemployed applicants from consideration. Businesses
will avoid even meeting with unemployed job-seekers for fear of
triggering a lawsuit, Langone said in an interview yesterday
with  Charlie Rose  broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  “There’s a provision in the jobs bill, if I am unemployed
and you give me an interview and don’t hire me, I can sue you
for discrimination because you didn’t hire me because I was
unemployed,” said Langone. “You know what’s going to happen?
They are not going to get the interview.”  Langone, who helped start Atlanta-based Home Depot, the
world’s largest home improvement retailer, had urged  New
Jersey ’s Governor  Chris Christie  to join the Republican contest
for president. He endorsed former Massachusetts Governor Mitt
Romney yesterday after Christie said he wouldn’t run.  Under Obama’s jobs bill, employers would be prevented from
ruling out applications from the unemployed or posting ads that
say those without jobs shouldn’t apply. Those who are
discriminated against could seek back pay and damages, and
enforcement would fall to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, Larry Lorber, a partner in the Washington, D.C.
office of Proskauer Rose LLP, said in an interview.  ‘Massive Class Action’  “Picture someone who sends something to Monster and
doesn’t get called,” he said, referring to  Monster Worldwide
Inc. (MWW) ’s jobs website. “Theoretically you could have a massive
class action.”  Protections are needed to give a fair shake to those
without work, especially as unemployment rises, Representative
Hank Johnson of Georgia said at a September press conference
with fellow Democrats supporting legislation similar to the
provision in Obama’s bill.  Langone’s concerns are overblown, Andy Phelan,
communications director for Johnson, said today in an interview.  “The business community is upset, but it simply keeps them
from screening workers out because they’re unemployed,” Phelan
said.  Businesses ‘Lose Out’  “Employers are doing themselves a disservice by refusing
to consider these workers -- the best candidate for the job may
have been laid off because of a downsizing, and a business would
lose out on their talent,” Representative Rosa DeLauro, a
 Connecticut  Democrat, said in an e-mail. “All we are asking is
that every American be given the opportunity to compete for a
job.”  Langone’s comments make no sense because there’s no
evidence that banning discrimination would discourage hiring,
said David Elliot, a spokesman with the Washington-based
USAction, a federation of 22 state affiliates that advocates for
human-service programs and support for public education.  “At the end of the day, the overwhelming majority of
businesses want to do the right thing,” he said in an e-mail.
“Probably the overwhelming majority of mid-level managers at
Home Depot who actually do the hiring want to do the right
thing.”  U.S. unemployment has been at or above 9 percent for 26 of
the past 28 months, according to a Sept. 2 report from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. The average length of unemployment,
seasonally adjusted, rose to 40 weeks in August from 34 weeks in
the year-earlier month.  A study of hiring sites Careerbuilder.com, Monster.com and
Indeed.com in March and April by the New York-based National
Employment Law Project found more than 150 postings saying
applicants needed a job. The study didn’t include the number of
ads reviewed.  Indeed Inc.’s Indeed.com, a website backed by companies
including the New York Times Co. and Allen & Co., on Aug. 25
began adopting measures to block such ads, spokesman Michael
Werch said in a September e-mail. Indeed is based in  Stamford ,
Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  