-- 
JPMorgan’s Gavea to Buy 5% Stake in Odebrecht Unit to Be No. 3 Shareholder

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-10-05T19:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/odebrecht-says-gavea-to-buy-5-stake-in-oil-unit-correct-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) ’s Gavea
Investimentos Ltda., a private-equity and hedge fund set up by
former Brazilian central banker Arminio Fraga, agreed to buy a 5
percent stake in Odebrecht SA’s oil and gas unit to become the
third-largest shareholder.  The investment in Odebrecht Oil & Gas will be Gavea’s
largest holding, Fraga said at a press conference in Rio de
Janeiro today, without providing financial terms of the deal.  “Gavea will help us enhance our financial analysis, give
us access to international markets and knowledge of what is
going on in the world,” Roberto Ramos, the head of the oil and
gas unit, told reporters at the event. “They will help us
identify trends in order for us to get the right strategy.”  Odebrecht is expanding its oil and gas services unit to
supply rigs and platforms for Petroleo Brasileiro SA and other
producers that are tapping the largest crude discoveries in the
Americas in more than three decades. Petrobras, as  Brazil ’s
state-run oil producer is known, plans to spend $224.7 billion
in five years, the oil industry’s largest investment program, as
it exploits ultra-deep offshore deposits that may cost five
times more to develop than major fields in  Mexico .  JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management agreed last year
to buy 55 percent of Rio de Janeiro-based Gavea, which manages
more than $7.2 billion of investments. Fraga is a former  fund
manager  for billionaire George Soros.  ‘Main’ Petrobras Partner  “We intend to be the main partner for Petrobras and the
foreign companies operating in Brazil,” Ramos said.  Odebrecht Oil & Gas  will invest about $2.5 billion through
2014 and is seeking opportunities outside Brazil, including
 Angola  and the  Gulf of Mexico , he said. The company expects to
generate more than $1 billion in revenue next year, Ramos said.  “The petroleum industry has so much room to grow that we
see it as a genuine long-term investment that’s not so exposed
to the economic cycle,” Fraga said.  Gavea will use its Fund 4 to buy the stake, he said, adding
that this will be the second investment in Odebrecht after
buying a stake in the company’s real estate unit. Gavea
previously invested in OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the
oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , and later
sold its stake, he said.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, owns about 14 percent of Odebrecht Oil & Gas, making it
the second-largest shareholder, said Marcelo Odebrecht,
president of Odebrecht SA. Temasek paid $400 million for the
stake, the company said in an October 2010 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  