-- 
Office Rents in U.S. Rise to Highest Since 2009 as Occupied Space Climbs

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/office-rents-in-u-s-rise-to-highest-since-2009-as-leasing-gains.html
U.S. office rents climbed in the
third quarter as leasing extended a rebound following almost
three years of declines,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  The average effective rent, or what tenants paid after any
landlord concessions, rose to $22.39 per square foot, the
highest since 2009’s fourth quarter, the New York-based real
estate research company said in a report today. It was up from
$22.04 a year earlier and $22.25 in the second quarter.
Landlords had a net increase in occupied space of 6.19 million
square feet (575,000 square meters), the fourth straight gain.  Hiring by companies in industries such as technology and
oil services has partly offset sluggish economic growth
nationwide and market turmoil sparked by  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Technology-heavy cities such as San Francisco and San Jose,
 California , led the growth in rents, along with  New York ,
 Boston , San Antonio and Houston, according to Reis.  “Demand for  office space  remains relatively healthy,”
Ryan Severino, an economist at Reis, said in the report. “The
next quarter will determine whether fears of an economic
slowdown will undermine the nascent recovery of the sector.”  The increase in occupied space, known as net absorption,
followed a year-earlier loss of 3.65 million square feet that
capped 11 straight quarters of declines, according to Reis data.
The pace of gains slowed during the third quarter, with
September showing net absorption of about 1 million square feet,
down from 2.1 million in August and 3 million in July.  Vacancy Rate Declines  The vacancy rate dropped to 17.4 percent last quarter from
17.5 percent in the previous three months and 17.6 percent a
year earlier, according to Reis.  Effective rents in  San Francisco  climbed 7.8 percent from a
year earlier, while tenants paid 4.9 percent more in New York
and 2.9 percent more in San Jose, Reis said. Rates were up 2.2
percent in San Antonio and 2.1 percent in Houston.  “There’s not near as much fear in  Dallas  and Houston and
certainly in Austin as there is in many parts of the country,”
said Charles Fertitta, a commercial broker at Colliers
International in Houston. At the highest-quality buildings in
Houston, “rents have spiked to the heights we were at in
2007,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  