-- 
Ohio Union Law Vote Pits Business Groups Against Public Workers

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ohio-union-law-vote-pits-business-groups-against-public-workers.html
Ohio business groups are joining
Governor  John Kasich  in a Nov. 8 referendum fight to uphold a
law limiting collective bargaining for government unions,
pitting private might against public workers.  Organizations whose members include  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
 Kroger Co. (KR)  and Bob Evans Farms Inc. have endorsed keeping the
law, contributed an undisclosed amount to the campaign and sent
information to members, according  Building a Better Ohio , the
group supporting the measure.  Businesses are taxpayers, and the law offers the best
chance in years to control government costs and make the state
more competitive, said Roger Geiger, executive director of
National Federation of Independent Business/Ohio. The group
represents 24,000 small companies, and 92 percent supported the
law in a survey, he said.  “They have a right to expect reforms and things that they
believe will better government,” Geiger said. Telling business
to avoid the fight “is like saying I’m going to give my kid an
allowance, but I’m never going to pay attention to what they
spend it on.”  The private groups are taking their stand as public workers
account for an increasing share of declining union membership
nationwide. The number of Ohioans represented by unions last
year fell to almost 702,000 from 1.13 million in 1983, while the
share of government employees increased to 47.7 percent from
26.2 percent, according to  unionstats.com .  Attacking Customers  Opponents of the law, including the repeal coalition  We Are
Ohio , have called it an effort to bust unions and limit their
support of Democratic candidates. The business groups don’t
speak for all their members, said Melissa Fazekas, a spokeswoman
for We Are  Ohio .  “It just doesn’t make a lot of sense, because public
employees, middle-class Ohioans, spend their money in their
businesses,” Fazekas said.  In March, Kasich, a 59-year-old first-term Republican,
signed the law passed by a legislature that his party dominates.
It restricts bargaining for almost 360,000 employees and
requires them to pay at least 15 percent of their health-care
insurance premiums and 10 percent toward pensions. The Ohio law,
similar to one backed by Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  that
triggered weeks of protests at the Capitol in Madison, is on
hold pending the Nov. 8 vote.  Joining Forces  Business groups tend to support Kasich,  Paul Beck , a
political-science professor at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus, said in a telephone interview.  “There is kind of an anti-union mentality there, and
anything that weakens unionization is perceived, I think, as a
good thing by many of them,” Beck said.  An Ohio Chamber of Commerce endorsement stems from a report
it issued last year making recommendations to reduce costs and
“transform state government,” said President Andrew E. Doehrel. The organization says it represents 6,000 members
ranging from small businesses to international companies.  “We look at business issues from a business point of
view,” Doehrel said in a telephone interview from Columbus.
“If that lines up with this governor or a different governor,
that’s where we’re going to continue to be. And I would expect
the labor guys to line up and try and support their members
where their issues are.”  Silent Money  Doehrel said the chamber is contributing money to the
campaign while declining to say how much. Jason Mauk, a
spokesman for Building a Better Ohio, also declined to say how
much the business groups are contributing.  Business interests helped Walker in the Wisconsin fight.
The Wisconsin arm of Club For Growth, a Washington-based group
that pushes for lower taxes, spent $9 million on nine recall
votes on state senators that were prompted by the union-
bargaining law. Americans for Prosperity, which billionaire
brothers David and Charles Koch and their family’s Koch
Industries Inc. helped found, spent $800,000, according to the
 Wisconsin Democracy Campaign , which tracks campaign spending.  Kasich said the Ohio law will give local governments tools
to control costs, prevent dismissals and provide equity with
private-industry workers, who he said pay more on average for
health care and pensions.  “I believe in unions; I believe they have a place,”
Kasich said during a Sept. 29 Toledo rally in support of the
ballot measure. “This is not an attack on anybody. It’s asking
everybody to pitch in and to do a little bit.”  Wet Dissent  About 50 protesters stood outside in the rain supporting
repeal in the referendum, called Issue 2 on the Ohio ballot and
which asks voters to choose ‘yes’ to keep the restrictions.  “No on Two,” they chanted as participants walked in.
“Shame on you.”  Business groups that endorsed keeping the law include the
Ohio Chamber of Commerce and six regional chambers, NFIB/Ohio,
the Ohio Farm Bureau Federation and the Ohio Manufacturers’
Association, according to Building a Better Ohio.  Cincinnati-based Kroger hasn’t taken a position on the
issue, even though the Cincinnati USA Regional Chamber, to which
it belongs, has endorsed it, Kroger spokesman Keith Dailey said
by phone. Most of the company’s 338,000 full- and part-time
employees are covered by the United Food and Commercial Workers,
he said.  We’re Helping  P&G, an Ohio Chamber member based in Cincinnati, also
hasn’t taken a position, said Christine Wever, a spokeswoman.
The majority of the company’s 129,000 workers is not represented
by unions, though there are contracts at a handful of U.S.
plants, she said.  As a publicly owned company, Bob Evans, a member of both
the Ohio and Columbus chambers, doesn’t take positions on
political issues such as the referendum, said Margaret Standing,
a spokeswoman.  The business groups’ support will help public employees,
because without the law, governments will be forced to cut
services and dismiss workers or raise taxes, said Matt Davis,
vice president of government affairs for the Cincinnati USA
Chamber, which he said represents more than 5,000 members
employing 310,000 people.  “It’s going to help them in the long run keep their
jobs,” Davis said in a telephone interview.  Still, the board of the 200-member Columbiana Area Chamber
of Commerce in northeast Ohio voted to remain neutral because
taking a stand wouldn’t benefit the chamber, said Terry McCoy,
an architect and the group’s president.  “It’s more important to represent the members of your
community and the companies that are here and to find ways to
advance their businesses, not to take political stands one way
or the other to divide the people,” McCoy said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  