-- 
Worst Oil Industry Slump Since Lehman May Herald Takeovers

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-10-06T16:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/oil-industry-s-worst-slump-since-lehman-may-herald-takeover-wave.html
The oil and gas industry’s worst
slump since the financial crisis heralds a surge of takeovers
for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Sanford C. Bernstein Co. as
 Asia  buyers put $150 billion in cash to work.  The market valuation of U.K. and North American exploration
company reserves has dropped 23 percent this year to the lowest
since 2008, Bloomberg data shows, while  Brent crude  prices
gained 8 percent to $102 a barrel. The dislocation between crude
and company valuations is “extreme” and may lead to twice as
many deals as usual, Goldman said last month.  Asian buyers may spend $150 billion by 2016 to secure
energy resources for their faster-growing economies and targets
could include  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , Canadian  Oil Sands  Ltd. and Kosmos
Energy Ltd., according to Bernstein. London-listed  Premier Oil
Plc (PMO)  said it will seek more acquisitions after buying EnCore Oil
Plc for $340 million yesterday.  “The valuations are pretty compelling if you believe in
$100 oil,” said Christopher Wheaton, who manages RCM Ltd.’s
$140 billion Energy Fund in London. “Once the economic
uncertainty clears, we should see a pickup in deals. Asia still
has the appetite because the security of supply issues haven’t
gone away.”  The U.K.’s FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index rose
4.3 percent as of the 4:30 p.m. close in London, compared with a
3.7 percent gain for the FTSE 100. Afren Plc, an explorer in
Africa and Iraq, rose 7.7 percent, the most in 11 months, and
Tullow increased the most since Sept. 9.  Bowleven, Rockhopper  Explorers that need money for drilling next year may find
it hard to get debt or equity funding if economies continues to
deteriorate. That may help better capitalized companies looking
to buy into projects and fields, Phil Corbett, an analyst at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a Sept. 23 note.  Among U.K.-listed companies, Africa explorer  Bowleven Plc (BLVN) 
may be a target, while Cairn Energy Plc and  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) 
have cash to make acquisitions, Corbett said.  Goldman analysts also identified Bowleven as a potential
takeover target, as well as Falkland Islands explorer  Rockhopper
Exploration Plc (RKH)  and Canada’s  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. (BNK)  in a Sept.
21 research note. Bankers Petroleum rose as much as 15 percent
in Toronto today, the most since August 2009.  While Brent crude has dropped 13 percent since July,
investors forecast prices staying above $90 a barrel for the
next two years. That’s 10 percent more than its five-year
average compared with the FTSE oil and gas producers’ index and
the  Standard & Poor’s  Oil & Gas Index Exploration & Production
Index both trading below their five-year averages.  Worst Since 2008  Global energy shares fell 21 percent in the third quarter,
the worst three months since 2008.  The 20-member All-Share index of oil and gas explorers
traded in  London  fell to 7273 last month, or 64.4 times the
price of crude futures, the lowest ratio in three years. The
benchmark has dropped 16 percent since July, while the U.S. oil
index has dropped 30 percent.  The shares of 65 oil and gas explorers traded in London and
 New York  have dropped an average of 21 percent this year, and
the value of their reserves has slipped to $14.34 per barrel of
oil equivalent from $18.60, the lowest since $9.85 in 2008,
according to Bloomberg data.  Companies with fields large enough to be of interest to
national  oil companies  and with assets mostly in one country are
the most attractive, Goldman said.  M&A on Hold  The global volume of mergers and acquisitions among oil and
gas companies was $47 billion in the third quarter, barely up
from the $46.2 billion in the second three months in the year
that was the weakest quarter since 2009.  The European sovereign-debt crisis and threat of a U.S.
recession have erased more than $9 trillion from global equities
since July 1, Bloomberg data show, and the MSCI All-Country
World Index has slumped 19 percent during the period. Concern
that the global economy will slip back into recession may still
hold back transactions.  “There’s a pipeline of deals that have been on hold,”
said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s
in London. “I don’t think there’s going to be a boom in M&A
now, it will just go back to more normal levels.”  Spending on acquisitions may not increase until next year,
Wheaton said. Asian buyers may focus on purchasing assets rather
than companies, Bernstein said.  U.K., Canadian Targets  The biggest deal of the third quarter was  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s acquisition of  Petrohawk Energy Corp (HK)  for $15 billion in
July.  China  Investment Corp. bought a 30 percent stake in  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA’s oil gas production and exploration subsidiary for $3.2
billion in August, and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil
producer, agreed to acquire  Opti Canada Inc. (OPC)  for $2.1 billion to
expand in oil sands.  Buyers would favor companies in the U.K. and Canada, which
usually have lower exploration premiums built into their
valuations and are cheaper in terms of reserves per barrel of
oil, Bernstein wrote. These countries, unlike the U.S., also
don’t have very strict restrictions on acquisitions by Asian
national oil companies, according to the analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  