-- 
Oil Climbs for First Time in Four Days on Surprise Drop in U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-05T12:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/oil-climbs-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-surprise-drop-in-u-s-stockpiles.html
Oil rose from its lowest in a year in
 New York  after a surprise drop in crude stockpiles and on signs
the U.S. may take further steps to sustain an economic recovery.  Futures rose as much as 3.7 percent after sliding 7.9
percent in the past three days. Crude inventories dropped 3.1
million barrels last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday. An Energy Department report today was forecast to
show a gain of 1.5 million barrels. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled yesterday he’ll push forward with further
expansion of monetary stimulus if needed.  “Bernanke said he stands ready for further stimulus if the
economy sinks again, though nothing is on the table currently,”
said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management
in Middelfart,  Denmark , who predicts Brent will average $107 in
the fourth quarter. “We might see a further rebound in Brent to
$103.50, $104 level but I think the downtrend is still intact.”  Crude for November delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $2.79 to $78.46 a barrel and was at
$77.88 at 1:16 p.m. London time. Futures yesterday slid 2.5
percent to $75.67, the lowest settlement since Sept. 23, 2010.
Oil is down 15 percent this year.  Brent oil for November gained $1.78, or 1.8 percent, to
$101.57 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The contract’s settlement yesterday below $100
represented a 21 percent decline since April 8, when it closed
at $126.65 a barrel. A 20 percent drop is the common definition
of a  bear market . The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $23.69 to U.S. futures, compared with a record close
of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Hedge Funds, Stocks  Futures also gained after U.S. stocks surged. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rallied 4.1 percent in the final 50 minutes
of trading in New York on speculation Europe may recapitalize
its banks to tame its debt crisis. The  S&P 500  and Nymex oil
have moved in the same direction 89 percent of the time since
Sept. 27, up from 67 percent in the 10 days before.  “We saw a natural rebound in the market coming from the
European situation and the better stock market and that just
followed through to the crude market,” said  Ken Hasegawa ,
energy trading manager at broker Newedge in  Japan , who says New
York oil won’t rise above $90 a barrel for the rest of this
year. “It was good timing for the rebound when the API data was
published. It accelerated the gains in crude oil.”  OPEC Outlook  U.S. gasoline supplies dropped 5 million barrels last week,
according to the industry-funded API. The Energy Department
report was forecast to show a gain of 1.5 million. The API said
supplies of distillates, a category that includes heating oil,
slid 2 million barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. The API and Energy Department
data have moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time
over the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may cut
production after its basket of crudes fell below $100 a barrel
for the first time since February while Libyan output began to
rise. OPEC’s benchmark fell to $99.65 on Oct. 3, down 18 percent
from this year’s high and within 2 percentage points of the 20
percent drop that’s deemed a bear market.  Iron Fist  OPEC ministers will hold their second meeting of the year
on Dec. 14 in Vienna to decide how much of their oil the world
will need in 2012. The group will reduce output to prevent Brent
falling below $90 because Middle East members are increasing
spending, according to Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, vowed to use “an
iron fist” after 11 members of the security forces were injured
by attackers during unrest in a Shiite Muslim town in the east,
the official Saudi Press Agency said.  The government accused an unnamed “foreign country” of
seeking to undermine the stability of the kingdom as a result of
the violence in Awwamiya, in which the assailants, some on
motorcycles, used machine guns and Molotov cocktails, the
Riyadh-based news service  reported late yesterday. A man and
two women were also injured, the news service said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  