-- 
Monkey Brain Waves Feel Virtual Objects in Study Seeking New Prosthetics

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-05T18:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/monkey-brain-waves-feel-virtual-objects-in-study-seeking-new-prosthetics.html
Monkeys wired to a computer were able
to move and feel images on a screen using only brain power,
according to researchers who say the experiment may lead to
devices to help paralyzed people regain movement and touch.  The research, carried out at the Duke University  Center for
Neuroengineering , was the first time a primate brain could
receive tactile messages and interact with them, according to
the study published today in the journal Nature. Previous
studies have demonstrated monkeys could be trained to move a
computer cursor with their thoughts.  “This is basically one of the holy grails of this field,”
 Miguel Nicolelis , professor of neurobiology at Duke University
Medical Center and co-director of the Duke Center for
Neuroengineering, who was senior author of the  study , said in an
interview. “No other study has provided an artificial sensory
channel directly to the brain of animals. This is really needed
to restore in patients that have a spinal cord injury not only
their mobility, but their sense of touch.”  Sensors implanted into the monkeys’ brains received
different signals depending on what texture a virtual hand
touched. All the objects looked the same, so the monkeys had to
find the correct texture using the sensory feedback from the
fake limb.  “This gives us hope now to move forward with our plans to
create a whole body robotic exoskeleton that quadriplegic or
paraplegic patients will be able to wear and command with their
brains,” Nicolelis said. A group is working to demonstrate the
technology in three years, he said.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  