-- 
Monsanto Profit Forecast Beats Estimates on Brazil Demand

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-10-05T20:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/monsanto-posts-smaller-quarterly-loss-than-analysts-estimated.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, forecast higher-than-expected fiscal first-quarter
profit as Latin American farmers increase demand for genetically
modified crops.  Profit will be 10 cents to 15 cents a share in the three
months that began Sept. 1, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today
in a statement. Five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
earnings of 8 cents, on average. Full-year earnings will rise as
much as 16 percent to $3.34 to $3.44 a share, from $2.96,
Monsanto said. That brackets the $3.42 average estimate of 18
analysts in the survey.  “They have been really sticking to their story of mid-
teens growth for awhile,” Chris Shaw, a New York-based analyst
at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. who rates the shares “neutral,”
said today in an interview. “I don’t think there was ever any
doubt that the ag economy was still going to be strong next
year.”  Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  plans to raise seed
prices as much as 10 percent in Monsanto’s 2012 fiscal year as
corn prices have gained 25 percent in the past 12 months in
 Chicago . Grant also plans to boost sales of bug-killing corn in
the U.S. while launching the world’s first insecticide-producing
soybeans in  Brazil  and expanding sales of modified corn in
 Argentina  and Brazil.  Latin America   “The ramp-up of the corn opportunity in Brazil and
Argentina will be one of the single largest sources of new
growth in the next few years,” Grant said on a conference call
with analysts and investors. Latin America “has now become a
key driver” of biotech seed demand, he said.  Monsanto rose $3, or 4.7 percent, to $66.25 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The company’s fourth-quarter net loss was $112 million, or
21 cents a share. The loss excluding restructuring costs was 22
cents a share, beating the 27-cent average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were $2.25 billion,
exceeding the $1.91 billion average of 12 analysts’ estimates.  Monsanto’s first- and fourth-quarter earnings are typically
weaker than in the rest of year, when farmers in  North America 
and  Europe  plant most of their crops.  Genetics Growth  The company didn’t give year-earlier numbers because it
plans to restate earnings from 2009 to 2011, prompted by a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into accounting
for customer-incentive programs related to glyphosate, the main
ingredient in Roundup herbicide.  Monsanto said 2012 gross profit from its unit that sells
seeds and licenses genetics will rise as much as 10 percent to
$5.7 billion to $5.85 billion, from $5.31 billion a year
earlier. Gross profit in the agricultural productivity unit,
which sells Roundup, will be about $800 million, it said.  Relatively high prices for crops and livestock may boost
U.S. farm income by 31 percent this year to a record $103.6
billion, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in August. That
typically helps demand for pricier seeds that Monsanto engineers
to kill pests and tolerate applications of weedkiller.  Brazilian regulatory approval this year will allow Monsanto
to begin selling Inacta, a soybean seed engineered to produce
its own pesticide and the first genetically modified crop
developed for a non-U.S. market. About 200 farmers are testing
the seeds ahead of widespread sales, Grant said.  SmartStax Rising  Monsanto also will begin selling bug-killing corn next year
that contains 5 percent conventional seed, a product known as
refuge-in-a-bag. Regulators require planting of conventional
seed in a so-called refuge to deter the evolution of insects
resistant to the modified plant’s insecticide. The refuge was 20
percent until Monsanto won regulatory approval for its SmartStax
corn, which kills insects with two types of pesticide.  Plantings of SmartStax and other reduced-refuge corn seeds
will rise to 22 million to 24 million acres, from 13 million
acres in 2011, the company said. Roundup Ready 2 soybeans will
climb to 27 million to 30 million acres in 2012, from 17 million
acres, Monsanto said. Patents on the original Roundup Ready
soybeans expire at the end of 2014.  The company gained market share in U.S. corn and cotton and
ended two years of share erosion in soybeans, Grant said.  Monsanto ended the year with $2.57 billion of cash and
expects to generate as much as $1.5 billion of free cash in
2012. Paying a dividend and repurchasing stock are cash
priorities, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux said on
the call. The company also is considering technology
acquisitions, he said.  “Our intention is not to pile up cash on the balance
sheet,” Courduroux said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jack Kaskey} in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 