-- 
Moody’s Reviews Ford for Possible Credit Upgrade After UAW Labor Agreement

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-10-05T20:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/moody-s-reviews-ford-for-possible-credit-upgrade-after-uaw-labor-agreement.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it’s
reviewing  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s debt ratings for a possible upgrade
after the automaker reached a tentative labor agreement with the
United Auto Workers yesterday.  Ratings under review include the company’s corporate family
rating and probability of default rating at Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, Moody’s said today in a statement. Moody’s
also said it is reviewing the rating of the automaker’s finance
arm, Ford Motor Credit, which also is rated Ba2.  “Ford has built a much stronger operating model and
financial profile during the past year,”  Bruce Clark , senior
vice president with Moody’s, said in the statement. “We want to
determine if it can maintain this position if markets conditions
become more difficult.”  Moody’s said any action is contingent upon Ford’s 41,000
UAW members approving the tentative contract. Voting will
conclude Oct. 16. The agreement includes no raises for senior
workers and bonus payments totaling this year of $10,000. Entry-
level workers, who now make about half the $28 wage of senior
employees, receive raises that will take their hourly rate to as
much as $19.28 by 2015, according to the UAW.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, will also make
annual $1,500 payments to its UAW workers, which replace cost-
of-living adjustments. If Ford earned $5 billion annually,
workers could receive $20,000 in profit-sharing payments during
the four-year contract, the UAW said.  Adding Jobs  Ford committed to add 12,000 U.S. hourly jobs by 2015, most
of them at the lower entry-level wage. The Dearborn, Michigan-
based company also said it is transferring work to the U.S. from
 Mexico ,  China  and  Japan . Ford said it would begin building its
Fusion sedan in a factory in  Michigan . The mid-sized car will
also continue to be made in Mexico.  “Our initial assessment of the proposed UAW contract is
that it should enable Ford to maintain its operating
flexibility, fixed cost position, break even point, and
liquidity position near current levels,” Clark said.  Moody’s said Sept. 22 that it was reviewing  General Motors
Co. (GM) , Ford’s larger rival, for a possible upgrade after the
automaker reached its deal with the UAW. The ratings company
viewed Detroit-based GM’s accord as “constructive” and capable
of preserving the automaker’s competitiveness, Clark said in a
phone interview.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its rating on GM by two levels to
BB+, the highest non-investment grade, on Sept. 29. S&P said it
may raise Ford to the same rating from BB-, depending on the
outcome of its talks with the Detroit-based union.  Ford’s 7.45 percent bonds due July 2031 rose 2 cents to 110
cents on the dollar at 3 p.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-pricing service of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Ford rose 48 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $10.56 at 4 p.m. in
composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  