-- 
OPEC Risks Bear Market as Libya Output Returns

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-05T03:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/opec-risks-bear-market-in-oil-as-libya-production-recovers-energy-markets.html
The decline in OPEC’s oil below $100
a barrel for the first time since February is raising the
likelihood the group will cut production, as  Libya  revives
output and the global economic recovery falters.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ basket
of crudes fell to $99.65 on Oct. 3, down 18 percent from its
highest level this year and within 2 percentage points of the 20
percent drop that’s deemed a bear market. Brent oil tumbled 20
percent from its April high and New York crude 32 percent.  Oil is sliding as the U.S., the world’s biggest energy
consumer, shows signs it’s headed for a recession and  Europe ’s
debt crisis deepens just as  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  resume Libyan
production. OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil,
will reduce output to prevent Brent falling below $90 because
Middle East members are increasing spending, according to
Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest
member, boosted output five straight months this year.  “Saudi Arabia stepped up production to help compensate for
the loss of Libya, and they will probably calibrate and go the
other direction as production comes back,” Daniel Yergin, co-
founder of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author
of the 1991 Pulitzer-winning “The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil,
Money and Power,” said in a Sept. 21 interview in New York.
“The impact of Libya will be determined by what’s happening in
the overall global economy.”  Fighting Ebbs  Brent had its biggest monthly drop in September since May
2010 after Eni, Libya’s biggest foreign investor, resumed
operations as the fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 40-year rule
ebbed. The holder of  Africa ’s largest reserves will pump 500,000
barrels a day by the end of this month, Nuri Berruien, chairman
of state-run National Oil Corp., said Oct. 3. OPEC nations that
raised output to replace the lost oil will cut back as the North
African nation resumes exports, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri, a Libyan national, said Sept. 19.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, produced
9.85 million barrels a day in August, the most since 1980 and 22
percent more than its quota, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Output is likely to stay near record levels as long
as U.S. and European economic woes don’t spread to emerging
nations and Libyan exports are absorbed by rising global demand,
an official from one OPEC member nation said Sept. 21.  ‘Doom and Gloom’  “OPEC only has to worry if the doom and gloom come true
and impacts oil demand as Libyan production comes back online,”
said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank in
 Washington . “Some members will start to have problems if Brent
falls to the low $90s.”  Brent futures nearest to delivery rose 1.8 percent, the
first gain in four days, to $101.57 a barrel at 4:30 a.m. on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Crude rose as much as
3.7 percent to $78.46 in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Crude prices of $70 to $80 a barrel would be “fair” for
producers and consumers, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said at
a conference in  Riyadh  on Feb. 22. Now, OPEC won’t allow oil to
fall below $90 because of the need for revenue to finance social
spending, according to Barclays, Deutsche Bank, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Societe Generale SA and the Centre for Global Energy
Studies.  Gulf nations are spending $150 billion as they seek to damp
public dissent, which led to the overthrow of rulers in Tunisia,
Egypt and Libya. OPEC is poised to earn a record $1 trillion
from oil this year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Brent for delivery in 2012 is currently trading at $96.31,
according to an average of monthly contracts for the year.
That’s 16 percent less than the $114-a-barrel median of 37
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Major Downside Risk’  OPEC ministers will hold their second meeting of the year
on Dec. 14 in Vienna to decide how much of their oil the world
will need in 2012. Demand for OPEC crude will fall to 29.8
million barrels a day in the second quarter from 30.5 million
for the rest of this year, according to the  International Energy
Agency . The group produced 30.3 million barrels a day in August,
the Paris-based IEA said.  There are “dark clouds on the horizon which show a major
downside risk” and oil imports by India and  China  are falling,
Ali al-Yabhouni, the United Arab Emirates’ OPEC governor, said
Oct. 3. Most developed nations are sliding back into a recession,
while the U.S. is already in the throes of an economic
contraction,  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said Sept. 27 in  New York .  “Who will cut, and how, is for OPEC to decide,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA, said by phone from London Sept. 14. “The difficulty
is balancing out demand versus supply uncertainty. Economic
forecasts have been deteriorating, but you have supply-side
uncertainty as to when Libya will return.”  Return to Libya  Oil companies  are returning to Libya after seven months of
armed conflict between Qaddafi’s supporters and opponents halted
1.6 million barrels a day of production. Rome-based Eni said it
may take more than a year to resume its full 280,000 barrel-a-
day capacity. Petro-Canada’s joint venture with Libya’s National
Oil Corp. expects to reach full output of 100,000 barrels a day
by year-end, while Total said it will return to pre-war levels
of 40,000 barrels a day “within a few weeks.”  A resumption of Libyan crude may lead to a narrowing in the
premium of prompt Brent oil relative to future contracts, Seth Kleinman, a London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
Sept. 28 report. The December 2011 contract’s premium to
December 2012, which was about $4 a barrel at that time, “looks
like a sell in our view,” he said in the note to investors.  ‘Much Uncertainty’  OPEC last met in June, when six members including Iran and
Venezuela rejected a Saudi proposal to replace lost Libyan crude.
 Mohammad Aliabadi , Iran’s acting oil minister and OPEC president
at the time, said before the meeting that the group saw “much
uncertainty” in the world economy. Since then, Brent has
dropped 14 percent.  “If anybody cuts it will be Saudi Arabia,”  Kevin Norrish ,
managing director of commodities research at  Barclays Capital ,
said in a Sept. 22 interview in  London . “They need a breakeven
oil price between $90 and $100 a barrel and that’s gone up a lot
because of the extra money they’re spending to placate the
unrest in their country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  