-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Speculation Europe Will Aid Banks

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-10-05T21:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/most-emerging-stocks-fall-as-europe-concerns-counter-valuations.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, pushing
the benchmark index up for the first time in four days, as a
report that European leaders are seeking ways to recapitalize
banks and U.S. companies added more jobs than expected eased
concern about an economic slowdown.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.6 percent to
836.54 as of 5:44 p.m. New York time. The BUX Index surged 5.7
percent in Budapest, led by Gedeon Richter Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s
biggest drugmaker. Chile’s Ipsa index climbed 2.6 percent while
 Brazil ’s benchmark climbed 0.7 percent. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 2.3
percent in  South Korea  and  India ’s Sensex Index fell 0.5
percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  said today European Union
officials are working on plans to boost bank capital after a
Financial Times report that EU finance ministers are discussing
ways of coordinating recapitalizations of the region’s banks
sparked a late surge in U.S. stocks yesterday.  “The last-hour rally in the U.S. that is being attributed
to talks of European authorities finding a solution to sovereign
debt issues gave hope to investors that a consolidated effort
will arrive within days,” Slava Smolyaninov, an analyst at
UralSib Corp. in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.8 percent, extending
gains in the past two days to 4 percent. The gauge reversed a
loss in the final 50 minutes of trading yesterday after the
Financial Times quoted  Olli Rehn , EU commissioner for economic
affairs, as saying there’s an “increasingly shared view” the
region needs a coordinated approach to halt the debt crisis.  U.S. Data  Companies in the U.S. added 91,000 jobs last month,
according to data from ADP Employer Services. That’s more than
the 75,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. U.S. service industries expanded in September at a slower
pace than a month earlier. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing index fell to 53 from 53.3 in August. The
median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a drop to 52.8.  Moody’s cut Italy’s rating three levels to A2 from Aa2,
with a negative outlook, and said other European countries rated
below the top Aaa level may face reductions in their rankings.  Emerging-market currencies rallied against the dollar. The
Turkish lira jumped 1.1 percent from a record low after policy
makers in Turkey and  Russia  stepped up sales of foreign-currency
reserves to counter a sell-off in developing-nation assets. The
ruble rebounded 0.5 percent after weakening 3 percent in the
last five days.  Currencies Rally  The Brazilian real and Mexican peso each appreciated 1.4
percent, while  South Africa ’s rand jumped 1.5 percent, the most
among 25 emerging currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 475, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  Gedeon Richter soared 9.4 percent in Budapest, the most in
almost three years, after a clinical trial of cariprazine, an
antipsychotic agent, showed “significant” symptom improvement
for patients, according to a statement by Richter and its
partner Forest Laboratories Inc. on the website of the Budapest
Stock Exchange today.  Brazil’s Bovespa index gained 0.6 percent in its first
increase in four days. Tam SA led advances for companies that
depend on domestic demand as traders wagered on deeper interest-
rate cuts. The Ipsa rose 2.6 percent in Santiago, the first
advance in six days.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 0.2 percent in Istanbul,
led by banks, after the central bank earlier today cut  reserve
requirements  on foreign-currency deposits by as much as 250
basis points.  South Africa, Russia  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index gained 1 percent in
Johannesburg. The Micex Index fell 0.2 percent in Moscow.
China’s stock market is closed for a holiday.  In Mumbai,  State Bank of India (SBIN)  fell 3.8 percent, taking
losses in the past six days to 14 percent. The stock tumbled 4
percent yesterday after Moody’s cut its rating on the lender’s
financial strength, citing deteriorating asset quality.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  sank 15 percent in
 Seoul  and rival Daelim Industrial Co. tumbled 14 percent. Both
builders were hit by speculation lower  oil prices  will damp
plant construction demand in the  Middle East , said Im Jeong Jae,
a  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  