-- 
House Panel Backs Bill Boosting Nonpublic-Firm Shareholder Limit

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-10-05T23:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/house-panel-backs-bill-boosting-nonpublic-firm-shareholder-limit.html
A U.S. House panel approved measures
that would let closely held firms attract more investors without
going public as part of a slate of Republican-backed legislation
aimed at spurring economic growth.  The House  Financial Services Capital Markets  subcommittee
gave bipartisan support today to a bill that would increase to
1,000 from 500 the number of shareholders a nonpublic company
can have without an initial public offering. The panel approved
by voice vote a separate bill that would boost the Securities
and Exchange Commission threshold to 2,000 for banks.  “At a time when we need to be creating jobs in this
country, we know one of the fuels for jobs is capital,” said
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican.  House Republicans  are pushing legislation to help startups
and smaller firms raise money amid regulatory hurdles and
tighter lending standards following the 2008 credit crisis.
Shares of such companies are being traded on secondary markets
that have emerged since the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 and last
year’s Dodd-Frank Act increased the cost of going public.  President  Barack Obama , in his September address to
Congress, pledged to “cut away the red-tape” negatively
affecting small businesses and SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
earlier this year ordered a broad review of registration and
reporting rules to identify areas for improvement.  ‘Commonality of Agendas’  “The nice thing here is that this seems to fit a
commonality of agendas,” said Representative David Schweikert,
the Arizona Republican who sponsored the measure to raise the
shareholder threshold. Representative Jim Himes, a Connecticut
Democrat, sponsored the measure to increase the limit for banks.  The subcommittee also approved by voice vote a measure
sponsored by House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican, to remove the private company ban on general
solicitation of so-called accredited investors, those deemed
sufficiently sophisticated to understand offerings.  Even with bipartisan support on the Financial Services
Committee, the proposals are not without detractors.  The SEC, in congressional testimony, has noted concerns
over the effect the bills would have on investor protection.
State securities regulators have objected to two of the
proposals on investor protection grounds and have lobbied
lawmakers to slow down or reject the proposals, including two
that would allow private firms to solicit funds from investors.  ‘Radically Deregulate’  “Proposals like these, which would radically deregulate
the existing system of investor protection laws, will not be a
remedy for the current weak economy,” William F. Galvin,
 Massachusetts ’ top securities regulator, said of the
solicitation proposals in an Oct. 2 letter to lawmakers.  Democrats echoed the investor protection concerns voiced by
Galvin and raised objections to two of the proposals, including
an initiative specifically backed by Obama.  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina
Republican, has sponsored a bill that would permit so-called
crowd funding to finance new businesses by letting companies
accept and pool donations up to $5 million. The Obama
administration has  listed crowd funding  -- raising money from
people who network and pool money to a level of $1 million, as
something it supports as part of its September jobs proposals.  “This legislation is a concept that has a certain amount
of sex appeal,” said Representative Maxine Waters of
 California , the senior Democrat on the subcommittee. “However
it has not had enough research, nor has it had enough thought,
on how we can protect investors.”  While the subcommittee approved the bill 18-14,
Representative  Scott Garrett , the New Jersey Republican who
leads the subcommittee, said he shared some of the Democrats’
concerns and planned to work with them to address issues with
the bill before it reaches a vote in the full committee.  The panel also approved, along party lines, a measure
sponsored by Representative Stephen Fincher, a Tennessee
Republican, that would exemption companies with a public float,
or shares available to investors, of as much as $350 million
from the audit requirement in Sarbanes-Oxley. Companies with
less than $75 million are currently exempt from the requirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  