-- 
House Republican Cybersecurity Plan Echoes Parts of Obama Policy

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/house-cybersecurity-task-force-wary-of-rules-on-network-defense.html
A House Republican proposal for
safeguarding U.S. computer networks from hacker attacks shares
some common ground with the cybersecurity policy advocated by
the Obama administration.  Congress should seek to strengthen cyberdefenses for power
grids, water systems and other U.S. infrastructure, and toughen
criminal penalties for computer intrusions, a  task force  of 12
 House Republicans  said in a report released yesterday.  Unlike the Obama administration, the task force favored
using a voluntary approach to encourage industry to bolster
network protections. Still, the lawmakers’ recommendations
parallel key elements of proposals issued by the White House in
May, according to James Lewis, a cybersecurity researcher at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  “There’s a lot of overlap with other legislation and some
with the administration’s proposal,” Lewis said in an e-mail of
the Republicans’ 20-page report. “It gives everybody involved a
solid basis to work from.”  U.S. officials and lawmakers have become increasingly
concerned that government and corporate systems are vulnerable
to cyber attacks from criminal groups and countries seeking to
disrupt operations or siphon off sensitive data.  “Every single day intellectual property, whether it’s
blueprints or formulas or business plans, are stolen from
businesses in the  United States  of all sizes,” Representative
William “Mac” Thornberry, a Texas Republican who led the House
task force, said at a news conference yesterday. “We need to
take action for our national security but also for our economic
security.”  Anonymous Threat  Hours before Thornberry spoke, Anonymous, a group of self-
styled hacker-activists, vowed to support the Occupy Wall Street
protests by erasing the New York Stock Exchange “from the
Internet” on Oct. 10, according to a video message posted on
YouTube. The group launched attacks in December against the
sites of MasterCard Inc. and Visa Inc.  The House Republicans said they did not favor far-reaching
cybersecurity legislation aimed at resolving multiple network-
defense issues with a single measure. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is compiling a comprehensive
cybersecurity bill on his side of  Capitol Hill .  Reid’s office didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
requesting comment.  The Obama administration is reviewing the Republicans’
recommendations, said White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden.
“We remain committed to the passage of cybersecurity
legislation, and look forward to working in a bipartisan,
bicameral manner,” she said.  White House Plan  The proposal released in May by the White House envisions
having the Homeland Security Department assist companies that
operate critical infrastructure on improving their
cyberdefenses. Under the White House plan, companies would
submit their cybersecurity plans to commercial auditors, and the
department would intervene to improve plans that are deemed
insufficient by the agency.  The Republican task force instead recommended non-binding
industry standards and voluntary incentives for improving
cybersecurity and expressed skepticism about assigning federal
agencies to grade the network defenses of private businesses.  “Threats change and adapt rapidly,” the report said.
“Change occurs so fast in this area that attempts to directly
regulate a specific cybersecurity solution will be outdated by
the time it is written.”  Areas of Agreement  Thornberry cited other areas of agreement with the White
House, including the need to simplify data-breach reporting
requirements for companies, update information-security
standards for government agencies, and boost recruitment of
qualified cybersecurity workers.  The recommendations “reflect a deliberative and
consultative approach, so they are well-informed about what can
be effective,” Liesyl Franz, vice president of cybersecurity
and global public policy for  TechAmerica , a Washington-based
technology industry trade group, said in an e-mail.  The Republican task force also said it favored creating an
information clearinghouse, outside of government, to allow
agencies and companies to share real-time data on cyber attacks.  Franz praised the task force’s “effort to remove existing
barriers to information sharing, which is so crucial for moving
at the speed of technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  