-- 
Overseas Investors Sell Malaysian Stocks for Second Month

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-10-05T03:58:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/overseas-investors-sell-malaysian-stocks-for-second-month-1-.html
Overseas investors sold Malaysian
stocks for a second straight month in September, as the
benchmark index capped its biggest quarterly slump in almost
three years.  Foreign funds unloaded 300 million ringgit ($94 million) of
 Malaysian shares  last month, according to data on the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange’s website. Some 3.8 billion ringgit flowed
out of equities in August, the most since at least October 2009,
after four consecutive months of inflows.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index slumped 12
percent last quarter, the most since the three months ended
December 2008, as concerns  Europe ’s debt crisis will hurt
economic growth eroded demand for emerging-market assets. The
ringgit completed its biggest quarterly loss since 1998.  “With the unresolved debt crisis in Europe,  risk aversion 
is here and everyone is locking in profits,” said Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage about $770 million at Libra Invest Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “If things get uglier, there may be more
selling.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Italy’s debt rating yesterday
for the first time in almost two decades and said other European
countries rated below the top Aaa level may face reductions in
their rankings. European Union finance ministers are discussing
ways of coordinating recapitalizations of the region’s banks,
the Financial Times reported.  Market Downgrade  The KLCI index rose 0.6 percent to 1,369.45 as of 11:36
a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today, snapping a three-day decline. The
stock gauge has fallen 14 percent from a record on July 8. It
traded at 12.8 times estimated profit on Sept. 26, the lowest
level since April 2009.  Malaysian stocks were cut on Sept. 28 to “equal weight”
from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley, which cited earnings
revisions and weaker industrial output. Government data on Sept.
9 showed industrial production contracted 0.6 percent from a
year earlier, compared with the 2.4 percent growth economists in
a Bloomberg survey had forecast.  Before the sell-off, overseas investors piled into
Malaysia’s stock market, betting on the nation’s efforts to
bolster economic growth. About 6.7 billion ringgit of foreign
funds flowed into Malaysian stocks from April to July, according
to stock exchange data.  Prime Minister Najib’s government unveiled an economic
transformation program in September 2010 that was aimed at
attracting investment. The plan includes $444 billion of
programs this decade ranging from mass rail to nuclear power,
led by private and government-linked companies. On July 8, Najib
broke ground on a 48 billion-ringgit mass rail network aimed at
easing traffic congestion in Kuala Lumpur.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  