-- 
HP CEO Whitman Says Autonomy Will Be Last Big Software Deal

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-05T22:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hp-ceo-whitman-says-autonomy-will-be-last-big-software-deal-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won’t look for
big takeover targets in the  software industry  following its
$10.3 billion purchase of Autonomy Corp., Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  said at an event in San Francisco today.  “It’s certainly the end of big acquisitions,” said
Whitman, when asked whether she would continue the software
expansion strategy of her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker , who was
ousted as CEO last month.  Whitman said the company has to pay attention to its
hardware businesses, such as servers and printers.  “You don’t transform $129 billion companies,” she said at
a forum to discuss California’s economic future hosted by the
Public Policy Institute of California. “We have to take the
most incredible assets we have and make them great.”  Yesterday, Whitman told a conference on women in leadership
sponsored by Fortune magazine that Hewlett-Packard would decide
whether to spin off its $41 billion personal-computer division
by the end of October, pushing up the company’s timetable.  As for the economy, Whitman said it’s a “very difficult
environment, particularly for a company the size of HP.” She
said the Palo Alto,  California , technology giant hasn’t decided
yet if job cuts are needed. “I don’t know yet,” she said.  Seeking Harmony  Whitman, former CEO of EBay Inc., joined Hewlett-Packard’s
board in January after a failed run for California governor in
2010. She took over as CEO of the computer maker on Sept. 22,
when Apotheker was ousted after less than 11 months on the job.
Whitman and Executive Chairman  Ray Lane  have promised to bring
accord to the company’s executive suite and improve employee
morale.  The Public Policy Institute of California is a nonprofit
research group that studies issues including economic
development, education and immigration. Walter B. Hewlett, son
of Hewlett-Packard co-founder William Hewlett, is on the
institute’s board, according to its  website .  Shares of Hewlett-Packard gained 84 cents, or 3.7 percent,
to $23.86 at 4 p.m. today on the New York Stock Exchange. The
stock has slumped 43 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  