-- 
Palin Won’t Make 2012 Run, Pledges to Keep ‘Driving’ Dialogue

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/palin-decides-against-2012-run.html
Sarah Palin ended a lengthy and
attention-grabbing political guessing game yesterday with her
announcement that she won’t seek the Republican presidential
nomination.  The former  Alaska  governor and her party’s 2008 vice
presidential nominee -- more recently a reality TV star and
cable-news commentator -- said she opted against a White House
run because she believes “that at this time I can be more
effective in a decisive role to help elect other true public
servants to office -- from the nation’s governors, to
congressional seats and the presidency.”  Her  announcement , in a statement sent to supporters,
removed a major uncertainty surrounding the Republican race
while raising questions about how she might use her celebrity
and political following to shape the 2012 campaign.  “I will continue driving the discussion for freedom and
free markets, including in the race for president,” Palin’s
statement said. “I will help coordinate strategies to assist in
replacing” President  Barack Obama , keeping Republican control
of the U.S. House and helping her party win a Senate majority,
she said.  “I put great consideration into family life before making
this decision,” she said. “When we serve, we devote ourselves
to God, family and country. My decision maintains this order.”  Settled Field  Palin disclosed her decision the day after New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie said he wouldn’t make a late entry into
the Republican primary, dashing the hopes of some prominent
activists and donors seeking an alternative to the candidates
already in the race. It’s now a near certainty that the
Republican nominee to challenge Obama will be chosen from among
the current competitors.  The decisions by Palin and Christie to stay on the
sidelines settle the diffuse Republican field and will force
Republicans to finally choose sides, said John Pitney, a
political scientist at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,
 California . “What you see is what you get,” Pitney said.
“People who give money and work precincts are going to have to
pick from who’s out there.”  Palin will likely be a coveted endorsement for the
Republican contenders.  Her decision not to run also could provide a boost to Texas
Governor  Rick Perry , who is competing with Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  and businessman  Herman Cain  for
the backing of those Tea Party-aligned voters who favored Palin,
as well as the fiscal and social conservatives who hold sway in
the Iowa caucuses that start the nomination process.  Momentum Shifts  Bachmann has seen her momentum wane since winning the  Iowa 
straw poll on Aug. 13. Polls initially showed Perry -- who
declared his candidacy that same day -- cutting into her
support. Political setbacks for Perry in recent weeks have
helped Cain rise in the polls.  Palin’s decision could complicate the race for former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who has been vying with
Perry for the lead in national polls of the Republican race and
whose candidacy might have benefited from a fractured Republican
base.  Palin, 47, periodically stoked speculation about her
intentions, including this month with visits to Iowa and  New
Hampshire , where the first primary is held. Earlier this year,
she traveled the East Coast on a deluxe bus emblazoned with a
Liberty Bell and phrases from the Constitution and the Pledge of
Allegiance, visiting historic sites.  ‘Room For More’  She said during her Sept. 3 visit to Iowa that “there’s
room for more” Republican presidential candidates, yet gave
supporters chanting “Run, Sarah, run!” no clue about whether
she would.  She offered insight into her hesitation to run in a Sept.
27 interview with  Fox News . “Is a title and is a campaign too
shackling?” Palin wondered aloud. “Does that prohibit me from
being out there, out of a box, not allowing handlers to shape me
and to force my message to be what donors or what contributors
or what political pundits want it to be? Does a title take away
my freedom to call it like I see it and to affect positive
change that we need in this country? That’s the biggest
contemplation piece in my process.”  Palin’s bow-out is the latest twist in a political and
media odyssey that has inspired hero worship among some
supporters and loathing by some critics. The strong reactions
have cut across party lines, with Palin and her backers often
casting her as a persecuted figure while detractors -- including
many prominent Republicans -- dismissing her as inept and self-
absorbed.  McCain’s Pick  Palin burst on the national scene in late August 2008, when
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the Republican presidential
nominee, plucked her from relative obscurity in Alaska as she
was serving her first term as governor to be his running mate.  Her plainspoken style and telegenic looks -- along with her
socially conservative views and self-portrayal as a government
reformer and “hockey mom” willing to war with entrenched
interests -- struck a chord with rank-and-file Republicans. She
gave McCain’s candidacy a temporary boost in his race against
Democrat Barack Obama.  As the campaign progressed, though, network television
interviews raised questions about her knowledge of national and
international policy. Polls showed that the number of voters
with doubts about her qualifications grew as Election Day
approached. Obama and his running mate, then-Senator  Joe Biden 
of  Delaware , easily defeated the McCain-Palin ticket.  Gubernatorial Resignation  Eight months later, Palin blamed a bitter aftertaste from
the presidential campaign for her surprise decision to resign
her governorship with about 18 months left in her term. She  said 
she had been subjected to the “the politics of personal
destruction” through more than a dozen “frivolous” ethics
complaints filed with state officials.  Her resignation decision also came amid a fresh round of
public recriminations between McCain’s inner circle and the
Palin camp over the 2008 campaign -- instigated by an article
that appeared in the August 2009 issue of  Vanity Fair . The
almost 10,000-word piece quoted numerous McCain advisers, mostly
speaking anonymously, who disparaged the Alaska governor.  Palin admirers, including conservative commentator Bill Kristol of the Weekly Standard, responded by accusing some of
McCain’s top campaign advisers of being dishonest and self-
serving -- in effect trying to blame Palin for McCain’s 2008
loss.  Since leaving office, Palin has made millions of dollars
while demonstrating an aptitude for keeping herself in the
public eye. She signed on as a commentator for Fox News for $1
million a year and reportedly charges $100,000 per speech for
appearances across the nation.  Book Payments  She earned a $1.25 million advance to pen her 2009 memoir,
 “Going Rogue: An American Life”  and later wrote another book,
“America By Heart,” for what an April 2010 New York Magazine
 report  said was a deal with the publisher HarperCollins worth $7
million. She also starred in a reality show, “Sarah Palin’s
Alaska,” that aired on the Learning Channel, a cable network
owned by Discovery Communications, Inc., for which the magazine
said she collected $2 million.  Pitney cited Palin’s earnings as one reason he considers it
unlikely she will run for office in the future.  “The problem for Sarah Palin is that any elected office
involves a lot of boring activities that she may not want to
carry out,” he said. “I don’t think that’s the life she
wants.”  Palin’s endorsement was eagerly sought during the 2010
midterm campaign, during which headlined often-raucous rallies
on behalf of Republicans. She threw her backing behind some Tea
Party-aligned candidates -- including several women she dubbed
“mama grizzlies,” in her own mold -- who ran with varying
degrees of success.  She contributed $463,500 from her political action
committee in 2010 and 2009 to Republican candidates and
committees, according to the  Federal Election Commission . Her
committee -- SarahPAC -- had $1.4 million in its coffers as of
June 30, 2011, according to disclosures filed with the FEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  