-- 
Panamax Ship Rents Increase Most in Four Months on Coal, Grains

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-10-05T16:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/panamax-ship-rents-increase-most-in-four-months-on-coal-grains.html
Rents for panamax vessels, the
largest ships that can navigate the Panama Canal, rose the most
in four months as grain exports from the U.S. and coal imports
to  China  boosted demand.  Daily rates advanced 2.7 percent to $14,567, according to
the London-based Baltic Exchange, a provider of freight costs on
29 dry-bulk shipping routes. The gain was the biggest since May
25, and hire costs increased for an eighth session to the
highest level since June 22. That helped to lift the Baltic Dry
Index after six declines in a row.  Mine closings stemming from a fatal accident last month
reduced Chinese coal output. Inspections of wheat and soybeans
for export from the U.S., the top shipper of both crops, climbed
in the week ended Sept. 29 from the prior week, Department of
Agriculture figures showed Oct. 3.  Increased Chinese coal imports and a seasonal climb in
grain shipments from the U.S. were supporting rates, RS Platou
Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment bank, said in an e-mailed
report.  The index, a broader measure of commodity freight costs,
advanced 1.2 per cent to 1,908 as earnings rose for all four
classes of dry-bulk ships it tracks. The gauge slid 26 percent
over the past year, even after a 50 percent jump in August and
September as higher Chinese iron-ore imports helped rents for
capesize vessels, the largest in the index, to more than triple.  $24,813 a Day  Hire costs for panamaxes in the Atlantic Ocean for
shipments to  Asia , the highest-paying route for the vessels,
gained 1.5 percent to $24,813 a day, data from the exchange
showed. That was the highest level since April 1.  Atlantic-based panamaxes are being sought for bookings of
several months, a sign that single-voyage rates will rise
further, London-based shipbroker ICAP Shipping Ltd. said in an
e-mailed report yesterday. The vessels account for about 23
percent of the world dry-bulk fleet of 8,678 ships, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker.  Hire costs for capesize vessels that haul iron ore and coal
gained 1 percent to $25,731 a day after a six-session, 12
percent retreat from the 10-month high of $28,949 registered
Sept. 26. Rates will drop into the fourth quarter on weaker
Chinese demand for imported iron ore, Erik Stavseth, an analyst
with Oslo-based Arctic Securities ASA, said in an e-mailed
report today.  Smaller supramax vessels advanced for a 22nd session,
rising 0.5 percent to $15,796 a day, the highest level since
March 31, exchange data showed. Availability of the ships in the
Atlantic region was scarce as charterers sought bookings to load
cargoes on  South America ’s east coast, according to ICAP
Shipping. Rents advanced 9.6 percent over the last month,
exchange data show.  Costs for handysizes, the smallest ships tracked by the
index, climbed 0.6 percent to $11,154 a day, according to the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  