-- 
Panetta Softens Gates NATO Message With Libya, Afghanistan Roles

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-10-05T16:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/panetta-softens-gates-nato-message-with-libya-afghanistan-roles.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
drew on the achievements of NATO’s operation in Libya to call
for a greater commitment to the alliance even in times of budget
cuts, softening a message his predecessor,  Robert Gates ,
delivered with a rhetorical bang just four months ago.  “With the fall of the Qaddafi regime, our nations saw an
example of why NATO matters and why NATO remains indispensable
in confronting the security challenges of today,” Panetta told
an audience of the Carnegie Europe policy group in Brussels
today. “We need to use this moment to make the case for the
need to invest in this alliance, to ensure it remains relevant
to the security challenges of the future.”  Gates roiled the normally calm confines of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization during his last official visit to
the Belgian capital in June by warning of the alliance’s
“collective military irrelevance” unless U.S. allies
contribute more in defense spending.  The substance of Panetta’s message echoed that of Gates,
exhorting NATO allies to collaborate better, push along a joint
purchase of unmanned aerial-surveillance aircraft and make
“tough” decisions to preserve the most necessary “core”
capabilities. Both continents are struggling with stumbling
economies that are prompting defense cuts such as the at least
$450 billion the Pentagon is carving out for the next 10 years.  ‘Different Style’  Panetta’s comments, made before he met with his alliance
counterparts at NATO headquarters in Brussels, probably will be
received positively, said Ian Lesser, executive director of the
Brussels office for the  German Marshall Fund  of the  United
States .  “The Gates message last year was very controversial,”
said Lesser, a former policy planner for the U.S. State
Department. “It did start a debate, which the secretary
intended, but it was very sharp-edged commentary. This had a
different style.”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the Libya
mission exposed shortfalls in the alliance’s capabilities.
Though European members and Canada took the lead, they needed
U.S. intelligence, surveillance and other elements, he said.  “They provided most of the assets, but they had to rely on
the United States to deploy critical enablers to get the job
done,” Rasmussen told reporters today after the NATO meeting in
Brussels. “More allies should make sure they obtain and
maintain those kinds of critical capabilities. Once is not
enough.”  Defense Spending  Panetta cited an estimate that defense spending in Europe
has “dropped almost 2 percent annually for a decade, at a time
when many European nations have been conducting operations in
 Afghanistan , Libya,  Kosovo  and elsewhere.” So savings have been
carved from modernization budgets, he said.  “Our nations are grappling with significant budget
challenges, putting new pressure on defense spending that has
already been in decline here on the continent,” Panetta said.
“Recognizing the financial and political realities we face,
however, we need at a minimum to coordinate additional cuts.”  The German Marshall Fund’s latest Transatlantic Trends
survey found only 34 percent of the public in the European Union
wanted to decrease defense spending and 46 percent wanted to
keep it at current levels. The results were about the same for
the American public, according to the  survey  released last
month.  ‘Alliance Collaboration’  Alliance members should break an impasse over funding that
has stalled a plan to purchase five  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
Global Hawk drones, Panetta said. He called the Alliance Ground
Surveillance program “a crucial symbol of alliance
collaboration.”  “Unless it is implemented successfully, the drive for
similar, cost-effective, multinational approaches to capability
development would be seriously undermined,” he said.  The U.S. needs to make some decisions of its own to address
the efficiency of the alliance, said Josef Janning, director of
studies and a security and defense specialist at the European
Policy Centre in Brussels. The Libya operation, which the
Pentagon led initially and then handed off in significant part
to the Europeans, indicates the U.S. may be willing to cede some
of its weight to back more European integration, he said.  “The U.S., out of its own experience, very clearly knows
that to have 25 air forces in  Europe  is simply ridiculous,”
Janning said. “But with an alliance built on national
contributions to a common purpose, you don’t get beyond that
point.”  Non-Member Nations  Panetta said NATO can spread the burden by collaborating
more with non-member nations that are “exceptionally capable
militarily,” as the alliance did in Libya and Afghanistan and
against piracy off the coast of Somalia. He didn’t suggest any
countries in particular.  In Afghanistan, the 28-member NATO leads the coalition and
draws on troop contributions from more than 20 other nations.
The Libya operation has relied in part on Qatar to fly patrols.
Countries as distant as  New Zealand  and  Japan  have helped in the
battle against piracy off Somalia.  “Non-NATO partners will be increasingly central to NATO’s
future activities,” Panetta said.  NATO did manage to make “swift and decisive” decisions on
the  Libya  operation once the  United Nations  sanctioned military
action, saving thousands of civilians from potential slaughter
while incurring no casualties and keeping civilian deaths or
injuries to a minimum, Panetta said.  Libyan Operations  France  and Britain flew a third of the missions in the
campaign and handled 40 percent of target attacks, he said.  “Denmark, Norway and  Belgium  together destroyed as many
targets as France,” even with their smaller militaries, he
said. “Romania and  Bulgaria  deployed ships as part of the arms
embargo.”  Still, the operation showed weaknesses.  “Nowhere were the gaps more obvious than in critical”
capabilities such as refueling tankers, drones for collecting
intelligence and conducting surveillance and reconnaissance, and
in fielding the specialists needed to translate the information
gleaned into targeting data, Panetta said.  Through Aug. 19, the U.S. had sold participating allies and
partners about $222 million of ammunition, spare parts, fuel and
technical assistance for the Libya operation, according to
Pentagon figures.  Afghan Training  In Afghanistan, the top U.S. and NATO commander, Marine
General John Allen, still lacks trainers to help ensure that the
Afghan security forces will be fit to take over as the coalition
begins its drawdown this year.  “He also continues to seek contributions to the trust
funds we have collectively established in recent years to
sustain the Afghan National Security Forces,” Panetta said.  Panetta did pledge that the U.S. reduction of 33,000
members of its forces by next September wouldn’t harm partner
nations by denying them the support troops they need.  “We must continue to send a strong signal to the people of
Afghanistan, and the Taliban, that we are committed to the
enduring, long-term relationship we have” with the Afghan
people, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 