-- 
Perry’s Executions Defy Sense and Conscience: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/perry-s-ease-with-executions-defies-sense-and-conscience-margaret-carlson.html
The most indelible moment of the
recent Republican debates -- even more unnerving than the crowd
booing a gay soldier or the eruption of scattered applause in
appreciation of the free market ushering a hypothetical patient
to his death for lack of insurance -- was Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s execution answer.  In a debate in September at the Ronald Reagan Presidential
Library, moderator  Brian Williams  tried to pose a question to
Perry, beginning: “Your state has executed 234 death row
inmates, more than any other governor in modern times. Have you
-- ”  Before he could finish, Williams was  drowned out  by lusty
cheers and piercing whistles from the audience.  It’s one thing to support the death penalty. It’s quite
another to relish it like fans cheering a winning touchdown. The
Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976 -- although
retired Justice  John Paul Stevens  now says his vote in favor is
the one regret of his 35 years on the bench. Public support for
the death penalty remains broad, but it has waned in recent
years. The imposition of life sentences without parole, the
failure of the death penalty to deter violent crime ( Texas  has
both the highest number of executions and an above-average
 murder rate ) and publicity about wrongful convictions have all
taken a toll.  According to a CBS-New York Times  poll  last month, support
for the death penalty for convicted murderers has fallen to 60
percent, down 18 percentage points from when the question was
first asked by CBS in October 1988. That was the autumn when
Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis was being
pummeled for being soft on crime. Unwilling to replicate
Dukakis’s experience, every Democratic presidential nominee --
and even many Democratic officials in liberal enclaves like  New
York City  -- have supported capital punishment ever since.  Out of Sight  Our executions take place conveniently out of sight. Firing
squads and hangings have given way to what looks like a patient
being given anesthesia in an operating room, only the prisoner
convulses and never wakes up. Curiously, the gung-ho types who
cheer loudest for Perry’s body count -- it’s since grown to 235
-- are often the most likely to contend that government can do
nothing right. When it comes to choosing who should be put to
death, however, government remarkably can do nothing wrong.  Facts have never had much sway in this debate. Since 1993,
according to the Death Penalty Information Center, there have
been 138 death-row inmates who’ve been exonerated and released,
some as a result of DNA evidence. There is no way to rationally
evaluate such information without concluding there is a high
likelihood that innocent people have been convicted of murder
and executed in the U.S.  Inmates have been sent to death row due to faulty
eyewitness testimony (which is frighteningly common), poor
forensics (most crime labs do not resemble “CSI”), overworked
police and prosecutors (under pressure to solve crimes quickly),
or shoddy defense lawyers. The Senate Judiciary Committee  found 
that “egregiously incompetent defense lawyering” accounted for
about two-fifths of the errors in capital cases. In an infamous
case in Texas, a defense attorney who slept in court was not
sufficient grounds to reverse his client’s conviction. Poverty
and race play their  part  as well: About 70 percent of those
exonerated by DNA testing are black or Hispanic.  “Actually” Innocent  None of this matters. In denying an appeal by Georgia
death-row inmate Troy Davis, who was subsequently executed,
 Supreme Court  Justice  Antonin Scalia   wrote  that the court “has
never held that the Constitution forbids the execution of a
convicted defendant who has had a full and fair trial but is
later able to convince a habeas court that he is ‘actually’
innocent.” By Scalia’s reckoning, justice is a process, not a
result: A wrongful conviction is small potatoes, an unfortunate
detail, when weighed against a technically fair trial process.  In Davis’s case, seven witnesses recanted their testimony,
and the evidence linking him to the shooting of an off-duty
policeman was largely circumstantial. Former FBI Director
William Sessions, former Republican Representative Bob Barr,
former wardens -- even  Pope Benedict XVI  -- asked  Georgia  to
delay Davis’s execution. He died by lethal injection on Sept.
21.  In 2004, Perry similarly refused to delay the execution of
Cameron Todd Willingham despite mounting evidence -- made
possible by advances in forensic science -- that the fire that
killed Willingham’s three children had not been deliberately
set. Perry didn’t wait for additional findings in the case from
a special commission; he was in a hurry. Willingham was
executed.  At the Reagan library debate, Perry confidently told
Williams that he had never lost sleep over any of the 234 people
executed during his tenure as governor. It’s an alarming
statement if false, a contemptible one if true. Perry will soon
face another test -- the convoluted case of Henry Watkins
Skinner, who is scheduled to be executed by Texas on Nov. 9. As
Perry travels the country seeking to convince Americans that
he’s worthy of the presidency, he would do well to struggle a
bit over Skinner’s fate, even if it slows the death machine that
Texas has embraced. It’s worth losing sleep over life-and-death
decisions. It’s what presidents, and other moral beings, do.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 