-- 
Perry Raises More Than $17 Million for Presidential Bid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-05T18:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/perry-raises-more-than-17m-for-2012-bid.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  raised more
than $17 million through Sept. 30 for his presidential run, his
campaign said today on its  website .  The donations, disclosed in advance of an Oct. 15 reporting
date to the  Federal Election Commission , likely will exceed
anything raised by his rivals for the Republican presidential
nomination during the year’s third quarter, based on his top
competitors’ estimates of how much they raised. It trails the
$18.3 million reported by former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in 2012’s second quarter, April to June.  Perry entered the Republican race Aug. 13.  “The generous contributions from Americans across the
nation prove the overwhelming support for Governor Perry’s
principled, conservative leadership and vision to get America
working again,” said Rob Johnson, Perry’s campaign manager, in
a statement.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas Republican, said
today he had raised more than $8 million in the third quarter,
which would be third-most among the Republican presidential
contenders. He raised $4.5 million through June 30.  “We’re not competing with people who can wave a wand and
get money from big donors,” Paul said during a luncheon speech
at the  National Press Club , emphasizing that most of his money
came in smaller donations. “All donors are not equal.”  First Report  Perry’s report was his first fundraising disclosure, and it
is harder for candidates to sustain donation rates after their
most enthusiastic supporters have given and they are forced to
find new donors. Perry reported that 49 percent of his donors
came from his home state. He also received donations from the 49
other states, the  District of Columbia ,  Puerto Rico  and Guam.  The fundraising figures may provide a boost to Perry by
causing undecided Republican fundraisers to take a new look at
him rather than going to Romney, especially now that New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  has decided not to seek the White House.  Perry has dropped in opinion polls after drawing attacks
from his Republican opponents in recent debates. A Washington
Post-ABC News survey of Republicans and Republican-leaning
independents taken Sept. 29-Oct. 2 gave Perry 16 percent, a 13
percent decline since early September. Romney led the Republican
field with 25 percent. Perry was tied for second in the survey
with businessman  Herman Cain .  ‘Perception’ Game  “This early in the primary season, with voters months away
from heading to polls or caucuses in any state, perception is
everything,” said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean at New York
University’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service.  Perry, who reported $15 million in the bank as of Sept. 30,
has been on the defensive over his support of legislation
providing in-state tuition to the children of undocumented
immigrants.  “If you say that we should not educate children who have
come into our state for no other reason than they’ve been
brought there by no fault of their own, I don’t think you have a
heart,” Perry, 61, said during a Sept. 22 debate in  Florida .  He backed off his remarks a week later in an interview with
a conservative website, saying he “probably chose a poor word
to explain that.”  Romney could report up to $14 million in the third quarter,
according to a person close to the campaign, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the campaign hasn’t authorized
disclosure of figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 