-- 
Philippine Inflation Quickens on Utility, Transport Costs

-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-10-05T02:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/philippine-september-consumer-prices-rise-4-8-from-year-earlier.html
Philippine inflation accelerated in
September after transport and utility costs rose, complicating
the central bank’s job as it juggles the need to contain price
pressures with protecting growth.  Consumer prices increased 4.8 percent from a year earlier,
after a 4.7 percent gain in August, the  National Statistics
Office  said in  Manila  today using 2006 as a base year. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists was
for a 4.9 percent rate. Inflation was 4.6 percent using the 2000
series.  “Supply disruptions from the recent typhoons and a weaker
peso may have pushed inflation higher,” Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore , said before the report.
“But it is unlikely that the central bank will change their
rhetoric given the weak global sentiment. The regional policy
direction is for keeping rates unchanged.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. recovery are
clouding the outlook for  Asia ’s exports and prompted policy
makers from  Malaysia  to Taiwan to leave  interest rates  unchanged
last month even as inflation remains elevated. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas will likely keep its benchmark rate steady for the
rest of 2011, Governor Amando Tetangco said in September.  ‘Risk Appetite’  “We continue to be mindful of global developments,
particularly growth prospects in advanced economies which could
affect local and regional aggregate demand,” Tetangco said in a
mobile-phone text message today. “We are also watchful of policy
developments to resolve the European debt crisis as these could
impact on risk appetite and therefore capital flows into
emerging markets.”  The central bank held the rate it pays lenders for
overnight deposits at 4.5 percent last month after increasing it
twice earlier this year. The next decision is due Oct. 20.  Two  typhoons  struck the  Philippines  last month, killing
more than 50 people and damaging crops and roads.  Benchmark five-year bond yields due September 2016 fell
today after the report, according to Tradition Financial
Services. The peso gained, snapping four days of losses,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The local currency fell more
than 3 percent in September, its worst monthly loss since May
2010.  Philippine transport costs rose 7.1 percent last month from
a year earlier. Fuel, electricity and water prices climbed 5.7
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  