-- 
Philippine 5-Year Bonds Gain on Inflation Report; Peso Rebounds

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-05T10:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/philippine-5-year-bonds-gain-on-inflation-report-peso-rebounds.html
Philippine bonds rose as a government
report showed consumer prices increased less than economists
forecast, allowing policy makers to keep  interest rates  low to
support growth.  Annual inflation was 4.8 percent in September, compared
with 4.7 percent in August, the statistics office said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the rate at 4.9
percent. Price pressures fanned by storms that lashed the
Southeast Asian country last week may not persist, the central
bank said today. The peso gained the most in a week after
President  Benigno Aquino  said the nation’s economic fundamentals
are “still solid.”  “The latest inflation data is supportive of our call that
the tightening phase of the monetary board may be over for the
year,” said Ryanna Berza-Talan, a bond-fund manager at Banco de
Oro Trust in Manila. “It is positive for the  bond market .”  The yield on the 9.125 percent note due September 2016
dropped 1.5 basis point, or 0.015 percentage point, to 5.125
percent in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.
The rate on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.275 percent.  The inflation “reading is slightly below market
expectations and this will give the central bank some leeway to
spur economic growth,” said Eugene Leow, an economist in
 Singapore  at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “Interest rates will
likely stay on hold for the rest of the year given the negative
external headwind.”  Debt Sales  The government plans to sell 10- and 15-year bonds to
individuals this month to raise at least 60 billion pesos ($1.4
billion), Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said on Oct. 3. It
hired 10 banks to manage the sale and pricing may take place on
Oct. 10, he said.  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent to 43.868 per dollar in
 Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It fell yesterday to an
eight-month low of 44.215. The currency remains within a
“tolerable range,” Aquino told reporters in Bulacan province
north of Manila today.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
U.S. policy makers were prepared to take more steps to support
the recovery in the world’s largest economy. Eleven of 52
economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the  European Central Bank 
will cut its benchmark interest rate by at least a quarter-
percentage point from the current level of 1.5 percent at a
meeting tomorrow. The others expect no change.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is “watchful of policy
developments to resolve the European debt crisis as these could
impact on risk appetite and capital flows in emerging market
economies, including the  Philippines ,” Governor Amando Tetangco
said in a mobile-phone message today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan16@bloomberg.net  