-- 
Philippine Bourse Plans ETFs to Boost Market Trading Volumes

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T01:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/philippine-exchange-planning-etfs-to-lure-overseas-investors-1-.html
The Philippine Stock Exchange is
aiming to introduce exchange-traded funds and  securities lending 
to lure overseas investors to one of  Asia ’s smallest stock
markets, according to President Hans Sicat.  The bourse, which lengthened its trading day by an hour to
1 p.m. starting Oct. 3, is in talks with government agencies to
introduce ETFs and “a system for borrowing and lending
securities to increase trading activity,” Sicat said in an
interview in Manila yesterday. ETFs are exchange-listed products
that mirror indexes, commodities, bonds and currencies and allow
investors to buy and sell them like stocks.  “The exchange is working with potential providers to push
specific products,” Sicat said. “We are interacting, educating
and briefing the Department of Finance, the Securities &
Exchange Commission and Bureau of Internal Revenue to get the
conversation to the appropriate level and obtain the right
approvals and framework.”  The Philippine stock market has been left behind by most of
its peers in the region in terms of scale and product offerings.
With a market capitalization of $142 billion as of Oct. 4, it’s
the smallest of  Southeast Asia ’s five major markets, behind
 Singapore , Malaysia, Indonesia and  Thailand .  Japan  is Asia’s
largest market with a value of $3.54 trillion.  Longer Hours  Offerings for investors in the Philippines are limited to
common shares, preferred stocks, warrants and depositary
receipts. Futures, options and derivatives are traded in
Malaysia, where the stock market is more than twice the size of
the Philippines, and in Thailand, which had a market worth $223
billion as of Oct. 4. The Thai and Malaysian exchanges also
already offer ETFs.  The extension in hours is the Philippine exchange’s second
attempt in nine years to boost trading value. It scrapped longer
hours in October 2002 amid a global share slump, eight months
after it revived afternoon trading for the first time since
1976. Trading will be extended again next year to end at 3:30
p.m., with a 90-minute break at noon.  “This can be the first of a number of steps that the
exchange can use to attract more interest from international
investors,” Ross Baildon, Hong Kong-based head of equity
syndicate for Asia at UBS AG, said in a Sept. 30 interview.
“Other things should follow, like the introduction of more
products such as options and futures.”  Global Player  Philippine stock trading has averaged $128 million a day
this year, trailing  Malaysia ’s $597 million, Indonesia’s $604
million and Thailand’s $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. An average of $1.26 billion of shares traded daily
this year in Singapore, Southeast Asia’s biggest market.  Increasing the number of listed companies would also
attract fund managers, said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of
multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $10 billion.  “The Philippine exchange has to standardize the things it
does and offers if it wants to be a global player,” Baring’s Do
said. “The Philippines has to look at the best practices in the
world. Having more companies and products listed on the exchange
will help the Philippine market get more visibility in the
world.”  Overseas investors bought a net $420 million of Philippine
stocks so far this year, compared with $1.71 billion in net
purchases of Indonesian equities, according to data gathered by
Bloomberg. Still, the Philippines is ahead of  India ,  South
Korea ,  Taiwan  and Thailand, where overseas investors are net
seller so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  