-- 
Philadelphia Orchestra’s Pension Fund Asks Court for Probe of Donations

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-10-05T23:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/philadelphia-orchestra-s-pension-fund-asks-court-for-probe-of-donations.html
The  Philadelphia Orchestra ’s pension
fund asked a bankruptcy judge to allow it to gather details of
some donations made to the orchestra.  The American Federation of Musicians and Employers’ Pension
Fund requested information from the donors to “confirm whether
additional funds are available to satisfy the fund’s claim,”
according to a filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Philadelphia.  The fund said it was forced to seek a remedy in court after
some requests for “informal discovery” weren’t answered by the
donors. Lawyers for the fund filed more than a dozen separate
motions seeking information from individual donors, according to
court filings today.  The orchestra, which has premiered works by Stravinsky,
Mahler and Rachmaninoff and recorded the accompaniment for
dancing mushrooms and hippos in Walt Disney Co.’s animated
“Fantasia,” filed for  bankruptcy protection  in April in
Philadelphia.  Philadelphia Orchestra Association has “repeatedly
indicated that it intends to withdraw from the AFM Plan,” the
fund said in court papers. Lawyers for the fund estimate the
withdrawal liability at about $35 million, making the fund the
orchestra’s largest creditor, according to court filings.  Labor Contract  The bankruptcy filing was partly blamed on the high cost of
the musicians’ pensions. The orchestra also said it needed to
renegotiate the musicians’ labor contract. The Chapter 11
petition in April said assets and debt were both less than
$50 million.  The orchestra had endowments valued at $116 million as of
Feb. 28, Philadelphia Orchestra Association Chairman Richard B.
Worley, said in court papers filed April 17. The orchestra isn’t
permitted to spend the funds on general operating expenses
because these are restricted to specific uses, such as musician
salaries and education, he said.  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 