-- 
Picasso’s Nude Lovers May Fetch Record $25 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/picasso-s-nude-lovers-may-fetch-record-25-million-at-sotheby-s.html
Pablo Picasso ’s 1967 painting
“L’Aubade” could fetch as much as $25 million at Sotheby’s in
New York next month.  That would set an auction record for the artist’s late
phase and mark a substantial rise from the work’s previous
auction price of less than $100,000.  The mainly black-and-white painting depicts a gaunt naked
man playing a flute for a nude woman reclining nearby and
looking directly at the viewer. The figures are set against a
pale-blue background and the man’s toes, ribs and hair are
graphically outlined. The almond-eyed female was inspired by
Picasso’s second wife, Jacqueline Roque.  The work will be auctioned Nov. 2 as part of Sotheby’s
Impressionist and Modern art sale, which also includes
consignments from the  Israel Museum , the  Menil Collection  and
the  Museum of Fine Arts, Boston . The evening’s star by pre-sale
estimate is Gustav Klimt’s “Litzlberg am Attersee,” expected to
bring more than $25 million.  The Picasso painting once belonged to Sydney Barlow, a
California-based collector who founded the Gibraltar Savings &
Loan Association and helped set up the  Los Angeles County Museum
of Art ,  Sotheby’s (BID)  said. It last appeared at auction in 1979,
fetching 49,000 pounds ($75,401) at Sotheby’s in  London .  The spread between that sale and the work’s current
estimate range ($18 million to $25 million) illustrates a steep
price acceleration of the works Picasso (1881-1973) made during
his prolific last decade.  For years dismissed by critics as inferior and garish, they
have recently been embraced by the art market. Auction prices
increased threefold from 2003 to 2010. A 2009 Gagosian Gallery
exhibition stoked the market by bringing together more than 90
works from the period.  Investment Value  For an investment period from 1985 to the present,
Picasso’s late works significantly outperformed his other
periods as well as the  S&P 500  and  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
according to  Artnet , an online art-market data provider, which
reported its findings at the  Artelligence  conference in New York
last month.  “L’Aubade,” which is more than 4 feet tall and 6 feet
wide, could surpass the existing late-Picasso record of $18
million, paid for a gloomy 1964 canvas at  Christie’s  in New York
last year.  “There’s still room for price appreciation, but in a more
gradual, incremental manner,” said  Todd Levin , director of New
York-based  Levin Art Group . “At around $30 million, one enters
a new plateau where qualitatively better works by Picasso become
available compared to works in the sub-$30 million range.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 