-- 
Polish Central Bank Keeps Interest Rates Unchanged on Zloty

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-05T15:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/polish-central-bank-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-on-weak-zloty.html
Poland ’s central bank left borrowing
costs unchanged for a third meeting as a weaker zloty and
inflation concerns keep it from easing policy to protect the
economy against a global slowdown.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  kept the seven-day interest rate
at 4.5 percent, matching the forecasts of all 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors on the  derivatives market  bet two months ago on
an interest-rate cut amid a worsening economic outlook as the
euro-area’s slowing economy hurts demand for Polish exports. An
11.2 percent slump in the zloty against the euro and a 20
percent fall to the dollar in the third quarter prompted the
central bank to support the currency and erased expectations
that borrowing costs will drop.  The central bank reiterated in its post-decision statement
that it may make “further monetary policy adjustments” if the
prospects for a drop in the inflation rate worsen. Governor
 Marek Belka  told reporters at a press conference that the
statement “could be interpreted” as meaning the bank was more
likely to raise  interest rates  than cut them.  ‘More Hawkish’  “The Polish central bank is trying to sound a bit more
hawkish than we had expected,” said Anders Svendsen, an analyst
at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, in a note to clients after
Belka’s comments. “The bank chooses to say that they keep a
wait and see stance with a tendency for higher rates, but the
fact is that there is nothing hawkish in the statement and no
one believes the central bank will actually hike unless the
foreign-exchange interventions do not work. This should probably
be seen more as verbal support for the zloty.”  The Polish currency slumped around 10 percent against the
euro in the third quarter, making it the worst-performing among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Nine-month
forward-rate agreements used to bet on borrowing costs in the
future show investors are pricing in a cut of about 25 basis
points by July.  “The situation is too uncertain for the central bank to
cut rates,” said  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH.
“And, in addition to the general market turbulence, inflation
is at such a high level that a rate cut would risk zloty
depreciation.”  Zloty, Yields  Poland’s central bank moved to strengthen the zloty for the
first time in at least a decade on Sept. 23 and stepped into the
market again a week later. The currency sales came after
Governor Marek Belka warned last month the zloty was not in line
with Poland’s “healthy fundamentals.”  The zloty strengthened against the euro today to 4.3830
from 4.4073 at yesterday’s close. The yield on the five-year
bond dropped to 5.212 percent from 5.296 percent yesterday.  Economic growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of
Polish exports, slowed to 0.2 percent in the April-June period
from the previous quarter, the worst performance since the
bloc’s 2009 recession. The  International Monetary Fund  slashed
its forecast for Poland’s 2011 economic growth to 3.8 percent
from 4 percent in a May report.  Inflation accelerated in August to 4.3 percent from 4.1 in
July, remaining above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target for
a year.  “The market has stopped betting on a fast rate cut,
particularly after the recent depreciation of the zloty, which
makes the central bank’s job tougher,”  Krzysztof Izdebski , a
fixed-income portfolio manager at Union Investment TFI SA in
Warsaw, said by phone before decision. “Interest rates will
remain unchanged to the end of this year but the Monetary Policy
Council is likely to lower them as soon as inflation and the
zloty allow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  