-- 
Polish Premier to Win Elections Though Lead Narrows, Polls Show

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-05T15:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/polish-premier-to-win-elections-though-lead-narrows-polls-show.html
Poland ’s ruling party, two months ago
seen cruising to victory in Oct. 9 elections, may narrowly win
the vote in the European Union’s largest eastern member as the
opposition makes a late surge, opinion polls showed.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s Civic Platform had 31 percent
backing in a TNS OBOP survey of 1,000 voters published yesterday
by  Gazeta Wyborcza , compared with 21 percent for the largest
opposition party Law & Justice. An Oct. 1 poll of 1,500 Poles by
Homo Homini put support for Civic Platform at 30.1 percent with
Law & Justice at 29.1 percent.  Tusk, who has remained one of Poland’s most popular
politicians throughout his four-year term, is seeking re-
election by stressing his government was the only one in the
 EU  to avoid a recession during the global financial crisis. His
main rival is Law & Justice leader  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , whose
policies include delaying a plan to sell government assets.  While pollsters point to different methodologies and Poles’
reluctance to disclose their real political preferences in
surveys, they agree that  Civic Platform  will win, “though it
will neither be a victory by the skin of its teeth, nor by a
crushing victory,” said Andrzej Olszewski, head of TNS OBOP.
The TNS poll didn’t give a margin of error. “The election fight
will last until the very last moment, but the Platform’s victory
will give it a mandate to form a ruling coalition.”  The EU’s seventh-biggest economy grew 4.4 percent a year in
2007 to 2010, compared with 0.1 percent in the EU. Average wages
have increased about 18 percent since Tusk, 54, took power four
years ago, with companies such as Credit Suisse Group AG and
Dell Inc. opening offices. Ferrari opened its first showroom in
Warsaw last year.  Sputtering Growth  Growth may sputter in the second half as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis damps demand in Poland’s main export
markets. While the government has kept its GDP forecast for the
next year at 4 percent, Citibank economist  Piotr Kalisz  revised
his bank’s outlook down to 1.9 percent last week.  Kaczynski, who has called Tusk “morally responsible” for
a plane crash last year that killed his twin brother, President
 Lech Kaczynski , has been capitalizing on voter concerns over the
country’s slowing economy, fiscal deficit and debt load. His
party trailed Civic Platform by an average of 8.3 percentage
points in six polls in October compared with an 13.2
percentage-point average in five polls taken between Aug. 19-31.  Emotions  “Emotions are in play perpetually and until the very last
moment, which helps explain the discrepancy between the various
surveys we’re seeing now,” said Marcin Duma, head of the Homo
Homini research institute. His company’s poll had a margin of
error of 3 percent.  The TNS OBOP poll showed 26 percent of respondents were
undecided, the same as in a September poll by the Center for
Public Research.  According to all polls, three other parties will top the 5
percent threshold, including the Democratic  Left Alliance , the
Polish Peasants’ Party, currently a junior partner in the ruling
coalition, and the newly founded Palikot Movement.  “None of the polls show that Law & Justice is about to
win, just that the gap between them is smaller,” said Radoslaw
Markowski, a professor of political science at the Polish
Academy of Sciences. “But this nation is crazy and could do
anything on election day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  