-- 
Portugal Wins Fans as Lenders Skip Early Payout

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-10-05T05:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/portugal-wins-fans-as-lenders-forgo-early-payout-euro-credit.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s repeated assurance since he took power in June
that the country is committed to putting its fiscal house in
order may be starting to win over some investors at last.  Owners of 50 million euros ($66 million) of seven-year
puttable floating-rate notes in March will forgo the right to be
repaid early, according to two people with knowledge of the deal.
Investors are hanging onto the debt rather than giving notice
and asking to get paid tomorrow, said the people, who declined
to be identified because submissions to the nation’s debt agency
are private. By contrast, the owners of almost half of 110
million euros of a similar security asked for their money back
in July, the people said.  “I’m not sure there will be a turnaround in the Portuguese
bond market any time soon, but some investors might start seeing
value in certain segments of the market,” said  David Owen , a
managing director at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.
“There is no doubt Portugal still has major challenges ahead of
it, but at least the country doesn’t have the same debt load as
 Greece , and it doesn’t have the same banking and housing
problems that Ireland has.”  Coelho is cutting spending and raising taxes to meet the
terms of a 78 billion-euro aid plan from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund . Rising bond yields forced
Portugal in April to follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a
bailout from the EU and IMF.  Option to Sell  Portuguese bonds, which are rated junk by Moody’s Investors
Service, outperformed the debt of  Italy  in the three months
through September for the first time since the end of last year.
They handed investors a 1.5 percent loss, the smallest quarterly
decline in three. Italian bonds dropped 4.1 percent in the same
period, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit.  Italy’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
for the first time in almost two decades on concern that Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government will struggle to reduce
the region’s second-largest debt amid chronically weak growth.  Moody’s lowered Italy’s rating three levels to A2 from Aa2,
with a negative outlook, the New York-based company said in a
statement late yesterday.  Portugal ’s long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings
were affirmed at BBB-/A-3 by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services,
which cited the nation’s commitment to the EU/IMF loan program
and economic reform. The outlook remains negative, S&P said.  External Aid  “Future returns and the country’s outlook tend to be key
factors whether investors exercise these put options,” said
 John Stopford , head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management
Ltd. in London. “If, for example, they think the  default risk 
is high, they are likely to put, or sell, them.”  Credit-default swaps insuring sovereign debt signaled a 62
percent probability that Portugal won’t be able to meet its debt
obligations over the next five years, compared with a more than
90 percent chance of a Greek default, according to CMA.  The Iberian nation issued the note due April 2018 through
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in March. The bond, which has its first
puttable date tomorrow, offers a rate of six-month Euribor plus
150 basis points for the first six months. The premium steps up
to 325 basis points over Euribor from tomorrow, before rising to
350 basis points in April 2013 and 375 basis points in April
2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The security was the last floating-rate note Portugal sold
before the country sought external aid in April as concern the
euro-region debt crisis was spreading sent bond yields soaring,
effectively shutting the nation out of the capital markets.  Worst Not Over  In July, investors were repaid 50 million euros of the 110
million euros of two-year puttable notes issued through  Credit
Agricole  Investment Bank in January, according to the people
familiar with the sale. The security was offered at an initial
rate of 170 basis points over three-month Euribor. It rises to
290 basis points over the  reference rate  in 2012.  Portugal raised 310 million euros from selling five
puttable floating-rate notes this year, the first time the
securities were used by the country as a financing tool. The
two-year note sold through Credit Agricole was the debut
offering of such securities.  Portugal’s recession ended in the second quarter as an
increase in exports helped the country avoid a third quarterly
contraction. Still, austerity measures, including higher taxes
and wage cuts, are curbing growth. The government forecasts the
economy will contract 2.2 percent this year and by a similar
amount in 2012, before growth returns in 2013.  IMF Forecast  Finance chiefs announced an income-tax surcharge to help
cover a budget shortfall this year, as well as an increase in
the value-added tax on electricity and natural-gas services.
Portugal also plans to sell the state’s stakes in EDP-Energias
de Portugal SA, grid operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA
and oil company  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  this year.  Government officials say the measures being imposed will
make the economy more competitive and help reduce the debt that
is set to top 100 percent of gross domestic product this year
for the first time. The IMF forecast in September that Portugal
will achieve a so-called primary  budget surplus , or a surplus
excluding interest-rate charges, of 3 percent of potential GDP
next year.  “It’s a small surplus, but that must be symptomatic of
progress on budgetary reforms,” said  Richard McGuire , a London-
based senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International.
“There are plenty of reasons to be pessimistic about Portugal
given it has a low-growth economy and high debt. That said, at
least there are some early indications that its reforms are
perhaps starting to pay off, but it’s a long road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  