-- 
Premier to Buy North Sea Explorer EnCore for $340 Million

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-10-05T16:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/premier-to-buy-north-sea-explorer-encore-for-340-million-1-.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , a London-based oil
explorer, agreed to buy  EnCore Oil Plc (EO/)  for 221 million pounds
($340 million) to add reserves and production in the North Sea.  Premier will pay 70 pence a share, about 55 percent more
than EnCore’s closing price yesterday, the company said today in
a statement. The acquisition will add about 17 million barrels
of discovered oil reserves and resources for Premier.  “I expect to continue to look into acquisitions,” Chief
Financial Officer Tony Durrant said in a phone interview. “We
tend to do acquisitions when either the capital markets or the
 oil prices  are weak.”  Oil companies  with strong balance sheets are taking
advantage of falling share prices to examine possible
acquisitions of cash-hungry oil and gas explorers. Premier has
been seeking to expand in the  North Sea  and increase production
to about 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2014.  EnCore jumped 64 percent to 74 pence in  London , the biggest
one-day gain in 16 months. Before today, the shares had fallen
66 percent this year. Premier slipped 0.8 percent to 335.9
pence.  The acquisition is “a longer-term positive, even if the
market is initially nervous about the price paid,” Sam
Woodward, an analyst at MF Global, wrote in an e-mailed report.
“In terms of our investment case, we highlighted M&A potential
of Premier as a predator.”  Premier had $1.3 billion in cash and available bank
facilities prior to the EnCore announcement, Durrant said.  Catcher Field  The acquisition will increase Premier’s share in the
Catcher field, one of the largest discoveries in the U.K. North
Sea in recent years, to 50 percent from 35 percent. The
company’s spending on the project will rise by about $200
million to $600 million with the final  investment decision 
expected early next year, Durrant said.  “This is a perfect fit for Premier given our existing
North Sea assets,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Lockett said
in the statement.  EnCore directors, who together hold about 7.4 percent of
the company, have agreed to accept the terms of the offer,
Premier said. BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd., which
holds about 5.8 percent of EnCore, will also accept the offer.  RBC Capital Markets  advised Premier and Rothschild
consulted EnCore on the deal.  The latest acquisition will be Premier’s fourth in a year
after acquiring Wytch Farm assets, the Solan field interest and
a stake in the Fyne Area in the U.K. central North Sea.  Indonesia  Delays  Premier faced “unexpected delays in the issuing of certain
approvals” by Indonesia of the Gajah Baru gas export agreement,
the company said today in a separate statement. The government
wants to ensure domestic gas supplies amid fuel shortages and is
discussing with Premier possible gas swaps for volumes bound for
 Singapore , which can’t be diverted to the Indonesian market,
Durrant said.  “We are expecting to get approval very shortly,” he said.
“The minister frankly is nervous about signing an export
certificate when the country is short of gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  