-- 
Proskauer Rose Sued by Ex-CFO for Discrimination After Breast-Cancer Leave

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T16:22:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/proskauer-rose-law-firm-sued-by-former-finance-chief-for-discrimination.html
Proskauer Rose  LLP was sued for
employment discrimination in New York by former Chief Financial
Officer Elly Rosenthal, who accused the law firm of firing her
after she took leave for breast cancer treatment.  Rosenthal, 57, of Colts Neck,  New Jersey , who served as CFO
from 1992 to 2008, filed the lawsuit in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  today, seeking $10 million in compensatory
and punitive damages, according to the complaint.  Rosenthal was hired as CFO of the New York-based firm in
1992 and held the position until she was demoted to chief
administrative financial officer in September 2008, she said in
the complaint. She was fired in March 2011.  “After one of its most senior female employees worldwide
was diagnosed with  breast cancer  and took cancer treatment
leave, Proskauer Rose demoted and then terminated her,”
Rosenthal’s attorney,  David Sanford  of  Sanford Wittels &
Heisler , said in a statement.  Rosenthal was diagnosed with breast cancer in November
2007, received treatment and returned to work in March 2008
before deciding to take another three months of medical leave to
recover, according to the complaint.  ‘Concerted Effort’  When she returned to work in August 2008, Proskauer’s chief
operating officer, Art Gurwitz, and other male administrators
began a “concerted effort to force her out of the firm,”
according to the complaint.  She was first replaced with a less qualified CFO who was
male and then moved into a position with less authoritiy and
responsibility, according to the complaint. She was fired on
March 11 and told to clear out her office within three days,
according to the complaint.  Proskauer is ranked 38th by gross revenue on trade
publication American Lawyer’s 2011  list  of large U.S. law firms
with $645 million in revenue last year. The firm has more than
660 attorneys.  Josh Epstein, a spokesman for Proskauer, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
Rosenthal’s complaint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 