-- 
Qatar National Quarterly Net Surges 31% on Interest Income

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-05T13:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/qatar-national-third-quarter-net-surges-31-on-interest-income.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian
Gulf country’s biggest bank by assets, posted a 31 percent gain
in third-quarter profit on higher income from lending.  Net income rose to 1.9 billion riyals ($522 million), or
3.2 riyals a share, from 1.45 billion riyals, or 2.7 riyals, a
year earlier, the Doha-based lender said today in an e-mailed
statement. That beat the 1.78 billion-riyal median estimate of
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The results are “very strong, with sequential quarterly
growth that many banks would envy if they book it in a full
year,”  Jaap Meijer , head of the banks team at AlembicHC
Securities, said in an e-mail. Qatar National is AlembicHC’s top
pick with the best capital and growth, strong liquidity and
return on risk-weighted assets, he said.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, forecasts its economy to expand by about 16 percent this
year, helped by fuel exports. The country will invest about $88
billion in infrastructure for the 2022 soccer  World Cup , Enrico Grino, Qatar National’s head of project finance, said in May.  Nine-month profit jumped 30 percent to 5.4 billion riyals,
the bank said. Lending rose 28 percent in the nine months
through September to 168 billion riyals, while interest income
and from Islamic financing gained 32 percent from a year earlier
to 1.9 billion riyals. Provisions for bad loans more than
doubled to 250.4 million riyals.  Bad Loans  Qatar National’s ratio of non-performing loans to gross
loans rose to 1.07 percent in the quarter “and the trend is in
line with our expectation of 1.14 percent” for the year, said
Naresh Bilandani, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove, in a report.
“The bank’s asset-quality metrics remain among the best in
Central, Eastern Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .”  The state-controlled lender said Aug. 29 it set up a $7.5
billion-euro medium-term note program and hired Barclays Plc,
HSBC Holdings Plc and QNB Capital to manage the sale. The money
raised would be used for “normal operations,” it said.  Qatar National also raised 12.7 billion riyals from a one-
share-for-four rights offer in May, which was fully subscribed.
The issue was aimed at boosting core capital and help Qatar
National become the biggest Gulf Arab lender over the next three
to five years, it said then.  The shares closed unchanged at 139.5 riyals today before
the results were announced. The stock has gained 5 percent this
year, compared with a 1.7 percent decline in the Qatar
Exchange’s banking sector index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  