-- 
RADVision Plunges as Tech Forecast Cuts Mount: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-10-06T14:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/radvision-plunges-as-tech-forecast-cuts-mount-israel-overnight.html
RADVision Ltd. (RVSN)  fell in New York
yesterday after cutting its third-quarter earnings forecast, the
third Israeli technology company to lower its profit outlook
this week as governments and companies pare spending amid
mounting concern about a global economic slowdown.  RADVision, based in Tel Aviv, fell 4.8 percent to $5.31 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market after trimming its revenue forecast 11
percent. The shares rebounded 3.8 percent to 19.42 shekels, or
the equivalent of $5.23, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv
today, after tumbling 9.6 percent yesterday.  Radware Ltd. (RDWR)  and
 AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC)  also cut guidance this week, citing the economic
slump.  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index rose 1.1 percent.  RADVision, the maker of video-conferencing systems, said it
expects revenue of $17 million to $17.5 million, below the
previous forecast of $19 million, due to “challenging economic
conditions” and stronger competition. AudioCodes, whose
technology enables Internet phone calls, sank 27 percent on Oct.
3 after lowering its sales forecast to as little as $155 million
this year from $174 million because of “lower-than-anticipated
technology, government and residential business.”  “When there’s a macro-related pullback in enterprise
spending, often times that will impact the smallest guys first
and more severely,” said Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, who covers Israeli technology
companies. “It’s going to be tough for them because they’re
competing with the bigger players.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to the second-
lowest level on record in the week ended Sept. 25 on concern
that growth will abate in the wake of Europe’s debt crisis.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 that the
recovery will be “somewhat slower” in coming quarters.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest New York-
traded Israeli companies rose 3.2 percent yesterday, led by
 ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW)   Slower Progress  RADVision said yesterday it will report a loss of as much
as 34 cents a share in the third quarter, after previously
predicting a net loss of 27 cents.  “Our progress was slower than expected in the third
quarter amidst challenging economic conditions and an intensely
competitive environment,” Chief Executive Officer Boaz Raviv
said in a statement.  AudioCodes, which counts Alcatel-Lucent SA among its
customers, said Oct. 3 that this year’s profit will be lower
than the 44 cents to 48 cents per share previously forecast,
without giving a specific estimate.  Radware, the Israeli maker of technology that helps
Internet networks run more efficiently, lowered the higher range
of its third-quarter sales forecast to $42.2 million from $43
million on Oct. 4. Radware and RADVision were co-founded by
brothers Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel’s RAD group.  Radware shares gained 4.5 percent to $20.70 on Oct. 4 as
the company announced plans to repurchase up to $20 million of
its stock.  Stocks, Shekel  The shekel gained for a third day, climbing 0.3 percent to
3.7109 per dollar. The currency has dropped 3.3 percent in the
past 12 months, the best performer among 10 emerging markets in
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq stock
market, the most of any country outside north America after
 China . It is also home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Israel posted inward foreign net direct investment via
domestic banks of $550 million in August, mainly in the
technology and shipping industries, the Bank of Israel said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  SodaStream, Teva  ClickSoftware, which counts EON AG and PG&E Corp. as
customers for software that helps track orders, increased 5.3
percent to $9.01, the highest level since Aug. 15.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of
homemade soda machines, climbed 3.4 percent to $32.83. The
company said yesterday that it bought CEM Industries SRL, an
Italian maker of products for the beverage industry.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, climbed 4.9 percent to 139.80 shekels,
or the equivalent of $37.67. The U.S. shares rose the most in
almost two months yesterday, increasing 3.8 percent to $37.21.
The New York shares’ $1.37-premium yesterday was the biggest
among the largest Israeli companies traded in the U.S.  Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR)  lost 2.8 percent to 3.812 shekels, or the
equivalent of $1.03. The U.S. shares increased 7.1 percent to
$1.06. The maker of wireless telecommunications equipment
received a $2 million contract with Angola Communications
Systems to install a high-speed wireless broadband network in
the African nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  