-- 
Rand Leads Rally in Emerging-Market Currencies as Commodity Prices Rebound

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-05T14:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rand-strenghens-most-in-week-as-commodity-prices-rebound-from-10-month-low.html
The rand strengthened the most in a
week, leading gains among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies as commodities rebounded from their lowest level in
10 months on reports policy makers may help recapitalize banks.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 2.6 percent to 8.0206 per dollar, its biggest gain since
Sept. 27, and traded 2.4 percent stronger at 8.0371 at 4 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose the
first day in four, rebounding from the weakest level in 10
months.  European Union finance ministers are discussing ways of
coordinating recapitalizations of banks, the Financial Times
reported, while Belgian Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  said a “bad
bank” will be set up to hold the troubled assets of Dexia SA,
the French and Belgian lender threatened by its exposure to
Greek debt.  Combined action by the  European Central Bank  and the
European Financial Stability Facility to remove fears of Greek
debt contagion would further improve the outlook for emerging
market currencies, Tradition Analytics strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a note.  “Any commitment by the ECB to potentially re-enter the
market to purchase bonds and boost money supply would be a green
light for a rand recovery,” Bertenshaw said. “That recovery
would gain momentum on some positive news on  Greece .”  ‘Close to Faltering’  Signs that the euro area’s debt crisis is hampering growth
have prompted speculation the ECB will lower borrowing costs
tomorrow. Eleven of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said it
will cut its benchmark  interest rate  by at least a quarter-
percentage point from the current rate of 1.5 percent at its
Oct. 6 policy meeting. The others expect no change.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
central bank can take further steps to sustain a recovery that’s
“close to faltering.” Bernanke said yesterday in testimony to
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee that the Fed is “prepared
to take further action as appropriate” after using
unconventional tools to boost growth in August and September.  South African  government bonds  gained for a second day on
expectations for increased demand as the prospect of further
quantitative easing in the U.S. is likely to raise liquidity,
analysts led by Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South
Africa ’s fourth-biggest bank, wrote in a report.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 49 cents to
90.44 rand, driving the yield down 7.9 basis points to 8.221
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  