-- 
Real Mex Wins Approval to Borrow $25 Million in Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-05T23:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/real-mex-wins-approval-to-borrow-25-million-in-bankruptcy-1-.html
Real Mex Restaurants Inc., owner of
the Mexican  restaurant chains  Chevys, El Torito and Acapulco,
won court approval to borrow as much as $25 million to help fund
operations while in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon at a hearing
today in Wilmington,  Delaware , granted Real Mex permission to
borrow the funds on an interim basis. Shannon agreed with the
company over creditor objections, saying it faces “significant
cash need” to avoid immediate harm to the business and that
superior financing isn’t available.  Real Mex will seek approval from Shannon to borrow an
additional $24 million from the total $49 million loan at a
hearing scheduled for Nov. 3.  The Cypress, California-based company, with 178
restaurants, listed assets of about $272.2 million and debt of
about $250 million in court documents filed yesterday. Sun
Capital Partners Inc., the owner of restaurant chain
“Friendly’s,” which sought  bankruptcy protection  today, owns
about 72 percent of Real Mex’s parent, which also filed for
bankruptcy.  Real Mex, the largest full service casual dining Mexican
restaurant chain operator in the U.S., said the slumping
economy, which led to a decline in sales, forced it to seek
bankruptcy protection. Sales fell to $478 million in 2010 from
about $553 million in 2008, Chief Financial Officer Richard P. Dutkiewicz said in court papers.  Japan ,  Turkey   The company, which has about 11,000 employees, has
restaurants in a dozen states from  New York  to  California , as
well as in Japan and Turkey.  Real Mex owes about $37.6 million to General Electric
Capital Corp. as the agent for lenders with a first priority of
repayment, court papers show. Members of the lender group are
providing the bankruptcy financing.  The company owes about $134.3 million on senior secured
notes with a secondary priority of repayment, according to court
filings. Affiliates of Z Capital Management LLC, which objected
to the bankruptcy loan, hold more than 70 percent of an
unsecured loan of about $36 million. Real Mex’s parent owes
about $38 million on another unsecured loan.  Real Mex will seek court permission to pursue a sale of
substantially all its assets, and has been working with the
noteholders to secure a lead bid that would set a floor for an
auction, according to court filings.  The company has proposed a timeline that would require bids
by Jan. 4 for a Jan. 9 auction, followed by a Jan. 13 hearing to
seek approval of the sale, court papers show.  The case is In re Real Mex Restaurants Inc., 11-13122,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 