-- 
Treasuries Fail to Recoup Declines as Bernanke Says He’s Ready to Do More

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-05T06:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/treasuries-fail-to-recoup-losses-as-bernanke-says-he-s-ready-to-do-more.html
Treasuries failed to recoup
yesterday’s steepest loss in a week after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s ready to do more to sustain
U.S. economic growth.  Investors should sell 10-year notes because European
efforts to recapitalize the region’s banks may boost stocks and
hurt bonds, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said. Efforts to improve the
American and European economies are unwinding bond gains made
last month when investors seeking a haven sent yields on U.S.
and German debt to record lows while stocks plunged.  “Anything positive from officials gives investors some
relief,” said Chungkeun Oh, a fixed-income trader in  Seoul  at
Industrial Bank of Korea, South Korea’s largest lender to small
and medium-sized companies. Bernanke’s remarks “gave investors
a small amount of confidence and led yields to bounce.”  Ten-year yields were little changed today at 1.83 percent
as of 7:01 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 2.125 percent security due in August 2021 changed
hands at 102 21/32. The rate increased seven basis points
yesterday, the most since Sept. 27.  Benchmark 10-year rates fell to 1.6714 percent in the U.S.
and to 1.636 percent in Germany on Sept. 23, both record lows.
The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks has lost 7.8 percent
in the past month after accounting for reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s 10-year note yielded 0.975 percent, compared with
this year’s low of 0.965 percent set Sept. 22.  Fed Pledge  The Fed can give more information about its pledge to keep
 interest rates  low at least through mid-2013, reduce the rate
paid on banks’ reserve deposits or purchase more securities,
Bernanke told U.S. lawmakers yesterday in  Washington .  The central bank plans to  buy  $1 billion to $1.5 billion of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due from January 2018 to
February 2041 today, according to the New York Fed’s website, as
part of its effort to keep long-term borrowing costs down.  Treasuries dropped yesterday, pushing 30-year bond yields
up from the lowest level in more than two years, on expectations
European Union officials will coordinate the recapitalization of
banks.  Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic affairs,
said there is an “increasingly shared view” that the region
needs a coordinated approach to halt the sovereign-debt crisis,
according to the Financial Times.  ‘Just Pausing’  “We view policy actions to recapitalize core European
banks as the most likely catalyst for a short covering rally in
equities and a move higher in Treasury yields,” JPMorgan’s
Terry Belton and Meera Chandan wrote in an e-mailed comment
yesterday. The company is one of the 20 primary dealers
authorized to trade directly with the Fed.  Europe ’s problems aren’t solved, and that means the
Treasury rally can go further, said Takuya Yamamoto, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $129.2 billion as a portfolio manager
in  Tokyo  at Diam Co., a unit of Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co.,
Japan’s second-biggest life insurer.  “It’s just pausing,” he said. “European turmoil isn’t
over.”  Yamamoto said he is considering buying Treasuries if the
10-year yield rises to 2 percent.  Industrial Bank’s Oh also said yields can fall further. He
bought  U.S. government debt  in July and August, he said.  Italy had its  credit rating  reduced three levels to A2
yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service. European countries with
debt ratings below the top Aaa level will probably have their
ratings cut, Moody’s said yesterday.  Greek Protest  Hundreds of thousands of Greeks plan to strike today to
protest Prime Minister George Papandreou’s 6.6 billion euro
($8.8 billion) austerity plan, challenging a government seeking
European bailout funds to stave off default.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said he favors so-called safe
sovereign debt of nations that have the ability to increase
monetary stimulus as the risk of a recession rises.  Debt of the U.S.,  Germany , the U.K.,  Australia ,  France  and
 Canada  are attractive, Gross said yesterday in interviews with
Lisa Murphy and  Adam Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.”  Growth in U.S. service industries probably slowed in
September, showing the recovery is struggling to gain speed,
economists said before the Institute for Supply Management’s
non-manufacturing index today.  Investor demand for long-term debt narrowed the yield
difference between two- and 30-year Treasuries to 2.45
percentage points yesterday, the least since January 2009.  Yields are poised to rise through next year, according to a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies. Ten-year
rates will climb to 3.02 by the end of 2012, based on the
responses, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net 
NI USB
NI UST
NI BON
NI NOB
NI GBN
NI ECO
NI USECO
NI FED
NI JPB 