-- 
REC Cuts Polysilicon Output Estimates After Power Failure

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-10-05T15:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rec-says-power-outage-in-moses-lake-affecting-polysilicon-output.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC) , a maker of
solar components from  Norway , cut its full-year silicon output
estimates after a  power failure  at a U.S. plant.  Silicon production for 2011 will drop to 18,500 metric tons
from 19,000 after the halt of REC’s factory at Moses Lake,
 Washington , after a loss of power yesterday, the Sandvika-based
company said today.  “This is related to the power supply that is the local
utility’s responsibility,” spokesman Mikkel Toerud said by
phone. As insurance covers only a prolonged production shutdown,
compensation will depend on how long it takes to restart the
plant, he said.  REC Silicon expects it will take two to three weeks before
full output can be resumed, the company said. The yield of high-
quality silicon and unit costs are expected to be affected in
the fourth quarter as a result.  REC fell 3 percent to 4.35 kroner in Oslo trading, the
worst performer on the benchmark OBX Index. The shares have
fallen 76 percent this year.  “This is not related to REC’s plant and should not reduce
client confidence considerably in our view,” Eirik Vegem Dahle,
an analyst with Pareto Securities, said in an e-mail. The
failure is expected to reduce earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization by as much as 150 million kroner
($25 million), Dahle said.  Given that the company has had similar problems at  Moses
Lake  before, the loss of confidence among buyers and the
potential risk of a future failure may have a larger impact on
earnings than the loss of production, Tomas Skeivys, an analyst
at Terra Markets AS said in a note.  The cause of the failure is likely different from a similar
shutdown at Moses Lake last year, Toerud said. REC will provide
an update on the incident at its third-quarter results
presentation Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  