-- 
Record Cost Endangers First Utility Eurobond Sale in Decade: Poland Credit

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-10-06T09:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/record-cost-endangers-first-utility-eurobond-sale-in-decade-poland-credit.html
Polish companies’ highest borrowing
costs relative to the government in at least a year are
threatening plans by the nation’s largest gas producer to sell
Eurobonds.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) ’s plan to raise
as much as 500 million euros ($667 million), the first overseas
offering by a Polish utility in a decade, would set a benchmark
for borrowers seeking to finance new  power plants  that meet
European Union emissions standards. Poland estimates funding
needs at more than 38 billion euros by 2023.  The sale may be on hold with the premium on bonds of PKO
Bank Polski SA, the main lender to Poland’s largest companies,
at the highest since their issue at 249 basis points over
government debt from an average 141 in 2011. Costs for PGNiG
peers with similar investment-grade ratings also grew as
Europe’s debt crisis cut demand for emerging-market assets.
Yields on Petroleos Mexicanos’ 2017 debt rose to a 15-month high
of 5.19 percent yesterday from 4.19 percent on Aug. 18. OAO
Gazprom 2017 yields hit 5.9 percent on Sept. 26, the highest
since May 2010.  “I don’t think that even a high quality name like PGNiG
can get anything done right now,” James Croft, the head of
emerging-market fixed income at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities in
 London , said Sept. 30. PGNiG may delay the issue and “be ready
to move when the next window of opportunity appears,” he said.  PGNiG Chief Financial Officer Slawomir Hinc said the
company has finished its presentations to investors. “The
process is continuing and if the market is good, we will issue
the first tranche,” he said in a phone interview from Warsaw
yesterday.  Interest Cost  PGNiG would have to pay annual interest as high as 370
basis points over benchmark mid-swap rates to sell the bonds,
said Andrzej Czarnecki, who manages $760 million in money-market
and fixed-income funds at Union Investment TFI SA in Warsaw.
Pemex’s bond yield is 307 basis points over mid-swaps and
Gazprom’s was 309 basis points above the benchmark today. The
seven-year mid-swap rate in euros rose to 2.28 percent.  “This isn’t the best moment for Eurobond sales, not only
for PGNiG, but for other” companies in  Europe , the Middle East
and  Africa , Czarnecki said by phone on Oct. 4. “The market is
completely illiquid.”  Yields on emerging-market corporate bonds jumped the most
since October 2008 last month, rising 99 basis points, or 0.99
percentage point, to 6.8 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Corporate EMBI Composite Blended Yield index. Yields
reached 7.08 percent yesterday.  Power Switch  PGNiG is seeking to finance a 2.96 billion-zloty ($900
million) acquisition of Warsaw-based heating and power plants
signed in August and awaiting regulatory approval, as the gas
producer and distributor moves into electricity generation.  Polish power demand increased 5.3 percent between January
and August, outpacing the government’s forecast and last year’s
3.6 percent pace, as the European Union’s largest eastern
economy speeds up infrastructure investments in preparation for
hosting the European soccer championships next year.  Poland ’s long-term energy policy envisages 55 percent
growth in electricity consumption between 2006 and 2030, making
it one of Europe’s biggest growth markets. PGNiG has a 27
billion-zloty five-year investment program. In August, Moody’s
Investors Service cut the outlook on the company’s Baa1 rating
to negative, citing its spending plans.  Failing to tap international debt markets wouldn’t pose a
“problem” for PGNiG, which could raise the money on the
domestic debt market or through a loan, said Monika Kalwasinska,
an analyst at the brokerage of PKO BP in Warsaw.  ‘Rational’  “At the moment it’s rational for them to wait,”
Kalwasinska said by phone today. “PGNiG isn’t in debt, so it
can easily rely on its domestic debt for another year.”  Zloty-denominated government bonds of maturities exceeding
one year tumbled 15.7 percent in dollar terms last quarter, the
third-worst returns worldwide after Greece and  Hungary ,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg. In local currency
terms the bonds returned 1.4 percent.  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment using
credit-default swaps climbed 143 basis points to 296 basis
points between July and September in the biggest quarterly
increase since December 2008.  The swaps fell to 301 basis points on Oct. 5 and were 39
basis points below the average for governments in eastern
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa included in indexes compiled
by Markit.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Extra Yield  The extra yield demanded to hold Poland’s dollar bonds
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 16 basis points on Oct. 5 to
328 basis points, after reaching 344 basis points a day earlier,
or the highest since Jan. 22, 2009, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes.  The additional yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds in zloty
compared with their German equivalent in euros reached the
widest gap since November 2002 at 443 basis points on Sept. 22.
The spread amounted to 392 basis points today.  Eurobond investors last had a chance to buy into Polish
utility bonds in 2001, when PGNiG and power producer Elektrownia
Turow SA sold debt. Oil refiner PKN Orlen SA pulled out of a
euro-denominated issue in late 2010 and now is looking to PGNiG
to open the door to foreign financing.  “The PGNiG issue is important as it could be a benchmark
for pricing of our future Eurobond sales,” PKN Orlen Chief
Financial Officer Slawomir Jedrzejczyk said on Oct. 4.  PGE, Tauron  Polish energy companies are likely to start selling
Eurobonds within three to five years, according to Arkadiusz Wicik, director of European energy and utilities at Fitch
Polska.  Poland’s largest utilities -- PGE SA,  Tauron Polska Energia
SA (TPE)  and Enea SA -- will need to raise funds as early as next
year. Poland’s domestic corporate bond and commercial paper
market, with a total outstanding value of 40 billion zloty at
the end of August according to Fitch, may not be able to absorb
the utilities’ investment spree.  “The Polish debt market doesn’t appear to have the
potential to finance the borrowing needs of the Polish energy
sector over the next 15 to 20 years,” Marek Marciniak, a fixed
income analyst at the Polish pension fund of ING Groep NV in
Warsaw, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Polish infrastructure investments will total 500 billion
zloty through 2020 and Eurobond sales are essential for their
financing, Andrzej Kopyrski, deputy Chief Executive Officer of
UniCredit SpA’s Polish unit, Bank Pekao SA, said on Oct. 4.  Four-Year Plan  PGE has a four-year 38.9 billion-zloty investment program
that ends next year and has been fully funded by bank loans and
zloty bonds. After that, its investment needs may rise to as
much as 10 billion zloty a year, CEO Tomasz Zadroga said,
according to a report in Parkiet newspaper on Sept 29. The
company, which had discussed a Eurobond issue since 2009, put
foreign financing plans on hold earlier this year.  Tauron Polska Energia SA, PGE’s biggest competitor, plans
to spend as much as 45 billion zloty by 2020 as it aims to add
2,400 megawatts of capacity, with about 1,700 megawatts
scheduled for decommissioning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  