-- 
Senate Democrats to Seek Millionaire Tax in Obama Jobs Plan

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-05T15:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/reid-says-democrats-to-seek-millionaire-tax-in-obama-jobs-plan.html
Senate Democrats will propose
requiring people who earn at least $1 million a year to
“contribute more” to help pay for President Barack Obama’s
job-creation plan, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  “The American people believe it is time for millionaires
and billionaires to pay their fair share to help this country
thrive,” Reid, of Nevada, said on the Senate floor.  Senate Democratic leaders plan to outline their plan at a
Washington news conference this morning. Senator Chuck Schumer,
a New York Democrat, last year unsuccessfully pushed an
amendment that would have allowed Bush-era tax cuts to expire
for millionaires.  Obama has been campaigning across the country for his $447
billion jobs plan with a simple refrain: “Tell Congress to pass
this bill.” Republicans are against him and increasingly,
members of his own party have been, too.  The disunity was on display this week as Senate Democratic
leaders delayed action on the jobs bill to advance a measure the
president doesn’t support that would retaliate against  China  for
undervaluing its currency.  Obama’s jobs proposal so far lacks enough support to even
begin debate in the Senate. Leaders are trying to win over
Democrats like  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska and  Joe Manchin  of  West
Virginia , who are up for election next year and don’t yet favor
the president’s plan. Reid said yesterday he plans to bring the
jobs plan to the Senate floor later this month.  ‘Do the Math’  Asked whether Obama’s agenda appeals to senators who face
voters in 2012, Manchin said in an interview yesterday, “His
approval rating is 28 percent in West Virginia. You do the
math.”  Some Democrats are rebuffing pending trade agreements with
 South Korea , Colombia and Panama, while others bristle at some
of the $1.5 trillion in tax increases in Obama’s plan to trim
budget deficits by $3 trillion over a decade. With Republicans
in control of the House, White House discord with the Senate’s
Democrats risks slowing Obama’s economic agenda to a crawl.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democratic leader, said he sees “no indication” that election
considerations are taking over. Differences with the president
over legislation are normal, he said.  ‘Creatures of Elections’  “We’re all creatures of elections -- the president as well
as members of Congress,” Durbin said. “But there are always
differences. When the president puts out a proposal, there are
going to be a few members of his party who are going to want to
do it a little differently. We’re working to accommodate that.”  Democrats hold a 53-47 Senate majority and risk losing
control to Republicans next year. Of the 33 Senate seats up for
re-election, 23 are held by Democrats, and all but two of the
almost dozen seats rated by the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report as vulnerable to a party switch are held by Democrats.  Some Democrats facing re-election come from states with
unemployment rates at least as high as the nation’s 9.1 percent,
including  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan,  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and
Bill Nelson of Florida. Other senators such as Bob Casey of
Pennsylvania and Manchin are showing independence from a
president whose approval ratings dipped below 40 percent in
national opinion surveys.  Senate Republicans, largely united against Obama’s domestic
agenda, see nothing but political opportunity in the split.
Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , chairman of the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee , said Obama is a “desperate
man.”  ‘Defensive Crouch’  “He’s obviously in a defensive crouch, given the mood of
the country and this feeling that he hasn’t done enough to help
facilitate job growth,” Cornyn said. “Democrats don’t want to
be associated with him because he’s unpopular, and I think it’s
making a lot of them very uncomfortable.”  While he faces dissent in his party, Obama is sharpening
his rhetoric against the Republican leaders he says stand in the
way of his job-creation plan. At a Texas rally yesterday, he
criticized House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, prodding him to schedule a vote on the jobs bill.  “I mean, what’s the problem?” Obama said at a  community
college  in the Dallas suburb of Mesquite. “Do they not have the
time? They just had a week off. Is it inconvenient?”  Some tension between Obama and Senate Democrats was evident
in July and August during negotiations for a plan to cut the
deficit while raising the U.S. borrowing limit.  Talks With Boehner  Democrats were angered that Obama discussed a deficit-
reduction deal of about $3 trillion with Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  that would have cut domestic priorities
while delaying tax increases. Talks fell apart, and lawmakers
enacted a smaller deficit-cutting plan.  Obama’s jobs plan, offered on Sept. 8, was immediately
dismissed by Manchin, who said he had “serious concerns” about
the amount of spending and likely effectiveness. Nelson of
 Nebraska  questioned the wisdom of tax increases proposed to pay
for it, which include capping itemized deductions and some tax
exclusions for the wealthy and rolling back tax breaks for
private-equity fund managers and  oil companies .  The free-trade deals, with wide support from Republicans in
the House and Senate, are running into Democratic resistance.  “With an exploding trade deficit that has caused massive
job loss, now is not the time to pass more wrongheaded free-
trade agreements,” Brown said in a statement released after the
White House sent the measures to Congress on Oct. 3.  Reid of Nevada has said he won’t support them, though he
won’t try to block floor consideration.  Trade Agreements  “I want everyone within the sound of my voice to
understand that I do not like the Colombia Free Trade Agreement,
the Korea Free Trade Agreement or the  Panama  Free Trade
Agreement,” Reid said on the Senate floor last month. “I will
vote against them.”  The China currency measure lets vulnerable Democrats from
manufacturing states including Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania
criticize that country, while ignoring the administration’s
reluctance to directly take on a major trade partner. It is co-
sponsored by Stabenow, Brown and Casey.  “The U.S. has allowed China to manipulate its currency
without consequence and the practice has taken a dramatic toll
on Pennsylvania’s companies and workers,” Casey said Oct. 3.
“We have had enough tough talk - now we need tough action.”  The Obama administration has used guarded language in
discussing the debate. White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the
administration shares the goal of increasing the value of
China’s currency, but added the bill must be “effective and
consistent with our international obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  