-- 
Reid Proposes 5% Tax on Earners of $1M-plus

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-10-06T18:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/reid-proposes-5-tax-on-millionaires-to-help-fund-obama-job-creation-plan.html
Senate Democratic leaders proposed
imposing a surtax on people earning at least $1 million a year
to pay for President  Barack Obama ’s jobs plan, an idea
immediately rejected by Republicans as lawmakers head for a
showdown over how to boost the economy.  President Barack Obama said today he is “comfortable”
with the proposal. “I’m fine with the approach they’re
taking,” he said at a news conference in Washington while
urging Congress to pass the measure and give the economy a
“jolt.”  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday the 5 percent tax would generate $450 billion, enough
to cover the cost of the administration’s proposal. Democrats
dared Republicans, who oppose tax increases, to block the plan.  “The addition of this proposal makes it very tough for
Republicans to oppose the president’s jobs package,” said
Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-ranking
Democrat. “Republicans will be hard-pressed to explain why
they’d allow teachers and firefighters to be laid off rather
than have millionaires and billionaires pay their fair share.”  Democrats said they want to take up the measure next week
after completing work on a measure targeting China’s currency
policies. Democrats, who control the chamber with 53 of 100
votes, will need the support of at least seven Republicans to
bring the matter to the floor. One Senate Democrat,  Ben Nelson 
of  Nebraska , said today he opposes bringing the measure as
currently proposed to the floor.  ‘Cut Spending’  “I think we need to cut spending in this town, and not
raise taxes,” Nelson said.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said “the
arithmetic just doesn’t add up” in the Democratic plan.  “These tax increases don’t even put a dent in the deficit,
but they do a lot of damage to the economy,” the Wisconsin
Republican said at the Washington Ideas Forum, sponsored by The
Atlantic magazine and the  Aspen Institute .  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said yesterday that Democrats were rewriting the
bill “not to make it more effective at growing jobs, not to
grow bipartisan support.” Rather, he said, “they want to
overhaul the bill to sharpen its political edge.”  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, rejected the surtax idea.  ‘Common Ground’  “Republicans have identified areas of common ground where
we can work with the president,” said spokesman  Michael Steel .
“That should be the focus, not desperate tax-hike gimmicks
floated to cover up divisions within the Democratic caucus.”  Asked why Democrats chose to finance what they call must-
pass legislation with a tax increase similar to those previously
opposed by Republican lawmakers, Reid pointed to polls he said
show Republican voters backing higher taxes on the wealthy.  “They’re going to have to listen to their constituents,”
Reid told reporters.  Obama announced his $447 billion jobs plan Sept. 8 in an
address to a joint meeting of Congress. It would extend and
expand a payroll tax cut that expires at the end of this year,
increase infrastructure spending, offer more aid to cash-
strapped state governments and extend jobless benefits.  ‘What’s the Problem?’  Since then, Obama has gone on the road, sometimes mocking
Republican leaders for not taking up the measure. “What’s the
problem?” Obama said two days ago at a  community college  in the
Dallas suburb of Mesquite. “Do they not have the time? They
just had a week off. Is it inconvenient?”  Senate Democrats also haven’t been in a hurry to bring the
plan before the chamber. They opted to first take up the  China 
currency measure as they worked to resolve differences within
their own caucus over the jobs plan.  Democrats such as Nelson and  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia,
who face tough re-election fights next year, have expressed
reservations about Obama’s plan. Reid said he would allow
colleagues unhappy with the proposal to offer floor amendments.  Among the most divisive issues is how to pay for the
measure, which Obama has said shouldn’t add to the deficit. The
proposed surtax on millionaires would replace the
administration’s plan to limit  tax deductions  for those earning
at least $250,000, cut tax breaks for the oil and gas industry,
and raise taxes on corporate jets.  $1 Million  The Senate Democrats’ surcharge would apply to all income
over $1 million regardless of whether it came from  capital gains 
or from salaries. The top marginal  tax rate  is currently 35
percent, while capital gains are subject to a 15 percent levy.  “We believe the million dollars is the right line,”
Schumer said, because there are people who make $250,000 or
$300,000 “in many of our states who are not rich.” He said
setting the threshold at $1 million would also avoid imposing a
tax increase on many small businesses.  Schumer last year unsuccessfully pushed for an amendment
that would have allowed tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 to
expire for millionaires.  “We have spent the last several weeks planning how it can
win the most votes on the Senate floor,” and “we believe we
have found the best answer available,” said Schumer. “The
president from the beginning said he welcomes alternative ways
of paying for it -- we think we have found the best way.”  The bill is S. 1660.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  