-- 
Dollar Repatriation Tax Holiday Bill to Be Introduced by Hagan, McCain

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-10-05T18:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/repatriation-tax-holiday-bill-to-be-introduced-by-hagan-mccain.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said a corporate repatriation proposal by Senators Kay Hagan and  John McCain  won’t pass the Senate as a stand-alone
bill and needs to be coupled with infrastructure improvement
efforts.  “It won’t just be simply repatriation,” the Nevada
Democrat said.  Corporate tax holiday legislation “will be part
of an infrastructure program,” Reid said in a brief interview
today. Reid declined to provide details. McCain and Hagan said
they would introduce the legislation tomorrow.  New York Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat, said in June that Senate Democrats might be open to
using the short-term revenue provided by a corporate tax holiday
to finance an infrastructure bank.  Hagan, a Democrat from North Carolina, and McCain, an
Arizona Republican, said today they will sponsor a bill to let
U.S. companies bring home as much as $1.4 trillion of overseas
profits at a reduced tax rate.  Large multinational companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  have been lobbying Congress to let
them return overseas profits to the U.S. at a lower rate. The
companies say the infusion of cash would boost the economy and
lead to increased employment. Corporate profits now are taxed at
a top rate of 35 percent.  Lost Revenue  The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated
that a tax holiday would cost the Treasury $78.8 billion in
forgone revenue over 10 years.  Linking repatriation to infrastructure would address a
concern of congressional Democrats that the tax break should
promote job creation. Independent studies showed that when a tax
holiday was last offered, in 2004, the lower  tax rate  for
returning profits spurred little hiring or domestic investment.
Most of the money was used to buy back stock.  Using proceeds of a tax holiday to fund infrastructure
projects also would mark a difference between Senate Democrats
and the Obama administration on the issue. The administration
has said repatriation should be considered in the context of a
broader overhaul of the  tax code .  Companies advocating repatriation have mounted an intensive
lobbying campaign, working individually and through a group
called the  WIN America Coalition .  Repatriation Legislation  A Hagan-McCain bill would be at least the fourth measure
addressing repatriation in Congress.  A bill sponsored by Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican, would give businesses one year to bring home profits
at a 5.25 percent rate.  Legislation proposed by Representative Shelley Berkley, a
Democrat from  Nevada , would allow companies to return offshore
profits at a 25 percent tax rate, and lower if they increase
their payrolls.  Senator Mike Lee, a Utah Republican, has proposed an
amendment to a currency bill now being considered that would
lower the tax rate for returning profits to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net  or
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  