-- 
Republican Presidential Field Taking Final Shape With Christie Decision

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-10-05T17:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/republican-presidential-field-taking-final-shape-with-christie-decision.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
decision not to seek the presidency removes one of the last
lingering questions surrounding the Republican presidential
field just three months before the first round of voting is to
begin.  “Now is not my time,” Christie told reporters in Trenton,
the New Jersey capital, yesterday. “New Jersey, whether you
like it or not, you’re stuck with me.”  With Christie out of the running, Republican leaders said
it’s time to pick a candidate from those already in the race
rather than continue to look for a fresh face. “I think the
field is set,” said Charlie Black, a veteran Republican
campaign strategist who is neutral in the 2012 race.  The most immediate beneficiary of Christie’s decision may
be former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who is making his
second presidential bid. Some of Christie’s well-heeled backers
said they now would be supporting Romney, giving his campaign an
infusion of Wall Street dollars.  “It’s over,” said billionaire supermarket executive John Catsimatidis, a Christie backer who now plans to support Romney.  The effort by those who had urged Christie, 49, to enter
the presidential race reflected a continued uneasiness within
the party with Romney and Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who have
traded off as the frontrunners in national polls.  Awaiting Palin  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin is the only high-profile
Republican still publicly weighing a presidential candidacy. She
has made little effort to build support in key caucus and
primary states, and few party leaders see her as a strong
contender.  Ballot deadlines also are looming in the nomination race:
Candidates must file by Oct. 28 to be listed in New Hampshire,
site of the first primary.  Christie’s stature and ties to  Wall Street  kept a group of
major New York and New Jersey fundraisers on the sidelines as
they awaited his decision.  The push by these Republican and others, including former
first lady Nancy Reagan and former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , for Christie to enter the primary field increased
following stumbles by Perry in a nationally televised debate on
Sept. 22.  Kenneth Langone, co-founder of Home Depot who had urged
Christie to run, said yesterday he expected a number of
uncommitted Republicans from the business community to now sign
up with Romney’s campaign.  ‘Allegiance’ to Romney  “Governor Romney just called me a little while ago, and
I’ve sworn my allegiance to him,” said Langone in an interview
with  Charlie Rose  broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.
Veteran Republican fundraiser Georgette Mosbacher, among those
urging Christie to run, told the website Capital  New York  she
now will back Romney.  A national  poll  released yesterday showed Perry’s support
dropping after weeks of having to defend his political record
since he declared his candidacy on Aug. 13. In the  Washington 
Post-ABC News survey conducted Sept. 29-Oct. 2, Romney led among
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents with 25 percent,
followed by Perry and businessman Herman Cain at 16 percent.  Perry had led a similar poll last month with 29 percent to
Romney’s 25 percent.  A CBS News poll also showed Perry dropping, Cain rising and
Romney static. Romney and Cain were tied in the survey of
Republican primary voters -- conducted Sept. 28-Oct. 2 -- at 17
percent, while Perry was third with 12 percent.  In a similar poll two weeks ago, Perry led with 23 percent,
while Romney had 16 percent support and Cain 5 percent.  Illegal Immigration  Perry found himself on the defensive after saying in the
Sept. 22 debate that those who opposed the in-state tuition
rates for children of illegal immigrants in  Texas  that he has
supported as governor don’t “have a heart.” Last week, while
standing by the program, he said he “probably chose a poor word
to explain that.”  In the CBS poll, just 10 percent of Republican voters said
they agreed with in-state tuition for illegal-immigrant
children. Critics of the program say it serves as a magnet
spurring illegal immigration to the U.S. from Central and  South
America .  Romney advisers had dismissed the fervor for Christie as
the 11th-hour yearnings of a party on the brink of getting
serious about choosing a candidate.  As reports surfaced in recent days that Christie was
reconsidering his past declarations that he wouldn’t run for
president, Romney pollster Neil Newhouse categorized the effort
as the “grass-is-always-greener run-up to the real primaries.”  ‘He’s Right Here’  Referring to Romney, Newhouse said, “At least some
Republican leaders keep looking around for another candidate and
the right person, and our position is well, he’s right there.”  Christie is the latest sitting Republican governor to
decline a presidential run after being courted by party leaders.  In May, Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  said that, while he
was interested in running, he couldn’t overcome his family’s
objections. Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  announced in
April he wasn’t running, saying he lacked the “absolute fire in
the belly” to join the race.  Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , a major contender
for the Republican nomination in 2008 who hosts a program on  Fox
News , also declined to mount a bid.  Christie, at his news conference yesterday, said he made
his final decision not to run on the night of Oct. 3. He said he
then went to bed “for the first time in a few days knowing
exactly what I wanted to do.”  New Jersey Record  He said he interpreted the pressure on him to enter the
race to “what we accomplished” in New Jersey during his time
as its chief executive.  Christie’s standing in national Republican circles grew
after he cut $10 billion in projected spending on schools,
public pensions and aid to cities in his first budget.  Talk of a Christie presidential bid intensified after he
used a Sept. 27 speech at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library
in Simi Valley,  California , to comment on foreign policy and
defense, while attacking President  Barack Obama  and Congress
over gridlock in Washington.  Still, his late entry into the race would have posed a
major challenge. Christie trailed behind his rivals in
fundraising and organizing in key early voting states such as
 Iowa  and  New Hampshire . A decision by Florida Republicans last
week to move their state’s primary to Jan. 31 will move the Iowa
and New Hampshire contests into the early part of the month --if
not sooner -- which would have left Christie with little time to
catch up.  Positive Way  He also would have needed to frame his record in a positive
way before his adversaries could do otherwise. Christie’s
positions on issues such as illegal immigration, civil unions
for same-sex couples and gun-owners’ rights break with the
party’s conservative orthodoxy and are opposed by key portions
of the Republican base.  “Voters don’t have a long relationship with Christie,”
said Jim Dyke, a South Carolina-based Republican strategist.
“Their knowledge of him is less than inch deep.”  Christie yesterday declined to endorse any of his party’s
presidential contenders, while urging them all to take a tougher
positions on fiscal issues.  He also scoffed at speculation that he would be a top
contender for vice president, though he declined to say he
wouldn’t accept the position.  “I don’t imagine I’m going to be asked,” Christie said.
“I just don’t think I have the personality” for the running-
mate post. “Seriously, can you imagine? The guy would probably
want to get a food taster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  