-- 
Trichet’s Legacy Being Scripted by Crisis as Final ECB Rate Meeting Looms

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-06T11:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/trichet-s-legacy-being-scripted-by-crisis.html
Jean-Claude Trichet’s legacy is still
being scripted as he enters the final weeks of his eight-year
term at the helm of the  European Central Bank .  Chairing his last rate-setting meeting in Berlin today,
Trichet may be forced to take the ECB further into uncharted
waters before he hands the presidency to  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  on
Nov. 1, economists said. With Greece edging closer to default,
the central bank is under pressure to deploy unlimited firepower
to shore up the region’s bond markets either on its own or
through Europe’s bailout fund.  Other options include offering distressed banks longer-term
loans and even cutting  interest rates  as the sovereign debt
crisis threatens the survival of the euro -- the currency
Trichet has championed as a symbol of European unity.  “Who would have thought at the beginning of the year that
Trichet would have to play fire brigade yet again at his very
last rate meeting,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at
ING Group NV in Brussels. “Instead of celebrating a legacy of
price stability and having saved the euro after the Lehman crash
three years ago, he finds himself having to bail out the
politicians and banks once again.”  In The Vanguard  It has fallen to Trichet to lead the battle against the
crisis as lawmakers squabble over their response. His push to
resume government bond purchases in August split the ECB’s 23-
member Governing Council and led to the resignation of chief
economist  Juergen Stark . Trichet’s final decisions in office may
be among the most critical for the future of the euro.  European stocks advanced on speculation leaders will reach
agreement on how to contain the debt crisis. The Stoxx  Europe 
600 Index climbed 1.7 percent to 227.84 at 12:08 p.m. in  London 
after a 3.1 percent gain yesterday.  “Trichet holds Europe’s destiny in his hands at this point
in time,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London, who predicts a quarter-point rate
cut today. “It would be a colossal disaster if we had a
prolonged recession in the euro area. Policy makers have to
throw the kitchen sink at it to prevent it.”  Economists Divided  While most economists say the ECB will keep its benchmark
rate at 1.5 percent today, five of 52 in a Bloomberg News survey
predict a cut to 1.25 percent and six expect a reduction to 1
percent. It’s the first time in 16 months that economists in the
survey haven’t been unanimous.  The ECB announces its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. and
Trichet gives a press conference 45 minutes later. ECB officials
hold two policy meetings a year outside  Frankfurt .  The  Bank of England  today unexpectedly expanded its bond-
purchase plan to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from 200
billion pounds as government budget cuts and Europe’s debt
crisis jeopardize Britain’s economic recovery. The nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee led by  Mervyn King  kept its key rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent.  ECB policy makers, who have raised borrowing costs twice
this year, have signaled they may resist calls for a rate cut
and opt instead to increase the supply of cash to euro-area
banks to prevent a liquidity crunch.  Austria’s Ewald Nowotny and  Belgium ’s Luc Coene said the
ECB may reintroduce 12-month loans, a measure last used at the
end of 2009. The ECB will also discuss reviving its covered-bond
purchase program to kick-start term funding markets, a euro-area
central bank official told Bloomberg News on condition of
anonymity.  ‘Better Suited’  A rate cut “would seem premature” and “have only a
short-lived impact on confidence,” said Elwin de Groot, senior
market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht.
“Unconventional measures seem better suited to deal with the
current funding challenges in the banking system, which are
largely the result of the high uncertainty surrounding the
potential impact of an uncontrolled default of  Greece .”  Trichet, 68, is stepping down just as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis spills into the financial sector after governments
failed to prevent contagion from Greece to the euro area’s core.
Market borrowing costs in Italy and  Spain , the region’s third
and fourth-largest economies, have jumped as investors fret
about their public finances.  Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 4 cut Italy’s credit
rating for the first time in almost two decades on concern its
economic growth may be too weak to enable the reduction of the
region’s second-largest debt load.  EFSF Proposal  While Trichet has stepped into the breach with ECB bond
purchases, he may baulk at some of the proposals governments are
considering to beef up their rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  One idea is to grant the EFSF a banking license so that it
can borrow from the ECB to fund purchases of  government bonds .
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has said that would amount to
printing money to fund distressed euro-area nations, and Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels on Oct. 4 that he’s “not in favor”
of the plan.  Andrew Bosomworth , executive vice-president and senior
portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Company in
Munich, said the ECB should drop its resistance to a Greek debt
restructuring. Trichet has insisted that any private-sector
involvement in a restructuring must be voluntary.  “By failing to cleanse the banking system of unrealized
losses, the ECB is leading Europe down the same path as  Japan ’s
lost decade of growth,” Bosomworth said.  Growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from 0.8
percent in the first. The ECB last month cut its growth
forecasts to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent for 2011 and to 1.3
percent from 1.7 percent for 2012.  At the same time, inflation in the 17-nation euro region
unexpectedly accelerated to 3 percent in September, the fastest
pace in three years and well above the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Trichet told European parliamentarians on Oct. 4 it’s
“sometimes forgotten” that the bank’s primary objective is to
“maintain  price stability .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  