-- 
RIM Executives Resisting Buying Stock Make Investors Fret: Tech

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-10-05T20:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rim-executives-resisting-buying-stock-make-investors-fret-tech.html
Executives at  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) 
have refrained from buying the company’s shares for the longest
period in at least six years. Now investors are wondering if the
mobile-device maker famous for its ubiquitous BlackBerry phones
is skittish about its own prospects.  RIM insiders haven’t reported buying shares on the open
market since July 2010 as its stock fell 60 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Instead, they sold stock at least
11 times over that span. At least 55 of the other 59 companies
in the S&P/TSX 60 index of  Canada ’s largest and most-traded
stocks have had insider purchases since July 2010.  “If they don’t see value in it at these levels, how am I
supposed to see value, given all the uncertainty RIM faces?”
said Richard J. Moroney, chief investment officer at Horizon
Investment Services LLC in Hammond,  Indiana . The firm manages
about $150 million and sold its last RIM shares in April. “If
you look at the earnings and cash flow, the stock is still very
cheap.”  Shares of Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM are hovering at 2005
levels. Last month, the company missed analysts’ profit and
sales estimates after customers defected to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and handsets that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform. RIM’s
share of the global smartphone market dropped to 12 percent in
the second quarter from 19 percent a year earlier, according to
Gartner Inc.  Takeover Target?  RIM advanced $2.60, or 12 percent, to $23.60 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the third intraday
jump of more than 8 percent in the past week amid speculation it
may become a acquisition target.  The lack of insider purchases could portend a takeover,
since executives cannot legally buy shares if they are in talks
over a transaction, Moroney said.  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, said co-Chief
Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  weren’t
available to discuss stock purchases and declined to comment
further. Together, the two men own 10.5 percent of RIM’s
outstanding shares and are also its co-chairmen.  RIM board members Antonio Viana-Baptista and  Roger Martin 
declined to comment. Other directors -- David Kerr, Barbara Stymiest, John Wetmore,  John Richardson  and Claudia Kotchka --
didn’t return messages left for them.  ‘Apt’ Question  RIM’s top executives have expressed confidence a rebound is
imminent. In August, the company released a batch of faster
devices with touch-sensitive screens and plans to introduce a
new phone operating system next year to try to reverse two years
of declining market share and a recent sales slump.  Balsillie told analysts last month that the phones are
getting an “excellent reception.” Lazaridis told the same
audience that he understood that the past few quarters had been
“challenging” and that “we are confident that we are on track
to return to growth in Q3 and beyond.”  Given their bullish remarks, it is “very apt” to ask
Balsillie and Lazaridis about the lack of share purchases, said
 Matt Thornton , an Avian Securities LLC analyst in  Boston . “You
could say ‘well, why is no one in your organization, including
you both, buying stock?’” Thornton has a neutral rating on RIM.  Other executives of Canadian companies, by contrast, have
taken advantage of falling stock prices. At least five insiders
of Calgary-based natural-gas producer  Encana Corp. (ECA)  have bought
shares since July 22, according to regulatory filings. The stock
has lost 33 percent this year.  Rona Inc. (RON)  Chairman Jean Gaulin, Chief Financial Officer
Dominique Boies and director Jean-Guy Hebert bought a combined
204,810 shares of the home-improvement retailer from Sept. 15 to
Sept. 19 after the stock lost 30 percent on the year.  ‘Difficult Position’  Other technology executives have in recent years also taken
advantage of drops in stock prices to add to their stakes. Dell
Inc. CEO  Michael Dell , who owns 15 percent of the computer maker
he founded, bought the stock five times in 2008 as its stock
fell 58 percent, including twice in September 2008 after the
shares lost 20 percent in just over a week.  AOL Inc. CEO  Tim Armstrong , who owns 1.3 percent of the
 Internet company , almost doubled his stake in February after the
stock slumped 18 percent in the prior three months.  The lack of purchases by RIM executives is surprising given
how cheap the stock is, Thornton said. RIM trades at less than 4
times earnings, one third the average price valuation of its
technology peers, and has the lowest valuation on the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange 60, according to Bloomberg data.  Former Chief Marketing Officer Keith Pardy was the last RIM
director or executive to acquire shares on the open market when
he bought 4,525 shares in July 2010, according to Bloomberg
data. Pardy, who joined RIM in 2009, left the company this year.  ‘They’re Behind’  RIM executives shouldn’t be blamed for understanding the
shares may take a while to rebound,  Brendan Caldwell , chief
executive officer of Caldwell Investment Management Ltd., said
in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about C$1 billion
($950 million).  “I could certainly understand a senior manager who’s
already got all his net worth tied up being very focused on
making RIM work but not wanting to put himself in an even more
difficult position financially,” said Caldwell, who doesn’t
oversee any RIM shares.  Denver-based Janus Capital Management LLC, New York-based
Neuberger Berman Group LLC and Boston-based Wellington
Management Co. are among the investors who have sold all their
RIM holdings this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Benjamin C. Halliburton, a managing director at Tradition
Capital Management LLC in Summit,  New Jersey , said RIM’s
executives and directors are likely wary of risking further
losses on their investments in the stock. Tradition Capital,
which manages $450 million, sold all 68,946 of its RIM shares in
the second quarter.  “They probably recognize that they’re behind and are not
willing to put their own capital behind the company at this
point,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  