-- 
Rousseff Bulgarian Kin Sits Out Brazil President Homecoming

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-10-06T18:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rousseff-s-bulgarian-kin-sits-out-brazil-president-s-homecoming.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s
visit to  Bulgaria  this week is being feted as a homecoming by
the nation that her father emigrated from eight decades ago. At
least one of her ancestral compatriots isn’t celebrating.  The president’s father, Petar Rousseff, fled Bulgaria in
1929, leaving behind unpaid debts from a bankrupt textile
company and a pregnant wife he never saw again after settling in
 South America . That’s the account given by Ana Petrova, who
shares a mother with Rousseff’s deceased half-brother: Lyuben
Rousev.  “I’m not sure I want to even meet her,” Petrova said in
an interview Oct. 4 in Sofia while displaying a family photo of
Brazil’s first female president as a young girl. “I can’t help
feeling bitter about everything that happened to my brother and
my mother and the feeling they were completely abandoned.”  Rousseff’s election last year fueled hopes in the European
Union’s poorest nation by per capita output that as leader of
the world’s seventh-biggest economy she could steer Brazilian
investment to her ancestral homeland. Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  attended Rousseff’s inauguration in January, presenting
her with a family tree, and the president is now repaying the
gesture by becoming the first Brazilian head of state to visit
the nation of 7.3 million.  Rousseff’s Checkbook  Rousseff, who has never traveled to Bulgaria, arrived in
the capital Sofia Oct. 4 accompanied by representatives from
Brazil’s biggest companies, including state-controlled oil
company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and mining company  Vale SA (VALE5) , both
based in Rio de Janeiro.  “What Kind of Check Will Dilma Bring?” was the headline
on the front page of Sofia’s 24 Hours daily newspaper Oct. 4.  To boost bilateral trade that was just $147 million last
year, Rousseff wants to sell Brazilian-made buses to Bulgaria,
and Sao Jose dos Campos-based plane maker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is looking
to expand its presence in the country as well, her spokesman
Rodrigo Baena said Sept. 30. Yesterday, Rousseff told a group of
business leaders that Bulgaria can increase exports of chemical
fertilizers to Brazil to meet rising demand for the crop
additive.  Any extra business with  Latin America ’s biggest economy
could help Bulgaria cope with an 80 percent plunge in foreign
investment in the second quarter, to 185 million euros ($245
million), as growth in  Europe  stalled.  Economic Focus  While economic issues dominated the agenda, Rousseff today
took time to visit her father’s birthplace of  Gabrovo,  a town of
70,000 located 175 miles east of Sofia in central Bulgaria. She
was applauded by thousands on the city’s central square, where
she spoke for 40 minutes and shook hands with dozens of
admirers. She also visited her half-brother’s tomb in Sofia.  “I am so excited,” Rousseff said in an emotional speech
in Gabrovo today. “I want to thank the Gabrovo citizen who
taught me to love life. I am fulfilling his dream to visit
Bulgaria, which gave me a lot more than I expected.” She also
met with some members of the 30 families that claim a common
heritage with her father at a museum exhibit of her family
history.  On the way to Gabrovo today, Rousseff stopped for a few
hours in Veliko Tarnovo, Bulgaria’s old capital, where she was
met by hundreds of sympathizers chanting “Dilma” and “Viva
 Brazil !”  Textile Shop  Petar Rousseff was born in Gabrovo and later went to  Sofia 
to study law, according to Petrova. When his textile shop in
Sofia collapsed he moved to Paris, then  Argentina  and finally
settled in  Belo Horizonte , Brazil, Petrova said. There he became
known as Pedro, took a Brazilian wife and raised the future
president and her two siblings.  In Brazil, Rousseff prospered as a businessman and
instilled in his daughter a love of literature and the French
language, according to a 2009 profile of the president’s
upbringing in Sao Paulo-based magazine Piaui. He died in 1962,
two years before his daughter joined the Marxist underground
that took up arms against Brazil’s 1964-1985 military
dictatorship.  Rousseff, 63, said little about her father during her
campaign last year and her Bulgarian roots were barely noticed
by voters in a nation comprised primarily of descendants from
African slaves and Portuguese settlers.  ‘Multicultural Brazil’  “In your pride for the ‘Bulgarian president’ of Brazil, I
see a celebration of multicultural Brazil, of the country that,
all through its history, opened its doors to immigrants of the
most varied origins, who live there in peace and harmony,”
Rousseff said yesterday in Sofia.  Petrova, in the interview at Bloomberg’s office in Sofia,
showed dozens of photos of Petar Rousseff sent back to his son
from Brazil. She said she hasn’t been contacted by the Brazilian
government to arrange a meeting with the president.  Petrova, 65, said reports in Brazilian media during last
year’s campaign, and reprinted in Bulgaria, that Rousseff’s
father fled Sofia to escape persecution for being a member of
the then-illegal Communist Party are untrue.  When communists did take power in 1944, they made it
impossible for Rousseff’s abandoned wife, Evdokia Yaneva, or
their son to find work and travel abroad because Petar Rousseff
lived in the capitalist West, Petrova said. For years in the
1950s they survived on the equivalent of a dollar a day, she
said.  ‘Charming Man’  “He was known as a handsome, charming man, a gambler and
lover of fine wining and dining and everything that goes with
it,” said Petrova, who is a retired historian and Yaneva’s
daughter from a second marriage. “Authorities considered him a
swindler, a fugitive and a capitalist.”  Rousseff declined Bloomberg’s request for comment on
Petrova’s statements, according to an official at her press
office who cannot be named because he is not authorized to speak
publicly.  From Brazil, Petar Rousseff used to occasionally send his
son $50 bills placed between two glued postcards, to escape the
Bulgarian authorities’ notice, Petrova said. When he died,
Lyuben accepted $1,500 from his father’s Brazilian family in
exchange for abandoning any inheritance claims, she added.  Starting in 2004,  Dilma Rousseff  began exchanging letters
with her half-brother, Petrova said. In one, she said she’d try
to visit Bulgaria as part of a trip to Europe while serving as a
member of former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s cabinet,
Petrova said.  The correspondence halted when Lyuben in one missive to his
half-sister blasted the communist system, she said.  “Dilma didn’t seem to accept that well and left several of
his letters unanswered, probably to express her disapproval,”
said Petrova.  Living Relative  Rousseff’s half-brother died in 2007 of heart failure after
he stopped taking his medicine in what Petrova described as a
“passive suicide” following a difficult life. He was 78.
“They never met, and now it’s too late,” said Petrova.  Rousseff’s most prominent living Bulgarian cousin is
Ralitsa Negentsova, a lawyer and the spokeswoman of the Central
Electoral Commission in Sofia, who found out about their kinship
from the media a few months ago.  “I’ll meet her for the first time in Gabrovo today, we’ve
never spoken before and I’m very excited,” Negentsova said in
an interview with Bulgarian National Television today. “Our
grandmothers were sisters. The fact that she is taking time to
meet relatives in her father’s hometown during a high-level
visit shows an emotional side of her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Elizabeth Konstantinova} in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  