-- 
Rupiah Falls a Third Day as Italy Rating Cut Adds to Europe Woes

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-05T09:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rupiah-falls-a-third-day-as-italy-rating-cut-adds-to-europe-woes.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell for a third
day as a delay among European nations to come up with a new aid
package for  Greece  and a credit-rating cut for  Italy  reduced
demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped to its lowest
level in more than two years and overseas investors were net
sellers of Indonesian equities for a second day yesterday.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered Italy’s sovereign rating by
three levels to A2 on concern about the government’s ability to
rein in its debt, which is the second largest in the euro
region.  “The rupiah is weak because of the negative sentiment from
the global financial turbulence,” said Rully Nova, a foreign-
exchange analyst at PT Bank Himpunan Saudara in Jakarta. “ Bank
Indonesia  is still in the market to protect the rupiah.”  The currency declined as much as 0.7 percent before trading
0.1 percent weaker at 8,913 per dollar as of 4:13 p.m. in
Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 2.9 percent in September, the biggest
monthly decline since February 2009.  Bank Indonesia will stabilize the rupiah, Hendar, the
authority’s director of monetary policy who uses a single name,
said in a mobile-phone text message on Oct. 3. Central banks
intervene in  currency markets  by arranging purchases or sales of
foreign exchange.  Funds based abroad sold $111 million more Indonesian stocks
than they bought this week, exchange data show. The Jakarta
Composite Index of shares has dropped 7.2 percent since Sept.
30.  Bonds declined for a second day. The yield on the
government’s 8.25 percent notes due July 2021 increased 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 7.16 percent, according to
closing prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 