-- 
Russian Stocks Snap Three-Day Slide on Bernanke’s U.S. Outlook

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-10-05T08:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/russian-stocks-snap-three-day-slide-on-bernanke-s-u-s-outlook.html
Russia ’s stocks rose, trimming losses
from the steepest three-day decline in more than a year, after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s ready to
employ fresh measures to support the  U.S. economy .  The Micex Index of 30 shares rose 0.5 percent to 1,274.64
by 11:59 a.m., paring an earlier advance of as much as 2.8
percent and heading for the first advance in four sessions. The
dollar-measured RTS Index added 0.2 percent to 1,227.88.  The Fed is ready to take additional steps to boost growth,
Bernanke said in Washington yesterday, cautioning lawmakers
against budget moves that may harm a “sluggish” recovery. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounded after the comments and
after the Financial Times quoted  Olli Rehn , European Union
commissioner for economic affairs, as saying there’s an
“increasingly shared view” that the region needs a coordinated
approach to halt the debt crisis.  “The overnight gain in the price of oil has helped
Moscow’s markets to open with a partial reversal of yesterday’s
big loss,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Investors will,
however, again wait to see how Europe’s bourses and, later, the
U.S. markets react to the Italian downgrade and further cautious
statements about European solvency risk.”  Oil, Russia’s biggest export, gained for the first day in
four in  New York  after a surprise drop in U.S. crude stockpiles
led investors to reduce bets that prices will decline. Crude for
November delivery rose as much as $2.79 to $78.46.  Hedge Funds   Hedge funds cut their bullish bets, or long positions, on
oil by the most in almost two months in the week ended Sept. 27,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Concern
that economic growth will falter sent crude to the biggest
quarterly drop since 2008 in the three months ended Sept. 30.  OAO Lukoil, Rosneft’s second-biggest oil producer, added
1.9 percent to 1,572.8 rubles. OAO Tatneft, the oil producer
based in the Tatarstan region, rallied 0.5 percent to 128.59
rubles.  The Micex declined 10 percent in the previous three
sessions, the most in that length of time since July 2010,
Bloomberg data show.  Russian stocks are the cheapest in the BRIC group of
emerging economies, based on yesterday’s closing prices, with
Micex Index members trading at 4.5 times analysts’ estimated
earnings, compared with 8.7 for  Brazil ’s Bovespa, 10.9 for
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index and 13.4 for the BSE India
Sensitive Index.  “U.S. stocks rebounded some and for the most part, global
markets, RTS futures, followed,” Ilya Kravets, a research
analyst ED Capital in New York, said by phone. “Russian stocks
are ridiculously cheap, so you’re seeing some buying but mostly
people are capitulating, they’re selling more liquid stocks like
Sberbank because it’s easier for them to get out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  