-- 
Russia Sold $8 Billion, Most Since Ruble’s 2009 Devaluation

-- B y   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-10-05T15:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/russia-sold-8-billion-most-since-ruble-s-2009-devaluation-1-.html
Russia ’s central bank sold about $8
billion to shore up the domestic currency last month, the most
since it arrested the ruble’s devaluation in January 2009,
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  Bank Rossii intensified sales yesterday, selling $1.15
billion on the  currency  market, a “bigger than usual” step,
Ignatiev told reporters today in Moscow. The ruble yesterday
depreciated against the dollar for a fifth day, plunging to the
weakest close in more than two years.  Policy makers in emerging markets are seeking to bolster
their weakening currencies as global demand sags and the debt
crisis on both sides of the Atlantic drains capital.  Turkey ’s
central bank today sold $750 million for liras, its biggest such
sale on record, after offering as much as $1.35 billion in a
daily auction. The ruble is the fourth-worst performer so far
this month among the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s central bank will keep acting in the dollar
futures market and has “no limit” on how much it can use
derivatives to stem a decline in the real, Aldo Mendes, director
of monetary policy at the bank, said Sept. 22. Authorities will
combat “herd behavior” in the financial markets, Korean
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Sept. 23.  Capital Flight  Outflows of capital from Russia reached an estimated $18.7
billion in the third quarter, bringing this year’s total to
$49.3 billion, Bank Rossii said in a statement late yesterday.
Data were revised to show that $21.4 billion and $9.2 billion
left the country in the first and second quarters, respectively,
the statement showed.  The central bank “will discuss” a revision of its
forecast for $36 billion of capital flight this year, Ignatiev
said. Outflows reached $13 billion last month because of an
unfavorable investment climate and global economic problems, he
said in a speech to lawmakers today.  The currency sales suggest the bank will guard against
sharp currency moves after burning through about a third of its
international reserves, the world’s third-largest, two years ago
in a bid to prop up the ruble.  The regulator will “maintain its presence on currency
markets exclusively to limit excess volatility of the  exchange
rate , without influencing its trajectory as determined by
fundamental factors,” Bank Rossii said in a draft three-year
plan for its monetary policy published on its website Oct. 3.  The central bank drained more than $200 billion in the six
months through January 2009 to stem a 35 percent devaluation of
the ruble to the dollar.  Band Shifted  Bank Rossii probably shifted the upper end of a floating
five-ruble band in which it manages the ruble by 10 kopeks to
37.6 versus its target dollar-euro basket after yesterday’s
sales, Nikolay Podguzov and Maxim Korovin, analysts at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said in an e-mailed research note today.  The basket corridor is moved by 5 kopeks once Bank Rossii’s
interventions top $600 million.  The ruble strengthened 0.5 percent to 32.5625 per dollar
and rose 0.3 percent to 43.3425 against the euro by the 7 p.m.
close in Moscow. The moves left it 0.4 percent stronger at
37.4135 against the central bank’s basket of about 55 percent
dollars and 45 percent euros, which it uses to ease swings in
the ruble that hurt exporters.  ‘Grounds’ for Stronger Ruble  There are “grounds” for the ruble to rebound to 30 per
dollar, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters
today in Moscow. Capital outflows may reach $50 billion this
year, he said.  The nine-month capital outflows equal about 4 percent of
Russia’s gross domestic product and were “worse than
expected,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at  Alfa
Bank  in Moscow, said today in an e-mailed note. Alfa, Russia’s
largest private lender, forecasts 2011 outflows of $60 billion.  The third-quarter figure “may become an additional factor
triggering expectations of ruble depreciation and thus higher
demand for foreign currency,” they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  