-- 
Rwanda Inflation May Reach 8.7% by End of 2011, Gatete Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-10-05T11:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/rwandan-inflation-may-reach-8-7-by-end-of-2011-gatete-says.html
Rwanda ’s inflation rate is expected
to remain below 10 percent in 2011 and end the year at 8.7
percent, National Bank of Rwanda Governor Claver Gatete said at
a conference today in Kigali, the capital.  Inflation in the East African nation accelerated to 7.52
percent in August from 7.14 percent in July, the National
Institute of Statistics of Rwanda said last month. Gatete
attributed the acceleration to rising prices in the region.  “We import oil,” Gatete said today in an interview. “At
the same time we know that food prices have been going up, so
that means for the food and the other commodities that we
import, the prices go up. But, also, we have drought in the
region.”  Rwanda’s inflation rate has been rising at a slower pace
than rates for its regional neighbors because of the country’s
carefully regulated currency, said Yvonne Mhango, a
Johannesburg-based economist with  Renaissance Capital .  “They firmly manage the  exchange rate ,” she said today in
an interview in Kigali. “That helps counter imported inflation.
On the contrary, you see the case of  Uganda , and in  Kenya , you
see this huge depreciation of the shilling that is fed through
the inflation number.”  On Friday, Rwanda’s central bank will say whether it will
adjust the country’s key repo rate to counter inflation. Mhango
said the bank should raise the rate after maintaining it at 6
percent for the first three quarters of 2011.  “Given that the inflation trajectory still seems to be on
the incline, I think there is room to tighten in the second half
of the year,” she said.  Rwanda’s economy doubled in the nine years before 2010,
according to the  World Bank , as it recovered from the 1994
genocide in which about a million ethnic Tutsis and moderate
Hutus were slaughtered in 100 days.  Economic growth last year was 7.5 percent and may exceed
the government’s 7 percent target this year, the central bank
said last month.  Mhango called 6 to 7 percent economic growth in 2011 for
Rwanda “achievable.” Renaissance Capital predicts Kenya will
grow at 4.3 percent, while the regions’ other large economies,
Uganda and Tanzania, will grow at 5 to 6 percent, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali at 
 hmurdock1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 