-- 
S&P Rater Called a ‘Wuss’ for Bending for Bankers, Australian Court Told

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-05T05:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/s-p-rater-a-wuss-for-bending-for-bankers-australia-court-told.html
Standard & Poor’s , bending to
pressure from a bank selling investment notes, gave its highest
rating to some that resembled a gambler’s tactic of doubling
down on losing bets, an Australian court was told.  The ratings company, under investigation by the U.S. over
the nation’s credit downgrade, was sued along with ABN Amro Bank
NV., Royal Bank of  Scotland ’s Australian unit, by Australian
towns over the sale of notes that plummeted in value during the
global financial crisis in 2008.  “You are the wuss for bending over in front of bankers and
taking it,” Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model
for the notes at S&P, told Derek Ding, an analyst responsible
for rating the note, according to e-mail transcripts in a
written version of the plaintiffs’ opening statement that was
released by the court. “You rate something AAA, when it’s
really A-?”  A dozen Australian townships claim they lost A$15 million
($14.3 million) of A$16 million invested in the Community Income
Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Notes, or Rembrandts, as
they were called. The notes were unwound less than two years
after the towns bought them because credit spreads kept
increasing and the notes’ cash value was exhausted, according to
the court filing.  Doubling Down  “The CPDO strategy may be seen as a sophisticated version
of the doubling strategy in which a gambler doubles his/her bet
every time he/she loses, until a win occurs,” Columbia
University Professor  Rama Cont  said, according to the
submission. “A gambler with limited capital might eventually
run out of capital before winning and lose everything.”  Venus also said the rating wasn’t his decision, according
to the statement. “I am not responsible, I just helped build an
internal model,” he said.  S&P denied it was pressured by the bank to give the notes
the AAA rating, in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News today.  “The councils are trying to deflect the weakness of their
case by pointing to out-of-context e-mails,” the ratings
company said. “We conducted our own analysis in line with our
rating process.”  ABN Amro Bank was aware of the risks of the CPDOs, was in
constant contact with S&P during the development of the notes
and supplied data to the rating company, according to the court
documents.  ‘Highly Weird’  “Is it normal for rating agencies to allow banks to build
their own models for snp to use to rate them?" ABN Amro Bank’s
Paul Silcox, who was involved in the creation of the notes,
asked Mike Drexler, a senior member of the Structured Credit
Markets Group at the bank, in an e-mail cited in the documents.  ‘‘No! It is not normal and highly weird,’’ Drexler replied.
‘‘An opportunity however.’’  In written submissions to the court, outlining its opening
statement, ABN Amro Bank denied any wrongdoing.  S&P had rated the notes ‘‘thoroughly and independently,’’
the bank said in the court documents. The bank will present
experts who will testify to that effect, ABN Amro Bank said.  ABN Amro Bank had no direct relationship with the councils
and as a result holds no special duty to them, according to the
court documents.  In developing the terms of the note, ABN Amro Bank
employees Jamie Cole and David Poet agreed on a potentially good
AAA structure and then Cole wrote Poet: ‘‘Perhaps we go and flog
this for all its worth,’’ according to the plaintiffs’
submission.  The trial is scheduled for 10 weeks in Sydney.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  