-- 
MLS’s Chicago Fire Wants to Sign Rio Ferdinand, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-05T09:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/mls-s-chicago-fire-wants-to-sign-rio-ferdinand-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Chicago Wants Rio  Major League Soccer’s Chicago Fire wants to sign Manchester
United and  England  defender  Rio Ferdinand , the  Daily Mail  said.  The Fire is desperate to add a high-profile English player
to help it compete with David Beckham and the Los Angeles Galaxy
and have made Ferdinand the main target, the Mail said.  Chicago wants Ferdinand, who turns 33 next month and is out
of contract after this season, to join next summer. The club
would be able to give him a take-home salary close to his
current 120,000 pounds ($185,000) per week deal with United
because of lower U.S. tax rates and Ferdinand has not ruled out
a move, the Mail said.  Sven’s England Choice  Sven Goran Eriksson feels Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
would be a perfect choice as the next England coach,  the Sun 
said.  Tottenham’s Harry Redknapp has been mentioned in media
reports as the replacement for Fabio Capello, who will leave
after next year’s European Championship.  “People talk about Harry Redknapp as the people’s
choice,” the Sun quoted Eriksson, who led England to three
tournament quarterfinals, as saying. “But I’m quite sure if the
F.A. could get Wenger, they would take him.”  United Pairing  Capello is considering pairing Manchester United teammates
Wayne Rooney and  Danny Welbeck  for England’s Euro 2012 qualifier
in Montenegro in two days, the  Guardian said .  England needs a point to qualify for next summer’s
championship and Capello will insist on an attack-minded
approach, the Guardian said. Rooney and Welbeck have four goals
between them in 208 minutes on the field together for United
this season, the newspaper said.  Blackburn Favorite  Martin O’Neill is the top choice to replace  Steve Kean  if
the Blackburn manager is fired, the  Daily Star  said.  Kean, who has won six of 28 games since replacing Sam Allardyce last December, will meet with club owners Venky’s this
week in India, He’s been the object of fan protests this season
as Rovers sit in next-to-last place.  O’Neill quit as Aston Villa manager 14 months ago and is
desperate to return to the Premier League. He’s also a target of
Nottingham Forest after Steve McClaren left three days ago, the
Star said.  Difficult League  Luis Suarez  wants Liverpool to concentrate on winning a cup
this year because he feels the Premier League title is
“unreachable,” the  Daily Mirror  said.  Suarez feels the depth and experience at Chelsea,
Manchester City and  Manchester United  sets those three apart
from everyone else.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 