-- 
Sahara Solar Project to Present First Plant Design in 2012

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-10-05T08:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/sahara-solar-project-to-outline-first-plant-next-year-ceo-says.html
The Sahara solar initiative backed by
German turbine maker  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will sketch
out plans in 2012 for its first power plant, a 600 million-euro
($800 million) station in Morocco, its project manager said.  Desertec , the venture aiming to generate power across the
North African desert for Mediterranean-area consumers, needs a
few more months of planning for its initial 150-megawatt pilot
plant, Paul van Son, chief executive officer of Dii GmbH, the
project management company, said in an interview in Munich.  Dii’s talks with European and North African governments to
back the initiative are advancing “step by step,” even as
upheavals during the Arab Spring ousted leaders in  Egypt ,
Tunisia and  Libya  this year, van Son said. “I’m very confident
that we will see concrete steps in 2012.”  The project founded in 2009 envisions an Egypt-to- Morocco 
network of solar-thermal plants, in which mirrors concentrate
sunlight to heat liquids for powering turbines, as well as
photovoltaic panels and wind farms. Electricity would be sold to
the region and the excess exported to Europe, providing as much
as 15 percent of the continent’s demand by 2050.  Overall investments may total as much as 400 billion euros,
Dii has said. So far, no facilities have been built, which has
Logan Goldie-Scot, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance,
concerned that the project may not be realized.  North African countries are moving ahead with their own
projects more quickly than Desertec, Goldie-Scot said. Morocco
targets 2 gigawatts of solar capacity by 2020, with bidding for
the construction of a 125-megawatt solar-thermal plant in
Ouarzazate “in the final stages,” Goldie-Scot said by phone.  ‘Nice Ambition’  “Until Desertec actually puts a project on the ground and
provides details on financing and the different stakeholders,
it’s nothing more than nice ambition and a series of public
announcements,” he said.  Dii shareholders including Deutsche Bank, Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  of  Spain , are working to carry out the
project while access to financing is becoming increasingly
difficult amid the European debt crisis.  About 1.9 billion euros in investment are needed to develop
the first 500-megawatt phase of Desertec, Dii says.
Shareholders, including insurer  Munich Re , may help provide
financing or equity to build the first plant, van Son said.  The pilot plant should supply Morocco and Spain by 2014 if
photovoltaic panels are used, and about two years later if it
relies on solar-thermal technology, he said.  Solar-Thermal Timing  Dii chose Morocco to host the first plant as the country is
stable, has a government that backs renewable-energy expansion
and is linked to  Europe  via two undersea cables stretching about
25 kilometers (15.5 miles) across the Strait of Gibraltar, van
Son said. The cables have free capacity of 400 megawatts to
1,000 megawatts, he said.  “Morocco is especially cash-strapped, and that’s why
they’re eager to attract foreign investments and more willing to
meet Desertec’s terms than some of the other North African
countries,” said  Samuel Ciszuk , an energy analyst for the
region at Colorado-based IHS Global Insight Ltd. He spoke by
telephone from  London .  Aside from commercial and shareholder financing, the
Munich-based initiative is in negotiations with governments in
North Africa and Europe to secure state-backed grants and loan
guarantees, van Son said. Dii then hopes for governments to buy
the electricity via a power-purchase agreement, he said.  The company is preparing a study that simulates power
network conditions in Morocco to find out more about the ideal
technology for the first plants, van Son said. The study will
run until the end of the year and its results may help convince
potential investors, he said.  Wider Goal  Dii aims to expand installations in North Africa and the
 Middle East  with a wider goal to transfer clean technology,
create jobs and meet the region’s entire electricity demand from
renewable sources by 2050, van Son said.  The initiative is working on a feasibility study for
possible projects in  Tunisia  and has talked to officials in
Algeria, Egypt and Libya, countries that have seen upheavals
during the Arab Spring uprisings.  “We’re seeing the start of a period of change in North
Africa, and some countries may look very different in a few
years,” Ciszuk said. “If Desertec can get things under way in
Morocco, why shouldn’t there be more opportunities in Tunisia
and Egypt in the mid-term?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  