-- 
Sainsbury Maintains Sales Gain as Own-Label Items Win Buyers

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-10-05T08:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/sainsbury-maintains-sales-gain-with-own-label.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
biggest supermarket company, said second-quarter sales rose at
the same pace as in the first three months of the year as
shoppers bought more of its own-brand food ranges.  Sales at stores open at least a year gained 1.9 percent in
the 16 weeks through Oct. 1, on a basis that excludes gasoline
and includes value-added tax, the London-based retailer said
today in a statement. That compares with the median estimate of
2 percent growth from eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sainsbury has been updating and adding new products to its
6,000 mid-tier By Sainsbury range as more shoppers favor cheaper
private-label goods. The retailer gained customers by offering
discounts on gasoline with some food purchases as rising fuel
bills sap household budgets. Larger rival  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , which today
reported its worst U.K. sales performance in at least six years,
is fighting back with price cuts of its own.  “We expect the market environment to remain very
competitive for the foreseeable future, but we are confident in
our ability to grow by doing a great job for our customers,”
Sainsbury Chief Executive Officer Justin King said in the
statement.  Sainsbury rose as much as 3.6 percent to 284.5 pence and
was up 3.2 percent as of 9:09 a.m. in London trading. Tesco fell
as much as 2.1 percent.  U.K. Market Share  Sainsbury’s share of the U.K. grocery market rose to 16.1
percent in the three months through Sept. 4, according to Kantar
Worldpanel, with sales growth beating gains at larger
competitors Tesco and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda. Tesco said
today that its U.K. same-store sales fell 0.6 percent, excluding
fuel and VAT.  Sainsbury said it has introduced more than 3,000 new or
improved By Sainsbury products, which are typically at least 20
percent cheaper than the branded equivalent.  The premium Taste the Difference food range and the budget
“basics” line also reported “strong growth,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  