-- 
Salida Capital Doesn’t Anticipate Any Material Redemptions, Wolfe Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-10-05T19:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/salida-capital-doesn-t-anticipate-any-material-redemptions-wolfe-says.html
Salida Capital LP doesn’t anticipate
any “material” redemptions after plunging energy prices eroded
returns for the Toronto-based hedge fund, Chief Executive
Officer Courtenay Wolfe said.  “We’ve talked to pretty much every material client, people
are holding the course,” Wolfe said today in a telephone
interview. “We don’t anticipate or have not heard of any
material redemptions.”  Salida, whose members paid $1.68 million in 2009 to have
lunch in  New York  with billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , told
clients this week that investment calls in mid-August backing
oil and gold “have been costly, as the market has moved against
us.”  Wolfe said Salida funds have a 90-day notice period, and
her company has only had C$37,000 ($35,000) in redemptions for
January 2012. The company manages about C$500 million in assets,
Wolfe said. She said in May the fund ran about $900 million.  Wolfe reiterated that speculation Salida is on the verge of
collapse is “unfounded” and that no one has been fired as a
result of recent market volatility. The company hasn’t taken any
of its own money out of the accounts and doesn’t plan to, Wolfe
said.  The Salida Strategic Growth Fund posted a 37 percent
decline last month, contributing to a 49 percent drop for the
year, the company said today on a  conference call  with clients.
Salida will be publishing monthly performance data “shortly,”
Wolfe said.  “You’ll see that there are no anomalies there; there’s no
red herrings in there,” she said.  Salida continues to be its own “anchor” investor and the
funds continue to favor oil and energy investments. Some clients
have considered increasing their holdings in Salida funds, the
company said today on its conference call.  The  money manager  expects that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will announce additional stimulative measures to the
economy by the end of the year. The U.S. will go into a “severe
recession” without implementing so-called QE3, the company said
on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  