-- 
Samsung Seeks to Block Sales of Apple’s Latest IPhone 4S in France, Italy

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T02:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/samsung-to-seek-ban-on-iphone-4s-sales-in-france-italy-in-patent-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. aims to stop
sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S in  France  and  Italy , claiming
the handset infringes on its patents, escalating the dispute
between the two biggest makers of smartphones and tablets.  Samsung filed motions seeking the ban in courts in Paris
and Milan, each citing two patent infringements related to
wireless telecommunications technology, the Suwon, South Korea-
based company said in an e-mailed statement today. Apple
unveiled the iPhone 4S in Cupertino,  California , this week and
aims to start sales later this month.  The move adds to legal disputes that began in April, when
Apple claimed Samsung’s Galaxy devices ‘‘slavishly” copied the
iPad and iPhone. At stake is dominance in the fastest-growing
segment of the $207 billion mobile-phone market, where Apple is
competing against makers of handsets powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system.  “It’s clearly part of this increasing mobile patent war
that we’ve been seeing in recent months,” said James Cordwell,
a London-based analyst at Atlantic Equities Service who rates
Apple’s shares “overweight” and doesn’t own any. “What’s at
stake is your long-term strategic position. It’s less about the
country-by-country blockade.”  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on Samsung’s statement.  ‘Flagrantly Violate’  Samsung plans to file preliminary injunctions in other
countries after further review, it said in the statement. Apple,
maker of the iMac computer and the iPad tablet, is also one of
the South Korean company’s biggest buyers of chips and displays.  “Apple has continued to flagrantly violate our
intellectual property rights and free ride on our technology,”
Samsung said. “IPhone 4S should be barred from sales.”  Samsung gained 3.9 percent to 875,000 won as of 10:38 a.m.
in  Seoul . Apple rose 1.5 percent to $378.25 yesterday in New
York trading.  Apple introduced the iPhone 4S, equipped with a faster
processor, a higher-resolution camera and a new software
interface this week to help it vie with Google’s Android, which
powers Samsung’s Galaxy phone and tablets.  Smartphone Sales  At stake is leadership in the market for smartphones, which
is projected to double by 2015, when 1 billion of the handsets
will be sold, according to research firm IDC. While Apple is the
single biggest smartphone maker, the Android coalition leads the
market, accounting for 41.7 percent. The iPhone accounted for
almost half of Apple’s sales in the most recent quarter.  “If Samsung just sits there doing nothing, they will end
up letting Apple label them as a copycat,” said Choi Do Yeon,
an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“Samsung will want to win something from any court, whether
it’s a ban or an agreement from Apple to pay royalties.”  Apple earlier won backing from a Dusseldorf court that
upheld a temporary ban on sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in
 Germany , which Strategy Analytics forecasts will be  Europe ’s
third-largest market for tablets this year. Samsung filed an
appeal against the ruling.  In  Australia , Apple has delayed the release of the product
for two months by seeking a temporary judicial ban.  Samsung will abandon plans to sell the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in
Australia if it doesn’t win approval to sell it in the next two
weeks, Neil Young, a Samsung lawyer, told Federal Court Justice
Annabelle Bennett in Sydney this week. Missing the Christmas
season would result in the new tablet being “dead,” he said.  Samsung avoided an injunction on its tablet computers in
the Netherlands, where it was ordered by a court in  The Hague  to
halt some sales of the Galaxy S, S II and Ace smartphones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  