-- 
Scene Last Night: Herbert Allison, Dale Chihuly’s Venice

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/scene-last-night-herbert-allison-morris-offit-dale-chihuly-does-venice.html
Glass artist Dale Chihuly’s favorite
restaurant is Harry’s Bar in  Venice , he said last night as he
dined on a beet and string bean salad at another Cipriani
outpost, a catering hall at 55 Wall St. in New York.  Chihuly was there to pick up the Fritz Redlich Alumni Award
from the  Institute of International Education . The New York-
based nonprofit administers exchange programs, including the
Fulbright.  The institute’s Opening Minds to the World Gala Benefit
also honored the organization’s chairman, retired banker Thomas
S. Johnson. The more than 400 guests included  Herbert Allison ,
former head of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, and Morris Offit, chairman of Offit Capital Partners.  Chihuly walked to the stage in black shoes covered in
splotches of color, accompanied by a brass-heavy instrumental
version of U2’s “Beautiful Day.”  In 1968, Chihuly sailed from  New York  on the S.S.
Michelangelo to take up a Fulbright fellowship in Venice. He
carried a battery-operated record player on which he listened to
 Bob Dylan ’s “Blonde on Blonde” album.  A friend advised him to “shave the beard, buy a new suit,
get a pair of wraparound shades and don’t look back,” Chihuly
recalled in an interview. He kept the mustache and bought a suit
in Venice and “a beautiful pair of two-toned leather boots for
$100.”  He rented a room in a palazzo for $50 a month, fell in love
with spaghetti alle vongole, and got to work studying glass
blowing from the masters on the island of Murano.  “In the heyday of the Venetian empire, a glass blower
wasn’t allowed to leave the island,” Chihuly said. “If he
tried to leave, he was beheaded. If he made it to  England , he
was knighted.”  ‘Too Intimidated’  Chihuly studied at the Venini factory, where he spent most
of his time observing. “I was too intimidated to blow glass
myself,” he said.  Back at home he found the courage to work with the
material. “I rely a lot on fire, gravity and centripetal
forces,” he said. He became a master artist with installations
and museum exhibitions all over the world, including Venice.  He also created the Mellow Yellow Chihuly Persian
Chandelier, which hangs in his dining room, where he and his
wife, Leslie Chihuly, chairman of the  Seattle  Symphony, recently
hosted a dinner for Ludovic Morlot, the symphony’s new music
director.  It could have turned out differently.  “When I was a senior at the  University of Washington  I got
a Fulbright to study weaving in  Finland ,” he said. “The host
country rejected me.”  Chihuly Garden and Glass, an indoor and outdoor exhibition
of the artist’s work, opens in Seattle in the spring.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 