-- 
Senate Democrats Eye Elections in Split With Obama Over Jobs

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-05T12:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/senate-democrats-eye-elections-in-split-with-obama-over-jobs.html
President Barack Obama campaigns
across the country for the centerpiece of his economic agenda
with a simple refrain: “Tell Congress to pass this bill.”  He knows Republicans are against him. Increasingly, members
of his own party are, too, posing a challenge to his economic
agenda and clouding his re-election strategy.  The disunity is on display this week in Washington, where
Senate Democratic leaders delayed action on Obama’s $447 billion
jobs bill to advance a measure he doesn’t support that would
retaliate against  China  for undervaluing its currency.  Obama’s jobs proposal so far lacks enough support to even
begin debate in the Senate. Democrats there are considering a
surtax on millionaires to replace tax increases in his bill, a
Democratic aide said yesterday on condition of anonymity.
Leaders are trying to win over Democrats like Ben Nelson of
Nebraska and  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, who are up for
election next year and don’t yet favor the president’s plan.  Asked whether Obama’s agenda appeals to senators who face
voters in 2012, Manchin said in an interview, “His approval
rating is 28 percent in West Virginia. You do the math.”  Some Democrats are rebuffing pending trade agreements with
 South Korea , Colombia and Panama, while others bristle at some
of the $1.5 trillion in tax increases in Obama’s plan to trim
budget deficits by $3 trillion over a decade. With Republicans
in control of the House, White House discord with the Senate’s
Democrats risks slowing Obama’s economic agenda to a crawl.  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Democratic leader, said he sees “no indication” that election
considerations are taking over. Differences with the president
over legislation are normal, he said.  ‘Creatures of Elections’  “We’re all creatures of elections -- the president as well
as members of Congress,” Durbin said. “But there are always
differences. When the president puts out a proposal, there are
going to be a few members of his party who are going to want to
do it a little differently. We’re working to accommodate that.”  Democrats hold a 53-47 Senate majority and risk losing
control to Republicans next year. Of the 33 Senate seats up for
re-election, 23 are held by Democrats, and all but two of the
almost dozen seats rated by the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report as vulnerable to a party switch are held by Democrats.  Some Democrats facing re-election come from states with
unemployment rates at least as high as the nation’s 9.1 percent,
including  Debbie Stabenow  of  Michigan , Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  and
Bill Nelson of  Florida . Other senators such as Bob Casey of
Pennsylvania and Manchin are showing independence from a
president whose approval ratings dipped below 40 percent in
national opinion surveys.  ‘Desperate Man’  Senate Republicans, largely united against Obama’s domestic
agenda, see nothing but political opportunity in the split.
Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , chairman of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee, said Obama is a “desperate
man.”  “He’s obviously in a defensive crouch, given the mood of
the country and this feeling that he hasn’t done enough to help
facilitate job growth,” Cornyn said. “Democrats don’t want to
be associated with him because he’s unpopular, and I think it’s
making a lot of them very uncomfortable.”  While he faces dissent in his party, Obama is sharpening
his rhetoric against the Republican leaders he says stand in the
way of his job-creation plan. At a Texas rally yesterday, he
criticized House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, prodding him to schedule a vote on the jobs bill.  ‘What’s the Problem?’  “I mean, what’s the problem?” Obama said at a community
college in the Dallas suburb of Mesquite. “Do they not have the
time? They just had a week off. Is it inconvenient?”  Some tension between Obama and Senate Democrats was evident
in July and August during negotiations for a plan to cut the
deficit while raising the U.S. borrowing limit.  Democrats were angered that Obama discussed a deficit-
reduction deal of about $3 trillion with Republican House
Speaker John Boehner that would have cut domestic priorities
while delaying tax increases. Talks fell apart, and lawmakers
enacted a smaller deficit-cutting plan.  ‘Serious Concerns’  Obama’s jobs plan, offered on Sept. 8, was immediately
dismissed by Manchin, who said he had “serious concerns” about
the amount of spending and likely effectiveness. Nelson of
 Nebraska  questioned the wisdom of tax increases proposed to pay
for it, which include capping itemized deductions and some tax
exclusions for the wealthy and rolling back tax breaks for
private-equity fund managers and  oil companies .  Nelson said this week “we have to see” what the proposal
looks like after senators have a chance to amend it on the
floor. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will advance
the measure later this month.  The free-trade deals, with wide support from Republicans in
the House and Senate, are running into Democratic resistance.  “With an exploding trade deficit that has caused massive
job loss, now is not the time to pass more wrongheaded free-
trade agreements,” Brown said in a statement released after the
White House sent the measures to Congress on Oct. 3.  Reid of  Nevada  has said he won’t support them, though he
won’t try to block floor consideration.  Trade Agreements  “I want everyone within the sound of my voice to
understand that I do not like the Colombia Free Trade Agreement,
the Korea Free Trade Agreement or the  Panama  Free Trade
Agreement,” Reid said on the Senate floor last month. “I will
vote against them.”  The China currency measure lets vulnerable Democrats from
manufacturing states including Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania
criticize that country, while ignoring the administration’s
reluctance to directly take on a major trade partner.  Democratic leaders moved it to the Senate floor before
Obama’s jobs measure. The currency bill is co-sponsored by
Stabenow, Brown and Casey.  “The U.S. has allowed China to manipulate its currency
without consequence and the practice has taken a dramatic toll
on Pennsylvania’s companies and workers,” Casey said Oct. 3.
“We have had enough tough talk - now we need tough action.”  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the No. 3 Democratic
leader, predicted the Senate will pass the legislation on a
“strong and overwhelming vote,” even as Boehner of Ohio
yesterday said it was a “dangerous” and ineffective way to
deal with concerns about China’s currency.  The White House has used guarded language in discussing the
debate. White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the administration
shares the goal of increasing the value of China’s currency, but
added the bill must be “effective and consistent with our
international obligations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  