-- 
Serbia May Reduce Benchmark Interest Rate as Focus Shifts to Growth, Jobs

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-05T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/serbia-may-reduce-benchmark-interest-rate-as-focus-shifts-to-growth-jobs.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
cut its benchmark interest rate for the fourth time since June
as the bank’s focus shifts from taming inflation to promoting
growth and employment.  The Narodna Banka Srbije will lower its two-week repurchase
rate by a quarter-point today to 11 percent, according to 10 of
23 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Four predicted a half-point
decrease and one sees a three-quarter point reduction, Eight
forecast no change. The bank may announce the decision at about
noon in the capital, Belgrade.  Europe ’s debt crisis is curbing demand for Serbian exports,
jeopardizing government plans to wean the economy off its
dependence on foreign credit. While inflation has eased, growth
in the Balkan nation, which is seeking to join the European
Union, slowed to 2.2 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter from 3.7 percent in the first three months.  “Recent signals strongly point to slowing inflation,
negative economic trends in the third quarter and high financing
costs for the real sector,” said Aleksandra Vukosavljevic, head
of research at Raiffeisenbank a.d. in Belgrade. “They may even
cut by fifty basis points,” said Vukosavljevic, who forecasts a
quarter-point decrease.  Central banks across the region have been weighing
faltering growth prospects with weaker currencies. Poland left
borrowing costs unchanged in September on expectations inflation
will slow and the economy will weaken. Hungary kept its
benchmark  interest rate  steady for an eighth month on Sept. 20,
while the Czech central bank followed suit two days later.  Dinar, Inflation  Serbia last lowered borrowing costs on Sept. 8. Even after
1.25 percentage points of interest-rate cuts since June, the
dinar has declined less than other regional currencies such as
the zloty, closing at 101.71 against the euro yesterday compared
with 100.81 June 30.  Inflation has slowed from April’s 14.7 percent peak to 10.5
percent in August. Policy makers are targeting a 4.5 percent
rate plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at end-2011, dropping
to 4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at end-2012.  “Reduced inflationary pressures may create room for
further policy easing, but the National Bank of Serbia needs to
remain vigilant to achieve its objective of bringing inflation
back into its target band,” the  International Monetary Fund 
said Oct. 3 after approving a new 1 billion-euro ($1.33 billion)
precautionary loan.  The “most important problem is unemployment,” central
bank Governor Dejan Soskic told an economic forum yesterday.
“That can be dealt with only through a substantial increase in
economic activity.”  While Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s cabinet is seeking
to reduce unemployment and improve  living standards  as the
ruling coalition gears up for elections next year, “it would
take growth rates of 4 percent to 5 percent to create new
jobs,” his economic adviser Jurij Bajec said.  Serbia’s economy will grow 2 percent this year and 3
percent in 2012, according to forecasts on the Washington-based
IMF’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  