-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Expanded at Slower Pace in September

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-05T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/services-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace-in-september.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in September at a slower pace, showing the
recovery is struggling to gain speed, economists said before a
report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 52.8 from 53.3 in August, according to the median
estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A reading
of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and contraction in
services, the largest part of the economy.  The lack of job and income growth, deepening pessimism
about the economic outlook in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis,
and a slumping stock market may hamper consumers’ willingness to
spend. The projected services reading underscores Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments yesterday that the
recovery will be “somewhat slower” in coming quarters.  “Economic momentum remains fragile,” said Kevin Logan,
chief U.S. economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York .
“Consumer budgets are strained,” and households are “scaling
back in areas like transportation, recreation and eating out.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report on non-manufacturing
industries that account for almost 90 percent of the economy is
due at 10 a.m. New York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 51.3 to 55.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. Today’s
report follows the group’s Oct. 1 figures that showed
manufacturing expanded in September at a faster pace.  European Debt Crisis  Stocks have slumped on concerns over Europe’s debt crisis
and signs the  U.S. economy  was on the verge of faltering. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 15 percent since the
end of June.  A report due at 8:15 a.m. from ADP Employer Services may
show companies added an estimated 73,000 workers to payrolls in
September after a 91,000 gain the prior month, according to the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  A jobless rate of at least 9 percent for five straight
months, slower employment growth, and declining home and equity
values are combining to depress Americans. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index fell in the week ended Sept. 25 to the
second-lowest level on record. The gauge dropped to minus 53 and
has been stuck below minus 40, the level associated with
recessions, since the end of February.  “We expect modest growth to continue,” Alan Graf, chief
financial officer at  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , said on a Sept. 22 conference
call with analysts. “The biggest drag on economic improvement
at this time is sentiment, and the country, as well as FedEx,
needs a change in that in order to benefit from further economic
growth.”  Economic Growth  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent rate in the January to March
period, the weakest six months of the recovery that began in
June 2009, according to Commerce Department figures. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg last month projected a 1.8 percent rate of
growth for the third quarter, based on the median estimate.  Bernanke, during congressional testimony yesterday, said
Fed policy makers stand ready to take further steps to spur the
“sluggish” economy if needed.  “The recovery from the crisis has been much less robust
than we had hoped,” he said. Fed officials expect a “somewhat
slower pace of economic growth over coming quarters” than they
did in June, he said, without giving a specific forecast.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  