-- 
Slovenian Yield Above 5% May ‘Impact’ Finances, Vasle Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-10-05T11:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/slovenian-yield-above-5-may-impact-finances-vasle-says-1-.html
A rise in Slovenian bond yields since
the rejection of pension changes in June probably will hurt
public finances, the state forecasting institute warned.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt rose
to a record 351 basis points, or 3.51 percentage points, in
Ljubljana at 12:13 p.m. The spread has more than doubled since
voters in June rejected the pension changes in a referendum. The
yield on Slovenia’s 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) in notes
maturing in January 2021 advanced 5 basis points today to 5.175
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “If the premium rises to above 5 percent, that would have
a significant impact on public finances,”  Bostjan Vasle , the
director of the government’s economic institute, told reporters
in Ljubljana today. He wasn’t referring to a specific note.  Slovenia, a member of the euro region since 2007, had its
credit ratings cut by Moody’s and Fitch last month on
deteriorating public finances, political uncertainty, a weak
banking industry and a worsening outlook for the economy. The
government to emerge from early elections on Dec. 4 will have to
hold down spending as the economic outlook worsens and a
solution to the European debt crisis eludes policy makers.  Yield Pressure  “There is great pressure on yields in many European
nations and banks and, unfortunately, Slovenia is among them,”
Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst at Abanka Vipa said in an e-mail.
“And the outlook isn’t bright either.”  Slovenia’s outgoing government of Prime Minister Borut
Pahor, which was toppled last month, saw public debt surge to
45.2 percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter on
dwindling tax receipts and a greater need for social-benefit
spending during the recession. The government aims for a 4.6
percent of GDP budget gap by year’s end, or 5.5 percent under
European accounting standards.  “Slovenia is destined for low economic-growth rates in the
coming years, which will be just above 1 percent,” Vasle said
today.  GDP will expand 1.5 percent this year as demand for
Slovenian exports in  Europe  weakens, the institute forecasts.
The central bank has an even lower estimate of 1.3 percent for
2011 with the risk the expansion may be even slower.  Slovenia’s banking industry, which may need fresh capital
of 3.1 billion euros according to Fitch ratings, will continue
to struggle with bad loans, said Marjan Hafnar, an economist at
the institute.  “Bad-loan levels were 25 percent higher in the first eight
months of 2011, compared with a year earlier, and it’s very
likely the level will be higher by the end of the year than it
was at end of 2010,” Hafner said.  -- Editors: James M. Gomez, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  