-- 
SocGen Wins $50M U.K. Case Over Saad Group

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/societe-generale-wins-u-k-lawsuit-over-saad-group-unit-loan.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-
biggest bank, won a U.K. lawsuit forcing a unit of Saudi
Arabia’s  Saad Group  to repay a loan of almost $50 million
guaranteed by its billionaire founder Maan al-Sanea.  Saad Trading Contracting & Financial Services must pay
interest on the amount and at least 250,000 pounds ($386,000) of
the bank’s legal fees, Judge Nigel Teare ruled today in  London .
Saad was accused in a trial in July of defaulting on the 2009
loan four months before saying it would seek to restructure its
debt during the global credit crunch.  “We will be seeking leave to appeal,” Saad Group’s
London-based spokesman, Tim Robertson, said in an e-mail.  Units of Saad Group and another Saudi company, Ahmad Hamad
Algosaibi & Brothers Co., defaulted in 2009 after borrowing a
total of about $15.7 billion from more than 80 banks, including
London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The companies, both based in Al-
Khobar, in the country’s oil-producing region, are locked in
litigation around the globe over who is at fault for the losses.  Saad Group, with businesses ranging from construction to
information technology and health care, took out the disputed
loan in January 2009, to finance a purchase of gold from the
Australian precious metals refiner AGR Matthey, according to the
judgment. Saad subsequently sold the gold to an unidentified
buyer to obtain short-term financing.  Prior Gold Buy  While Paris-based Societe Generale, which financed an
earlier gold purchase by Saad in 2007, had concerns about the
risk of lending to Saad a second time, the bank’s desire to win
a banking license in  Saudi Arabia  weighed on its decision to
provide the loan, according to court papers.  Saad’s gold trading was handled by a consultant who
arranged similar purchases for Algosaibi, according to the
judgment.  A spokeswoman for Societe Generale in Paris didn’t
immediately return messages left seeking comment.  Al-Sanea, deemed the world’s 62nd richest person by Forbes
Magazine in 2009, is accused in the Algosaibi litigation of
using fake documents to take out billions of dollars in loans in
Algosaibi’s name. He married into the Algosaibi family before
founding Saad Group and denies the allegations.  “Maan al-Sanea, from the outset, has consistently refuted
all of Algosaibi’s allegations as wholly untrue,” Robinson said.  Al-Sanea last month won dismissal of a $9.2 billion asset
freeze in the  Cayman Islands  after Algosaibi admitted failing to
disclose evidence in a related case. The documents, which were
discovered four months ago and undermine Algosaibi’s fraud claim
against al-Sanea, forced Algosaibi to drop its defense in a $250
million lawsuit filed by HSBC and four other banks.  A similar asset freeze in the U.K. was lifted by a London
court on Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  