-- 
SocGen Doesn’t Need More Capital, Truchi Says

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-10-05T09:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/societe-generale-doesn-t-require-additional-capital-truchi-says.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-
largest bank, doesn’t need any new capital or long-term
financing, said Daniel Truchi, head of the lender’s wealth
management unit.  “There is definitely no need for a capital increase or a
capital injection at this juncture,” Truchi said at a press
conference in Dubai today. “The engines of the bank are still
very solid. We have very strong retail bank in France and
abroad, strong corporate investment and banking.”  Investors are shunning European lenders, whose shares are
down 36 percent this year, on concern they will have to write
down their holdings of European sovereign debt, eroding capital.
Paris-based Societe Generale said Sept. 12 it plans to free up 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) of capital by 2013 through asset
sales.  “I’m not commenting on our competitors, but on the French
banks and the Spanish banks I can say that we’re much lower than
our competitors in terms of risk,” Truchi said. The bank, which
completed a 26 billion-euro funding program in September, has no
need for any long-term financing, he said.  The bank’s private banking division is actively looking for
acquisitions in  Europe  as the financial crisis forces banks to
sell businesses, he said.  “Valuations have come down,” he said. “Also some banks
have to take some decision to shrink their balance sheets and a
result they may sell some of their assets.”  Societe Generale’s wealth management unit had 86.1 billion
euros of assets under management as of June, Truchi said. The
bank is “on track” to meet its goal for 150 billion euros of
assets under management by 2015, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  