-- 
Solar Sales May Drop for First Time as Rates Cut, BNEF Says

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-10-05T15:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/solar-sales-may-drop-for-first-time-as-rates-cut-bnef-says-2-.html
Sales of solar panels may decline for
the first time in 2012, leaving manufacturers with mounting
inventories and excess capacity, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analyst.  “New capacity in 2012 is likely to be flat if not lower
than this year after significant drops in subsidies in key
European markets,” Martin Simonek, a solar analyst at the
London-based research firm, said in an interview. “That demand
during 2011 has been stronger than last year has helped many
companies stay alive. Next year will be different.”  Photovoltaic plant developers may install as little as 23.8
gigawatts of new panels next year as European governments reduce
subsidies for the technology, according to the London-based
researcher. That compares with at least 24.5 gigawatts forecast
for this year, a 40 percent increase from 2010, and double-digit
growth since 2007.  Low-cost manufacturers in  Asia  boosted production after
installations more than doubled last year, leaving developers
scrambling for equipment as subsidies in Germany and  Italy 
fueled demand. As those new lines start producing, European
governments are cutting support for solar energy as they work to
keep a lid on electricity costs amid an economic slump.  Optimistic Forecast  Simonek’s forecast is more optimist than some from banks
and companies. Goldman Sachs on Sept. 19 lowered its forecast
for next year by 10 percent to 20.8 gigawatts, compared with an
estimated 19.6 gigawatts this year. Deutsche Bank AG analyst
Vishal Shah expects 21 gigawatts in capacity this year and 25
gigawatts in 2012, according to an Oct. 2 note to clients.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-largest solar-grade silicon
maker, sees 22 gigawatts to 26 gigawatts this year, according to
a presentation seen by Bloomberg last month. In contrast, Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co., a Chinese solar panel manufacturer,
forecasts 18 gigawatts to 19 gigawatts this year.  The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index rose 0.8 percent
at 10:40 a.m. in  New York  today after this week reaching its
lowest level ever. The index, which started in August 2005, has
lost 67 percent this year.  “If oversupply continues to force prices to drop fast next
year, many companies will be priced out of the market and forced
out of business,” Simonek said by phone. “And while growth in
supply has been much weaker this year than during 2010,
significant oversupply still is expected in 2012.”  Panel installations this year may reach as much as 29.4
gigawatts, while the upper end of its forecast for 2012 is 31.8
gigawatts, according to the analyst.  Stagnant Demand  Stagnant demand next year would lead to panel inventories
increasing at warehouses and the possibility of write-downs on
unsold stock, Simonek said. Inventories that built up during a
second-quarter slowdown are now largely depleted due to higher
demand in the second half of the year, he said.  Average prices for solar panels have dropped by almost 40
percent this year, New Energy Finance data shows.  Demand may gain in 2013, when cheaper panels make solar
energy competitive in more sunny nations and developing
economies, Simonek said. Still, growth driven by homeowners
looking for cheaper power from rooftop panels will be slower
than for that driven by subsidies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  