-- 
Soros Insider-Trading Conviction Reviewed

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-05T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/soros-insider-trading-conviction-reviewed-by-human-rights-court.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros ’s
fight against his 2002 insider-trading conviction in  France ,
over the sale of Societe Generale SA shares, may end tomorrow
when the  European Court of Human Rights  rules on his appeal.  The 81-year-old claimed his conviction was based on
rules the stock-market regulator said were too vague to
determine whether he acted illegally. That violated his rights
under the European Convention on Human Rights, he argued.  Soros was convicted of insider trading and ordered to repay
2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) he’d made from the 1988 share
purchase after a Paris court found he’d acted with the knowledge
that the bank might be a takeover target. French stock market
regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying  insider-trading  laws were
too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  The decision to pursue Soros without the support of the
regulator was “rare” for French courts and done more “in
consideration of the persona of Mr. Soros,” said Denis Chemla, a
Paris partner in Herbert Smith LLP’s Paris office. The case
spawned a lot of “fantasies, it was a French institution under
attack by a cosmopolitan international financier.”  Soros turned to the human rights tribunal in December 2006
after he lost his appeal to the Cour de Cassation, France’s top
court, which quashed the fine while upholding the conviction.  The human rights court can review whether the defendants’
human rights were respected. If he wins, Soros may ask French
judges for the conviction to be overturned. Tomorrow’s decision
can be appealed to the Strasbourg, France-based court’s Grand
Chamber.  ‘Novel Interpretations’  “We are hopeful that the court will rule along the lines
of its preliminary judgment on admissibility last year,” Ron Soffer, Soros’s attorney, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “If it isn’t clear to the market regulator, then it
should be presumed not clear; I don’t think the courts should
apply novel interpretations of the law retroactively.”  The French government sold  Societe Generale (GLE)  in June 1987 at
407 French francs, (then $63) a share. A year later, after a
stock market crash, the shares had fallen to 260 francs. In
September 1988, a Paris-based financier sounded out investors,
including an adviser to Soros, about building a stake in the
bank. Soros declined to take part in that operation, though his
Quantum Fund bought 160,000 shares of Societe Generale between
Sept. 22 and Oct. 17, 1988, according to the Strasbourg court.
The fund sold the shares by November 1988, as the shares surged
on the takeover talk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 