-- 
Speedy Union Elections by NLRB Curbed by Republican Measure

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-10-05T16:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/speedy-union-elections-by-nlrb-curbed-by-republican-measure-1-.html
Speedier union elections proposed by
the  National Labor Relations Board  would be curbed by
legislation from Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota
Republican who leads the committee that oversees labor policy.  Votes by employees to form a union couldn’t be conducted
held until at least 35 days after an election is requested,
Kline, chairman of the House Education and the Workforce
Committee, said today. The board’s Republican said the proposal
will force votes in 10 to 21 days, giving companies less time to
talk with workers.  “You want employees to have time to hear both sides,”
Kline said today during at a meeting with reporters in
 Washington . “The legislation says you have to wait at least 35
days before an election.”  Kline is among Republicans seeking to curtail the agency’s
power after the board in April said Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) 
violated workers’ rights by building a plant for its 787
Dreamliner aircraft in  South Carolina  instead of at its Seattle-
area hub.  The board said Boeing’s decision was retaliation for
employee strikes in Washington state. In the charge filed by the
NLRB’s general counsel, the board said as a remedy Boeing should
add a second assembly line in the Seattle area to make its 787
Dreamliner.  ‘Unnecessary Barriers’  The board’s June 21 proposal on union elections is aimed at
removing “unnecessary barriers,” and was issued after union
complaints about delays in elections. The median time to
complete an election is 38 days, according to the agency.  Republican board member  Brian Hayes  said the proposal means
elections may occur as soon as 10 days, which would
“effectively eviscerate” an employer’s ability to communicate
with employees, according to his dissent. The board voted 3-1
for the rule.  Kline’s bill would set hearings on a petition for an
election after 14 days. Such hearings are scheduled when the
employees and employer are unable to reach a voluntary agreement
on recognizing a union and an NLRB election officer steps in to
decide issues.  The legislation would impose requirements making it harder
for smaller groups of employees to organize a union at a
company. The board on Aug. 30 approved smaller collective
bargaining units at health-care facilities, which business
groups have said will make it easier for unions to make inroads
at companies.  Unit Determination  The NLRB would have to determine before an election the
group of employees appropriate for collective bargaining,
according to a summary of Kline’s legislation. The bill outlines
eight criteria the board must consider when determining which
employees are in a unit, such as skills and training.  The Republican-led  House of Representatives  on Sept. 15, in
response to the Boeing complaint, passed legislation barring the
NLRB from ordering companies to close, move or open factories
when  labor laws  are violated. The Obama administration in July
said it opposed the bill because it would undermine U.S. labor-
law enforcement. It would have to pass the Democratic-led Senate
before going to President  Barack Obama .  The bill is H.R. 3094.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 