-- 
Sprint May Take ‘Big Hit’ With Bet on IPhone to Add Users

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-10-05T20:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/sprint-gets-right-to-offer-apple-s-iphone-in-battle-with-at-t-verizon.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s plan to offer
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone may slash its operating margins almost in
half if enough people activate new phones, analysts said.  Sprint, which has lost money for 15 consecutive quarters,
could see quarterly operating margins drop to 9 percent from the
16 percent reported because activations of each iPhone might
cost the company up to $150 more than a typical smartphone, said
 James Ratcliffe , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in New York.
John Hodulik, an analyst with UBS AG, said fourth-quarter
margins could be between 9.8 percent and 11.5 percent, depending
how much Sprint subsidizes the devices.  “Is it better for Sprint to have the iPhone? Absolutely,”
Ratcliffe said in an interview Oct. 3. “But in the short term
they’re going to take a hit.” He rates the company “equal
weight/neutral.”  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless operator, will
begin selling the iPhone 4S on Oct. 14 along with larger
competitors AT&T Corp. and  Verizon Wireless . The iPhone 4S uses
two antennas to improve call quality and a processor that is
seven times faster than the chip in the previous phone, Apple
said yesterday at a press conference at its headquarters in
Cupertino,  California .  “They will benefit from improved retention of their
customers and a high level of customer upgrades,” said  Michael Nelson , an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York,
who expects Sprint will sell about 1 million iPhones in the
fourth quarter. He rates the shares a “buy.”  AT&T, Verizon  Sprint has been struggling to compete against AT&T and
Verizon, the two largest U.S. wireless operators, which both
already offer the Apple device. The  Overland Park , Kansas-based
company in July reported a decline in contract customers that
was larger than some analysts had estimated. Lack of the iPhone
has been the top reason customers choose other carriers, Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  told investors last month.  Bill White , a Sprint spokesman, said the company will
discuss the financial impact of the iPhone Oct. 7, when the
company will update investors on plans to roll out a 4G network.  The company has committed to buy at least 30.5 million
iPhones over four years, which would cost $20 billion at current
rates, the Wall Street Journal reported Oct. 3. Sprint has
already pledged to spend $5 billion over three to five years to
upgrade its wireless network.  214,000 New Subscribers  Verizon Wireless, which is majority owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , added the iPhone in February after almost
four years of exclusivity by AT&T, the second-largest U.S.
wireless company. In the second quarter, the first full quarter
with two iPhone carriers, AT&T activated 3.6 million of the
devices, while Verizon, the largest wireless carrier, activated
2.3 million.  Sprint may add 214,000 new contract subscribers this year
with the iPhone, compared with 855,000 customers it lost last
year, said Hodulik, who rates the shares “neutral.” He
estimates Sprint will sell 1.2 million iPhones in the fourth
quarter, with about 25 percent of those coming from other
carriers.  Carriers sell phones at a discount with the expectation
that they will recoup the money through monthly bills during
service contracts. Each iPhone 4S costs the carriers about $600,
Hodulik said, speaking in a telephone interview Oct. 3. Sprint
is expected to offer it with an unlimited two-year contract
priced below its competitors’ offers.  AT&T ‘Big Winner’  “It’s a big hit for the next couple of quarters, but it’s
the cost of doing business,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst
at Hudson Square Research in  New York , who has a “buy” rating
on the shares. “AT&T gained a lot of market share by being an
iPhone provider, and this will give Sprint the chance to gain
back some of those customers.”  Apple has optimized the iPhone 4S so that it can connect to
AT&T’s network at theoretically twice the data speed of the
previous version of the phone, Philip Schiller, Apple’s vice
president of product marketing, said during the presentation.  “The big winner on this phone is AT&T because the data
speeds are now twice as fast,” said  Roger Entner , a wireless
strategist with Boston-based Recon Analytics. For the so-called
CDMA or code division multiple access network operated by
Verizon and Sprint, there’s no comparable speed jump. “This is
a medium-sized win for Sprint.”  Sprint will offer the phone with unlimited data service to
distinguish itself from AT&T and Verizon Wireless, people
familiar with the matter have said. That could draw customers
away from the other carriers, who stopped offering unlimited
plans, Rethemeier said.  Sprint was unchanged at $2.86 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are down 32 percent this
year. AT&T rose 43 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $28.31, while
Verizon Communications slipped 13 cents to $35.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  