-- 
Supercommittee May Seek Commission on Federal Pay and Benefits

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/supercommittee-may-seek-pay-commission.html
The U.S. congressional supercommittee
charged with cutting the deficit may consider whether cuts in
federal pensions, pay and health-care benefits should be drafted
by an independent commission.  The panel might operate similarly to the 2005 Defense Base
Closure and Realignment Commission, which presented Congress
with a plan it had to either accept or reject without changes,
according to two congressional staff members who weren’t
authorized to speak on the record.  Reducing the cost of benefits might protect funds for
weapons systems such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter or the  Textron Inc (TXT) .- Boeing Co. (BA)  V-22 aircraft.  The Defense Department faces cuts of at least $450 billion
from its 10-year spending plans, even before the supercommittee
makes its recommendations. If Congress fails to act on the
recommendations by Dec. 23, the August budget bill signed by
President Barack Obama calls for automatic cuts, including an
additional $500 billion from defense spending over a decade, not
including interest.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and defense industry trade
groups, such as the Aerospace Industries Association, have
raised alarms. Panetta said further cuts would “do serious
damage” to the U.S. ability to make changes in the “defense
structure that are responsible and that do protect this country
for the future.”  Congressional panels with jurisdiction over federal
agencies must make their recommendations to the supercommittee
by Oct. 14.  Entitlement Spending  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who is chairman
of the Armed Services Committee, and Arizona Senator  John McCain , the panel’s top Republican, are expected to give a
presentation to the supercommittee over the next few days,
according to Levin.  “We have not been asked to make any additional
recommendations on discretionary spending,” Levin said in an
interview. “We may make recommendations on some of the
entitlements.”  McCain said in a short interview that savings in the “area
of military health care” will be part of the discussion with
the supercommittee.  Former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said that rising
health-care costs are “eating us alive.” According to the most
recent Tricare annual report to Congress, the Defense Department
was estimated to spend $50.9 billion on all military health care
in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30.  Rising Premiums  The Pentagon in its 2012 budget proposal requested an
increase to Tricare premium fees from $460 a year to $520 a year
for retirees and their families.  Representative Doug Lamborn, a Colorado Republican and
member of the House Armed Services Committee, said that health
premiums may go up “at least modestly.”  Any changes to pensions would “damage the trust” of those
who served in the military, he said.  Another Armed Services Committee member, Missouri
Republican Todd Akin, said that Congress should balance
commitments to those who serve in the military with the current
fiscal circumstances.  “You have promises that have been made and you can’t jerk
the rug from under people,” Akin said. “At the same time, the
government has promised more than we can afford.”  New Jersey Democrat Rob Andrews, also a member of the armed
services panel, said that having the supercommittee recommending
another commission “would be a choice of last resort.”  “They were set up to make some decisions,” he said.
Congress wouldn’t have “enough appetite” for another
commission, Andrews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  