-- 
Swiss Stocks Snap Three-Day Decline; Credit Suisse, Swatch Climb

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-05T15:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/swiss-stocks-snap-three-day-decline-credit-suisse-swatch-climb.html
Swiss stocks rose for the first time
in four days amid speculation that policy makers will begin an
initiative to coordinate the recapitalization of the European
Union’s banks.  Financial shares paced gains, with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  climbing at least 3 percent.
 Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , the banking-software maker, rallied 5.6
percent after  UBS AG (UBSN)  upgraded the stock.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA rose more than 4 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1.1 percent to 5,504.99 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has still tumbled 14
percent this year as disappointing European and U.S. economic
reports added to concern that the global recovery is faltering.
The broader Swiss Performance Index added 1.2 percent today.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday after the Financial Times quoted
Olli Rehn, EU commissioner for economic affairs, as saying
there’s an “increasingly shared view” that the region needs a
coordinated approach to halt the sovereign-debt crisis.  “In the fight against the European debt crisis, it is
indispensable to contemplate help for banks and to implement
such plans,” Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT
Capital Management, said in a phone interview from Pfaeffikon,
 Switzerland . “It’s a matter of great urgency. So for today, it
is definitely a positive factor for the markets.”  Bank Capital Boost  EU officials are working on plans to boost bank capital to
contain the euro area’s debt crisis, the  International Monetary
Fund  said, as Moody’s Investors Service warned of deteriorating
public finances.  “There is no secret at all that European authorities and
the European Commission are all working together on a plan to
bring more official capital, more public-sector capital, into
the banking sector,” Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European
department head, said today in Brussels. “We would recommend
that it move to a European approach. More should be done on a
cross-border basis.”  In the U.S., a report from ADP Employer Services showed
that companies added 91,000 jobs in September, following a
revised 89,000 gain August. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an advance of 75,000.  Credit Suisse advanced 4.5 percent to 23.10 Swiss francs as
financial shares pushed the SMI higher.  Julius Baer , the fifth-
largest wealth manager in Switzerland by assets, gained 3.1
percent to 30.52 francs, while Zurich Financial, Switzerland’s
largest insurer, jumped 3.5 percent to 187 francs.  Temenos climbed 5.6 percent to 12.30 francs as UBS raised
the stock to “buy” from “neutral.”  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, gained 4.7 percent
to 316.60 francs and Richemont added 4.1 percent to 42.40
francs.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
rallied 4.8 percent to 54.20 francs as a gauge of European
construction companies was among the best performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Geberit AG (GEBN) ,
Europe’s largest maker of toilet flushing systems, increased 1.9
percent to 166.60 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  