-- 
U.K. Bonds Are ‘Shining Stars’ on Steeper Curve, Nissay Says

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-10-05T05:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-k-bonds-are-shining-stars-on-steeper-curve-nissay-says.html
Longer-term Treasuries and U.K.
government bonds are attractive as growth in developed economies
continues to slow, Shinji Kunibe, chief portfolio manager of
fixed income investment at Nissay Asset Management Corp., said
in an interview yesterday.  Nissay Asset, a subsidiary of Nippon Life Insurance Co.,
 Japan ’s biggest life insurer, manages the equivalent of $71
billion in Tokyo.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 30-year debt
instead of two-year notes was 2.73 percentage points in the
U.K., compared with 2.05 percentage points in Germany and 2.55
percentage points in the U.S.  On gilts:  “There are heightened expectations of additional
quantitative easing by the  Bank of England . Given the current
situation, it’s possible the central bank could take action as
early as this week, which would certainly benefit gilts,
especially the 10-30 year maturities.”  “The gilt market seems to be a shining star.”  “U.K. government debt is the only one in the global  bond
market  from which you can expect decent  capital gains . The yield
curve is the steepest among the AAA-rated countries. German bund
yields have been declining, so if you’re looking to diversify
into other safe assets in  Europe , gilts look quite attractive.”  On  U.S. Treasuries :  “We’re positioned for the Treasury yield curve to flatten
further. The Fed will buy bonds with maturities over 20 years,
so we are concentrating our purchases there and also buying some
6-to-10 years debt. I think 30-year bond yields have further to
fall.”  “We’re investing about 40 percent each in the dollar and
euro, and 10 percent in pounds.”  On the global economic outlook:  “The European debt crisis is starting to negatively impact
growth in the U.S. The Fed has started taking action to bolster
growth because the government can’t aggressively add fiscal
stimulus after the raising the debt ceiling, but I don’t think
they will be very effective in the midterm.”  “The trend is for growth in developed nations, such as the
U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K., to slow. Even though inflation in
the U.S. has stabilized at relatively high levels, it doesn’t
mean we can rule out the risk of stagflation.”  On the European debt situation should  Greece  default:  “The market is preparing for Greece’s orderly default, so
the focus will be on when and how. European leaders will
probably come to some kind of agreement on a leveraged ESFS
eventually to protect peripheries such as Italy and Spain from
contagion, but the fundamental problem of what would happen
after Greece defaults still remains. The Greeks would continue
to add to their debt unless they undergo structural reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net 
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 