-- 
Sterling Weakens Against Dollar After Economic Growth Slows; Gilts Decline

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-05T15:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-k-pound-depreciates-against-dollar-before-gdp-tomorrow-s-boe-decision.html
The pound fell against most of 16
major peers after a government report showed U.K. economic
growth slowed more than analysts forecast last quarter, adding
pressure on the central bank to keep  interest rates  low.  Sterling weakened versus the dollar, euro and yen on
speculation the Bank of England will boost its program of bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, as soon as its policy meeting
tomorrow. The central bank will leave its main rate at a record
low 0.5 percent at the gathering, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ten-year gilts declined.  “Given where GDP is, I expect additional QE of some
substantial size should and will arrive,” said  Neil Jones , head
of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London “What I see happening is initially the pound lower, QE
kicks into place and that continues the sterling trend lower,
but then at some point we’ll start to see economic data pick up
into next year.”  Sterling dropped 0.4 percent to $1.5429 at 4:36 p.m. in
 London . The pound weakened 0.3 percent to 118.56 yen and was
little changed at 86.26 pence per euro.  GDP rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter, lower than the
0.2 percent previously published, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London.  Consumer spending  plunged 0.8
percent, the most since the first quarter of 2009.  ‘Pleasant Surprise’  A gauge of services index unexpectedly rose in September,
Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today. Services activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers gained to 52.9 from 51.1 in August, the
report showed.  “It’s a pleasant surprise to see services PMI bounce off
the 50 level,” said Mizuho’s Jones. “But I don’t sense that
it’s sufficient to knock QE.”  The  Bank of England  will leave its debt-purchase program at
200 billion pounds tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
32 economists in a Bloomberg survey. One respondent forecast the
bank will increase its purchases to 300 billion, with eight more
estimating a raise to 250 billion.  Former policy maker  John Gieve  said the central bank needs
to “take action” to boost economic growth and prevent credit
conditions tightening further.  “We are facing a real potential crisis in Europe,” Gieve
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move”
with  Francine Lacqua . “At the very least I’d expect the bank to
say they are ready to restart QE if this continues and  Europe 
doesn’t get its act together.”  Gilt Yields Rise  The 10-year gilt snapped a four-day gain, with the yield
increasing 11 basis points to 2.36 percent. The two-year rate
was little changed at 0.58 percent, after dropping 25 basis
points from 0.83 percent since the start of the third quarter.  Further stimulus may push gilt yields and the pound lower,
according to a report today by  John Hydeskov , chief analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in London.  “U.K. interest rates can fall further, especially at the
two- to five-year horizon, even though the yield curve already
seems somewhat depressed,” he wrote. “The BOE printing money
again can never be positive for sterling.”  The pound has declined 1.5 percent in the past six months
and weakened 2.6 percent in the past year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure a basket
of 10 developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  