-- 
U.K. Services Index Rose in September on ‘Solid’ Orders Growth

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-05T09:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-k-cips-september-services-index-rises-to-52-9-markit-says.html
A U.K. services index unexpectedly
rose from an eight-month low in September as new business
increased.  The gauge, based on a survey of purchasing managers,
climbed to 52.9 from 51.1 in August, Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today in a
report in London. Economists had forecast a decline to 50.5,
according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Markit said the bounce back in services growth was partly
due to a “solid” month of new business growth and a recovery
from the impact of riots in August. The report follows a
separate Markit survey this week showing manufacturing rebounded
in September from a 26-month low as factories depleted backlogs
of work at the fastest pace for two years.  “A surprise uplift in growth is welcome news, coming on
the back of a similar upturn in manufacturing, but masks the
fact that all is not well in the U.K. services economy,” Markit
Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said in the report. “August
had been disrupted by riots” and “many firms also reported
that the ongoing expansion was only achieved by eating further
into backlogs of work. This is clearly not sustainable.”  Government figures today showed the British economy grew
just 0.1 percent in the second quarter, less than the 0.2
percent previously estimated. Nine out of 30 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey say the central bank will resume its
emergency bond-purchase program tomorrow in an effort to keep
the economy growing as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensifies.  Business Confidence  The pound erased losses against the dollar after the
report. It was at $1.5470 as of 9:38 a.m. in London, down 0.1
percent on the day.  Services companies reported that the volume of new orders
increased for the ninth month in September, while business
confidence fell to a 30-month low.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount airline, said
on Sept. 22 that it will more than quadruple the size of its
first-ever dividend payment after predicting record full-year
earnings. TUI Travel Plc, Europe’s largest tour operator, said
the same day bookings for this winter are “satisfactory” and
it’s confident that full-year results will meet its forecasts.  Another Markit survey this week showed construction almost
stagnated as the level of new business fell for the first time
since February 2010.  A report published by Markit today showed European services
and manufacturing contracted more than estimated in September,
adding to signs of a deepening slowdown as governments struggle
to contain the region’s debt crisis. A composite index based
on a survey of purchasing managers in both industries fell to
49.1 in September from 50.7 in the previous month. That is less
than an initial estimate of 49.2 published on Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  