-- 
U.K. Economy Second-Quarter Growth Estimate Cut as Consumer Spending Falls

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-05T09:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-k-economy-second-quarter-growth-estimate-cut-as-consumer-spending-falls.html
U.K. economic growth slowed more than
initially estimated in the second quarter as  consumer spending 
fell the most in more than two years, adding to pressure on  Bank
of England  policy makers to provide more stimulus.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the first
quarter instead of the 0.2 percent previously published, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. Consumer
spending plunged 0.8 percent, the most since the first quarter
of 2009. On the year, GDP rose 0.6 percent. A separate report
showed services growth unexpectedly accelerated in September.  The data comes as Bank of England policy makers meet to
decide whether they’ll revive their bond-purchase program as the
government’s fiscal squeeze and  Europe ’s debt crisis harm growth
prospects. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week
announced a plan to aid credit-starved small companies.  “The outlook is uncertain and possibly very, very weak,”
 George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said
in a telephone interview. “I don’t think growth is going to be
strong in the second half of this year or the first half of next
year. I don’t think the Bank of England will move on more QE
this week, but we will probably see more QE at some point.  A report from Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply today showed U.K. services growth
unexpectedly accelerated from an eight-month low in September.  Recession Revision  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
reports were published. It traded at $1.5442 as of 10:53 a.m. in
 London , down 0.3 percent on the day. Bonds declined, with the
yield on the 10-year gilt rising 5 basis points to 2.30 percent.  The ONS published revisions to economic data today. The
recession is still estimated to have begun in the second quarter
of 2008 but lasted for five quarters instead of six. The peak-
to-trough decline in GDP was 7.1 percent, more than the
previously reported 6.4 percent, the ONS said, noting that the
downturn was “shorter, but steeper and deeper.”  Government spending  rose 1.1 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, when it increased 0.8 percent.
Exports fell 1.3 percent after rising 1.5 percent in the first
quarter, while imports fell 0.3 percent. Company investment
jumped 1.7 percent, the most since the first quarter of 2010.  Services  In the output categories, services growth slowed to 0.2
percent in the second quarter from 0.7 percent in the previous
three months, while manufacturing slowed to 0.2 percent from 1.1
percent. Overall production shrank 1.2 percent after a 0.1
percent contraction. Construction grew 1.1 percent after
shrinking 2.7 percent. The  GDP deflator  was 2.4 percent.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers gained to 52.9 in September from 51.1 the
previous month, Markit and CIPS said today in a report released
in London. The report followed a separate Markit survey this
week showing manufacturing rebounded in September from a 26-
month low.  “While the U.K. cannot insulate itself from what is
happening to our major trading partners, with financial
turbulence in the  euro zone  and a weaker outlook for global
growth, the economy is still growing and this week’s survey data
for the manufacturing and service sectors are consistent with
continued expansion,” the British Treasury said in a statement.  Consumer Squeeze  Consumer spending fell for a fourth straight quarter in the
three months through June. In addition to the government budget
cuts, consumers are getting squeezed by inflation that’s more
than double the central bank’s 2 percent target and is
outpacing wage growth.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the biggest U.K. retailer,
said today its U.K. stores had their worst sales performance in
at least six years in the six months ended Aug. 27.  The ONS said last week publication of economic accounts and
balance of payments scheduled for today will be delayed to Oct.
25 as it undertakes the biggest revision to the national
accounts since 1995.  The statistics office revised 2010 GDP growth to 1.8
percent from 1.4 percent. It also revised 2008 and 2009 growth
to minus 1.1 percent and minus 4.4 percent from minus 0.1
percent and minus 4.9 percent respectively.  The euro-area economy also lost momentum in the second
quarter, with growth in the 17-nation bloc slowing to 0.2
percent from 0.8 percent in the first three months of the year.
The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, grew an annualized 1.3
percent in the second quarter.  Credit Easing  Speaking at the Conservative party conference on Oct. 3,
Osborne proposed lending billions of pounds of public money to
British companies that have been struggling to obtain credit
from banks in a program known as credit easing. The coalition
government has refused to slow the pace of  deficit reduction ,
and its Liberal Democrat partners are insisting Osborne find
ways to stimulate growth.  Nine of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News say the
central bank will increase its target for asset purchases
tomorrow, and the rest say the bank will hold the program at 200
billion pounds ($309 billion). The bank will announce the
decision at noon in London. All 53 economists in a separate poll
say policy makers will hold the benchmark rate at a record low
of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  