-- 
Conservation Groups Sue U.S. to Block Transcanada’s Keystone XL Pipeline

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-05T20:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-sued-over-sham-process-approval-of-transcanada-s-keystone-pipeline.html
Work on the Keystone XL pipeline,
which would carry oil from Western Canada to the  Gulf of Mexico ,
should be halted because the U.S. didn’t complete an
environmental impact review, advocacy groups said in a lawsuit.  The Center for Biological Diversity, Friends of the Earth
Inc. and Western  Nebraska  Resources Council sued the U.S. in
Omaha, Nebraska federal court today, calling the government’s
review a “sham public process” because the pipeline is moving
forward without final approval. They seek a ruling that the work
violates the National Environmental Policy Act and an order
blocking the pipeline until needed approvals are obtained.  The $7 billion pipeline, being built by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ,
runs through north-central Nebraska’s Sand Hills region. The
work is forcing the clearance of native grasses and relocation
of an endangered species of whooping cranes, according to the
complaint.  “These activities are on-going and are having adverse
environmental impacts and are being carried out before the
environmental reviews for the pipeline are complete,” and
before permits have been issued, the groups claim.  The 1,661-mile (2,672 kilometers), 36-inch (96 centimers)
pipe conduit would link Hardisty, Alberta, with Nederland,
 Texas , according to Calgary-based TransCanada. It requires a
100-foot right of way for construction, the environmental groups
said, and a permanent 50-foot right-of-way for operations.  Final Decision  The U.S. State Department, which is expected to make a
final decision on whether to grant a permit for the pipeline by
the end of the year, is reviewing the project because it crosses
an international border. The State Department and Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  are named as defendants in the complaint,
as are the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and U.S. Secretary of
the Interior Ken Salazar.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the  U.S. Department of
Justice , declined to comment on the filing.  Shawn Howard, a TransCanada spokesman, disputed the
environmental groups’ allegations in an e-mailed statement in
which he called their claims “false.” No construction has
taken place in the state, he said.  The company wasn’t named as a defendant in the case.  ’Review Process’  “We respect the regulated review process currently
underway and in no way would we impact that by beginning
construction without a permit,” Howard said.  At the direction Fish and Wildlife Service, the company has
already taken steps to protect the endangered American Burying
Beetle, which required the mowing of grass, not construction,
Howard said.  According to the State Department, an environmental impact
study completed in August concluded the pipeline would have “no
significant impacts to most resources” along its route across
six states, including  Montana ,  South Dakota , Nebraska,  Kansas ,
 Oklahoma  and Texas.  “It’s outrageous that TransCanada is already clearing the
way for the Keystone XL pipeline before the public has had a
chance to have its say and, indeed, before federal agencies have
even said it can be built,” said Noah Greenwald, endangered
species program director at the Tucson, Arizona-based Center for
Biological Diversity.  “It looks like the fix is in on this dangerous project,
and the sham public process is nothing more than an
afterthought,” Greenwald said in a statement issued jointly
with the other two organizations.  Friends of the Earth is a Washington-based environmental
advocacy group. Western Nebraska Resources Council is based in
Chadron, Nebraska.  The case is  Center for Biological Diversity  v. U.S.
Department of State, 11-345, U.S. District Court, District of
Nebraska (Omaha).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  