-- 
U.S. Can Rent Its Way Toward a Housing Recovery: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-10-05T00:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-can-rent-its-way-toward-a-housing-recovery-peter-orszag.html
After any financial collapse,
housing plays a key role in the hard slog that typically
follows: a weak housing market feeds into a weak economy,
which then feeds back onto a weak housing market. So even
if the European banking system somehow avoids a meltdown,
economic recovery in the U.S. will continue to languish
unless we act more aggressively on housing.  No matter what the government might try to do to break
the housing-economy cycle, the deleveraging process will
still be painful and take some time. But that’s not an
argument against action; just because a headache can still
hurt some even if you take aspirin doesn’t mean you should
skip the aspirin. One thing the Obama administration could
do now -- probably with Republican support -- would be to
attack the oversupply of housing stock by allowing a tax
write-off for investors who buy empty properties and rent
them out.  To understand why this would help, consider that the
problems in the residential real-estate sector have two
dimensions. First, we have an excess supply of owner-
occupied housing, which puts downward pressure on prices.
Second, millions of American households now have negative
equity in their homes. Dealing with excess inventory by
shifting vacant properties into the rental market would
help to stabilize prices and thereby mitigate, to some
degree, the negative-equity issue -- although additional
action would also be warranted to attack such “underwater”
situations. (A future column will discuss possible
responses.)  It’s normal to have some vacant homes for sale as part
of the market process that matches buyers with sellers. On
average during the 1990s, for example, the home vacancy
rate was about 1.5 percent, according to the Census Bureau.
By 2008, the figure had risen to 2.9 percent. And by the
second quarter of this year, the vacancy rate had come down
only slightly, to about 2.5 percent. With this much supply
still available, it’s no wonder that prices are still
depressed.  Excess Empty Homes  The percentage-point difference between the latest
vacancy rate (2.5 percent) and a more normal historical
rate (1.5 percent) amounts to an excess inventory of almost
1 million  vacant homes . (Estimates based on other
methodologies are roughly in that range.) If the government
does nothing, that extra inventory will be slowly worked
off, as the economy gradually recovers and more households
are formed. The question is whether the government can do
anything to accelerate that process, to support  home prices 
and, ultimately, to promote a stronger economic recovery.  One way to bolster demand would be to change our
immigration laws to make it easier for foreigners to move
here and buy homes. That might be a good idea, but it has
no chance of being enacted soon. Former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  once highlighted a different idea,
focused on supply instead of demand: Get the government to
buy the excess vacant houses and destroy them. He argued
that could be the lowest-cost approach to mitigating a
housing-driven decline -- but also noted that it would be
politically inconceivable.  A more realistic approach would be to try to get the
vacant houses rented out, rather than sold to owner-
occupants. And one way to do that -- proposed by real-
estate practitioners (such as Kyle Jividen of Alamo
Appraisal Group in  San Antonio ) and economists (such as
William Wheaton of the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  and Gleb Nechayev of the research firm CBRE
Econometric Advisors) -- is to provide an immediate tax
write-off to investors who buy vacant houses and rent them
out.  Currently, people who purchase residential real estate
 depreciate  the value of the property for tax purposes over
27.5 years. To encourage other forms of investment, policy
makers have allowed businesses to immediately depreciate
the full cost of most of their investments. But real estate
hasn’t been eligible. So Congress could give investors the
incentive to buy vacant houses now by allowing them to
write off the value immediately, as long as they hold on to
the properties for some number of years and rent them out.  Lower Investment Costs  My colleague Richard Wagreich of Citigroup’s Financial
Strategy Group has estimated the effect of such a tax
break. He calculates that annual costs on real-estate
investments would be reduced by about a third, given
reasonable assumptions about tax rates for investors and
the interest they must pay to borrow. The policy would also
make more rental units available and lower their price,
thereby encouraging more people to move out of existing
households and into their own rental units.  To avoid abuses, the allowance would have to apply
only to houses that have been vacant for, say, six months.
And there would need to be provisions to take back the
benefit in cases where homes were quickly resold rather
than kept on the rental market.  What about the cost to taxpayers? By giving the
deduction in full now, rather than gradually, the
government loses the time value of money over that period.
But when government bond yields are exceptionally low, as
they are now, that cost is relatively modest.  One might think that since the government’s cost is
relatively low, the benefit to investors must be low, too.
Real-estate buyers, however, say the shift would lead to a
substantial number of new investments.  To get some sense of the numbers, assume the policy
induces an extra 250,000 housing units to be purchased each
year and rented out, in addition to 500,000 other ones that
would be bought and rented even in the absence of the
immediate tax expensing. If the average price of those
houses is $250,000 (roughly the national average), the 10-
year cost to the government for each year the policy is in
place would be less than $50 billion. Most of that amount,
though, would be recaptured in future years, because the
full deductions would already have been claimed. The cost
to the government in present value would thus be about $10
billion for each year the policy was in place.  Selling Inventory  Maintaining this policy for two years would, under
these assumptions, work off half or more of the excess
inventory at a present-value cost to the government of $20
billion. That seems like a pretty good deal -- and at least
worth trying.  To avoid letting the tax break outlive its purpose, it
should be tied to the supply of vacant homes for sale. Once
that number returns to a more normal level, the write-off
should automatically end.  This kind of accelerated depreciation wouldn’t bring
the housing market fully back to health. But since the
economy is stuck in a rut and homes prices are a key
reason, it is worth trying. Perhaps most importantly, in
this era of political polarization, the idea of giving
real-estate investors an immediate write-off for buying and
then renting out vacant homes should appeal to Republicans.
And that means if the administration proposes the idea,
Congress could actually make it happen.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 