-- 
S&P 500 Caps Biggest Two-Day Rise Since August

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-05T21:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-yahoo-shares-climb.html
U.S. stocks rallied, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest two-day gain in more
than a month, as economic data topped estimates and investors
speculated Europe will act to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  added at least 2.7
percent to pace gains among companies most-tied to the economy.
Financial stocks rebounded as Morgan Stanley jumped 3.4 percent.
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  climbed 5.2 percent as the world’s largest seed
company forecast higher-than-expected earnings. Yahoo! Inc.
surged 10 percent, the most since 2008, after a report that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may make a bid.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  gained 1.5 percent,
preventing the longest decline since 1998.  The S&P 500 advanced 1.8 percent to 1,144.03 at 4 p.m. New
York time, rallying 4.1 percent in two days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 131.24, or 1.2 percent, to 10,939.95.  “We are headed for the mother of all counter-trend rallies
in equities,” said Michael A. Gayed, the chief investment
strategist at Pension Partners LLC in New York. “We’ve seen
tremendous panic. There’s likely to be some kind of reevaluation
of the financial sector. It could be because of the realization
that we’re going to have some sort of recapitalization in
 Europe . It could very well be that we saw the bottom.”  Stocks reversed losses yesterday, rallying in the final
hour of trading, amid speculation European Union officials are
examining how to recapitalize the region’s banks. The S&P 500
was on the brink of a  bear market  during the worst of
yesterday’s losses, falling more than 20 percent from an April
peak. The index is now down 16 percent since April 29, on
concern about Europe’s debt crisis.  ‘Bad Bank’  The  International Monetary Fund  said EU officials are
working on plans to boost bank capital. France and  Belgium  said
a "bad bank" will be set up to hold Dexia SA’s troubled assets.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe’s rescue fund will
only be used as a last resort to save banks and that investors
may have to take deeper losses as part of a Greek rescue.  Investors also weighed economic reports that topped
forecasts. Private employment expanded last month, while the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index fell
to 53. The median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a drop to 52.8. Orders picked up.  A 3.8 percent rally tomorrow in the  S&P 500  would create a
pattern that may result in a “sharp decline” a day later,
according to Tom DeMark, the creator of indicators for
identifying turning points in securities. The index would send a
bearish sign if it reached 1,188 tomorrow, he said.  ‘Important Day’  “Tomorrow is a very important day for us,” DeMark said in
an interview with Bloomberg television. “People are not smart
off of market bottoms. If you do get three up closes off a low,
we’ll see a vacuum in the market and that vacuum will accent the
decline even more than the upside.”  DeMark, the founder of Market Studies LLC, said on Sept. 22
that the S&P 500 might drop as low as 1,076 before investor
panic abated and stocks advanced. The benchmark index for
American equities fell yesterday to 1,074.77 and has gained 6.4
percent since.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy rose 2.7 percent today. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for the economy, added 2.7 percent. Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, gained 2.7 percent to $9.37.
Cisco increased 3.7 percent to $16.16.  Banks Rebound  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks rallied 1.1 percent after
falling as much as 2.5 percent. Morgan Stanley jumped 3.4
percent to $14.48.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added 0.2 percent to
$5.77 after falling as much as 4.3 percent.  Monsanto advanced 5.2 percent to $66.25. The company
forecast higher-than-forecast fiscal first-quarter profit as
Latin American farmers increase demand for genetically modified
crops. Profit will be 10 cents to 15 cents a share in the three
months that began Sept. 1. Five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated earnings of 8 cents, on average.  Yahoo surged 10 percent to $15.92. Microsoft might enlist a
partner to go after Yahoo, Reuters reported today, citing
sources close to the situation. Yahoo spurned a $47.5 billion
bid from Microsoft in 2008. No decision has been made to come
back to the negotiating table, and there are internal divisions
at Microsoft over the idea, Reuters said.  Apple, the world’s largest technology company, rose 1.5
percent to $378.25, halting a string of consecutive declines.
The stock fell 7.9 percent over the previous seven days.  Analyst Changes  Some stocks moved on analysts’ recommendations. Walt Disney
Co., the largest theme-park operator, added 5.5 percent, the
most in the Dow, to $31.51 after being raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Citigroup Inc.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the biggest U.S.
for-profit college, gained 8.5 percent to $42.22 as Credit
Suisse Group AG boosted its rating to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  The U.S. stock market probably hit bottom yesterday and
will rebound as investors refocus on fundamentals and earnings
after weeks of distraction from the European debt crisis,
Oppenheimer & Co.’s  Brian Belski  said.  The U.S. stock market is positioned for a rally after weeks
of defensive positioning and indiscriminate selling that has led
to record declines, Belski, chief investment strategist at
Oppenheimer in New York, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track With Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker.” Investors have
become overly focused on the daily news on the Greek sovereign
debt crisis and have forgotten that earnings drive stock prices,
not macroeconomic news, he said.  “Earnings will surprise to the upside -- earnings
estimates have been slashed too much,” Belski said.  “The
market’s going to get squeezed and we’re going to have a nice
year-end rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  