-- 
Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Credit Swaps Fall on Europe Optimism

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-06T21:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-rises-for-third-day-in-four.html
The cost to protect the debt of
Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  declined as optimism grew that
 Europe ’s leaders may be able to prevent a sovereign debt crisis
from infecting bank balance sheets.  Credit-default swaps on the owner of the world’s biggest
retail brokerage fell 56 basis points to 474 and those on
Citigroup 45 basis points to 300, the biggest one-day decline
since May 2009, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  eased 23 basis points to 374, the data show.  Investor confidence in bank debt is rebounding as European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will
resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce year-long loans
for banks. The European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection for banks to shield them from the fallout of a
potential Greek default.  “This is a rally off the bottom that reflects a greater
degree of confidence that there will be a constructive solution
for the banks in Europe,” said Allerton Smith, senior director
of the capital markets research group at Moody’s Corp. For
Morgan Stanley, whose default swap levels surged as high as 650
basis points on Oct. 4, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group, “market participants have come to the conclusion that
the extra wide spread levels were an overreaction to some half-
baked facts,” Smith said.  Contracts on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  declined 52 basis points to 399, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s the biggest
one-day drop on record on a closing basis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that goes back to 2004. Contracts on
General Electric Capital Corp., the financing arm of General
Electric Co., fell 31 basis points to 302.  The average credit-default swap on the six biggest U.S.
banks had climbed for five trading days through Oct. 4 as
concern intensified that Europe’s debt crisis will contaminate
the global banking system and halt already slowing U.S. economic
growth.  Index Falls  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 5.8 basis points to a
mid-price of 139.3 as of 5:01 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index, which typically
falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, reached as high as 154.1 on Oct. 4.  Bonds of New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have dropped since
August and the cost to protect its debt has surged amid concern
that sovereign defaults would spread to U.S. banks.  “Both capital and liquidity nearly doubled from pre-crisis
levels and should be sufficient to manage through current market
conditions,” CreditSights analysts led by  David Hendler  in New
York wrote in a report yesterday. The market reaction was
“mainly due to undue perceptions of its exposure to European
sovereigns and banks,” they wrote.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  