-- 
U.S. Fights Palestinian Recognition Effort at UN Cultural Group

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-10-05T19:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-fights-palestinian-recognition-effort-at-un-cultural-group.html
The U.S. today opposed a Palestinian
effort to gain full membership in the  United Nations  agency that
promotes education, culture and science.  The 40 members of  Unesco ’s executive board agreed today to
put the Palestinian request to a vote when the agency’s 193
members meet at the end of October. The motion must be approved
by a two-thirds majority.  The U.S.,  Germany ,  Romania  and Latvia voted against the
request today. Fourteen members abstained.  With Mideast peace talks stalled, Palestinians are pursuing
recognition as a full member state at the United Nations and
elevated status in other international bodies, including the
World Trade Organization and the Council of  Europe . The U.S. has
opposed these steps, describing them as a distraction from a
return to peace talks.  “If you care about the fate of Palestinians, if you want
them to get a state, this is a diversion,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said at a briefing today in
 Washington .  The Palestinian request to be recognized as a member state
by the UN is now with the Security Council. Meanwhile, the so-
called Quartet of the U.S., European Union, United Nations and
 Russia  is pushing for talks to resume by the end of October.  Negotiations stalled shortly after they began in September
2010. Palestinians balked at returning to talks after Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused extended a freeze on
settlement building in the Palestinian territories. U.S., EU and
UN envoys have shuttled to the region since then, to little
effect.  U.S. Funds  The chairman of the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee,
Florida Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and the chairwoman of
the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations
Subcommittee, Texas Republican Kay Granger, have raised strong
objections to the Unesco vote.  Both lawmakers have called for cutting off U.S. funding for
any UN entity that recognizes the Palestinians. According to
Nuland, the U.S. currently supplies 22 percent of Unesco’s
funding.  “Since April, I have made it clear to the Palestinian
leadership that I would not support sending U.S. taxpayer money
to the Palestinians if they sought statehood at the United
Nations,” Granger said in a statement today.  “Feeling that their efforts at the UN  Security Council 
will fail, the Palestinian leadership is shopping around the UN
system for recognition,” Ros-Lehtinen said in a statement also
issued today. “This attempt to rig the process needs to be
stopped dead in its tracks.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  