-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Sept. 30 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-10-05T14:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-sept-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.1 million barrels per
day during the week ending September 30, 73 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
87.7 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging nearly 9.3 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging about 4.7 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.7 million barrels per day last
week, down by 1.0 million barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.8 million barrels per day, 246 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 505 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 208 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 4.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 336.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 1.1
million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 0.7 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.2 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 4.6
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just under 19.0 million barrels per day, down by 1.3
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 8.9
million barrels per day, down by 1.7 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
about 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up
by 2.0 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.9 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  