-- 
U.S. House Panel Votes to Advance Three Free-Trade Accords to Full Chamber

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-05T18:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-house-panel-votes-to-advance-three-free-trade-accords-to-full-chamber.html
The House Ways and Means Committee
voted to advance U.S. free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
Colombia and  Panama  to the full House, more than four years
after the deals were reached.  The Colombia accord advanced over objections from Democrats
including Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan  who said
legislation on the pact submitted by President  Barack Obama  does
too little to protect that nation’s workers.  “For the past five years, we have been working towards
this day,” Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who
leads the committee and voted for the agreements, said at a
hearing today. “These agreements enjoy broad bipartisan,
bicameral support, and are the product of a lot of hard work
from all sides. I would also like to extend my appreciation to
the president for sending these trade agreements to Congress.”  Camp said the bills will be considered on the House floor
next week. The Colombia deal was approved 24-12, South Korea was
adopted 31-5 and Panama was approved 32-3.  The deals, reached under President  George W. Bush  and
revised by Obama, had been stymied in a stalemate with
Republicans over aid for workers who lose their jobs to foreign
competition. Obama submitted legislation on Oct. 3 after House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he would consider
the worker assistance in tandem with the trade deals.  Levin said he opposed the Colombia agreement because labor-
rights assurances Obama won from the South American nation in a
so-called Action Plan aren’t in the bill. Levin said he voted
for the South Korea pact after Obama negotiated terms for auto
tariffs and the Panama deal after Obama reached agreement on
exchanging tax information.  ‘Flaws Magnified’  “There remain troubling problems with how Colombia is
addressing key elements related to the Action Plan,” Levin
said. “The flaws are magnified by the failure to incorporate
the Action Plan in the implementation bill as a result of the
adamant refusal of Republicans, and the Obama administration’s
acquiescence to that refusal.”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest federation of labor unions and a frequent Democratic
ally, has urged lawmakers to oppose the Colombia deal, saying
the nation remains the world’s most dangerous for workers.
Fifty-one Colombian union members were killed last year, up from
47 in 2009, according to the National Union School, a labor-
rights organization based in Medellin, Colombia.  The three trade pacts are “lousy” deals that will destroy
159,000 jobs by encouraging companies to send work overseas,
Trumka said yesterday in a Washington speech. The U.S. Chamber
of Commerce says the trade agreements will prevent the loss of
380,000 jobs.  Export Estimates  The South Korea deal, the biggest since the  North American
Free Trade Agreement , would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  Not all Democrats opposed the Colombia bill. Representative
Ron Kind of  Wisconsin  voted for it, saying he didn’t share
Levin’s concern that leaving out Colombia’s labor-rights
assurances means that nation wouldn’t honor the pledge. The
Obama administration has taken sufficient steps to ensure the
improvement of security for Colombian workers.  “The longer we’re on the sidelines, the greater the market
share we’re going to be losing in these countries,” he said.  The bills are H.R. 3078 for  Colombia , H.R. 3079 for Panama
and H.R. 3080 for South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  