-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Grew at Slower Pace in September

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-05T20:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-ism-services-index-fell-to-53-in-september-from-53-3.html
U.S.  service industries  expanded in
September at a slower pace than a month earlier, a sign the
recovery is struggling to gain speed.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 53 from 53.3 in August. The median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a drop to 52.8. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction in services, which cover about 90 percent of the
economy. Orders picked up, the report showed.  The lack of job and income growth, deepening pessimism
about the economic outlook in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis,
and a slumping stock market may hamper consumers’ willingness to
increase their spending. The services reading underscores
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments yesterday
that the recovery will be “somewhat slower” in coming
quarters.  “The economy has slowed but we’re not in recession
territory,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York . “New orders were strong, which shows
demand will hold up over the next few months.”  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
51.3 to 55. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index averaged 56.1
in the five years to December 2007, when the last recession
began.  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its biggest two-day gain in more than a month, as investors
speculated European officials will contain the region’s debt
crisis. The  S&P 500  climbed 1.8 percent to 1,144.04 at the 4
p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities  dropped, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.88 percent from 1.82
percent late yesterday.  ADP Employment  Private employment expanded last month, another report
today showed. ADP Employer Services said companies added 91,000
workers after an 89,000 gain in August. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for an addition of 75,000.  The ISM survey showed a bleaker outlook for the labor
market. The group’s employment gauge declined to 48.7 in
September, the first contraction since August 2010, from 51.6 in
the prior month, today’s report showed.  The measure of new orders increased to a four-month high of
56.5 in September from 52.8. A measure of business activity rose
to 57.1 from 55.6. The index of prices paid decreased to 61.9
from 64.2.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. Today’s
report follows the group’s Oct. 1 figures that showed
manufacturing expanded in September at a faster pace.  Lack of Optimism  The reading is an “indication of a slow-growing economy,”
 Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM’s services committee, said
on a conference call with reporters today. “There’s still this
lack of confidence,” and “companies are just a bit hesitant”
to invest and hire, he said.  A jobless rate of at least 9 percent for five straight
months, slower employment, and declining home and equity values
are combining to depress Americans. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell in the week ended Sept. 25 to the second-
lowest level on record. The gauge dropped to minus 53 and has
been stuck below minus 40, the level associated with recessions,
since the end of February.  “We expect modest growth to continue,” Alan Graf, chief
financial officer at  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , said on a Sept. 22 conference
call with analysts. “The biggest drag on economic improvement
at this time is sentiment, and the country, as well as FedEx,
needs a change in that in order to benefit from further economic
growth.”  Economic Growth  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent rate in the January to March
period, resulting in the weakest six months of the recovery that
began in June 2009, according to Commerce Department figures.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last month projected a 1.8
percent rate of growth for the third quarter, based on the
median estimate.  Bernanke, during congressional testimony yesterday, said
Fed policy makers stand ready to take further steps to spur the
“sluggish” economy if needed.  “The recovery from the crisis has been much less robust
than we had hoped,” he said. Fed officials expect a “somewhat
slower pace of economic growth over coming quarters” than they
did in June, he said, without giving a specific forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  