-- 
U.S. Stocks Set to Rebound as Earnings Trump Europe, Belski Says

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-10-05T14:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/u-s-stocks-set-to-rebound-as-earnings-trump-europe-belski-says.html
The U.S. stock market probably hit
bottom yesterday and will rebound as investors refocus on
fundamentals and earnings after weeks of distraction from the
European debt crisis, Oppenheimer & Co.’s  Brian Belski  said.  The U.S. stock market is positioned for a rally after weeks
of defensive positioning and indiscriminate selling that has led
to record declines, Belski, chief investment strategist at
Oppenheimer in  New York , said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track With Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker.” Investors have
become overly focused on the daily news on the the Greek
sovereign debt crisis and have forgotten that earnings drive
stock prices, not macroeconomic news, he said.  “Earnings will surprise to the upside -- earnings
estimates have been slashed too much,” Belski said.  “The
market’s going to get squeezed and we’re going to have a nice
year-end rally.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed under 1,100 for the
first time in more than a year on Oct. 3, falling below the
 price range  that held since August and putting the gauge within
1 percent of a  bear market . It slipped as low as 1,074.77
yesterday before surging to 1,123.95. Analysts cut projections
for profits next year by 2.6 percent to $110.76 a share after
the S&P 500 tumbled 14 percent in the third quarter, Bloomberg
Data show.  “When you see these types of fears all swelling” and
“trade correlation that is very very high, that usually spells
that we are at a bottom, and that is what we saw yesterday,” he
said.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange S&P 500 Implied
Correlation Index jumped to a record 90.28 on Sept. 30. The
correlation coefficient of  S&P 500  companies with the index has
surged to 0.85, its highest level ever, according to data on the
50-day rolling average from Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,
 Connecticut . A correlation of 1 would mean they move in
lockstep.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 