-- 
Hublot Seeks Single Wealthy Female for $5 Million Diamond Watch: Retail

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-10-05T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hublot-seeks-single-wealthy-female-for-5-million-diamond-watch-retail.html
Hublot  wants to prove that behind a
successful $5 million watch, there’s a woman.  The Swiss brand, which sold a $3 million diamond-laden Big
Bang model within a day this year, is upping the ante by
creating its most expensive timepiece ever, encrusting it with
as many as 300 carats of diamonds to grab the attention of its
new target market: ladies’ watches.  “Women are buying more than men, women are buying more
often than men and women are very influential over men, so you
have three good reasons to work on this population,” Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Claude Biver said in an interview.
Hublot, bought by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  in 2008,
aims to present the one-of-a-kind $5 million watch next year.  Wealthy females snapping up bespoke $1 million pieces and
$39,000 candy-colored Tutti Frutti watches will help drive
revenue growth of about 30 percent this year, Biver said. While
luxury stocks including LVMH hit one-year lows this month on
concern that purchases from new millionaires in China may slow,
Biver sees “no thunderstorm on the sea” for the industry in
2012. Women are bolstering its business, much of which has
traditionally come from selling large, sporty watches to men.  Hublot isn’t the only watchmaker catering more to women, a
market worth $3.9 billion last year and set to grow 30 percent
between 2010 and 2015, excluding inflation, according to
researcher Euromonitor. As women increasingly see watches as an
investment,  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s Omega last year introduced its
Ladymatic self-winding watches, which sell for as much as
$42,700, while  Patek Philippe  started selling a ladies’
chronograph in rose gold this year for about $478,000.  Lamborghinis to Match  Hublot’s Tutti Frutti collection is produced in yellow
gold, red gold, steel or black ceramic and in 11 different
colors and shades. They’re 4 centimeters in diameter, double the
width of some Cartier Tank watches. One client in  Monte Carlo 
bought four in different colors to match her red, orange, green
and black Lamborghinis, according to Biver.  The Nyon, Switzerland-based company founded by Carlo Crocco
in 1980 is now selling 10,000 oversized watches with precious
stones a year and can’t produce enough to meet demand, he said.  “It’s so astonishing,” Biver said. “Women don’t want to
buy what is called a ladies watch; they want to buy a watch with
personality. Ten or 20 years ago, we would have sold zero
because women didn’t want big watches.”  Bejeweled Timepieces  Traditionally most ladies’ timepieces have used quartz
mechanisms, which are thinner, and the value was mostly
correlated with the amount of jewels heaped on them. Hublot’s
Tutti Frutti, the Ladymatic and Patek’s chronograph use
mechanical “movements,” or motors, which are more difficult to
make and increase pricing power, analysts said.  “Women are starting to buy mechanical watches, whereas in
the past it was mainly a quartz business,” said Rene Weber, an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. “Two years ago it wasn’t a
theme at all, but now it’s a major one.”  Women account for less than 10 percent of Swiss mechanical
watches sold, though the proportion is growing, Weber said.
 Switzerland  exported about 15 billion francs worth of watches in
2010, based on wholesale prices.  Women in emerging markets are generating more disposable
income and gaining more power at work, helping to drive the
trend, said Fflur Roberts, head of luxury-goods research at
 Euromonitor .  ‘More Equal’  “It’s also becoming more equal between men and women on
the luxury watch side,” Roberts said. Women account for about
37 percent of the watch market, she said.  About a third of the 30,000 watches Hublot makes each year
are now adorned with precious stones, according to Biver. While
male celebrities such as Elton John and Marc Antony have sported
 Tutti Frutti  models, about 80 percent of the timepieces adorned
with gems are purchased for women.  Hublot sold eight $1 million diamond watches over the past
two years, mostly on demand, according to Biver. The company is
currently making a second $3 million watch for a customer.  While  China  has become the biggest market for Swiss
watches, the buyers of Hublot timepieces more frequently are
from countries such as  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  Russia , according to
Biver. The Swiss company gets about 1 percent of its revenue
from China, compared with about 35 percent for other brands, as
Chinese consumers prefer more conservative designs, he said.  “It gives me security because we don’t rely on the market
and it gives me hope for the future” as there’s room to grow,
Biver said.  The Tutti Frutti line also boosts Hublot’s sales to men, as
women help promote the brand.  “They are influencing men and very often say to their
husbands what to buy, and if she likes Hublot, very often she
will choose a Hublot for her husband,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 