-- 
UBS Says Equities Co-Heads Gouws, Bouhara Resign Over Bank’s Trading Loss

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-10-06T07:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ubs-says-equities-co-heads-gouws-bouhara-resign-over-unauthorized-trading.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara resigned as co-heads of
global equities following last month’s $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading.  “Their resignations come as they assume overall
responsibility for the effective management of the equities
business,” the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Mike Stewart, hired from Bank of America Corp. in
July, will become the sole head of equities, UBS said.  Sergio Ermotti , who replaced  Oswald Gruebel  as interim
chief executive officer last month, is trying to bolster
investor confidence in a bank that less than two months ago
Gruebel said had “one of the best” risk-management units in
the industry. Ermotti said in a memo to employees yesterday that
while the bank’s internal systems had detected “unauthorized or
unexplained” activity, it wasn’t “sufficiently” probed and
controls weren’t enforced.  “Serious lapses of potentially both risk management and
leadership have occurred, and somebody must be held
responsible,” said Chris Roebuck, a visiting professor at the
Cass Business school in  London . “To not to have taken rapid
action would have been perceived both by investors, regulators
and the market in itself a further leadership failure.”  The shares rose 1.3 percent to 10.64 francs as of 9:52 a.m.
in Zurich trading today. The stock has dropped 31 percent this
year, compared with the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services
Index’s 31 percent decline.  No ‘Misconduct’ Tolerated  UBS appointed Gouws, 46 and Bouhara, who joined from
Deutsche Bank AG, to run the equities business in May 2010,
replacing Daniel Coleman, who stepped down in March of that year
after more than 24 years at the bank. Gouws has been with UBS
for more than 16 years. Officials at UBS declined to provide
contact details for either banker.  “UBS will not tolerate any misconduct that damages the
bank’s reputation,” Ermotti, 51, said in the memo obtained by
Bloomberg. The bank will take disciplinary action against other
individuals in equities and across other divisions, he said.  “A number of front office staff” have been suspended
pending further disciplinary action, Carsten Kengeter, head of
the investment bank, said in a separate memo to staff.  Don Francese will become interim chief operating officer
for the equities division, Kengeter said. He pledged to
strengthen risk-control at the investment bank and tighten
enforcement.  UBS said this week that it will have a “modest” third-
quarter profit as gains from wider credit spreads and the sale
of bonds cushioned the trading loss.  ‘Inevitable’ Departures  The change in leadership “was inevitable, in my opinion
even more inevitable than the departure of the CEO,” said Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow at the financial markets group at the
 London School  of Economics. “Let’s hope that Mike Stewart has
learnt the right lessons about improving governance and control
structures.”  The bank plans to reorganize the investment bank to focus
on advisory, capital markets and “client flow and solutions
businesses,” to produce less volatile results with less risk,
Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil told investors at a
presentation in London two days ago.  The investment bank will aim to “contribute meaningfully”
to the strengths of UBS, Kengeter said in the memo. “This means
further investing in areas that make economic and strategic
sense, exiting those that don’t, and finding new ways to deliver
much more effectively in others.”  Kweku Adoboli, 31, the UBS trader charged with fraud and
false accounting that may have resulted in the loss, remains in
custody in London pending a further hearing. He has yet to enter
a plea. He said through his lawyer he was “sorry beyond words”
for his “disastrous miscalculations” when he appeared at the
City of London Magistrates’ court on Sept. 22.  Index Futures  UBS’s long positions in DAX, EuroStoxx and S&P 500 futures
began to increase at the beginning of July, accelerating around
the end of the month and peaking in early August, Naratil said.  The long positions then “rapidly decreased” and were
reversed into short positions in mid-August. Losses, which were
“limited” until the end of July, were boosted by market
declines and reached about $2 billion in mid-August, he said.
They remained near that level until they were discovered and the
positions closed last month, Naratil said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  