-- 
Ukraine Has Enough Funds to Service Debt for Several Months

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-10-05T13:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/ukraine-has-enough-funds-to-service-debt-for-several-months-1-.html
Ukraine has sufficient funds to
service its debt “for several months,” Deputy Prime Minister
 Serhiy Tigipko  said.  “There is a certain reserve of funds in the state
treasury’s account to allow for comfortable servicing of debt
for several months,” Tigipko told reporters today at a weekly
government meeting in the capital, Kiev.  A possible Eurobond sale will depend on global-market
conditions, while Ukraine isn’t ready to complete the
transaction “at any price,” he said. “If markets are good, we
will have to issue debt, if markets are bad -- we must not.”  Ukraine is negotiating with the  International Monetary Fund 
over the release of the third tranche of a $15.6 billion bailout
program. The government planned to tap international debt
markets to help finance this year’s budget deficit, which may
reach 3.5 percent of gross domestic product, according to a bill
submitted to parliament last month.  Ukraine should make “three or four” legislative changes
to qualify for about $1.5 billion in financing from the  World
Bank  and the European Union on “very good terms,” Tigipko
said.  This year’s budget envisages 62.3 billion hryvnia ($7.78
billion) in debt repayments and 23 billion hryvnia of debt
servicing, the head of the Economy Ministry’s financial
directorate Serhiy Chekashkin said today in a  statement  on the
ministry’s website. As of Sept. 26, the government had spent
30.4 billion hryvnia on debt repayments and 15.6 billion hryvnia
on servicing, according to the statement.  On Sept. 28, the government paid 4.9 billion hryvnia on
debt issued between 2006 and 2008. “Ukraine is making timely
payment of its debt and its servicing, in line with the
schedule,” Chekashkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ; 