-- 
Hulu Targets 50 Million U.S. Hispanics With Univision Streaming Agreement

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-05T17:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hulu-signs-multiyear-accord-to-carry-spanish-language-shows-from-univision.html
Hulu  LLC, the online TV service,
reached a multiyear agreement to offer Spanish language shows
from Univision Communications Inc., boosting its appeal to a
potential audience of 50 million U.S. Hispanics.  Starting later this year, Hulu will provide current season
prime-time programming from Univision, the largest Spanish
language network in the U.S., as well as shows from the
broadcaster’s library, the companies said today in a statement.  Univision gives Los Angeles-based Hulu programs from four
of the five most-watched U.S. TV networks, including co-owners
Fox, ABC and NBC. Univision draws a young, fast-growing part of
the U.S. population that appeals to Hulu advertisers, said Andy Forssell, who heads content acquisition at Hulu.  “This is a great fit for Hulu and our product vision,”
 Jason Kilar , Hulu’s chief executive officer, said on the
company’s  website . “Univision has done an incredible job
creating content that appeals to the Hispanic digital
generation.”  Univision will help online advertisers reach a U.S.
Hispanic community that’s growing faster than the U.S.
population, Hulu said on its website. The agreement adds
hundreds of hours of Spanish language soaps, variety shows,
comedies and reality series.  Hulu’s new Japan service that started Sept. 1 is receiving
encouraging response from users and suppliers, which include  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s TV network and Miramax films, Kilar said on the
company’s website.  Hulu Plus  Hulu Plus, a $7.99-a-month service with greater access to
content and the ability to watch on mobile devices, exceeded 1
million subscribers during the summer, Kilar said.  “We anticipate our subscription services to account for
more than half of Hulu’s overall revenues within the next 12
months,” Kilar said, without elaborating.  Hulu is owned by ABC parent  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Fox parent
 News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal, as well as the
private-equity firm Providence Equity Partners. The owners are
weighing offers for Hulu from bidders including  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , Amazon.com Inc., Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., people said
earlier.  Univision, based in New York, was taken private in 2007 by
investors including Providence Equity Partners. Mexico City-
based Grupo Televisa SA, is a major source of Univision
programming, and agreed last year to buy as much as 35 percent
of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  