-- 
Hungary Rate Bets Push Yields to 9-Month High Before Auction

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-05T13:27:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hungary-rate-bets-drive-yields-to-9-month-high-before-bond-sale.html
Bond yields in  Hungary , the European
Union’s most indebted eastern member, headed for the highest in
nine months before tomorrow’s bond sale on speculation that the
central bank will lift  interest rates  to support the forint.  The country is offering 43 billion forint ($192 million) of
debt due in 2014, 2017 and 2022, according to data from AKK, the
government’s debt agency, published on Bloomberg. The secondary-
market yield on the 2017 notes fell three basis points to 7.84
percent by 2:57 p.m. in Budapest, after rising to as much as
8.02 percent yesterday, the highest since January.  Traders in interest-rate derivatives raised bets on tighter
monetary conditions as the forint’s weakening threatens to drive
inflation and payments on foreign-currency loans. The forint
slid to as much as 300.7 per euro, its weakest in 2 1/2 years,
before recovering to 298.  “The National Bank of Hungary stands ready to respond to
currency weakness,” Societe Generale SA strategist Guillaume Salomon in  London  wrote today in a report after talking to
Hungarian officials. The forint’s weakness might prompt
“aggressive” rate increases of as much as 300 basis points,
with some tightening already expected this month, Salomon added.  Forward-rate agreements, used to hedge against or bet on
future funding-cost changes, signal belief that Hungary’s main
rate will rise to 6.25 percent on Oct. 25 and 6.75 percent by
January from 6 percent now. The FRA fixing three-month interest
in one month surged yesterday to 6.49 percent, a two-year high,
from 6.07 percent a month earlier. It fell to 6.41 percent
today, trading 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, above
the three-month Budapest interbank offered rate.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Hungary’s government bonds jumped to
the highest since March 2009 after Premier  Viktor Orban  said two
days ago the government wants to restructure 180 billion forint
of debt amassed by local administrations. Credit-default swaps,
which increase as creditworthiness perceptions worsen, rose to
572 basis points today from 532 at the end of last week and 268
three months ago, according to CMA data.  The debt of the counties is likely to be taken over by the
central government, which will “increase the fiscal burden and
the credit risk of the government,” BNP Paribas SA strategists
led by Bartosz Pawlowski in London wrote in a report yesterday.
“That is why the CDS of Hungary underperformed.”  ‘Credit Negative’  Hungary, which received an international bailout in 2008,
has the lowest investment-grade rating from  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Services and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s said last
week that Hungary’s passage in September of a law allowing
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at fixed exchange rates,
with banks absorbing losses, sets a “worrying precedent” and
is “credit-negative.”  The National Bank of Hungary on Sept. 20 left its benchmark
two-week deposit rate unchanged for an eighth month after the
mortgage-fixing plan hurt the forint. The majority of policy
makers considered that the deteriorating global risk environment
is preventing policy makers from cutting the interest rate even
as the inflation outlook may justify such a move, according to
minutes of the meeting published today.  Policy makers will probably keep the key rate at 6 percent
on Oct. 25, according to all seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The forint weakening past 300 versus the euro probably
won’t be enough to lead to monetary tightening, according to
strategists at Nomura Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Policy makers may “tolerate” the forint depreciating to
as weak as 325 against the common currency and the market is
pricing in too much in rate increases, RBS economist Timothy Ash
wrote in a research report late yesterday after meeting
officials at the central bank and government this week.  “We firmly disagree with these statements,”  Societe
Generale ’s Salomon said by e-mail. “The NBH would ideally like
to wait till the Oct. 25 meeting and deliver some moderate
tightening, 50 basis points in our view. But higher euro-forint
levels could decide otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  