-- 
Richter Gains Most in 3 Years on Trial, Lifting Hungary Index

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-05T15:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hungarian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-forint-strengthens.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt . gained the most
in three years after Hungary’s biggest drugmaker reported
positive results from a clinical trial, lifting the nation’s
benchmark BUX index of stocks.  The shares rose 9.4 percent to 33,800 forint by the 5 p.m.
close in Budapest, the biggest jump since October 2008, after
surging as much as 13 percent and being briefly suspended for
breaching the 10 percent intraday trading limit. The BUX index,
in which Richter has a 19 percent weighting, climbed 5.7 percent
to 16,457.64.  A clinical trial of cariprazine, an antipsychotic agent, by
Richter and  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  showed “significant”
symptom improvement for patients, the two companies said in a
statement on the website of the Budapest Stock Exchange today.  “The news was very important and positive for Richter,”
Akos Herczenik and Levente Blaho, analysts at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Budapest, wrote in a research report today.
“We are expecting positive market reaction. Accordingly, it’s
worth opening a long position.”  Patients with acute manic episodes experienced improvement
compared to placebo-treated patients, Richter said, adding that
researchers are also investigating the drug’s effectiveness for
patients with schizophrenia and bipolar depression.  “Bipolar disorder affects approximately 2.3 million adults
only in the  United States ,” Attila Vago, an analyst at Concorde
Securities Ltd. in Budapest, wrote in a note to clients. “The
potential worldwide market size for schizophrenia is billions of
dollars, where Forest and Gedeon Richter are expected to be well
positioned to gain at least 10 percent market share.”  European stocks advanced for the first time in four days
amid speculation policy makers are examining measures to shield
banks from the sovereign-debt crisis.  The forint strengthened for the first time in six days
against the euro, adding 0.8 percent to 297.3. OTP Bank Nyrt.,
 Hungary ’s largest lender, gained 4.8 percent to 3,150 forint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  