-- 
Hungarian Bonds to Lag on Economy, Ratings, Raiffeisen Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-10-05T16:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hungary-bonds-to-lag-turkish-czech-peers-raiffeisen-says-1-.html
Hungarian bonds and stocks are poised
to underperform regional peers as the European Union’s most-
indebted eastern member risks a credit downgrade and fiscal
austerity hurts the economy, Raiffeisen Research said.  Investors should be underweight  government bonds  of  Hungary 
and  Romania  and equities in Hungary and  Poland , analysts at the
unit of  Austria ’s Raiffeisen Bank International AG said in a
quarterly report today. They have an overweight recommendation
on Czech bonds and stocks, Turkish debt and Croatian equities.  Hungary, which received an international bailout in 2008,
is raising taxes and cutting spending to trim the 2012  budget
deficit  to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product as the economy
slows. Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Hungary Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, said last week that a new law allowing
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at fixed exchange rates,
with banks absorbing losses, sets a “worrying precedent.”  “Due to the economic slowdown and rising political
uncertainty, there are fiscal-policy risks which could result in
the country being downgraded to a junk rating,” the analysts
said. “The austerity measures of the Hungarian government will
result in stagnation in GDP. Consequently, we also lower our
investment in Hungarian shares.”  Bonds Tumble  Hungarian bonds have tumbled as the forint weakened to a 2
1/2-year low, fuelling speculation the central bank will lift
rates to support the currency. The debt selloff has lifted the
yield on benchmark 2017 notes to 7.77 percent at 5:20 p.m. in
Budapest from a low of 6.53 percent on Sept. 8.  The cost of insuring the debt jumped to the highest since
March 2009 after the government said two days ago it wants to
restructure 180 billion forint ($803 million) of debt amassed by
local administrations. Credit-default swaps, which increase as
creditworthiness worsens, jumped to 573 basis points today from
510 points a week ago and 268 three months ago, CMA data show.  Czech bonds and stocks are set to outperform as investors
view the country as a regional safe haven and companies “enjoy
a fundamentally sound footing,” Raiffeisen wrote. “The two-
notch upgrade of the Czech  credit rating  should continue to have
a positive effect on prices of Czech government bonds” and “we
overweight Czech shares because we expect that their dividend
yields will be quite high.”  Croatia ’s planned EU membership from July 2013 is set to
buoy economic growth and support equities, according to the
Raiffeisen report. Turkish bonds will benefit from an expected
interest-rate cut and a lower risk of contagion from the euro
area’s government-debt crisis than for other countries in
central and eastern  Europe , the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  