-- 
Hungary Banks May Be Downgraded at Moody’s After Mortgage Plan

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-05T08:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/hungary-banks-may-be-downgraded-at-moody-s-after-mortgage-plan.html
Seven Hungarian banks have been
placed on review for a downgrade at Moody’s Investors Service on
concern that exchange-rate losses from a government mortgage
plan may erode their profitability.  The banks on review are OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, and its mortgage unit; Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt.;
and the local units of KBC Groep NV, General Electric Co.,  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Bayerische Landesbank , Moody’s said in a
statement late yesterday.  The average deposit rating of Hungarian banks is Baa3, one
step above Ba, Moody’s said. Issuers rated Baa offer “adequate
financial security” while Ba-rated companies offer
“questionable financial security,” according to Moody’s.  Hungary is allowing borrowers to repay mortgages
denominated in foreign currencies such as the Swiss franc ahead
of schedule at more than 20 percent below market exchange rates,
forcing lenders to swallow losses. The Cabinet has also
introduced a 120 billion-forint ($530 million) annual tax on
banks and wants to restructure 180 billion forint of county
debt.  “Moody’s believes that the approved law will likely
trigger losses for the banks and impact their capital
positions,” the company said. “The review will assess the
impact of the law on a bank by bank basis, taking into the level
of exposure to foreign-currency mortgages, the take-up rate by
borrowers; the level of profitability and the capital buffers
available.”  ‘Systemic’ Support  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks
including  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , Erste,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)  OTP’s shares advanced 2 percent to
3,065 forint at 9:17 a.m. in Budapest. The lender has lost 48
percent of its value in the past three months.  Moody’s will consider in its review the “likelihood of
systemic and parental support for Hungarian banks given the
overall weakening support environment.” The company said it
doesn’t expect foreign parent banks to “immediately alter their
commitment to Hungary.”  The government is allowing borrowers to repay  mortgage
loans  in a lump sum this year at rates of 180 forint per Swiss
franc and 250 forint per euro. The forint traded at 243.54 per
franc and 298.6 per euro today. Foreign-currency loans account
for 70 percent of mortgage lending, Moody’s said.  The central bank is allowing domestic banks to tap the
country’s foreign-currency reserves to address an expected rise
in foreign-currency demand as borrowers repay loans at below-
market rates. The central bank estimates that 20 percent of a
total of 18 billion euros ($24 billion) in foreign-currency
mortgages may be repaid at fixed exchange rates.  Stress  “The government’s scheme adds stress to a banking system
already under significant pressure, reflected by deteriorating
asset quality and weak profitability,” Moody’s said. “This
additional scheme will exert negative pressure on the banks’
stand-alone credit profiles and may constrain the banking
sector’s capacity to contribute to economic growth.”  Hungary ’s mortgage repayment plan poses “risks to the
banking sector and Hungary’s reputation among investors,” Fitch
ratings said in a separate report today. Hungary’s sovereign
credit is rated the lowest investment grade at Moody’s, Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  