-- 
Unions Support Anti-Wall Street Protests, AFL-CIO’s Trumka Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-10-05T16:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/unions-support-anti-wall-street-protests-afl-cio-s-trumka-says.html
U.S. labor unions will support the
Occupy  Wall Street  demonstrations because the protests spreading
nationwide have tapped into the anger of unemployed Americans,
AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said.  “We’re not going to try to usurp them,” Trumka, leader of
the nation’s largest labor federation, said today on a
conference call with reporters. “We’ll support them around the
country and we’ll continue to work collectively with one
another.”  The anti-Wall Street protest, marked by the arrest of 700
people at a weekend march over the Brooklyn Bridge in  New York
City , is an opportunity for labor groups to lobby for job-
creating government programs, Trumka said. The AFL-CIO plans
rallies next week and will use the events in  New York  and other
cities to call for more spending on infrastructure repair as a
way to create jobs, he said.  Unions, which represent a record low proportion of the
private workforce after losing members for at least three
decades, share the concerns of the protesters who are arranging
rallies using Twitter, Facebook and the Internet, United
Steelworkers President  Leo Gerard  said.  “I think it’s a tremendous opportunity,” Gerard said at a
press conference yesterday. “That’s why we’re going to help
them, all over the country.”  The Occupy Wall Street protests spread to Boston,  Chicago ,
Denver, Seattle and other cities last month. A coalition of
community groups, environmentalists and advocates for causes
from affordable housing and universal health care to ending the
war in Afghanistan have joined the marches.  ‘Little Scattershot’  “It’s really a little scattershot, but in a good way,”
Thea Lee, policy director of the AFL-CIO, said in an interview.  The demonstrations have been “growing organically” in the
same way union members in Wisconsin rallied against Republican
proposals to cut back benefits last year, she said. On some
days, more than 70,000 protesters gathered at the  Wisconsin 
Capitol in Madison.  In the nation’s capital, Occupy DC has an encampment in
McPherson Square, a few blocks from the White House, and is
planning marches tomorrow.  Activities in  Washington  may include a march on the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying
group, and along K Street, where some lobbying firms have
offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  