-- 
Universal to Test Early Cable Rentals of Comedy ‘Tower Heist’ for $59.99

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/universal-to-test-early-cable-rentals-of-comedy-tower-heist-for-59-99.html
Universal Pictures  plans to offer the
Eddie Murphy comedy “Tower Heist” to cable TV customers of
parent  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  three weeks after the film opens in
theaters, months before a typical video-on-demand release.  The movie, scheduled to open Nov. 4, will be offered to
Comcast digital subscribers in Atlanta and  Portland ,  Oregon ,
Universal Pictures said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Comcast plans to charge $59.99, according to the  Los Angeles 
Times, which reported the plan earlier.  Studios are experimenting with early VOD release to replace
declining DVD sales. Universal, Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.,
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and Sony Corp. previously offered films two
months after the theatrical release through DirecTV. The plans
have angered cinema operators, which fear the loss of ticket
sales to pay TV.  “This experiment will allow the two companies to sample
consumer appetite for this film in this window at this price
while allowing the film to achieve its full potential at the box
office,” the Universal City, California-based studio said in
the statement.  John Fithian, president of the National Association of
Theatre Owners, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  Demand for films offered in the earlier experiment,
including the comedy “Just Go With It,” was small because $30
was too much,  DirecTV (DTV)  Chief Executive Officer  Michael White  said
at a Sept. 22 investors conference.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 46 cents to $21.63 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Shares of the largest U.S. cable TV
service have declined 1.5 percent this year.  Films are typically released in theaters first and become
available on DVD and video-on-demand several months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  