-- 
University Leaders, CEOs, Press for Piecemeal Immigration Law

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-10-05T17:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/university-leaders-ceos-press-for-piecemeal-immigration-law.html
Businesses seeking more high-skilled
labor must separate a drive for more foreign-worker visas from a
broad -- and stymied -- Washington debate about overhauling U.S.
immigration law, corporate executives and university presidents
said at a roundtable discussion.  “We need to unbundle it to the extent that we can from
this comprehensive immigration reform,” John Lechleiter, chief
executive officer of  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , said at today’s event
sponsored by  Harvard University  and the  Business Roundtable  and
hosted by Bloomberg News in Washington. “That’s a big, tough
issue, but as soon it gets bundled up in there, everybody kind
of throws up their hands and says, ‘What do we do?’ And then
nothing gets done.”  The Indianapolis-based drugmaker’s top executive said an
expansion of the nation’s cap on employment-based “green
cards” is among the changes needed to give corporations more
flexibility to compete internationally.  In a discussion about the immigration challenges facing
businesses and the U.S. universities that train many of their
future workers, panel participants also spoke of the need to
reframe the debate.  Freeman Hrabowski, president of the  University of Maryland 
in Baltimore County, said advocates for more legal immigration
must do a better job of telling stories about the way foreign
workers are helping to reshape the economy.  Helping Average Families  “We start with these stories about the impact on science
and technology,” he said. He said supporters also need to
underscore how that translates into economic improvements that
benefit “the average American family.”  The corporate quest for more immigration to address
workforce needs has stalled in  Washington , with the public more
focused on the estimated 10 million people in the country
illegally.  Republicans, who control the U.S. House, say border
security must improve before other immigration-law changes are
considered. At the same time, House Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Lamar Smith  of Texas and some other Republicans say workers who
come to the U.S. from other countries can crowd out Americans
seeking jobs in the troubled economy.  Pressure remains on Republican politicians to avoid taking
stances that aid illegal immigrants. Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
saw a Republican voter backlash to his bid for the party’s
presidential nomination after he defended the idea of allowing
children of illegal immigrants to attend  Texas  universities at
in-state tuition rates.  More Visas  The business agenda calls for increases in worker visas for
skilled and unskilled labor, and more employment-based green
cards -- proof of permanent residency in the U.S. that can allow
for a lifetime career.  Among participants in the panel, there was some
disagreement about the extent to which a more piecemeal approach
that focuses on higher-skilled workers is proper.  John Engler , president and CEO of the  Business Roundtable ,
said it would be tough to get political support for measures
that address such matters as increasing the limit on H-1b visas
for highly skilled workers. In the Capitol, many lawmakers want
to retain that issue as part of a wider rewrite of immigration
law because it can help attract bipartisan support for their
efforts, he said.  “That’s the loss leader on the comprehensive bill, and
nobody will let it loose,” Engler said. He also said there are
some broader economic benefits in dealing with lower-skilled and
undocumented workers.  ‘Business as Usual’  Some executives, though, said that approach won’t break the
stalemate.  “You’re talking business as usual, at a time where we’re
having a crisis,” said Bill Green, chairman of  Accenture Plc (ACN)  of
Dublin, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
company. “The sausage-making process of getting an outcome I
think puts us at a huge disadvantage.”  James Goodnight, chief executive officer of SAS Institute
Inc., said his company would benefit from a boost in a 20,000
cap on visas for foreign workers with master’s degrees.  “I would add 5,000 and see if we can absorb that many,”
said Goodnight, whose Cary,  North Carolina , company is the
world’s biggest privately owned software maker. “And then see
if we can add another 5,000.”  Path to Citizenship  One path to passage of the changes sought might be to
attach legislation boosting the flow of skilled workers to an
existing measure providing a way to citizenship for children of
some illegal immigrants, said John Hennessy, president of
 Stanford University  in  California . Called the “Dream Act,”
such a bill is being pushed by Democrats, who control the  U.S.
Senate .  “Comprehensive reform is terrific,” Hennessy said. “It’s
going to take a long, long time for this country to deal with
this. We ought to take this easy piece of it and staple that to
some version of the Dream Act and really solve the problem for
these highly educated, incredibly capable people” who are
essential to the economy.  Earlier at the Washington event, a White House official
voiced some support for simply addressing the skilled-worker
needs of technology-based companies.  John Holdren, a science adviser to President  Barack Obama ,
said the White House aims to ease the road for high-skilled
workers to attain legal status in the U.S. While some foreign
students who attend university in the country will want to go
home, others may seek to work here, he said.  ‘Make It Easy’  “Those who want to stay here, we want to make it easy,”
Holdren said. When Green said the Obama administration should
take “smaller bites” instead of pursuing a complete overhaul
of immigration policy, Holdren said officials “would like to
get the high-tech part done if we can.”  More broadly, some academics on the panel said the U.S.
will lose a competitive advantage if immigrant students don’t
see prospects for better treatment.  Susan Hockfield, president of the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in Cambridge, said the U.S. can no longer rely on
a reputation as the “most exciting place to work” to keep
foreign students from taking their diplomas elsewhere.  “There are a lot of interesting places for these young
people to make their careers,” Hockfield said. “And if we
continue to treat them with the kind of disrespect and a lack of
welcoming policies, we are going to lose a source of MIT’s great
innovation strength” and an engine for job-creating businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  