-- 
Turkish Central Bank Wields ‘Big Stick’ On the Lira as Reserves Dwindle

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-06T13:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/turkish-central-bank-wields-big-stick-on-the-lira-as-reserves-dwindle.html
Turkey ’s central bank sold $1.1
billion in two days of record-breaking auctions, depleting
reserves in an attempt to stem the lira’s slide.  The Ankara-based bank sold $350 million today after
offering as much as $1.35 billion. Yesterday, it made the same
offer and sold $750 million, the biggest auction in its history.
The bank said it’s ready with “large amounts” to stamp out
excess exchange-rate volatility. International reserves stood at
$87.5 billion on Sept. 30 and since then the bank has sold $1.2
billion.  The lira sunk 17 percent against the dollar in the first
nine months of this year, the second-worst performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after  South
Africa ’s rand. Governor Erdem Basci said on Sept. 30 that the
decline had been “useful” in helping to boost exports and was
now enough. The bank wouldn’t welcome further falls, he said.  Yesterday’s sale “was sufficient to show that the central
bank carries a big stick,” said  Inan Demir , chief economist for
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, the lender owned by National Bank of
 Greece . Still, “large selling of foreign exchange is sure to
raise concerns regarding the depletion of reserves.”  The lira rose to its highest level in two weeks after
today’s sale announcement and was at 1.854 per dollar at 2:45
p.m. local time. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds dropped 6
basis points to 8.48 percent. The previous biggest dollar sale
at an auction was in June 2006, when the bank sold $500 million.  Basci also cut the foreign-currency reserves that banks
must deposit against their liabilities yesterday, freeing up
$1.3 billion in liquidity.  Bolster Currencies  Policy makers in emerging markets are seeking to bolster
weakening currencies, as concern about a global slowdown leads
investors to pull money out of riskier markets.  Russia ’s central
bank sold about $8 billion to shore up the ruble last month, the
most since it arrested the currency’s devaluation in January
2009, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said yesterday.  Brazil’s central bank will keep acting in the dollar
futures market and has “no limit” on how much it can use
derivatives to stem a decline in the real, said Aldo Mendes,
director of monetary policy at the bank. Authorities will combat
“herd behavior” in the financial markets, Korean Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Sept. 23.  “Intervention in the currency in this global climate is
not very suitable,” said Suha Yaygin, deputy chief of emerging
markets at Toronto-Dominion Bank in  London . “It can fail as
much as it can succeed because things abroad are very
problematic.”  Lira’s Decline  Today’s Turkish sale increased the total amount of foreign
reserves spent by the central bank to defend the currency to
$4.32 billion since Aug. 5. During the same time, the lira has
declined more than 6 percent against the dollar.  “Halting foreign-currency sales would conserve hard-earned
reserves,” the  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 19.  The bank has been building up foreign-currency reserves
with dollar purchases since 2001 and said today the position is
“strong” when compared to the country’s short-term debt. The
reserves compare with Russia’s $526 billion in international
currency and gold and  Brazil ’s $352 billion.  “Out of Turkey, Brazil and Russia, I would say that Turkey
is the most vulnerable with reserves of $85 billion being less
than the current annual trade deficit,”  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in  New York , said in e-
mailed comments. The situation leaves Turkey’s “firepower
insufficient to deal with sustained capital repatriation from
debt and equity markets.”  Deficit Widened  Turkey’s 12-month current-account deficit widened to a
record $74.6 billion in July, or about 10 percent of gross
domestic product. Basci argues a slowing economy, combined with
a weaker lira, will lead to a “rapid” adjustment in the
current-account gap.  The bank said it may continue large foreign-exchange sales
in the daily auction if necessary. It also allowed banks to keep
a larger portion of their compulsory reserves in foreign
currency, raising the limit to 20 percent of lira liabilities
from 10 percent. The central bank said that will increase its
reserves by $3.6 billion.  The higher limit “neutralizes the reserve impact” of the
sales, Demir said. “The bank is able to ease monetary policy,
provide foreign-exchange liquidity and increase reserves at the
same time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 