-- 
Vietnam Must Avoid a Premature Easing of Policy, IMF Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-05T07:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/vietnam-must-avoid-premature-monetary-policy-easing-imf-says.html
Vietnam  may undermine efforts to
stabilize the country’s economy and currency if it prematurely
eases monetary policy, the  International Monetary Fund  said, as
the nation fights the fastest inflation in Asia.  “The risk is that all the hard work they’ve done this year
in trying to re-establish their stabilization credentials and to
try to convince the population that they have the discipline
needed to push through with the macro stabilization program gets
undone,” Benedict Bingham, the IMF’s senior resident
representative in Vietnam, said in an interview yesterday.  At stake is Vietnam’s struggle to regain investor
confidence hurt by inflation that’s exceeded 20 percent, a
widening trade deficit and the near-bankruptcy of the nation’s
largest shipbuilder, which signaled risks in the banking
industry. Its currency is  Asia ’s weakest performer against the
dollar this year after  India ’s rupee.  Vietnam in February passed the so-called Resolution 11,
which aimed to fight consumer-price growth and support the
currency with tighter monetary and fiscal policies, and Bingham
said that economic stabilization program isn’t complete yet.  “There mustn’t be a gap between the headline policy
message that they’re committed to maintaining this strategy
until the job is done, and the actual implementation of monetary
policy,” Bingham said in Ho Chi Minh City. “People will pick
these signs up, and raise questions about the strategy.”  Dong Pressure  The dong weakened 0.2 percent to 20,850 per dollar as of
12:05 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It was devalued for the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11. The
VN Index of stocks closed down 0.2 percent.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
exchange rate today to 20,638 per dollar from 20,628 per dollar,
according to its website. It last adjusted the rate on Aug. 24.  The currency is permitted to trade 1 percent on either side
of the daily  reference rate  set by the central bank. On the so-
called black market, it can move outside the band.  “We are seeing the dong trading outside of its band, by
around 1 percent,” said Bingham. “It’s not under acute
pressure, but it’s drifted out.”  The central bank earlier this year raised its discount,
refinancing and repurchase rates in a bid to stem credit growth,
check inflation and steady the economy.  In July, the State Bank of Vietnam bank cut its repurchase
rate to 14 percent from 15 percent, and the following month it
began pushing commercial lenders to lower their  interest rates .  Policy Easing  The central bank will leave interest rates unchanged for
now and consider cutting them if price gains slow, the
government said in August.  The moves to ease monetary conditions echo efforts in
recent months by emerging markets from the  Philippines  to  Brazil 
to leave rates unchanged or cut borrowing costs, as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and the risk of a U.S. contraction dim the outlook
for the world economy.  Overnight interbank rates, which the central bank can
influence through the supply of liquidity, are about 12 percent
to 13 percent, Bingham said.  “The central bank’s open-market operations have left the
banking system with an overnight rate below policy rates,” he
said.  About 49,000 Vietnamese businesses ceased operations or
dissolved in January through September, a 22 percent increase on
a year earlier, hurt by borrowing costs exceeding 20 percent,
Nong Thon Ngay Nay newspaper reported.  Consumer Prices  Vietnamese consumer prices rose 22.42 percent in September
from a year earlier, slowing from a 23.02 percent pace in the
previous month while remaining the fastest inflation rate in a
basket of 17 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Vietnam’s government has also spent the last year wrestling
with the near-bankruptcy of state-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding
Industry Group, known as Vinashin.  The company’s default on foreign-currency borrowings at the
end of 2010 has raised doubts about asset quality at the
country’s banks, Moody’s Investors Service said last month.
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings all cut Vietnam’s
sovereign debt rating deeper into so-called junk status in 2010.  Vietnam’s gross domestic product may rise 5.8 percent in
2011, the slowest pace since 2009, Asian Development Bank data
show. The economy, a production hub for companies from  Intel
Corp . to Honda Motor Co., expanded 6.8 percent in 2010.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Sunil Jagtiani,
K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  