-- 
Westinghouse, Aker Biomarine, BSkyB, CME Secrets: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-05T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/westinghouse-aker-biomarine-bskyb-cme-secrets-intellectual-property.html
Westinghouse Solar Inc. said it filed
a patent-infringement complaint at the U.S. International Trade
Commission seeking to block imports of solar-power systems made
by Zep Solar and  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)   Westinghouse Solar, a designer and installer of solar-power
systems, accuses the companies of infringing two of its patents
that cover ways to make solar panels easier and cheaper to
install, the Campbell, California-based company said in a
statement yesterday. A copy of the complaint wasn’t immediately
available.  The company has licensed its technology to Chinese and
Japanese firms, and it has been in talks with other companies
“in an effort to bring installation costs down on a more
widespread basis throughout the solar industry,” Westinghouse
Solar Chief Executive Officer Barry Cinnamon said in the
statement.  “Unfortunately, we believe that Zep Solar, Canadian Solar
and others have not appropriately recognized Westinghouse
Solar’s  intellectual property  rights by incorporating a system
-- the Zep System -- that we contend infringes certain of our
patents,” Cinnamon said. “As a consequence, we have turned to
the ITC to address this issue.”  Zep is based in San Rafael,  California , and Canadian Solar
is based in Kitchener, Ontario.  The ITC is an agency in  Washington  that investigates claims
of unfair trade practices and has the authority to ban imports
of products that violate U.S. patent rights.  Aker Responds to Neptune’s Patent Suit, Will Seek Re-Examination  Aker Biomarine ASA (AKBM)  has asked the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to take another look at a patent that issued yesterday to
 Neptune Technologies & Bioressources Inc. (NEPT)  of Laval,  Canada .  The Oslo-based fish-products company said in its Oct. 4
 statement  that the invention covered by Neptune’s 8,030,348
wasn’t new and that the patent infringement suit filed the same
day the patent was issued is frivolous. The compound Neptune
claims to have invented occurs naturally in krill, a shrimp-like
marine crustacean, Aker Biomarine said.  The company says it has retained an expert to repeat the
experiments Neptune conducted that led to the patent. Aker says
if the experiments are conducted properly, they will show that
an earlier method produces the compound covered by the patent.  In its complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 Delaware , Neptune said Aker is making, selling and importing
products containing the patented compound. The complaint
specifically names Aker’s  Superba  krill oil. Krill oil is used
by those with a variety of health conditions including heart
disease and high blood pressure.  Codefendant with Aker is  Schiff Nutrition International
Inc. (WNI)  of Salt Lake City. Neptune objects to Schiff’s  MegaRed 
krill oil.  Neptune asked the court for an order barring the production
and sale of the krill oil compound, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Neptune Technologies & Bioressources Inc. v.
Aker Biomarine ASA, 1:11-cv-00894, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Blind Spot Asks Former Pirate to Make Legitimate ‘Iron Sky’ Game  Blind Spot Pictures , the Helsinki-based film company that
produced “ Iron Sky ,” an alternative-reality film about Nazis
on the moon, has asked the Chinese company that made a pirated
game based on movie to create a legitimate version,  Variety
reported .  A Finnish newspaper, Helsingin Sanomat, set up an interview
between Blind Spot and  China ’s  Ziiso  during which the Chinese
company apologized, according to Variety.  Timo Vuorensola, who directed “Iron Sky,” told Variety
his company is negotiating with Ziiso about updating the game
and including it among official merchandise related to the film.  “ Iron Sky ,” which is financed partly by contributions
from fans, is set to be released in April 2012, Variety
reported.  Premier League, Pubs Get Split EU Court Ruling on TV Rights  The Premier League’s geographic restrictions on
broadcasters such as  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  showing
its soccer matches breach European Union antitrust rules, the
bloc’s highest court said in a ruling that may still limit what
pub and bar owners can show customers.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled that
territorial licenses are “contrary” to competition law “if
the license agreements prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts.” While the
court said anyone can watch such broadcasts, pubs can’t show the
feeds via foreign decoder cards without the permission of the
copyright owner, such as the broadcasters and the league.  The Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful clubs including Manchester United and Liverpool,
started a three-year 1.8 billion-pound ($2.8 billion) U.K.
television contract in August 2010, and receives a further
1.4 billion pounds from the sale of international broadcast
rights. The ruling offers something for the league and the U.K.
pub owner who tried to show local matches from a Greek provider.  The Premier League said that the judgment “makes it clear
that the screening in a pub of football-match broadcasts
containing protected works requires the Premier League’s
authorization.”  BSkyB spokesman Robert Fraser declined to comment
immediately after the ruling was issued.  “This is going to lead to more football on the telly for
fans to watch, and less money for clubs to lavish on the
salaries of their top players,” said Stuart Adams a partner at
law firm Rouse. “That will please most fans. But it will also
lead to smaller clubs going out of business which is not good
news for fans at all.”  In the future, the Premier League may end up selling to
BSkyB, which could then market it across Europe, said Guy
Bisson, an analyst at IHS Screen Digest in  London .  The court’s ruling “strikes at the heart of the business
model that many an industry is built on -- particularly the
broadcasting and entertainment industries,” said Tom
Scourfield, a partner at law firm CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, who
specializes in intellectual property and media law.  While the case mainly focused on the use by pubs in the
U.K. of Greek satellite decoder cards to show Premier League
games, “there now seems to be little to stop individual members
of the public from appropriately acquiring cheap EU decoder
cards from  Greece  or another EU country and watching the games
in their homes,” said Graham Shear, a partner in the litigation
department of Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP in London.  The cases are C-403/08, Football Association Premier League
Ltd, v. QC Leisure and C-429/08, Karen Murphy v. Media
Protection Services Limited.  Wisconsin  Polka Composer Wins Infringement Damages From Ex-Wife  A Wisconsin composer was awarded $25,000 in a copyright
infringement case he brought against his ex-wife and her second
husband.  Ray Rubenzer  of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, claimed the
copyrights to his “ Yodelin’ Boy Polka ” were infringed by the
song “C’mon and Sing” performed by his former wife with her
second husband’s band, the  Top Notchmen .  He files suit June 27 in federal court in Madison,
Wisconsin, accusing Lois Melgaard and David Melgaard of
copyright infringement. He said his former wife used to perform
with his band, “Guys and Gals,” and sang “Yodelin’ Polka
Boy” on numerous occasions.  Rubenzer claimed she was “intimately familiar with both
the lyrics and the music” and was aware that he had the
copyright for the song. He also objected to the recording the
Melgaards made of ‘C’mon & Sing” and its sale to the public,
claiming it was a copy of both the music and the lyrics for
“Yodeling Polka Boy.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Stephen L. Crocker approved a consent
agreement in which the Melgaards pledged to pay Rubenzer the
$25,000 and to deliver to him all the copies of “C’mon and
sing” in their possession. The Melgaards agreed to acknowledge
they infringed the copyright and that Rubenzer was entitled to
all rights to “C’mon and Sing.” Parties were to pay their own
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Rubenzer was represented by Kim M. Peterson of Oconomowoc,
Wisconsin. The Melgaards were represented by Michael Happe of
Ryberg & Happe of Eau Claire, Wisconsin.  The case is Rubenzer v. Melgaard, 3:11-cv-00455, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Wisconsin (Madison).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-CME Software Engineer Indicted for Trade Secret Theft  A former software engineer with  Chicago ’s  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
was indicted for trade secret theft, according to a  statement 
from the office of the U.S. Attorney in Chicago.  Chunlai Yang was accused of downloading more than 1,000 CME
computer files, transferring them to flash drives and
transferring the data to his home computer. He also downloaded
and printed internal manuals and guidelines related to CME’s
 Globex  electronic trading platform, the government said in a
court filing.  The government alleged that Yang and two unidentified
business partners developed business plans to form a futures
exchange software technology company in China using CME’s
proprietary technology.  If convicted, Yang faces a possible $25,000 fine and
10-year prison sentence for each of two counts of trade secret
theft, according to the U.S. Attorney’s statement. The
government also seeks forfeiture of Yang’s personal computers
and related technology.  Yang is represented by  Christopher W. Graul  of Chicago’s
 Ribbeck Law . He didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is U.S.A. v. Chunlai Yang, 1:11-cv-00458, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  IP Moves  Wi-Lan Hires ATMD Bird & Bird’s Scott for Patent Administration  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  hired Robert Scott to be vice president, patent
administration, the Ottawa-based patent-licensing company said
in a  statement .  Scott joins from  Singapore ’s  ATMD Bird & Bird  where he
managed the firm’s patent activities. He has also worked in-
house with a Japanese automotive technology company.  He has both an undergraduate degree in electrical
engineering and a law degree from George Mason University.  Wi-Lan has filed at least 17 patent infringement suits in
U.S. courts since 2007, according to Bloomberg data. Scott is
intended to help the Canadian company expand its patent
litigation and licensing capabilities, Wi-Lan said in its
statement.  The company was founded in 1992 to commercialize technology
related to high speed wireless networking.  K&L Gates Adds Two From Morgan Lewis to Paris IP Practice  K&L Gates LLP added two intellectual property lawyers to
its Paris office, the Pittsburgh-based firm said in a  statement .  The two new hires are  Etienne Drouard  and Claude-Etienne
Armingaud, both from Philadelphia’s Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Drouard  has done both transactional work and litigation
related to intellectual property, data protection and
information technology.  Armingaud has also represented clients in intellectual
property, data protection and information technology matters.  He has both an undergraduate degree and a graduate degree
from the University of Paris, and a master’s degree in law from
Cornell University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 