-- 
Buchanan: With High-Speed Trading, the Market Cannot Hold

-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 
2011-10-05T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/with-high-speed-trading-market-cannot-hold-commentary-by-mark-buchanan.html
Last year, when the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission came out with its final report on the
flash crash, the stomach-churning event of May 6, 2010, that
wiped $1 trillion of value from the markets in less than 30
minutes, it never managed to explain why the episode happened.  A large trade of  stock futures  by a Kansas firm had sparked
it, the report said, and it detailed the ensuing chain of
events, without offering much insight into why such a tumult was
possible.  The  report  did say the activities of high-frequency traders,
firms that use computers to buy and sell thousands of times per
second, had helped the trouble spread. Investors today can’t be
terribly comforted because hundreds of minor flash crashes
involving only a few stocks at a time have struck since then.
Earlier this year, for instance, the share price of an insurance
company called  Enstar Group Ltd. (ESGR)  fell from roughly $100 to zero,
then rose back to $100 in the space of just a few seconds.     Since
we don’t know what’s causing these sudden shifts, we can’t be
sure that one as big as, or even bigger than, the May 2010 event
won’t occur tomorrow, or next week.  The good news is, people are still studying the situation.
One of the most illuminating recent  analyses  comes from Andrew
Haldane, the Bank of England’s executive director for financial
stability. High-frequency trading, he says, really is making the
market less stable, and for understandable reasons.
Unfortunately, identifying what is happening appears to be more
straightforward than figuring out what to do about it.  High-frequency trading now accounts for almost 75 percent of
all buying and selling of U.S. equities, and a race to trade
even faster is under way. The technology to trade thousands of
times per second has existed for several years, and it won’t be
long before that rate is pushed to a million. The fastest
exchanges are now executed in about 10 microseconds -- the time
it takes a jetliner flying at full speed to travel one 10th of
an inch.  This speed has clearly brought some benefits. Consider, for
example, the so-called bid-ask spread: the small difference
between the prices at which an investor can buy or sell a
particular stock. Smaller spreads mean cheaper trading, and data
suggest that spreads in the U.S. and the U.K. have, over the
past decade, narrowed to about a 10th of their previous values.
For slightly technical reasons, the bid-ask spread is also a
convenient measure of market liquidity: how easy it is to sell a
stock at any moment (without having to cut the price). Narrower
bid-ask spreads mean higher liquidity and markets that run
smoother.  Abrupt Price Changes  But a single measure never tells a complete story. Other
evidence suggests that as markets become more liquid -- and
hence, more stable most of the time -- they also become more
prone to abrupt gyrations.  An informal  study  by the New York Times, reported a few
weeks ago, found that single-day share-price changes as large as
3 percent to 4 percent are now more likely than at any other
time in recent stock-market history. Academic studies show much
the same thing: In the past six years, large and volatile
movements in stock prices over periods of 15 minutes or so have
become much more common.  This isn’t surprising. It just means that markets now behave
the same way over short periods (minutes) as they have done over
hours and days -- with a marked tendency toward sudden
movements. It’s when you consider the consequences of this
increasing volatility that Haldane’s analysis becomes most
interesting: He argues that the precarious position in which
some high-frequency traders find themselves, especially during
stormy periods in the markets, may cause their actions to
exacerbate the trouble.  Here’s why. The bid-ask spread is largely set by traders who
act as so-called market makers. They don’t speculate on price
movements, but simply stand ready to take either side of a
trade, and aim to profit from the spread. Market makers can
reduce spreads to attract trading, but they can’t go too far
because they face risks -- for example, that a stock they buy
might lose value before they can sell it. Ultimately, the bid-
ask spread reflects how much market makers have to charge to
take on such risks and still be profitable, while making it
easier for everyone else to trade when they want.  Importantly, Haldane points out, the risks that market
makers face grow with the likely size of price movements. In
increasingly volatile periods, high-frequency market makers have
to charge more because they get burned more often by unexpected
movements. Hence, it’s quite natural to expect a market maker,
during an episode of market chaos, to widen its bid-ask spreads,
sometimes drastically.  Vanishing Liquidity  And this brings us to the main point -- that it’s the sudden
evaporation of such liquidity that propels events such as the
flash crash. All in all, then, it seems likely that the very
high-frequency trading that makes the markets run so smoothly in
quiet times does the opposite in stormy times, exaggerating the
chaos.  Some critics say the liquidity these traders provide when
markets are calm is elusive: It vanishes in rough periods. This
seems to have helped make the 2010 flash crash so extreme, and
is, in Haldane’s analysis, exactly what we should expect.  In principle, the very computing technology that has made
high-frequency trading possible might also be put to work in
controlling the instabilities it creates, possibly through
circuit breakers that would kick in automatically on early-
warning signs of liquidity disruption. A mechanism for doing
that effectively may be a long way off, though, and simple speed
limits on trading -- making every transaction take at least a
time T, which might be one second, or something else -- would
probably be much better in the short run.  But that, of course, would mean accepting a trade-off. In
reducing the likelihood of flash crash events, we would have to
accept wider bid-ask spreads during the market’s normal peaceful
periods -- and that would mean more expensive trading. Very
possibly, as Haldane has helpfully pointed out, we just can’t
have it both ways. (For those interested in some of the
technical details of Haldane’s argument, see  my blog ).  (Mark Buchanan is a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  