-- 
Yahoo Climbs on Report of Microsoft Interest

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-10-05T20:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/yahoo-climbs-on-report-of-microsoft-interest.html
Yahoo! Inc., which is considering
strategic options in the wake of ousting its chief executive
officer last month, rose 10 percent after Reuters reported that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may make a bid.  Microsoft might enlist a partner to go after Yahoo, Reuters
reported today, citing sources close to the situation. Yahoo
spurned a $47.5 billion bid from Microsoft in 2008. No decision
has been made to come back to the negotiating table, and there
are internal divisions at Microsoft over the idea, Reuters said.  Yahoo takeover speculation has intensified over the past
month, following the board’s decision to fire CEO  Carol Bartz 
and embark on a review of its options. Yahoo, the biggest U.S.
Web portal, has struggled to revive growth and beat back
competition from Facebook Inc. and Google Inc.  Yahoo shares rose $1.46 to $15.92 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, marking the biggest one-day gain
since October 2008. The stock had dropped 13 percent this year
before today.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman at Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, declined to comment to Bloomberg News.  Frank Shaw , a
spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  ‘Multiple Parties’  Yahoo said in a September memo to employees that its
advisers have fielded inquiries from “multiple parties”
interested in unspecified options. Last week, Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma said he’s “very interested” in
buying Yahoo, which owns about 40 percent of his company.  The private-equity firm  Silver Lake  also has discussed a
possible bid for Yahoo, part of a deal that may include Alibaba
and  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies, people with direct
knowledge of the matter have told Bloomberg.  The Silver Lake group contacted Yahoo and its advisers in
recent weeks to inform them of a possible offer, said one
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The discussions are still at an early stage and it’s
not certain that the group will agree to make a bid, the people
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  