-- 
Zuckerman Spaeder Hires Tomback as New York Criminal Defense Office Grows

-- B y   C u l l e n   W h e a t l e y
-- 
2011-10-05T19:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-05/zuckerman-spaeder-hires-tomback-as-new-york-criminal-defense-office-grows.html
Zuckerman Spaeder LLP hired Andrew E. Tomback, formerly a partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy
LLP, as the  law firm  expands its New York white-collar criminal
defense practice.  Tomback joins recent hires Steven M. Cohen, a former aide
to Governor  Andrew Cuomo , and defense attorney Paul Shechtman in
Washington-based Zuckerman Spaeder’s New York office, the firm
said today in a statement on its website.  “This addition again demonstrates what we are building
here in New York--a top flight team of lawyers that mirrors what
Zuckerman Spaeder offers in  Washington , D.C., and all its
offices,” Cohen, whose hiring was announced Sept. 21, said in
the statement.  On Oct. 3, Zuckerman Spaeder said it added Shechtman, a
former director of criminal justice under Governor George
Pataki. All three new hires are former federal prosecutors, the
firm said.  Zuckerman Spaeder, founded in 1975, opened its  New York 
office in 2004.  Partner William W. Taylor III successfully defended
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former director of the  International
Monetary Fund , who was accused of sexual assault and attempted
rape by a hotel maid in New York. Manhattan prosecutors dropped
the charges in August.  Cohen said in a phone interview today that he’s developing
a “strategic-management crisis avoidance” program to reduce a
company’s need for future legal counsel by addressing internal
issues before they create trouble. He declined to name any
current clients.  Cohen said he plans to hire more lawyers within the next
three to four months.  “There will come a time when we are looking for attorneys
out of the U.S. attorney’s office, the SEC, and the DA’s
office,” he said. Cohen said he doesn’t want a big practice,
and will stop hiring “when the feel is right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cullen Wheatley in New York at 
 cwheatley2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 