-- Abe Avoids War Shrine as Ministers Visit on Anniversary
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-08-15T08:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/abe-cabinet-ministers-visit-war-dead-shrine-to-mark-anniversary.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
avoided visiting a Tokyo shrine on the 68th anniversary of the
country’s World War II defeat, opting to send a cash donation as
he seeks to avoid further damage to regional ties.  Three members of Abe’s cabinet paid their respects at the
Yasukuni Shrine, seen by many in Asia as a symbol of  Japan ’s
past military aggression. A group of about 100 lawmakers,
including the policy chief of Abe’s ruling Liberal Democratic
Party, prayed together at the site. China lodged a formal
diplomatic protest.  “I sent a donation to mourn and offer my thanks to those
who fought for the country and gave their precious lives,” Abe
told reporters today at his official residence in Tokyo. “This
is a day to pray for peace.” He declined to comment on whether
he might visit the shrine again.  Trips to  Yasukuni  by senior government officials risk
worsening ties with China and South Korea, which are embroiled
in separate territorial disputes with Japan. The site
commemorates Japan’s war dead, including 14 wartime leaders
convicted as war criminals, and visits by politicians revive ill
feelings in countries that suffered under Japanese occupation.  “Japanese leaders should show their courageous leadership
to heal wounds of the past so that both countries can develop as
a true cooperative partner that the people of the two nations
hope for,” South Korean President Park Geun Hye said in a
speech in  Seoul  marking the end of Japan’s 35-year occupation of
the peninsula that began in 1910.  China Protest  Ties with China have deteriorated since Japan bought three
of five East China Sea islands last September that are also
claimed by China. Trade and investment links between Asia’s two
largest economies have been damaged, and no bilateral summit has
been held for more than a year. Japan is embroiled in a  spat
with South Korea over another set of islands.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said in a
statement on the Foreign Ministry’s website that there would be
no future for relations between Japan and its neighbors if Japan
doesn’t stick to its commitments on historical issues. Vice
Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin summoned Japan’s ambassador to
lodge a formal protest.  Japan’s Internal Affairs Minister Yoshitaka Shindo told
reporters he paid his respects at the shrine as a private
individual. National Public Safety Commission Chairman Keiji
Furuya said at the site that it wasn’t for other nations to
dictate whether officials could honor the country’s war dead.
Administrative Reform Minister Tomomi Inada also visited the
site.  Lining Up  Members of the public lined up outside the shrine in
searing heat to wait their turn to offer prayers, while right-wing demonstrators in black vans emblazoned with slogans like
“destroy our enemy” blasted the area with military music.  Abe, who is also seeking to avoid alienating nationalist
supporters of his plans to bolster the military and amend
Japan’s U.S.-drafted pacifist constitution, declined to say if
he’d visit Yasukuni again, adding he did not want it to become a
political issue. He paid his respects there last year before
coming to power in December elections.  “I think his decision today is one that’s very clear, very
thoughtful and looking toward the future,” Robert Mendendez,
chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told
reporters after meeting Abe in  Tokyo . Such efforts to avoid
being “cemented in the past” were good for Japan, he said.  Prayer Offering  Abe offered prayers at the Chidorigafuchi National Cemetery
today and attended a memorial service in Tokyo alongside Emperor Akihito. In a speech at the memorial service, Abe avoided
mentioning the harm caused to Japan’s neighbors, something that
is usually referenced in comments on the anniversary, Kyodo
reported, although he did say “we should face up humbly to our
history and engrave its lessons on our hearts.”  U.S. pressure may have contributed to Abe’s decision to
avoid Yasukuni, Lu Hao, a researcher in the Japan research
department at the Chinese Academy of Social Science, wrote in
 China ’s official People’s Daily today.  “The U.S. fears that Japan, because of excessive
historical revisionism, will cause relations with neighbors to
deteriorate, which will lead U.S. relations with Asia-Pacific
nations into a conundrum,” Lu wrote.  Reconciling Past  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga reiterated that it
was a matter of course for Japanese to mourn their war dead and
said the government wouldn’t express a view on Abe’s decision.  “At the deeper level the issue is really about history and
whether or not Japan is willing to reconcile itself with past
atrocities it committed against not only Chinese people but Asia
at large,” said Dong Wang, director of the Center for Northeast
Asian Strategic Studies at Peking University.  Finance Minister Taro Aso visited Yasukuni earlier in the
year, sparking the cancellation of a planned visit by South
Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se. Aso has also attracted
criticism for a speech last month in which he said the
government could learn about how to change the constitution from
the Nazis. He later retracted the remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  