-- Adcock Continues Exclusive Talks With CFR as Other Offers Made
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-08-15T11:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/adcock-continues-exclusive-talks-with-cfr-as-other-offers-made.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) ,  South
Africa ’s largest supplier of hospital goods, remains in
exclusive talks with Chilean suitor  CFR (CFR)  Pharmaceuticals SA even
after receiving takeover proposals from other bidders.  The board “received further unsolicited proposals from
potential offerors,” after it entered exclusive talks with
drugmaker CFR, Johannesburg-based Adcock said in a statement
today. These proposals aren’t regarded “as being more
favourable,” than the CFR offer, it said.  Actis LLP, a London-based private-equity firm, proposed an
offer for Adcock to counter the bid from CFR, two people
familiar with the matter said on Aug. 13. Actis made a 70 rand
per share offer to Adcock’s board in late July on condition it
gets the same information as given to CFR, one of the people
said. More than 80 percent of the offer would be in cash, the
person said.  Adcock  shares , which rallied 2.7 percent to 67.75 rand on
Aug. 13, fell as much as 2.8 percent after the company’s
statement today. The stock traded 0.8 percent lower at 67.60
rand as of 1:03 p.m. in Johannesburg, valuing the company at
11.8 billion rand ($1.2 billion). The maker of drugs including
Panado painkillers said on July 3 it had entered exclusive talks
with CFR after receiving a non-binding cash and shares bid
valued at a potential 73.51 rand a share.  New Shares  CFR,  Chile ’s biggest drugmaker, said Aug. 13 profit
increased 89 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.
The offer for Adcock will be partly funded by $750 million of
new shares.  CFR didn’t disclose the component of shares in its offer,
causing concern among investors including The Public Investment
Corp., Adcock’s biggest shareholder, and Oasis Group Holdings.  The PIC, which oversees the pension funds of South African
government workers, would be willing to consider a strategic
partner or investor if a cash offer is for a 50 percent plus one
share control of Adcock, Chief Investment Officer Dan Matjila
said on July 17. Oasis Group Holdings, which holds 2.3 percent
of Adcock shares, said on July 16 it won’t support the CFR bid
as it doesn’t want the Chilean company’s stock.  Adcock rejected a 6.2 billion-rand cash and shares offer
from Johannesburg-based  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  for a 60 percent
stake in the company in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  