-- Hagel Issues Sex-Assault Rules as Congress Weighs Action
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-15T18:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hagel-issues-sex-assault-rules-as-congress-weighs-action.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel issued
guidelines intended to increase protection for service members
who say they’ve been sexually assaulted, including a more
rigorous victim’s advocacy program.  Hagel outlined in a memo steps such as a requirement that a
general or admiral be given status reports whenever sex-assault
allegations are filed and providing for a regular review by the
Pentagon’s inspector general of cases that are closed.  “When a crime does occur, we must ensure that victims’
rights are respected, they are provided responsive and timely
support, and related investigations and judicial proceedings, if
appropriate, are conducted in a thorough, professional and fair
manner,” Hagel said in the memo released today.  “Remember, we are all responsible for eliminating this
crime from our ranks,” Hagel said.  The proposals were offered as the military and its allies
on the armed services committees in Congress are working to
defeat a proposal to remove major crimes, including sexual
assaults, from the chain of command and turn them over to
independent military prosecutors.  “The Pentagon taking action is a good thing, and these are
positive steps forward, but it is not the leap forward required
to solve the problem,” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a  New York 
Democrat who’s leading the push for independent prosecutors,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Chilling Effect’  “As we have heard over and over again from the victims and
the top military leadership themselves, there is a lack of trust
in the system that has a chilling effect on reporting,” she
said. She said that “302 prosecutions out of an estimated
26,000 cases just isn’t good enough under any metric.”  The Defense Department has resisted the measure, saying
commanding officers must be able to discipline their own troops.
The military has won support in that position from lawmakers
including Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads
the Senate Armed Services committee, and Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who serves on the panel.  Asked about Gillibrand’s comments, Army Lieutenant General
Curtis Scaparrotti, director of the Joint Staff that oversees
the services, said, “We’re looking at every possible idea
practice that’s out there that might help us.”  “If we believe that we can make a difference,” the
Pentagon will “look strongly” at other initiatives “that
perhaps aren’t in this group here today,” he said.  White House  The White House press office said in a statement that the
actions announced today “are substantial but only a step along
a path toward eliminating this crime from our military ranks.
The president expects this level of effort to be sustained not
only in the coming weeks and months but as far into the future
as necessary.”  Among the new measures, the military services are directed
to put into effect by Jan. 1 a special victim’s advocacy program
that provides legal advice and representation, according to
Hagel.  Hagel’s memo also calls for enhancing victim protection by
allowing the services to reassign or transfer a service member
accused of an assault.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  