-- Air Berlin Targets $400 Million Worth of Plane Sales to Cut Debt
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-15T09:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/air-berlin-targets-400-million-worth-of-plane-sales-to-cut-debt.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germany’s second-largest airline, will sell about $400 million worth of planes to
a new Chinese lessor as part of a financial turnaround plan.  The transaction should be completed “within the next
couple of days,” Chief Financial Officer Ulf Huettmeyer told
analysts today. The deal would cover 13 jets, some to be placed
in  China  and others leased back by Air Berlin, he said on a call
from China.  The sale will bring Air Berlin close to its debt target of
about 500 million euros ($665 million) from 706 million euros at
mid-year, he said. The carrier is reducing its fleet to 143
planes this year from 155 at the end of 2012. Air Berlin may tap
equity markets to improve its finances once investors are
convinced by the turnaround program, Huettmeyer said.  Reaching a target of breaking even before interest and
taxes for the full year has become more challenging as a hot
summer in  Germany  depressed bookings in July and August, Chief
Executive Officer Wolfgang Prock-Schauer said on the call from
Berlin.  “Due to the extreme weather there was a certain slowdown
in passenger movements,” he said. Business in September and
October may yet allow Air Berlin to meet its target with
“encouraging” signs that bookings are picking up, he said.  Etihad Partnership  Air Berlin fell 2.1 percent to 2.1 euros as of 10:30 a.m.
in  Frankfurt . The stock has advanced 37 percent this year,
valuing the airline at 245.7 million euros.  The loss before interest and taxes narrowed to 8.1 million
euro loss in the second quarter from 29.4 million euros in the
same period a year earlier, the airline said today in a
statement. Sales were little changed at 1.1 billion euros even
after an 8 percent reduction in capacity.  Passenger numbers benefited from a partnership with
minority shareholder Etihad Airways PJSC, which holds a 29
percent stake, and code-share numbers will probably double this
year, Prock-Schauer said. More travelers also came to Air Berlin
via the Oneworld alliance, he said.  The airline remains on track with its cost-cutting effort
that seeks to improve earnings by 400 million euros by the end
of next year, Prock-Schauer said, adding that about 80 percent
of the target for this year has been secured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  