-- Lambert Goal Gives England 3-2 Win Over Scotland; Brazil Loses
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-15T01:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/lambert-goal-gives-england-3-2-win-over-scotland-brazil-loses.html
Rickie Lambert scored on his debut
as  England  twice rallied to beat  Scotland  3-2 in their first
meeting since 1999. Spain, Argentina and the U.S. also won
soccer exhibition games, while  Brazil  lost in Switzerland.  Lambert, 31, headed the winning goal in the 70th minute at
London’s Wembley Stadium last night three minutes after
replacing Wayne Rooney. Scotland twice took the lead through
goals by James Morrison and Kenny Miller, only for Theo Walcott
and  Danny Welbeck  to hit back for England.  “That’s what I’ve been dreaming of for probably all my
life,” Lambert, who worked in a beetroot packing factory to
supplement his income from soccer early in his career, said in a
news conference. “It means so much.”  The match, which revived a rivalry that began in 1872 --
the oldest in international soccer -- gave both teams a tuneup
before they resume their qualifying campaigns for next year’s
World Cup on Sept. 6.  Brazil, which will host the 2014 tournament, slipped to a
1-0 defeat against Switzerland in Basel on  Dani Alves ’s second-half own goal. It was the Brazilians’ first match since winning
the Confederations Cup in June.  World and European champion Spain rebounded from its 3-0
loss to Brazil in the Confederations Cup final as Alvaro Negredo
and Santi Cazorla scored in a 2-0 win at Ecuador.  Argentina beat Italy 2-1 in  Rome  on goals from Gonzalo Higuain and Ever Banega, while Cristiano Ronaldo scored with
three minutes remaining to give Portugal a 1-1 home draw against
the Netherlands.  Hat Tricks  Paris Saint-Germain striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic got three
goals as  Sweden  beat Norway 4-2. Jozy Altidore also netted a hat
trick in the U.S.’s 4-3 win against Bosnia-Herzegovina in the
teams’ first meeting. Trailing 2-0 at halftime, the U.S. scored
four straight goals in Sarajevo to extend its record winning
streak to 12 straight games.  Liverpool forward Luis Suarez, who’s been linked with a
move to Premier League rival Arsenal, set up Diego Forlan’s
opener, won the free kick for his strike partner’s second goal,
and then added the third in Uruguay’s 4-2 win in  Japan .  In other exhibition matches yesterday, Germany recovered
from 2-0 down inside 14 minutes to draw 3-3 at home against
Paraguay, while France’s goalless streak stretched to four
matches with a 0-0 draw in Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  