-- Amgen Talks to Buy Onyx Said to Stall on Drug Trial Data
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-08-15T20:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/amgen-talks-to-buy-onyx-said-to-stall-on-drug-trial-data.html
Buyout talks over  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s
proposed takeover of  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  are held up over
a dispute about access to data from an ongoing drug trial even
as the two sides have a general agreement on price, said three
people familiar with the matter.  Onyx is prepared to accept a $130-a-share all-cash offer
and Amgen remains interested, the people said. At issue is
whether Onyx will provide Amgen with data from a study designed
for European approval of Onyx’s blood-cancer treatment Kyprolis,
said two of the people, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private. Onyx doesn’t have access to the data as
the trial is ongoing and doesn’t want to obtain results before
the study is done as it may slow the approval process, one of
the people said.  If the two companies can get past the issue, the
$9.5 billion deal could be done quickly, the people said. The
share price would be a 50 percent premium over $86.82, where
South San Francisco, California-based Onyx’s stock traded before
news of Amgen’s first offer became public in late June.  Onyx fell 7.2 percent to $115.34 at the close in New York,
its biggest single-day  decline  since June 2012. Amgen fell less
than 1 percent to $105.76.  Data from the drug trial are expected to be released in the
first half of next year, Onyx has said. Amgen, the world’s
biggest biotechnology company by sales, wants more data to help
it value Kyprolis, one of the people said.  Sales Estimate  Revenue from Kyprolis may surge about ninefold to $2.4
billion by 2019, according to analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Onyx also sells Nexavar, for liver and kidney cancer,
and Stivarga, for stomach cancer, in partnership with  Germany ’s
 Bayer AG. (BAYN)  The biotechnology company reported $362 million in
2012  revenue , with 80 percent coming from Nexavar and Stivarga.  “Amgen does not comment on market rumors,” said Christine Regan, a spokeswoman for the Thousand Oaks, California-based
company. Lori Melancon, a spokeswoman for Onyx, declined to
comment on the report of the talks.  London-based AstraZeneca Plc is said to be interested and
is still looking at the company, people familiar with the matter
have said.  The sale effort began June 30 when Onyx rejected an
unsolicited offer from Amgen for $120 a share and said it was
working with adviser  Centerview Partners .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  