-- Hamptons Scene: Wine Club’s $3,250 Tasting; Spike Lee
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-15T14:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hamptons-scene-wine-club-s-3-250-tasting-spike-lee.html
A huge faux-stone face of Bacchus
frames a doorway in the tasting room at Societe du Vin, a new
private wine club in Bridgehampton.  In the climate-controlled room next door sit 14 bottles of
Domaine de la Romanee-Conti Richebourg, representing 10 vintages
from 1948 to 1999.  Tomorrow night they’ll be uncorked for 14 guests. The cost
to sip: $3,250. A few seats remain.  “We will start with the young and work our way to the
old,” said Peter Thustrup, 61, the wine adviser who will lead
the tasting.  Thustrup, president and founder of Paris-based PT Lifestyle
Wine, said half of the wines come from his favorite private
collection in  France  and were bought directly from Domaine
Romanee-Conti between 10 and 20 years ago.  To prepare for the tasting, it’s important “to be
rested,” Thustrup said. “In the Hamptons this should not be a
problem.”  The event is a co-venture between the Wine Trust LP, which
operates a wine-investment fund and a wine-distribution business
based in Ridgefield,  Connecticut , and Societe du Vin, founded by
Houston Rockets owner Leslie Alexander.  Alexander started the club as a place for wine aficionados
to gather, store and share their wine. The initiation fee is
$50,000, plus annual dues. A club spokesman, Jenna Petrucci,
declined to state the number of members.  Potato Barn  Rustic and whimsical, the club occupies a converted potato
barn on Butter Lane. A Hollywood set designer did the interior:
A staircase to private cellars has the names of famous wines
printed on the steps. A storage space has blue floors and faux-rust walls.  In the tasting room, cherubs dangle from the chandeliers.
Blue velvet chairs sit around giant wood tables.  There’s no leather in the design and pets are welcome.
Alexander is an animal lover, though he doesn’t plan to bring
his Yellow Lab Joey to the tasting.  “My dog eats anything I eat, but when I put wine down to
his nose, he refuses it,” Alexander said.  New York Notes  On Tuesday night, Spike Lee sat in on a private concert by
Jon Batiste and his band Stay Human at the inside lounge of
Gallow Green, the McKittrick Hotel’s rooftop garden.  The show started with two renditions of “My Favorite
Things”: “We forgot to transition to the next song, so we’re
going to do it again,” said Batiste, who went to Juilliard.  The show was being taped for the PBS series “Front Row
Center,” pegged to the Oct. 8 release of the band’s album
“Social Music.”  “Sleep No More” producer Jonathan Hochwald, writer Alexis
Clark, and Brooklyn Bowl owner  Peter Shapiro  were in the
audience. “I’m jealous of this venue,” Shapiro said.  Spotted at Monday’s opening night of “Love’s Labour’s
Lost”:Hans Morris, advisory director at General Atlantic LLC;
Jeffrey Barker,  New York  City market president of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , which sponsors the  Public Theater ’s Shakespeare
in the Park; and playwright John Guare.  For a hint of which college the characters may have
attended, see the blue-and-white marching band.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 