-- AMR Seeks Plan Approval in Shadow of U.S. Merger Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-08-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/amr-bankruptcy-plan-goes-to-judge-after-u-s-merger-suit.html
AMR Corp. urged a judge to approve
its plan to exit  bankruptcy protection  by merging its  American
Airlines (AAMRQ)  with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  two days after the U.S. sued
to block the combination as a threat to consumers.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan yesterday held
a hearing on American’s request for approval of the
reorganization plan and asked lawyers to submit briefs on the
impact of the Justice Department’s antitrust lawsuit.  The Justice Department sued both airline companies Aug. 13
to prevent the transaction, which would create the world’s
largest carrier, saying its anticompetitive effects would lead
to higher airfares.  AMR lawyer Stephen Karotkin told Lane that the U.S. lawsuit
isn’t an impediment to approval of the plan though it prevents
the plan from closing.  “Obviously, your honor, we are disappointed with the
complaint that was recently filed by the  Department of
Justice ,” he said, and the two airlines “intend to mount a
vigorous defense.”  ‘Final Episode’  Before the suit, American hoped yesterday’s hearing would
be the “final episode” in its reorganization, Joe Sims, an
attorney for the airline, said on an Aug. 14 conference call
with reporters.  “It’s not going be now, so they will deal with that,”
said Sims, of the Jones Day law firm. “They’ll adjust and
continue as they have been.”  Lane, who has already given the  US Airways  deal his
approval, could approve the plan contingent on American’s
securing the government’s blessing, according to Jay Sakalo, a
bankruptcy attorney at Bilzin Sumberg Baena Price & Axelrod LLP
in Miami.  American will be able to continue operating in bankruptcy
while it fights the U.S. lawsuit, said Sakalo, who isn’t
involved in the case.  “A few more months probably doesn’t have a critical effect
on the company,” he said in an Aug. 14 interview. “A few more
months, though, that are followed by no viable alternative if
the merger isn’t approved -- that could have a very significant
impact on the business.”  Move Ahead  At the start of the hearing, Lane said he considered
adjourning it before deciding to move ahead because calling it
off might have led to “unhelpful confusion or uncertainty.”  Lane asked for briefs on the impact of the U.S. antitrust
case on the standards for approving the plan and the
appropriateness of ruling on the plan before the U.S. case is
resolved. He said any party can file a brief, including the
 Justice Department .  AMR filed for bankruptcy in November 2011 and reached the
deal with US Airways in February. The merger is the basis of a
proposal to pay creditors and emerge from court protection.  AMR creditors and  shareholders  support the reorganization,
according to balloting results announced Aug. 1. The merger
would provide unsecured creditors a full recovery and new stock
for shareholders. The airlines were awaiting regulatory approval
and Lane’s signoff before closing the deal.  Seeking Trial  In its antitrust complaint, the Justice Department said AMR
“is fully capable of emerging from bankruptcy proceedings on
its own with a competitive cost structure, profitable existing
business, and plans for growth.”  During an Aug. 14 conference call, attorneys for the two
airlines defended the deal as good for consumers. They said they
will fight the lawsuit and seek a trial by the end of the year.  “We’re litigating this case, period,” said Paul Denis, an
attorney for Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways at Dechert LLP.  If the merger falls apart, American and its creditors will
develop a new plan, which will stretch the case into next year,
 Jack Butler , an attorney for creditors, said in an interview.  “We go back to square one, and we start over again,”
Butler of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP told Sara
Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” Aug. 14. “We sort out what makes the most sense and
what maximizes value for creditors and what’s good for the
airline going forward, and that is a process that will go into
2014.”  The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  