-- Manchester United Prepares Final Fabregas Offer: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-15T08:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/manchester-united-prepares-final-fabregas-offer-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  40-Million Pound Fabregas  Manchester United  is ready to offer as much as 40 million
pounds ($62.1 million) for Barcelona’s Cesc Fabregas in the
final week of the transfer window, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  United remains convinced that Fabregas continues to have
doubts about his starting prospects at the Spanish club and that
the next two weeks will be pivotal in its attempts to sign him,
the newspaper said. Barcelona is said to have indicated to
United a price at which it would consider selling the
midfielder, the Telegraph added.  Final Offer  United has given up on trying to sign  England  left-back
Leighton Baines after its bid of 12 million pounds was rejected
in June, the  Daily Mirror reported , citing Everton manager
 Roberto Martinez .  “One club officially contacted ourselves with an offer and
it was a final offer,” the Mirror cited Martinez as saying.
“They put something over and the valuation wasn’t anywhere near
the quality of Leighton Baines. That was the end of it.”  Gunners Miss Gustavo  Arsenal target Luiz Gustavo is set to join Wolfsburg after
 Bayern Munich  agreed to sell the midfielder to its German rival
for 20 million euros ($26.5 million), the  Guardian reported .  The Gunners had valued Gustavo at about 14 million pounds
and their unwillingness to go much higher allowed Wolfsburg to
seize the initiative, the newspaper added.  Dzeko Blow  Manchester City  will tell Arsenal that Edin Dzeko is not
for sale after the Bosnia-Herzegovina striker impressed his new
manager Manuel Pellegrini, the  Daily Mail reported .  The London club turned its attention to Dzeko after
accepting that its unlikely to sign  Luis Suarez  from Liverpool,
the newspaper added.  Suarez Still On?  Arsenal hasn’t given up hope of signing Suarez and is
considering a final offer of 49 million pounds for the Uruguayan
forward, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Suarez had been cited by El Observador newspaper yesterday
as saying that he had decided to stay at Liverpool, though
denied making the statement following Uruguay’s 4-2 exhibition
match victory against  Japan , the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  