-- Mandatory Minimums Worked. Now They Must Go.
-- B y   P a u l   H .   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-15T15:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/mandatory-minimums-worked-now-they-must-go-.html
 U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
announced this week that the  Justice Department  would
 significantly alter  how nonviolent drug offenders are charged in
order to circumvent mandatory minimum sentencing requirements.  Some will support the new policies because taking the
amount of drugs associated with a crime out of consideration
will reduce sentences, along with the U.S.’s  high incarceration
rate . Opponents will argue that stringent sentencing rules have
helped bring down the violent-crime rate from the  terrifying
levels  seen during the second half of the 20th century. And
while lowering costs by reducing the prison population is
attractive, some may worry that this is just cost-shifting:
Individual citizens could suffer the consequences of
victimization by those released under the new policies.  The greatest reservation people may have about the change
is the simple inappropriateness of removing a  fact  -- the amount
of drugs associated with a crime -- that is so obviously
relevant when considering blameworthiness and punishment. Large
amounts of drugs will now be treated the same as small amounts,
thereby inviting gross failures of justice.  But regarding this crucial point of doing justice, the new
policies are on firm ground. Although the new practice is
designed to frustrate a clear legislative directive (usually not
a popular move), in this instance it is both morally and
practically justified.  Court Precedent  Understanding why mandatory minimum sentences were
important during the  crime explosions  of the 1960s and ’70s is
easy enough. Something had to be done about idiosyncratic judges
who were seen as being “soft on crime.” Before mandatory
minimum sentencing, some judges would offer sentences of
probation and community service for an intentional killing.  An offender’s punishment shouldn’t depend on their good or
bad luck in the sentencing judge they draw. Punishment should
depend on a criminal’s offense, as well as his or her
culpability and capacities at the time of the crime. In an
effort to avoid gross failures of justice, Congress  enacted 
mandatory minimums as part of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act in 1986.  Things have changed since then.  For anyone who truly believes in the importance of justice,
avoiding injustice is just as important as avoiding failures of
justice. We have constant reminders that mandatory sentences are
blunt instruments that regularly and predictably do harm. Some
cases do have important grounds for mitigating sentencing.
Youth, duress, mental illness and other factors could be present
in some form yet ignored by the mandatory sentencing
requirements.  We have also discovered the feasibility of using sentencing
guidelines instead of mandatory minimums, a system by which
judicial discretion can be retained yet controlled. As one of
the original members of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, I
 dissented  from the promulgation of the current guidelines
because I thought we could have done much better. But guidelines
in many jurisdictions have shown that, properly drafted, they
can work.  Accumulating empirical evidence has made us more skeptical
of the effectiveness of general deterrence -- an idea that
played a large role in the justification of many mandatory
sentences, including “three strikes” statutes and high
penalties for nonviolent drug offenses. The  evidence  suggests
that most potential offenders don’t know the applicable
mandatory minimum laws and therefore cannot be influenced by
them. Even if potential offenders do know them, most do not
rationally calculate the risk of punishment. Rather, most
criminals suffer from the distortions of alcohol, drugs, mental
dysfunction, peer influence (often through gangs) and a host of
other judgment-impairing factors. Even if most criminals
considered the harsher penalties imposed by mandatory minimums,
they wouldn’t be deterred if they perceived their chances of
being caught and subsequently punished to be so low as to be
irrelevant -- which many do.  Excessive Punishment  Another issue with mandatory minimums is that they are
commonly set at levels grossly out of proportion to the
seriousness of the offense. One  recent study  of laypeople’s
intentions of justice showed drastic differences between the
mandatory minimum laws’ applications in real cases and the
average person’s judgments about those cases. In one “three
strikes” case, for example, the study subjects recommended a
sentence of three years in prison; in reality, the court was
required to give a life sentence. For a case involving
transporting marijuana, the subjects recommended two years,
while the court was compelled to give 15 years to life. In
another case involving cocaine, the subjects prescribed four
years, while the court was obligated to give a sentence of life
without parole.  There is also a growing sentiment, backed by  empirical
evidence , that the criminal-justice system loses moral
credibility with the community when it causes the kind of
regular and intentional injustice brought by mandatory minimums.
This loss translates into lower crime-control effectiveness,
making people at all stages in the process -- witnesses, police,
prosecutors, judges and offenders -- more likely to subvert what
they perceive as an unjust system.  As an indication of how much things have changed, in 2007,
the American Law Institute  amended its Model Penal Code  for the
first time since the document was introduced in 1962. The
amendment altered the principles that guide criminal sentencing
by mandating that justice be the dominant and inviolable
principle. General deterrence, for example, could be taken into
account only to the extent that it was consistent with the
deserved punishment.  As long as we have mandatory minimum sentences, criminal
law cannot gain the moral credibility with the community that
will maximize its crime-control effectiveness. Until Congress
drops the use of mandatory minimums, the executive branch will
be morally and practically justified in helping to circumvent
them.  ( Paul H. Robinson  is a professor of law at the  University
of Pennsylvania  and one of the original commissioners of the
U.S. Sentencing Commission. He is the author most recently, with
Sarah Robinson, of the coming book “Human Rules: How People
Behave When Beyond the Law.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul H. Robinson at  phr@law.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 