-- ANZ Declines on Lower Lending Margins as Cash Profit Climbs 11%
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-16T00:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/anz-bank-nine-month-cash-profit-climbs-11-on-higher-lending.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the nation’s third-largest bank by market value,
fell the most in three months as it forecast lending margins
will decline, even as nine-month profit rose 11 percent.  Cash profit , which excludes one-time items, climbed to
A$4.8 billion ($4.4 billion) in the nine months ended June 30,
the Melbourne-based lender said in a statement today. Net profit
rose 7 percent to A$4.7 billion.  ANZ joins  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in posting higher
profit even as the economy slows. Chief Executive Officer
Michael Smith is focused on reducing costs as lending margins
are under pressure in its international and institutional
banking unit.  “Margins are under pressure and are likely to take another
half to normalize,” Mark Nathan, managing partner at Sydney-based Arnhem Investment Management Pty said. “While the
underlying businesses are tracking well, margin outlook would be
received negatively.”  ANZ shares fell 3.2 percent at 10:12 a.m. in Sydney, on
course for its biggest daily fall in three months. It has
 climbed  17 percent this year compared with a 10 percent rise for
the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Margin Drop  Group net interest margin excluding the bank’s global
markets business, a key measure of lending profitability,
dropped 3 basis points as at June 30 from three-months earlier
and the lender expects it to decline by “several more basis
points” by the end of the financial year.  It expects the international and institutional banking
margin excluding global markets may drop 20 basis points in the
second half due to lower interest rates and a move to reduce
risk.  ANZ is the most  Asian focused  of the Australian lenders and
wants 30 percent of its revenue to come from the Asia-Pacific
region by 2017. It received 21 percent of its revenue from the
region in the year to September 2012. Smith said concerns about
Chinese growth are “overdone.”  The bank is in talks to sell its 39 percent stake in  PT
Bank Pan Indonesia (PNBN)  to Tokyo-based  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week as stricter
capital rules force it to review minority partnerships. It did
not comment on any talks in today’s statement.  A fall in the Australian dollar in the most recent quarter
is positive, the lender said.  A 5 percent drop in the currency
over a six-month period would boost net profit by about 1.5
percent excluding currency hedging, it said. The Australian
dollar traded at an average rate of 99 U.S. cents during the
three months to June 30, down from $1.04 in the previous six
months, according to the bank.  Bad Debts  Given the current credit quality trends the Group expects
the full year 2013 bad debt charge to be slightly lower than for
2012. The charge for bad debts in the nine months to June 30 was
A$876 million, down 2 percent from a year-earlier, ANZ Bank
said.  Core Tier 1 capital , a measure of the bank’s ability to
absorb losses, slipped to 10.1 percent at the end of June from
10.3 percent in March and the bank has raised A$22 billion
through bond sales, completing its wholesale funding task for
the full year, it said.  Deposits increased 12 percent and lending climbed 8
percent. Expenses fell 0.5 percent, the lender said.  While “the Australian economic outlook has softened
somewhat, there is cause for greater optimism as the effect of
lower interest rates, a more competitive currency and the
removal of some pre-election uncertainty underpin  consumer
confidence  and economic activity,” Smith said in the statement.
The Reserve Bank of  Australia  last week cut its economic growth
outlook to 2.25 percent from 2.5 percent.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest
lender, posted record second-half cash profit on Aug. 14 as
earnings from wealth management rose and bad-debt costs shrank.  National Australia Bank Ltd. announces its quarterly
results on Aug. 20.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  doesn’t update
investors on its quarterly performance. At CBA, the fiscal year
ends in June, compared with September for its main competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  