-- Apollo Said to Consider Scaling Back Latecomers to Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-08-15T17:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/apollo-said-to-consider-scaling-back-latecomers-to-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by Leon Black, is telling prospective
investors their commitments might get scaled back if they wait
past October to invest in its next flagship fund, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The pool, Apollo Investment Fund VIII LP, plans to close on
$9.5 billion by early September, ten months after it started
raising money, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. New York-based Apollo
initially sought $12 billion for the fund and later told
investors it would limit the size to $15 billion, people
familiar with matter said in June.  Apollo, which gathered $14.7 billion for a predecessor pool
in 2008, is one of the few big buyout firms on track to raise a
larger fund than it did before the 2007-2009 financial crisis
amid a surge of profitable sales. During the second quarter, the
firm exited three companies, sold shares in five more and took
three public, making $7 billion in proceeds and distributing
$5.7 billion to investors. That’s a crucial measure for clients
when deciding on which funds to back.  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for Apollo at public-relations
firm Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment on fundraising.  Carlyle Group LP expects to exceed its U.S. buyout fund
target of $10 billion when it finishes fundraising, compared
with the $13.7 billion gathered by the prior fund in 2007. KKR &
Co.’s newest North America fund, which is targeting $8 billion,
would be less than half the size of its prior vehicle.
Blackstone Group LP last year closed on $16 billion for its
latest flagship fund, down from the $21.7 billion pool that
closed in 2007.  Fund Returns  Apollo has closed on $8.4 billion for the flagship fund to
date. The firm has continued to hand back money to investors in
the third quarter including through sales of stakes in chemical
maker LyondellBasell Industries NV, real estate brokerage
Realogy Holdings Corp. and packaging company Berry Plastics
Group Inc. The firm’s previous fund was producing a 28 percent
net internal rate of return as of June 30, according to the
firm’s earnings report for the three months ended June 30.  Apollo’s biggest profit has come from Rotterdam-based
LyondellBasell, whose debt Apollo started accumulating in 2008.
The company filed for bankruptcy in 2009, and as the company
recovered following the financial crisis, Apollo traded in its
debt for equity and bought additional shares. Apollo began
selling its stake in September and has generated $5.5 billion,
on top of $1.5 billion received in dividends, on a $2 billion
investment.  Apollo, which held its  initial public offering  in March
2011, has advanced 66 percent in New York trading this year. The
firm said it will pay a dividend of $1.32 a share to
stockholders on Aug. 30.  While Apollo is exiting profitable investments, it is
trying to salvage some bets that soured. The firm in April said
it and TPG Capital will invest $500 million in a new venture to
help finance growth investments at Caesars Entertainment Corp.
and bolster the company’s balance sheet. Las Vegas-based Caesars
was burdened by more than $20 billion in debt after the 2008
leveraged buyout by the two firms, and it has been losing money
since the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  