-- Apollo’s Harris Buys NHL Devils From Lehman’s Vanderbeek
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-15T16:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/apollo-s-harris-buys-nhl-devils-adding-to-his-sports-portfolio.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder  Josh Harris , who owns basketball’s  Philadelphia 76ers ,
agreed to buy the debt-ridden  New Jersey Devils , a team that
struggled financially under the ownership of former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. executive Jeff Vanderbeek.  Harris was joined by  David Blitzer , senior managing
director of Blackstone Group LP, in agreeing to purchase the
 Newark , New Jersey-based Devils in a deal for the National
Hockey League club that also gives the partnership control of
the Prudential Center, they said at a news conference today at
the arena. Blitzer, a  New Jersey  native, is also part of the
76ers ownership group.  Harris, who bought the  National Basketball Association ’s
76ers in 2011, declined to discuss terms of the sale. The deal
is worth $320 million, according to the  New York  Times, with
Harris’s group assuming $200 of debt.  “There’s been a lot of speculation and most of it has been
wrong,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said at the news
conference.’’  Scott O’Neil, who last month became the 76ers’ chief
executive officer, also will assume that role with the Devils.  Harris is getting a team that is the primary tenant in the
Prudential Center, an arena that opened in 2007. His other
sports property, the 76ers, are co-tenants with the NHL’s Flyers
in Philadelphia’s Wells Fargo Center, which is controlled by
Comcast Corp.  Refinanced Debt  The Devils have won three Stanley Cup championships since
1995, more than any team except the  Detroit Red Wings , and
reached the finals five times since then.  Vanderbeek, who bought out his partners and refinanced the
team’s debt in January, quit as a Lehman Brothers executive
committee member in 2004 to buy the Devils for $125 million. He
had been a minority owner since 2000.  “I am proud of our accomplishments this past 10 years --
most importantly ensuring the Devils have a state of the art
arena to call home,” Vanderbeek said in a statement.  The team was put up for sale in February 2011. After
investment bank Moag & Co. was hired to oversee the sale,
Vanderbeek said in a statement that his minority partner, Brick
City, and he had differing visions and that their partnership
agreement allowed Brick City to seek a sale. Vanderbeek said he
intended to maintain a controlling interest.  Newark Dispute  The Devils moved to the Prudential Center from the Izod
Center in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, in 2007.  Vanderbeek and the city of Newark got into a dispute over
parking revenue and other terms of the lease. An arbitrator
awarded the Devils $2.7 million a year in 2012. Mayor  Cory Booker , who won the Democratic nomination for  U.S. Senate  this
week, called Vanderbeek a “high-falootin’ high-class huckster
and hustler.” The Devils said in a statement that Booker was
“playing fast and loose with the facts.”  In January, Vanderbeek said in a statement that “our
future is now secure and we can be confident of continued on-ice
success.” The team carried about $178 million in debt at the
time, according to the New York Times. Forbes estimated in
November that the Devils were worth $205 million, ranked 19th
among the NHL’s 30 teams, with $122 million in revenue.  At Apollo, Harris profited by focusing on ailing companies.
In 2008, he led a $2 billion investment in LyondellBasell
Industries NV, a failing Dutch chemicals maker, on which Apollo
eventually made a $9.6 billion profit.  Harris, a 48-year-old who co-founded  Apollo in  1990, holds
a bachelor’s degree from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School of Business and a master’s degree from the
 Harvard Business School .  Sixers Purchase  His group paid about $280 million for the 76ers when it
bought the team from Comcast-Spectacor, a unit of Comcast,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  “Clearly when you have an arena and a team, you have more
flexibility in terms of the fan experience, which is critically
important, than you do as a tenant,” Harris said. “Comcast
does a great job running that arena. We just have less control
over it.”  The Flyers, whose fan base is also predominantly 76ers
supporters, play in the same division as the Devils. Harris, who
has family ties to both Philadelphia and New Jersey, said he
isn’t worried about alienating Flyers’ fans.  “I don’t see a lot of conflict,” he said. “They’re
two separate situations.”  Harris also said the 76ers’ future is secure in
Philadelphia.  “There have been some conspiracy theories out there that I
just want to categorically want to shut down,” he said. “The
Sixers are staying in Philly.”  The Devils went 19-19-10 during the lockout-shortened
2012-13 NHL season, finishing fifth in the  Atlantic Division , a
point behind the Flyers.  Lou Lamoriello, the Devils’ president, will maintain his
role of running the Devils’ day-to-day hockey operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  