-- Apple IPhone Antitrust Complaint Dismissed by U.S. Judge
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-08-15T20:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/apple-iphone-antitrust-complaint-dismissed-by-u-s-judge.html
Apple (AAPL)  Inc. won dismissal on
procedural grounds of a lawsuit claiming the company maintains a
monopoly over iPhone applications.  U.S. District Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers in Oakland,
 California , ruled today that the plaintiffs weren’t in a legal
position to bring the suit as they hadn’t bought the
applications at issue in the case. The complaint can still be
amended and refiled, Gonzalez said.  The plaintiffs failed to prove “collective allegations
that they have been deprived of lower cost alternatives, paid
higher prices for Apple-approved applications, or had their
iPhones disabled or destroyed,” Gonzalez wrote. “At a minimum,
plaintiffs must allege facts showing that each named plaintiff
has personally suffered an injury-in-fact based on Apple’s
alleged conduct.”  In a suit originally filed in 2011, the same consumers
argued Cupertino, California-based Apple has built a monopoly
for iPhone applications because they’re only for sale at Apple’s
 App Store .  Apple requires iPhone software developers to turn over
30 percent of what they charge for an application, increasing
prices and excluding competitors from the iPhone “aftermarket”
of applications, according to the suit.  Alexander Schmidt, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a
phone interview that he’ll have “no difficulty” refiling the
case to meet the judge’s requirements.  “We can add the extra detail very easily” to advance the
claim Apple has “cornered the distribution market for software
for the iPhone,” he said.  The case is In re Apple iPhone Antitrust Litigation 11-cv-06714, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
mhytha@bloomberg. 