-- Harris, Berkshire Buy GM as U.S. Sells Automaker Shares
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-16T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/harris-berkshire-buy-gm-as-u-s-sells-automaker-shares.html
Harris Associates LP,  State Street
Corp. (STT)  and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  led purchases of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  last quarter as the U.S. government continued selling
shares and GM rejoined the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Harris, a Chicago-based investment-management firm, bought
51.9 million shares, the most among  GM investors  and vaulting it
to No. 5 stockholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Michael Neary, a Harris spokesman, declined to comment.  State Street, a financial holding company based in Boston,
was the second-largest buyer of GM during the quarter, with 17.4
million shares, followed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire (BRK/A)  Hathaway
acquiring 15 million shares,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s 13.9 million and
Vanguard Group Inc.’s 11.7 million.  “The big thing would have been getting back in the S&P,”
 Kevin Tynan , an auto analyst for Bloomberg Industries in
Skillman, New Jersey, said in an e-mail yesterday. “Index funds
and such must buy stocks included in the index.”  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, is introducing 18 new and
refreshed vehicles this year in the U.S., transforming its
lineup into one of industry’s newest from one of its oldest.  The redesigned vehicles include the Chevrolet Silverado,
among Detroit-based GM’s most  profitable  vehicles, and the
Impala, which received Consumer Reports magazine’s highest
rating among all sedans, marking the first time in at least 20
years that a U.S. automaker outscored all Japanese and European
competitors in that segment.  ‘Right Track’  Berkshire’s increased stake and other investors’ share
purchases make “us all feel like we’re on the right track,”
 Mark Reuss , president of GM’s North America operations, told
reporters yesterday at a Detroit event. “A little bit of
validation here and there is OK, but we’ve got a lot of work to
do.”  The automaker’s new products, along with the U.S.
government’s plans to exit its ownership of GM, have given
investors increased confidence in the company. The  shares  have
climbed 19 percent this year, compared with a 16 percent
increase for the  S&P 500. (SPX)  GM fell 0.5 percent to $34.38 at the
close in New York.  The U.S. Treasury said in December it planned to sell its
GM stake within 15 months. Canada’s government has begun a
search for investment banks to sell its position in GM, a person
familiar with the matter said this month.  The automaker returned to the S&P 500 during the second
quarter, a milestone triggered in part by the  U.S. Treasury 
reducing its GM stake. The  shares  on May 17 topped the $33
initial public offering price for the first time in two years,
and a union retiree medical trust has begun selling its stock.  With the S&P 500, “autos represent less than 1 percent of
the index, so if you can own those stocks when they’re
performing, it’s almost like making an out-of-benchmark bet,”
Matthew Stover, auto analyst at Guggenheim Securities based in
Boston, said in a telephone interview. “That’s the beauty and
the beast of the autos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  