-- Asian Stocks Fall Amid Mixed Earnings, Fed Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-08-15T09:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/asian-stocks-fall-amid-mixed-earnings-fed-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, snapping the
regional benchmark’s longest winning streak in six weeks, amid
mixed corporate earnings across the region and after economists
predicted the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus next month.  Sony Corp., an electronics maker that gets 68 percent of
sales overseas, slid 1.6 percent, pacing declines among Japanese
exporters as the yen rose.  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , a brewer
controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, sank 5.2
percent in  Singapore  after posting lower sales and profit. Li &
Fung Ltd., the world’s biggest supplier of toys and clothes to
retailers, jumped 12 percent in Hong Kong after saying business
is recovering.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index dropped 0.7 percent to 135.09
as of 6:11 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about three shares falling for
each that rose. All 10 industry groups on the gauge declined.
The measure climbed 8 percent through from this year’s low on
June 25.  “The market’s had a good run over the last few weeks, so
we’re likely to see a bit of selling pressure today,” Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research in Sydney at
Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25 billion, said by
telephone. “We’ve had a few results that missed expectations
and the reporting season has been pretty mixed. The jobless
claims will be watched as that’s regarded as a very good leading
indicator for the U.S.”  Asian Earnings  While the Asia-Pacific benchmark stock index rose for the
past five days, about 50 percent of members that have reported
earnings this season posted profits that beat analyst estimates,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. A report today may show U.S.
jobless claims fell in the week to Aug. 3, fueling speculation
that has 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicting the Fed will pare bond purchases next month.  Japan ’s  Topix index  slid 1.7 percent, while the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 2.1 percent. Japanese exporters
declined as the yen climbed as much as 0.6 percent against the
dollar today. A stronger Japanese currency reduces the overseas
income of the nation’s carmakers and electronics manufacturers
when repatriated.  The Topix surged 34 percent this year, retaining Japan’s
position as the world’s best-performing developed equity market,
amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through
reforms while the central bank provides record stimulus to spur
a recovery in Asia’s second-largest economy.  Regional Gauges  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  closed little changed, paring
gains of as much as 0.7 percent. The gauge briefly erased this
year’s losses this morning. Trading in the city resumed today
after being canceled yesterday due to a typhoon.  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.9 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex index slipped 0.8 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index declined 0.9 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 0.1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.1 percent. Indian and South Korean markets are closed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge traded at 13.1 times  estimated
earnings , compared with 15.3 yesterday for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 14.1 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. U.S. stocks dropped yesterday to the lowest since July 29
as Macy’s Inc. paced a drop in retailers after reducing its
earnings forecast and as speculation heightened that the Fed
will reduce stimulus in September.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases at its meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Data yesterday
showed the euro area’s economy emerged from a record-long
recession in the second quarter, led by Germany and France.
Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent after contracting
six quarters, the European Union’s statistics office said.  Japanese exporters declined as the yen headed for a second
day of advance. Sony, the maker of Bravia televisions and
PlayStation game consoles, dropped 1.6 percent to 1,968 yen.
 Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s biggest consumer electronics maker,
fell 3.2 percent to 858 yen. Nissan Motor Co., which gets about
80 percent of sales overseas, lost 1.5 percent to 1,039 yen.  Kubota Corp. (6326) , a tractor maker that gets 23 percent of its
sales from  North America , dropped 3.2 percent to 1,474 yen after
rival Deere & Co. forecast a decline in U.S. farm revenue.  Thai Beverage sank 5.2 percent to 54 Singapore cents.
Second-quarter profit slipped 2 percent from a year earlier to
4.92 billion baht ($157.4 million) as sales declined 11 percent.  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , the holding company of Philippine
billionaire  Henry Sy , declined 7.7 percent to 805.50 pesos in
 Manila . The stock’s weighting was cut in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index, according to Societe Generale SA.  PT Matahari Department Store (LPPF) , Indonesia’s largest retailer,
climbed 7.7 percent to 14,000 rupiah after the stock was added
to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Li & Fung  Li & Fung jumped 12 percent to HK$11.76 in Hong Kong, its
biggest gain since April 2009. Orders for the second half are
“solid,” Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said on Aug.
13.  AMP Ltd. rose 3.5 percent to A$4.70 after Australia’s
biggest life insurer and pension manager posted profit that beat
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  