-- Last of Zuma’s Main Critics Sidelined as Vavi Suspended
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-08-16T13:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/last-of-zuma-s-main-critics-sidelined-as-vavi-suspended.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
has seen off the last of his main critics within the ruling
party’s political alliance with labor unions, consolidating his
power before next year’s elections.  Zwelinzima Vavi , general secretary of the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, was suspended on Aug. 14 while he is being
investigated for having an extra-marital affair with an employee
he hired. Vavi, 50, has been a vocal opponent of the  African
National Congress ’s proposals to relax  labor laws  and impose
tolls on highways, while also accusing it of not doing enough to
combat poverty and corruption.  “Zuma has effectively captured Cosatu,” Ebrahim Fakir, a
political analyst at the Johannesburg-based Electoral Institute
for the Sustainability of Democracy in  Africa , said in a phone
interview yesterday. Vavi’s suspension “strengthens the Zuma
faction within the ANC. The whole ANC has been Zumafied.”  Vavi’s sidelining leaves Cosatu, which says it has a
membership of 2.2 million, under the control of S’dumo Dlamini,
the labor group’s president and a Zuma ally.  Zuma, 71, has consolidated his power base since defeating
his deputy Kgalema Motlanthe to win a second term as ANC leader
in December and after securing most posts on the party’s
national executive committee for his allies.  Critical Voice  Tokyo Sexwale, who aborted a bid to challenge Zuma for
leadership of the ANC in 2007, was dropped from the cabinet on
July 9. The ANC has also expelled  Julius Malema , the former ANC
youth wing leader and a vociferous Zuma critic, and fired Cassel Mathale as the party’s leader in Limpopo province after he led a
faction that opposed Zuma’s re-election.  “Vavi’s downfall means that critical voice against Zuma’s
government would be silenced,” Brutus Malada, a political
analyst at the Pretoria-based Center for Politics and Research,
said in a phone interview yesterday. While other internal ANC
critics refrain from making their views public, “with Vavi, you
seemed to find a person who was agitating for change,” he said.  Formed in 1985, Cosatu played a leading role in the fight
against white minority rule, and has been part of the ANC-led
ruling alliance with the  South African Communist Party  since the
first multiracial elections in 1994.  While Vavi helped Zuma wrest control of the party from
former president  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007, he hasn’t held back in
criticizing the government as it faced corruption scandals and
protests by poor, black township residents against a lack of
housing and jobs.  ‘Grave Injustice’  Vavi has instructed his lawyers to challenge his
suspension, which he described today as part of a campaign to
divide and destroy Cosatu.  “I believe a grave injustice is being visited on me,” he
told reporters in Johannesburg. “What will be investigated when
I have admitted to having done wrong and apologized publicly? If
I were to resign and hand over victory to the people standing in
the queue of corruption, I will be doing injustice to people who
elected me.”  Vavi’s supporters sang and danced after the press
conference, hoisting him onto their shoulders.  Cosatu’s fortunes have already been waning, with its 21
affiliates shedding members due to the emergence of new unions
and an  unemployment rate  of 25.6 percent. Clashes last year
between members of the  National Union of Mineworkers , a Cosatu-affiliate, and the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union over the right to represent workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  and
other mining companies resulted in strikes and the worst
violence in the industry since the end of apartheid.  Unions Split  “Cosatu is becoming a shadow of its former self,” Robert Schrire, a politics professor at the University of  Cape Town ,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s becoming divided
within to the point of incoherence. The ANC still is the only
game in town. It’s quite clear to the ANC that it doesn’t need
Cosatu or its organizing capacity.”  The ANC has won more than 60 percent support in every
election since taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in 1994, and
has rallied support by extending access to welfare grants,
housing and electricity. The next national election must be held
by July next year.  An ex-mineworker, Vavi has served as Cosatu’s general
secretary since 1999, and was re-elected to the post unopposed
at a federation conference in 2009.  The National Union of Metalworkers of  South Africa ,
Cosatu’s largest affiliate with about 300,000 members, opposed
Vavi’s suspension and said today it’s seeking legal advice on
how to proceed.  Cosatu has been “completely paralyzed,” Irvin Jim,
Numsa’s general secretary, told reporters in Johannesburg today.
“Independent of whether comrade Zwelinzima Vavi remains the
general secretary of Cosatu or not, there is an irreparable
ideological rupture in the federation. This rupture is
fundamentally between those who want a toothless Cosatu” and
those who don’t.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  