-- Hatzius Finds Payrolls Poor as Economic Gauge: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-15T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/hatzius-finds-payrolls-poor-as-economic-gauge-cutting-research.html
The monthly U.S. nonfarm payrolls
report may not be as powerful an economic indicator as suggested
by how investors respond to it.  A model created by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists  Jan Hatzius  and David Mericle found the employment data issued on
the first Friday of each month does not “seem to provide much
incremental information about the broad strength of the
economy,” they said in an Aug. 9 report. The same applies for
the first estimate of a quarter’s gross domestic product.  That’s even though an upside surprise in payrolls of about
80,000 jobs has historically pushed up the 10-year Treasury note
yield by an average 5 basis points, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose by an average of 0.3 percent. The advance GDP
data had the second-largest effect on Treasuries, at about 2
basis points.  By contrast, Goldman Sachs found the  Federal Reserve  Bank
of Philadelphia’s business outlook survey, the Chicago Fed’s
purchasing managers index, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 manufacturing gauge  and initial jobless claims prove
“considerably more helpful” in providing insight into the
health of the economy.  The poor performance of payrolls and GDP are ascribed by
the economists to the initial data often being revised later and
lags in publication compared with more timely surveys. Part of
the financial market’s “outsized sensitivity” to payrolls is
probably due to the health of the labor market being cited by
Federal Reserve officials, New York-based Hatzius and Mericle
said.  * * *  The future of the U.S. economy isn’t what it used to be.  That’s the warning from Michael Feroli and Robert E. Mellman, economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . They
calculate the country’s long-run potential growth rate -- the
pace at which inflation picks up speed -- is sliding toward 1.75
percent.  That would be the lowest since the post-World War II period
and a decline from 3.11 percent in the decade up to 2005 and
1.97 percent in the past seven years.  Potential expansion depends on labor supply and
productivity growth and both are headed lower, Feroli and
Mellman said in an Aug. 12 report to clients.  U.S.  population growth  is slowing as the public ages and
following a recent drop in immigration, they said. These factors
will also exert pressure on labor-force participation,
depressing the number of hours worked.  Entering a fierce debate, Feroli and Mellman sided with
those who say the pace of technological advances is easing after
IT drove a productivity boom from 1995 to 2005. This has reduced
companies’ incentive to invest in more equipment. A pullback in
spending on research and development may also sap productivity,
they said.  Feroli and Mellman said if the  U.S. economy ’s potential
does weaken, then its large amount of slack can be absorbed
faster, allowing the Federal Reserve to normalize monetary
policy more quickly.  * * *  Entrepreneurs tend to come from higher-income families,
have better educated mothers and enjoyed taking risks as
teenagers.  That’s the finding of a study by Ross Levine of the Haas
School of Business in  California  and Yona Rubinstein of the
 London School  of Economics.  “The combination of ‘smarts’ and ‘aggressive/illicit/risk-taking’ tendencies as a youth accounts for both entry into
entrepreneurship and the comparative earnings of
entrepreneurs,” Levine and Rubinstein said in a paper published
this week by the  National Bureau of Economic Research  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  They also found that entrepreneurs earn much more per hour
than salaried counterparts. The results were gathered by
dividing the self-employed into those who worked in incorporated
or unincorporated businesses.  * * *  Unemployment is the strongest predictor of a U.S. household
defaulting on its debt, according to a  Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta  study.  An individual losing a job increases the probability of
default by five to 13 percentage points, compared with an
average default rate of 3.9 percent, four economists wrote in a
 working paper  published by the regional Fed bank last week.  Only 13.9 percent of defaulters have both negative equity
and enough liquid assets to make one month’s mortgage payment.
That suggests to the study’s authors that defaulting for
strategic reasons during the last recession was relatively rare.  The finding indicates policies aimed at boosting employment
such as payroll tax cuts are most likely to stem defaults in the
long-run rather than efforts to temporarily modify mortgages.  * * *  Norway ,  New Zealand  and  Chile  run the most transparent
sovereign wealth funds, according to the Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  A September 2008 agreement by such state-operated funds to
pursue accountability and transparency appears “to have been
broadly but not universally successful,” Allie E. Bagnall and
Edwin M. Truman wrote in a  study  published by the Washington-based research group this week.  The economists estimated that sovereign wealth funds had
assets totaling $4.2 trillion by the middle of this year, an
increase of almost 40 percent since 2010. In their survey of 49
funds, those of  Equatorial Guinea  and  Libya  ranked last for
openness and accountability.  * * *  The sluggish increase in exports that often results from a
 currency devaluation  causes sharper contractions and recoveries
in emerging-market economies.  A  paper  published last week by the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  looked at large devaluations in eleven  emerging
markets .  It found that the initial decline in output after a
currency slide reflects the shift of resources to areas likely
to attract foreign markets. That also hurts  labor productivity .  The weakness is reversed in time as the economy taps
overseas demand. The paper’s authors noted the argument that
some euro-area economies may have benefited from a weaker euro
during the region’s recent crisis.  “The common view is that a devaluation would boost GDP by
leading to substantial expenditure-switching at home and
abroad,” the study said. “We find that physical barriers to
trade mitigate some of the stimulatory effects of devaluations
initially while boosting growth in the long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  