-- Auto Parts M&A to See Fewer, Larger Deals, PwC Says
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-08-15T13:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/auto-parts-m-a-to-see-fewer-larger-deals-pwc-says.html
Auto suppliers probably will conduct
fewer, larger acquisitions this year as rebounding auto sales
reduce opportunities for deal making, according to a study by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Auto-supplier deals should decline more than 25 percent
this year to about 180, the lowest figure since at least 2006,
when PwC began its annual study. The value of those transactions
may rise about $3 billion from last year and top $14 billion,
the largest amount since 2009, PwC forecasts in its study, which
examined data and executive comments to assess suppliers as
buyers, sellers or financially distressed companies.  “The U.S. auto industry grew nicely over the last four
years,” Dietmar Ostermann, the Detroit-based head of PwC’s
global auto advisory practice, said in an interview. “They’ve
been just running flat out and making a lot of money. They are
looking very, very strong, particularly when compared to the
Europeans and the Japanese.”  U.S. auto sales are on track for the best year since 2007,
driven by an aging fleet, low  interest rates  and competitive
lease deals.  That success is part of the problem, Ostermann said. A
slump in auto sales in  Europe , where the economy has contracted
for a record six quarters, has left fewer suppliers in shape to
acquire companies. Much of the big, post-recession growth in the
U.S. has already occurred as the market has rebounded from a
2009 low of 10.4 million vehicles to a seasonally adjusted pace
of 15.8 million in July, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  ‘Almost There’  “They looked at the market opportunity a few years ago --
10.6 million to potentially back to 16.5 million and said,
‘That’s a long runway,’” he said. “The fact is, we’re almost
there now.”  North American auto suppliers are most likely to be the
buyers, PwC forecasts. The largest deal so far this year closed
in February when  DuPont Co. (DD)  sold its auto-paint unit to  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  for $4.9 billion in February.  “There are other big ones coming,” Ostermann said. “If
any of those big deals happen, or even two or three, then the
total value for the year could be bigger than 2012 or 2011.”  TI Automotive, the closely held  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based auto-parts maker, is exploring options including a sale
that may fetch about $1.5 billion, said people with knowledge of
the matter.  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  agreed to sell its HomeLink product
line to Zeeland, Michigan-based  Gentex Corp. (GNTX)  for $700 million.
Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls is trying to sell the rest of
its automotive-electronics unit.  Auto-parts companies made 243 acquisitions worldwide worth
$11 billion last year, down from a record 303 deals in 2011, PwC
said.  Private-equity firms are becoming more involved in auto-supplier acquisitions, representing about 21 percent of all
deals in the past 12 months, compared with 10 percent in 2012,
according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 