-- MLB Expanding Video Replay, Adding Managerial Challenges in 2014
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-15T19:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/mlb-expanding-video-replay-adding-managerial-challenges-in-2014.html
Major League Baseball  plans to
expand its video review system to include almost all umpire
rulings except balls and strikes, and will feature as many as
three managerial challenges each game starting next season.  MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said the replay proposal was
accepted by representatives from the league’s 30 teams, marking
a “historic day” for the sport. The plan will be presented for
approval during owners meetings in November, Selig said today in
Cooperstown,  New York .  Under the new system, managers can make one challenge of
umpires’ rulings over the first six innings of games and get two
challenges after the seventh inning. If a manager’s replay
challenge is successful, he won’t be charged with a review.  Calls that are challenged by managers will be reviewed at
MLB headquarters in New York by a crew with umpiring experience.
They will make the final ruling on disputed plays, rather than
the crew chief at the game.  Currently, replay is only used to review home runs --
whether they’re fair or foul, cleared the fence or were subject
to fan interference. It would be expanded to include such plays
as forceouts at first base, tag plays at bases, trapped-ball
plays in the outfield and reviews of balls hit down the foul
lines.  USA Today  reported that the expanded replay system may cost
$25 million to $40 million in start-up fees, without saying
where it got the information.  Shortly after two mistakes by umpires in May drew criticism
from the commissioner’s office, MLB Vice President for Baseball
Operations  Joe Torre  said that the league would probably have
increased use of replay in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  