-- Baker Botts, Gibson, Sheppard Mullin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-15T11:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/baker-botts-gibson-sheppard-mullin-business-of-law.html
Baker Botts  LLP, the fourth-biggest
adviser on North American oil and natural gas deals this year,
is expanding to Brazil as Petroleo Brasileiro SA and rivals
prepare for the 15 billion-reais ($6.5 billion) auction of an
offshore lease.  Baker Botts is opening an office in Rio de Janeiro, its
first in Latin America in almost 50 years, the Houston-based
firm said yesterday in a statement. The company, founded in
1840, has more than 700 lawyers operating in 15 offices
worldwide and has been working with Brazilian clients for at
least seven years.  Brazil in May held its first oil block auction since 2008,
with Total SA, BP Plc and BG Group Plc among the winners. In
October, the government is scheduled to auction the offshore
Libra oil field with a signing bonus set at 15 billion reais.
State-controlled Petrobras will operate and hold at least 30
percent of the field, which the country’s oil regulator says
holds from 8 billion to 12 billion barrels of oil. An auction of
gas blocks is scheduled for November.  “It’s a historic moment for Brazil -- after a hiatus, the
bid rounds are coming quick and fast,”  John White , one of two
resident partners at the Rio office, said in a phone interview.
The office will focus on infrastructure as well as the oil and
power business, he said.  Baker Botts has a 13 percent share in the market for North
American oil and gas deals this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The firm’s market share for Latin American deals
during the past five years is 0.1 percent, the data show.  Gibson Dunn Names Los Angeles and Century City Office Heads  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP litigation partner Christopher
Chorba and  land use  partner Amy Forbes were named co-partners-in-charge of the firm’s Los Angeles and Century City offices.
They replace Karen Bertero and Christopher Dusseault, who will
continue their corporate and litigation practices.  Chorba was co-chairman of the firm’s class actions practice
group. Forbes’s practice is concentrated on land use planning
issues, and she has handled matters that involve zoning,
planning, the  California  Environmental Quality Act and municipal
law. She was lead counsel to Madison Square Garden Co. in its
successful effort to acquire and renovate the live-concert
venue, the Forum, in Inglewood, California.  “ Gibson Dunn ’s Los Angeles and Century City offices embody
the firm’s core values of excellence, professionalism, and
collegiality,” Chorba said in a statement. “These qualities
have helped our lawyers succeed in major matters that make
nationwide headlines, such as successfully challenging and
overturning California’s Proposition 8 and representing Vivendi
in the sale of the majority of its interest in Activision
Blizzard.”  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and  Asia .  Litigation  AMR-US Airways Antitrust Suit Seen as Difficult to Settle  AMR Corp. and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  will have difficulty
resolving U.S. objections to their proposed merger, antitrust
lawyers said.  The challenge brought by the U.S.  Justice Department  can be
compared with its lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. in 2011, said Allen Grunes, an
antitrust lawyer with GeyerGorey LLP. AT&T eventually dropped
its bid for T-Mobile.  “My take is that the deal is dead,” Grunes said. “Based
on the complaint, this merger doesn’t look like it can be fixed
with divestitures or slot sales.”  The Justice Department, in a complaint filed in federal
court in  Washington , said the proposed American Airlines-US
Airways tie-up would hurt competition in the industry and raise
prices for consumers. The government is seeking to permanently
block the merger “or any other transaction that would combine
the two companies.”  Richard Parker, an attorney for US Airways Group Inc. and a
partner at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP , and Joe Sims, an attorney
representing  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and a partner at  Jones Day , told
 Bloomberg News  the government’s suit challenging the $14 billion
merger of the airlines is wrong.  Six states and the  District of Columbia  joined the lawsuit,
making settlement prospects even more complex.  That also makes the case less like the division’s January
challenge against  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s purchase of  Grupo
Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , which ended in a settlement after InBev agreed to
sell a brewery in Mexico along with rights to Modelo’s brands in
the U.S. to assure continued downward pressure on beer prices.  “Typically, the government will have already had extensive
settlement discussion with the parties,” said Craig Wildfang,
an antitrust lawyer with Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP in
Minneapolis. “The decision to sue only comes after settlement
discussions have failed, although that doesn’t mean they can’t
come back and take another shot at it.”  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Jets Linebacker Thomas Sues Alabama Lawyer Over Investment  A company owned by former New York Jets linebacker Bryan Thomas sued an Alabama attorney and several of his businesses,
claiming he was defrauded of a $1 million investment in a waste-to-energy company.  Thomas is the principal and managing member of Thomas
Global Group LLC, which sued Donald V. Watkins, a Birmingham
attorney who owns Watkins Pencor LLC, according to a complaint
in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey.  Thomas, a Birmingham native, invested $1 million in Watkins
Pencor in March 2009 after Watkins gave him “highly optimistic
representations regarding the profit potential and low risk of
the investment opportunity,” according to the complaint filed
Aug. 13.  Watkins represented that former Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice  had joined the board of a Watkins Pencor
affiliate and Martin Luther King III was politically promoting
Watkins’s business interests. Four years later, Thomas “has not
received back one dollar” and “has not been provided with any
information or detail of any kind,” according to the complaint.  Watkins didn’t immediately return a call yesterday seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The Jets released Thomas, 34, last year after he had played
with the football team since 2002.  The case is Thomas Global Group LLC v. Watkins, 13-cv-04864, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Moves  Sheppard Mullin Hires Four Partners in California, New York  Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP hired three Bay
area California partners and a New York corporate partner from
four law firms to bolster its corporate and intellectual-property practices.  Peter H. Carson, who was formerly with Bingham McCutchen
LLP, where he was co-head of the health-care industry group,
joins the firm’s  San Francisco  office as a member of the finance
and bankruptcy practice group.  Lorna L. Tanner, formerly of Foley & Lardner LLP, and
Stephanie L. Zeppa, from Dentons LLP, join the firm’s  Palo Alto 
office as members of the intellectual-property practice group
and corporate practice group, respectively.  Corporate partner Tom Devaney also joined Sheppard Mullin
in the firm’s New York office from  Morrison & Foerster LLP .  Carson’s practice is focused on secured and unsecured debt
financing, including senior syndicated, asset-based,
acquisition, mezzanine, second lien, credit enhancement,
recapitalizations and restructurings.  Tanner counsels pharmaceutical, life science and medical
device clients on strategic issues relating to the development
and management of their global intellectual property portfolios.
Her practice focuses on preparing and prosecuting patents, due
diligence analyses on patent portfolios for financings, mergers,
and acquisitions, and she renders opinions on infringement,
inventorship and freedom to operate, the firm said in a
statement.  Zeppa has experience in corporate finance and securities
matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, capital-raising
transactions and strategic commercial transactions. Her primary
focus is on emerging growth and technology companies. She also
works with investors and financial institutions on capital-raising transactions for emerging growth companies.  Devaney specializes in counseling sponsors and the
management teams of private funds, with experience with  hedge
funds , opportunity real estate funds and core infrastructure and
renewable energy funds. He has handled work for clients through
the entire spectrum of a private fund’s life cycle, from fund
formation and fundraising and related U.S. securities laws and
regulations, to investment, operations and administration.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys in 15 offices in the U.S,
Europe and Asia.  Sutherland Adds Two Partners in Team of Four From Dow Lohnes  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP added four attorneys,
including two partners, to the Atlanta office. Matt Block joined
the firm’s corporate group as a partner, and Jason S. McCarter
joined the litigation group as a partner. All were previously
with Dow Lohnes PLLC.  “Their exceptional knowledge and experience with the
media, communications, technology and automotive services
sectors further enhances our corporate and litigation
practices,” Mark D. Wasserman, Sutherland’s managing partner,
said in a statement.  Block counsels clients in mergers, stock and asset
purchases, divestitures, auction transactions and joint
ventures. He also advises on other strategic corporate,
governance and compliance matters, the firm said.  McCarter counsels automotive, utility and educational
enterprises in business disputes and regulatory investigations.
He represents clients facing lending, Uniform Commercial Code,
privacy, licensing and contracting-related issues in state and
federal courts, as well as alternative dispute forums, the firm
said.  Sutherland Asbill has 425 attorneys at seven offices in the
U.S. and London.  Katten Adds Charlotte Real Estate Attorney John W. Domby  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that John W. Domby
will join the firm as a partner in the Charlotte, North
Carolina, real estate practice. He was previously at Winstead
PC.  Domby concentrates his practice on commercial real estate
financing transactions, with an emphasis on closing new
originations of commercial mortgage-backed securities loans, the
firm said in a statement.  Katten Muchin has more than 600 attorneys in 13 offices in
the U.S., London and Shanghai.  Wilson Elser Adds Dean Rocco to Employment and Labor Practice  Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP added Dean
Rocco, formerly a partner with Jackson Lewis LLP, to its
employment and labor practice in  Los Angeles .  Rocco’s employment litigation practice covers breach of
employment contract, discrimination and harassment, violations
of disability and medical-leave laws and wrongful-termination
matters. He also litigates individual, representative and class-action lawsuits asserting wage-and-hour violations.  “Dean’s extensive and varied background in employment law
complements and enhances our growing employment practice in
Southern California and nationwide,” David S. Eisen, regional
managing partner of the Los Angeles office, said in a statement.
“He is highly regarded by clients and colleagues for his
proactive risk mitigation work through the advice and counsel
part of his practice, and the aggressive and effective manner in
which he handles litigation.”  Wilson Elser’s employment and labor practice in Los Angeles
and San Diego now has more than 20 attorneys who advise clients
on workplace issues and defend employment litigation.  Wilson Elser has almost 800 attorneys in 23 offices in the
U.S.  Laura E. Vendzules Joins Blank Rome in the Litigation Group  Blank Rome LLP added Laura E. Vendzules as a partner in the
commercial litigation group in Philadelphia. She was previously
a partner at Dilworth Paxson LLP.  Vendzules focuses her practice on commercial litigation
including derivative and class-action cases. She has experience
in contract disputes, fraud and other business torts, director
and officer liability, shareholder and partnership issues,
special litigation committees, defamation and media law matters,
and health-care issues, the firm said.  Blank Rome has lawyers at 12 offices in the U.S. and Asia.  Video  Butler Says U.S. ‘Got It Wrong’ Suing Over AMR Deal  John “Jack” Butler, a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP and an attorney for the creditors’ committee
in AMR Corp.’s bankruptcy, talks about the U.S Justice
Department’s lawsuit to block the merger between AMR’s American
Airlines and US Airways Group Inc.  Butler speaks with Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” Click here for video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 