-- Banyan Tree to Revive Europe, Americas Resorts on Recovery
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-08-16T09:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/banyan-tree-to-revive-europe-americas-resorts-on-recovery-signs.html
Banyan Tree Holdings Ltd. (BTH) , a
Singapore-based operator of spas and resorts, is seeking to
expand its presence in  Europe  and the Americas amid signs that
the economies in these markets are recovering.  The company plans to revive projects in  Spain , Greece and
 Mexico , which it abandoned after the 2008 global financial
crisis. Banyan Tree has signed two contracts to run properties
in southern Spain, and is in talks to resume a couple of
projects in Greece, Chairman Ho Kwon Ping said.  “We actually see Europe and America beginning to
recover,” Ho said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “In
the last five years, growth was almost 100 percent driven by
 China . We had virtually no inquiries coming out of the rest of
the world. But now, in the last six to nine months, we have seen
a lot more interest in the  Middle East , in the Americas.”  Banyan Tree is betting on a recovery as the euro area’s
economy emerged from a record-long recession in the second
quarter with a 0.3 percent expansion in gross domestic product.
In the U.S.,  retail sales  rose in July for a fourth consecutive
month, showing American households are regaining momentum as
employment climbs.  Southern Europe has become an attractive tourist
destination for Europeans after the Arab Spring forced them to
abandon holidays in  Morocco , Tunisia and Egypt and flock to
Spain, Canary Islands and Greece, Ho said.  Arab Spring  The Arab Spring refers to the democratic uprisings that
arose independently and spread across the Arab world in 2011. In
 Egypt , security forces broke up sit-ins by Islamist protesters
this week, sparking violence that left hundreds dead.  Banyan Tree said Aug. 13 its second-quarter  profit  more
than doubled to S$1.7 million ($1.3 million), while revenue
climbed 3 percent to S$81.7 million.  “Their strategy has always been to head to new
locations,” said Derek Tan, a Singapore-based analyst at DBS
Vickers Research. “It’s exciting but unchartered territory for
them, but I would prefer they go in very cautiously. They should
do management contracts rather than putting in equity or it
would stretch their capital needs.”  The stock rose 0.7 percent to 70 Singapore cents at the
close of trading today. The stock has gained 24 percent in the
past year, compared with the 17 percent gain in the Bloomberg
REIT Hotels Index. The Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) 
has risen 4.4 percent.  Morocco Opening  Banyan Tree  is a manager and developer of resorts, hotels
and spas mainly in the Asia Pacific, with 36 resorts and hotels,
73 spas, and three golf courses. Locations include Thailand’s
Koh Samui, Seychelles and Cabo Marqués in Mexico.  The resort operator will open a Banyan Tree property in
Morocco next year, two more in China and one in Kerala in
Southern India. It will open another nine properties in China in
2015, a country where locations include Lijiang and  Hangzhou , a
resort built as a water village inside a wetland reserve. A
night in a villa with a water view costs 3,500  yuan  ($572).  “While we continue to want to grow a lot in China we are
beginning to refocus back into Europe and the Americas,” Ho
said. “Interest is reviving again. People are dusting off old
projects, financing is becoming more available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  