-- Batista’s OGX Cash Plummets 72% to $326 Million Amid Record Loss
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-08-15T03:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/batista-s-ogx-cash-plummets-72-to-326-million-amid-record-loss.html
OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA,
the oil unit of former billionaire  Eike Batista , said its cash
reserves plunged 72 percent as writedowns drove its second
quarter loss to a record 4.7 billion reais ($2.03 billion).  The company had cash of $326 million at the end of the
quarter, almost equal to its capital spending of $316 million in
the period, Rio de Janeiro-based OGX said yesterday in a
statement. Pump failures at its only crude producing field
forced it to shut wells in the quarter, it said.  OGX is selling assets and cutting costs to help pay
interest on its $3.6 billion in international bonds and finance
its projects. Its net loss widened from 390 million reais a year
earlier after it slashed 3.6 billion reais from the value of
four oil fields in the Campos Basin, three of which it plans to
return to  Brazil ’s oil regulator after unsuccessful exploration,
OGX said.  “OGX is currently focusing its efforts on adapting its
operations and developing a new business plan that will allow
the resized company to pursue its focused exploration and
production aims,” Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said in
the statement.  The company may halt output at the fourth field next year
after missing targets, OGX said. Banco Itau SA was expecting OGX
to lose 1.3 billion reais, it said in a July 24 report.  OGX also said yesterday it hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private-equity firm, as financial adviser to
review its capital structure. The company plans to reduce its
offshore drilling fleet to two units from three by the end of
the year to help cut costs, it said.  Mubadala Development Co., the Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth
fund, is in talks to buy some of Batista’s assets for about $1
billion, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  