-- Biggest 30-to-10 Spread Since 2011 Prompting Buyers: Muni Credit
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/biggest-30-to-10-spread-since-2011-prompting-buyers-muni-credit.html
The longest-term municipal bonds
offer a buying opportunity, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. say, as  yields  reach a two-year high following
 Detroit ’s bankruptcy and concern over the  Federal Reserve 
curbing bond purchases.  Benchmark munis due in 30 years yield 4.64 percent, or
about 1.8 percentage points more than 10-year borrowings,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the widest gap since January
2012 and compares with an average of 1.14 percentage points
since 2001. While 30-year muni yields jumped 1.67 percentage
points since the start of May, similar-maturity U.S. Treasury
rates increased 0.87 percentage point, the  data  show.  The interest-rate move has been fueled by investors pulling
about $15 billion from long-term muni mutual funds for 23 weeks,
the lengthiest stretch in two years, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show. Taxable-equivalent yields on top-rated bonds are higher
than those on BBB corporate debt, a signal for investors such as
 hedge funds , pensions and insurance companies to buy local-government bonds, according to Peter DeGroot, a municipal
strategist at JPMorgan in  New York .  “The whole long-end of the muni market is exceptionally
cheap right now,” said Clark Wagner, who oversees $1.5 billion
of munis as director of fixed income at First Investors
Management Co. in New York. “Long munis look really attractive
on a relative basis to corporates and to Treasuries.”  Fed Slowing  The longest-maturing bonds in the $3.7 trillion muni-debt
market have outpaced a broad fixed-income decline spurred by
concerns that the Federal Reserve will slow its bond-buying amid
signs the  U.S. economy  is improving. Investors are betting that
the end of the central bank purchasing $85 billion in Treasuries
and mortgages each month will lead to higher  interest rates .  In that scenario, investors holding bonds with longer
maturities will miss out on a chance to lock in higher-yielding
debt, while those with shorter-dated securities get cash back
quicker to redeploy.  Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing on July 18 has produced bigger
losses for munis relative to other assets. The bankruptcy cost
the local-debt market about $13.8 billion through Aug. 7,
according to J.R. Rieger, vice president for fixed-income
indexes at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York.  The 23 straight weeks of investor withdrawals from long-term muni mutual funds is the longest since June 2011, when
individuals pulled their money out for 31 weeks.  Whitney Prediction  That wave of outflows was spurred in part by banking
analyst  Meredith Whitney  incorrectly predicting “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of municipal defaults in the 12 months
after her December 2010 interview on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes.”  The latest streak of withdrawals has been propelled by
Detroit filing for the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy, said
 George Friedlander , chief muni strategist at New York-based
Citigroup. The yield on benchmark 30-year munis has jumped 0.29
percentage point since the filing and is at the highest level
since May 4, 2011, Bloomberg data show.  The taxable-equivalent yield on the AAA munis for the
highest earners is about 7.68 percent, more than the 5.43
percent interest rate on BBB corporate securities with a similar
maturity.  “The long end has gotten so cheap that we don’t have a
problem putting some cash there,” Friedlander said. “We think
that the market can rally somewhat from here because we’re going
to have much lighter supply the rest of the year.”  Forecast Cut  Citigroup this month reduced its muni issuance projection
for the year by 8.6 percent, to $320 billion, because rising
yields may deter borrowing. States and localities have sold $200
billion so far this year, down from $224 billion over the same
period in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Longer-maturing munis appear cheap relative to other fixed-income assets and compared with their historical average,  John Dillon  at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management wrote last week. Yet
investors should avoid them in anticipation of “a protracted
and uneven ascent toward higher rates,” he said.  “Whether yields rise mildly or wildly, it’s clear that
investors are now quite concerned over interest rate risk,”
Dillon wrote. He recommended individuals buy debt maturing in
five to 11 years.  Other investors are choosing to side with history. The 1.8
percentage points of extra yield from buying benchmark 30-year
munis instead of those due in a decade is just 0.09 percentage
point away from a record, Bloomberg data show.  Within three months of reaching that peak, the additional
yield pickup dropped 40 percent, to 1.13 percentage points.  Gyrating Ratio  The  ratio  of 30-year AAA muni yields to those on comparable
U.S. Treasuries is also near the highest in a year. About three
months after touching its 2012 high of 127 percent, it fell to
97 percent, the lowest in almost two years, showing the
relationship’s transient nature.  Issuers such as Chicago Park District are set to sell debt
today, joining municipalities nationwide in offering $4.8
billion in long-term obligations this week, Bloomberg data show.  In the 10-year portion of the market, benchmark munis are
yielding  2.88 percent . The interest rate compares with  2.71
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The  ratio  of the two
yields is about 106 percent, compared with an average of 93
percent since 2001.  Following is a pending sale:  University of Washington  in  Seattle , with almost 51,600
students, plans to issue about $143.4 million in federally tax-exempt debt next week, partly to finance renovations of the
football team’s Husky Stadium and to build a new baseball park.
The bonds are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and mature annually
on July 1 through 2041. A unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is
leading the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  