-- BlackBerry CEO to Make $55.6 Million If He Sells Company
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-16T20:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/blackberry-ceo-stands-to-make-55-6-million-in-event-of-sale-1-.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins stands to make $55.6 million if he sells
the company and is ousted.  That’s the amount he’s entitled to receive if BlackBerry
has a change of control and Heins is pushed out by the new
owners, according to a  May proxy filing . The figure, which
includes salary, incentive payments and equity awards, is based
on BlackBerry’s stock price at the end of the fiscal fourth
quarter. The plan was approved by shareholders at its annual
meeting on July 9.  Shares of BlackBerry jumped more than 10 percent on Aug. 12
on speculation that the struggling Canadian smartphone maker
will be bought, broken up or taken private, bringing a windfall
to investors. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company announced
plans that day to form a board committee to consider a potential
sale, as well as joint ventures and partnerships.  The board probably shouldn’t have created an exit package
that offers so much money for selling the company, said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Jacob Securities Inc. in Toronto.  “The onus of structuring that contract was on the board,”
Kanade said. “It’s a lot of money. The board should be looking
out for shareholders.”  Watsa’s Role  Prem Watsa, a Toronto businessman and BlackBerry’s largest
shareholder, is stepping down from the board, fueling
speculation that he may play a role in rescuing the company.
Still, finding potential buyers may not be easy. BlackBerry
bankers  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  quietly
contacted possible bidders for almost a year and found little
interest in acquiring the company, said two people familiar with
those discussions.  The CEO of Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ,  Canada ’s
second-largest pension-fund manager, said today he’d consider
investing in BlackBerry, though he knows of no deal in the
works.  “We’d be open to looking at it,”  Michael Sabia  told
analysts on a conference call today. “Our judgment of it would
depend on what the specific conditions were -- the returns, the
structure of the deal.”  Pension Interest?  Sabia’s comments echo those made by other pension funds,
including the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, which last
week said it would consider investing in BlackBerry if the
opportunity arose. Caisse de Depot oversaw assets worth about
C$185.9 billion ($180 billion) as of June 30.  “Whether we do it or not, I can’t tell you,” Sabia said.
“I have no idea because that’s not something that’s on the
table as we speak.”  The shares fell 4.1 percent to $10.51 today in  New York .  If Heins is terminated without a change of control, he is
entitled to $22 million in salary, incentive payments and equity
awards, based on the March 28 share price. The payout would
include his base salary of $3 million and about $72,000 in
benefits and retirement savings. He also is eligible for an
annual incentive payment of $2.8 million, which climbs to $4.5
million in a change-of-control scenario.  The equity awards are valued at $16.1 million if he’s
simply terminated and $48 million if it happens at the hands of
new owners. The documents don’t specify what might occur in a
more complex breakup situation.  Stock Package  As of yesterday’s close, the shares are trading 24 percent
below the March 28 price on which the company’s payout scenario
was calculated. Adjusting for the difference, Heins would be
eligible for a payout of about $44 million, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Adam Emery, a spokesman for BlackBerry, declined to comment
on the package.  Heins was named CEO in January 2012, replacing co-founders
and co-CEOs  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie , who stepped down
after shareholders demanded a management shakeup. At the time,
Heins was the company’s chief operating officer, having joined
BlackBerry in 2007 after more than two decades at  Siemens AG. (SIE)   Heins was initially criticized for saying BlackBerry didn’t
need “drastic” changes, though he went on to make big moves at
the company. He named new sales, marketing and legal chiefs, and
eliminated 5,000 jobs as part of an effort to cut $1 billion in
operating costs. He also closed six of the company’s 10
manufacturing plants.  BlackBerry 10  Even as he scaled back the size of the company, Heins was
counting on the release of new BlackBerry 10 phones to restore
its former glory. The first of the new models, the touch-screen-equipped Z10, was unveiled in January at a lavish New York
event. It didn’t fare well with consumers, selling almost 1
million fewer units last quarter than estimated.  Heins first hired JPMorgan and RBC to advise the company on
its strategic options last year, though he stressed at the time
that the banks were focusing on potential partnerships and
software licensing deals. When pressed, he said he couldn’t rule
out a sale of the company, though that wasn’t the “main
direction” he was pursuing. The tone changed this month:
BlackBerry’s Aug. 12 statement was the first time the company
confirmed in writing that it would consider takeover offers.  BlackBerry created Heins’s compensation package after
consulting an index of technology companies, including
Amazon.com Inc.,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Yahoo! Inc., according to the
filing in May.  “It was determined that while Mr. Heins’s total direct
compensation was conservative compared to the median of the
comparator group, it provided a strong pay-for-performance
orientation,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  