-- BP Asks Judge to Deny Bid for Class-Action Investor Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-15T15:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/bp-asks-judge-to-deny-investors-bid-to-sue-as-group.html
BP Plc (BP/)  asked a federal judge to deny
U.S. investors the right to pursue a class action, or group,
lawsuit claiming the company misled them before and after the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The investors, led by the  New York  and Ohio pension funds,
sued BP and certain  officers  in 2010, alleging violations of
U.S. securities laws.  The  investors  claim the company lied about the size of the
worst offshore spill in U.S. history and its ability to contain
a deep-water blowout to prop up its share price. Shareholders
also claim BP’s senior management publicly proclaimed a
commitment to safety improvement while internally cutting
budgets and rejecting employees’ concerns about safety.  “Plaintiffs must demonstrate that the alleged
misrepresentations were publicly known, that the stock traded in
an efficient market, and that the relevant transaction took
place between the time the misrepresentations were made and the
time the truth was revealed,” BP’s lawyers said yesterday in a
filing in federal court in Houston.  BP has denied fraud or any lack of attention to safety in
court filings. “A commitment to safety is not a guarantee that
no future accidents will occur,” the company said in an earlier
court filing.  Richard Mithoff , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said BP’s bid
was a routine maneuver seen in all class-action suits.  Success Foreseen  “I expect at the end of the day we’ll be able to convince
the court this case should proceed to trial,” Mithoff said
today in a telephone interview.  The investors asked U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison of
Houston in June to let them sue in two groups.  One composed primarily of institutional investors includes
all buyers of BP’s American depositary receipts from Nov. 8,
2007, to May 28, 2010. One claiming to represent about 900,000
individual investors bought BP ADRs from March 4, 2009, to April
20, 2010, the date the Macondo well blew out off the Louisiana
coast.  The judge in March refused to dismiss the bulk of the
claims while ruling that only investors who purchased shares on
the U.S. stock exchange were eligible to participate in the
litigation.  BP shares  fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the
explosion, according to court filings. The drop eliminated
billions of dollars in the London-based company’s market value,
which hasn’t fully recovered.  Officers Sued  The investors also sued BP ex-Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  and  Doug Suttles , ex-chief operating officer of BP’s
exploration unit, over statements they made about the spill.  Hayward allegedly misled investors about how thoroughly BP
had improved its safety practices and said the company was
prepared to handle a large spill in very deep water, according
to the shareholders’ complaint.  Both men lied publicly about the size of the spill,
according to the complaint.  Investor securities-fraud suits were among hundreds filed
after the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010. Eleven rig workers were killed and
the blast sent more than 4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf.  BP agreed to pay $525 million to settle a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission claim that the company underestimated
the size of the spill.  Criminal Charges  The company also pleaded guilty to obstruction of Congress
related to its spill size estimate, part of a $4 billion
resolution of criminal charges brought by the U.S. BP pleaded
guilty to 11 other felony counts related to the rig workers’
deaths and two misdemeanor environmental law violations.  BP is currently between phases of a different trial in
federal court in  New Orleans , in which a judge is weighing
liability for the spill between BP and its contractors,
including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig, and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Testimony in the liability phase of that trial concluded in
April, and no decision has been announced. The second trial
phase will focus on the size of the spill, which will affect the
size of the fine BP would pay for violating the U.S. Clean Water
Act. That phase is scheduled to begin in September.  The case is In Re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Calkins in federal court in Houston
at   lcalkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 