-- Brazil World Cup Hotel Prices Are Surging as Much as Sixfold
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-15T17:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/brazil-world-cup-hotel-prices-are-surging-as-much-as-sixfold.html
Fans attending soccer’s  World Cup 
next year face soaring hotel room prices, with rates rising as
much as sixfold, according to Brazil’s tourism board.  The tournament will take place in June and July in 12
cities across  South America ’s biggest country. Soccer’s
governing body  FIFA  and government ministers have regularly
warned hotel operators about prices in Brazil, where there are
already concerns over capacity.  A study released by Embratur compared what hotels are
charging for the period of the World Cup, which kicks off on
June 12, with current prices. Fans hoping to catch the July 13
final in Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana stadium will face prices more
than double the average $200 per night charged in Johannesburg
in 2010. The average cost per night in Rio around the time of
the month-long World Cup will be $461, which is also $161 more
than the cost of staying in a hotel in Berlin when that city
staged the 2006 final, the report said.  FIFA didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment. Last year its general secretary  Jerome Valcke  warned
that a shortage of hotel rooms in some cities could mean
supporters would have to fly in and out on the day of games.  The biggest price surge reported by Embratur concerned the
north-eastern city of  Salvador , where one hotel is charging $509
per night during the World Cup. It charged just $75 per night
last month. Hotel rates in other cities are between 200 percent
and 350 percent higher during the competition.  Price Warning  Brazil’s sports minister Aldo Rebelo has warned the
hospitality sector over prices in the past, saying that the
government could take action against the worst offenders.  “The government will not tolerate overcharging because it
would be damaging to both  Brazil  and the Cup’s host cities,” he
said in June before the Confederations Cup, a warm-up event for
the World Cup. “Those who think they can abuse consumers should
know that the heavy hand of government will take action and
hotels could even be closed as a result.”  Brazil has taken action against hotels in the past. Some
that were found to have overcharged clients during a United
Nations environment conference held in Rio last June were forced
to make refunds.  Embratur’s report compared current hotel rates with those
for the World Cup on the websites of hotels and MATCH
Hospitality, FIFA’s official accommodation and corporate
hospitality partner. MATCH may be the subject of an
investigation by Brazil’s antitrust agency after it received a
complaint from public prosecutors alleging abuse of its dominant
position in the market, according to a statement from the
prosecutors’ office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  