-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Fuel Price Speculation; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-15T13:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-fuel-price-speculation-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose to a two-month high as a newspaper report saying the government may raise
fuel prices fueled speculation that policy makers will speed up
the pace of borrowing-cost increases to tame inflation.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose for a
fourth day, increasing 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 10.15 percent at 10:04 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , the highest
on a closing basis since June 21. The real fell 0.8 percent to
2.3436 per dollar even as the central bank sold 40,000 currency
swap contracts worth $493 million.  The Brazilian government may authorize state-run Petroleo
Brasileiro SA to increase fuel prices to bolster its profits,
Sao Paulo-based newspaper  Valor Economico  reported today, citing
an unnamed source at the presidential palace. The  Finance
Ministry  didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
when contacted by  Bloomberg News . The real reversed an earlier
gain, declining against the dollar with most of its emerging-market dollar counterparts.  “We have a stronger dollar and news that the government
may increase fuel prices,”  Newton Rosa , the chief economist at
SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “Inflation was lower in the past but the trend now
is for it to increase.”  Annual inflation slowed to 6.27 percent in July from 6.70
percent in June, according to the national statistics agency.
The central bank targets annual price increases of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s currency has lost 14 percent in the past three
months, the most among major emerging-market currencies,
boosting the cost of imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  