-- Buffett Adding Wells Fargo Sets Bank Apart at Berkshire
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-15T20:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/buffett-adding-wells-fargo-sets-bank-apart-at-berkshire.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
accumulation of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  stock is making the lender
stand out among  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s largest holdings.  Buffett added shares of the bank for the ninth straight
quarter, bringing Berkshire’s total investment to almost $20
billion, according to a  regulatory filing  today. The stake is
the largest holding in a portfolio that includes about $15.6
billion of Coca-Cola Co., $11.4 billion of  American Express Co. (AXP) 
and $12.7 billion in  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Buffett, Berkshire’s 82-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer, favors making  concentrated bets  on companies
he’s studied for years and calls his top investments the “big
four.” He said last year in an interview that Wells Fargo, the
largest U.S. home lender, navigated the financial crisis better
than competitors and should benefit as housing rebounds.  “He puts his money where his mind is,” said Jeff Matthews, a Berkshire shareholder who has written books about
Buffett and his company. “His mind is clearly on the idea that
housing in America is going to be a powerful economic growth
engine for years to come. And, if you think that way, Wells
Fargo is a prime candidate to benefit.”  The Wells Fargo holding has  surged  by about 60 percent to
463.1 million shares in the five years through June 30,
according to regulatory filings from Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire. Buffett hasn’t added to AmEx and  Coca-Cola (KO)  since the
1990s. He built the IBM stake beginning in 2011.  Stock performance has also caused the value of the top
holdings to diverge. Wells Fargo is up 26 percent this year,
outperforming the 7.8 percent advance at Coke and the slide of
about 3 percent at IBM. AmEx has gained 30 percent.  Housing ‘Megatrend’  “I don’t see any other megatrends that would affect the
other of the big four in quite the same way” as housing does
for Wells Fargo, Matthews said. “Coke is struggling. People are
drinking less cola. That’s a problem. IBM is struggling. People
are going to Amazon to get their businesses online instead of
building big glass rooms full of IBM equipment.”  For American Express, Buffett may be limited because he has
accumulated  14 percent  of the New York-based company’s shares,
Matthews said. That compares with a stake of about 8.7 percent
of Wells Fargo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger said in 2011 that
Atlanta-based Coke wasn’t as good of a business as it was two
decades earlier when he and Buffett were building the stake.
Still, he said the soft-drink maker was “one of his favorites”
among the big companies that sell similar consumer goods.  ‘Finance Engine’  Wells Fargo, led by CEO John Stumpf, posted record net
income of $18.9 billion in 2012. The San Francisco-based bank
originated about 23 percent of U.S. home loans in the second
quarter, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry
publication.  The investment adds to Berkshire’s bets on the housing
market. Among Berkshire’s more than  80 operating units  are
businesses that make paint and bricks, build manufactured houses
and broker home sales.  Wells Fargo is the “finance engine” among Berkshire’s
housing bets, said Douglas Ciocca, CEO of Leawood, Kansas-based
Kavar Capital Partners LLC, which manages about $280 million.
“Stumpf has certainly been the steady ship director through
this entire process because they focused on home lending, less
on exotic derivatives.”  Buffett has been ceding more responsibility over a $103.3
billion stock portfolio to Ted Weschler, 52, and Todd Combs, 42.
The money managers will be responsible for investments once the
billionaire is no longer leading the company. Berkshire doesn’t
say who makes each pick listed in filings, though Buffett has
said he oversees the larger holdings.  Suncor, GM  Berkshire today reported a stake in  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) 
valued at more than $500 million. The Calgary-based oil producer
benefited from a  narrowing  gap between oil-sands crude grade
Western Canada Select and U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate. Producers are working around a shortage of
pipelines that was depressing Canadian heavy-crude prices by
moving more volumes to market by rail.  Buffett’s company boosted a holding in  General Motors Co. (GM) 
by 60 percent to 40 million shares, in the second quarter. The
stake is valued at about $1.4 billion. Buffett said last year
that the bet on the automaker wasn’t his.  Today’s filing omitted some information about the
portfolio. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sometimes
allows companies to withhold data from the public to limit
copycat investing while a firm is building or cutting a
position. Buffett’s firm requested confidential treatment in
2011 filings, as the billionaire spent more than $10 billion
amassing the stake in Armonk, New York-based IBM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  