-- Bullard Says Higher Yields Unlikely to Hurt Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-15T14:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/bullard-says-higher-yields-unlikely-to-hurt-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard, who has backed the Fed’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, said a rise in Treasury yields to a two-year high probably won’t hurt short-term U.S. growth.  “It is a concern, but I think that the level of yields now
is still quite low by historical standards,” Bullard, who votes
on policy this year, said to reporters today after a speech in
Louisville. “I also think that momentum in housing is stronger
than any effects that are going to come from higher yields, at
least for now.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to the
highest since August 2011 as reports showed U.S. initial jobless
claims declined last week to the lowest level in almost six
years and manufacturing in the New York region expanded. The 10-year Treasury note yield rose 0.08 percentage point to 2.79
percent at 10:11 a.m. in New York after briefly hitting 2.8
percent.  Stronger economic growth is one of the factors Bullard has
cited in speeches this week that may help prompt a decision to
slow bond buying. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will probably begin
to dial down asset purchases at a meeting of the Federal Open
Market Committee Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  Bullard said he sees a reduction in unemployment to 7
percent as a “soft target” for an end to bond purchases by the
Fed. Unemployment is at 7.4 percent.  Bernanke said in a press conference after the FOMC’s June
18-19 meeting that the Fed may trim its bond-buying program
later this year and halt it around mid-2014 if economic
performance tracks the central bank’s forecast.  The St. Louis Fed official said  the FOMC  hadn’t voted on 7
percent as a formal threshold and he wasn’t sure if the panel
would be willing to adopt that as a “hard target” for policy.
He reiterated today that he hasn’t decided whether to support a
tapering of purchases next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  