-- Bundesbank Concerned About Payment Jams on Euro Deadline
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-08-15T11:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/bundesbank-concerned-about-payment-jams-on-euro-deadline.html
German companies risk clogging
payment transactions if they don’t adapt to new transfer
standards on time, according to Bundesbank board member Carl-Ludwig Thiele.  “I am concerned that many payments won’t be processed”
once a Feb. 1 deadline hits, Thiele said in an interview
yesterday, referring to the date by which all transfers and
direct debits in the  Single Euro Payments Area  will have to
follow a common technical standard. “I’m afraid we’ll see the
build-up of a bow wave, which will then have to be reduced
gradually, transaction by transaction.”  German companies are lagging behind their European peers in
adjusting payment practices. While 47 percent of transfers and
3.7 percent of direct debits in the euro area followed SEPA
standards in June, companies in  Europe ’s largest economy used
SEPA rules in only 8.7 percent and 0.1 percent of those
transactions, respectively, in the first quarter. The  Bundesbank 
said data didn’t change much in the second quarter.  “Banks must start communicating and increase awareness of
the problem,” Thiele said. The Bundesbank will spend 3 million
euros ($4 million) on a campaign starting this autumn to promote
the new requirements.  Initiatives include applying for a creditor ID at the
Frankfurt-based central bank to collect money directly out of
bank accounts and inform customers about the shift to SEPA.  33 Countries  Almost one quarter of the 213 trillion euros transfered in
the European Union in 2011 originated in  Germany , while the
country accounted for almost three quarters of the 18 trillion
euros collected via direct debits.  Germany’s reliance on direct debits, a common method of
payment, make the switchover for banks and businesses more
complex and time-consuming.  SEPA enables customers to make euro transfers across
borders within Europe using a single payment account and a
single set of payment instruments. Thirty-three European
countries are participating in SEPA, a project initiated to
promote a single market for  bank transactions . Adherence to the
new standard is mandatory from Feb. 1.  “That’s the law and it won’t change,” Thiele said. “There
is no ‘Plan B’.”  German banks have begun contacting customers to make the
changeover as smooth as possible.  “After all, the banks are the ones who have to convince
citizens to shift to the politically-driven payment standard,”
Axel Schindler, who’s responsible for payment transactions at
the  federal association  for German cooperative banks in Berlin,
said by telephone. “At the moment, we expect that all our
customers will have shifted to SEPA on time.”  Before Christmas  While small-business owners should be able to handle the
change by updating bank software and converting master data
“just before Christmas” at the latest, according to Schindler,
larger companies will need longer transition periods.  Kloeckner & Co SE (KCO)  has already started to change its
information technology systems, and plans to be finished before
the end of the year, Christina Kolbeck, a spokeswoman for the
Duisburg, Germany-based company, said by telephone.  Still, banks are bracing for the worst case.  “Companies could be technically unable to transfer or
receive payments,” Dirk Braun, director for cash management and
international business, at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt said by
telephone. “In the worst case that could lead to a temporary
liquidity squeeze for the German economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  