-- Canada’s Dollar Gains as Wagers on Fed Weigh on U.S. Currency
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-15T21:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/canadian-dollar-rises-second-day-as-crude-oil-hits-two-week-high.html
Canada’s dollar gained the most this
week as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will begin slowing
stimulus as soon as September weighed on demand for assets
denominated in the U.S. currency.  The Canadian dollar strengthened as crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, advanced for a fifth day, the longest winning
stretch since April. U.S. stocks and Treasuries dropped, while
gold, which Canada produces, rallied. Claims for jobless
benefits in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped and the cost of living
rose, bolstering bets the Fed will soon slow its bond buying.  “All the U.S. assets are down -- stocks are down, bonds
are down, the dollar is down,”  Marc Chandler , the global head
of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said by
telephone from  New York . “If I’m right, we’re in a weak U.S.-
dollar environment for a little bit. That means the Canadian
dollar is going to strengthen; maybe there’s scope for another
percent or so.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent,
the most on a closing basis since Aug. 9, to C$1.0306 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It declined earlier to C$1.0364
after touching C$1.0370 yesterday, the weakest since Aug. 8. One
loonie buys 97.03 U.S. cents.  The  U.S. dollar  fell against 12 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, while the loonie advanced
against 10.  “What’s bad for the U.S. dollar is good for the Canadian
dollar in this case,” said Greg T. Moore, currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto.  Stocks, Bonds  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.4 percent, and U.S.
Treasury 10-year notes dropped, with yields touching 2.82
percent, the highest since August 2011.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, pushing
 yields  up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.67
percent. Yields climbed as much as eight basis points to 2.71
percent, the highest intraday level since July 2011. The price
of the 1.5 percent securities maturing in June 2023 lost 34
cents to C$90.  The loonie strengthened as oil, Canada’s biggest export,
rose on speculation turmoil in  Egypt  may upset Middle Eastern
supply. Crude futures climbed as much as 1 percent to $107.87 a
barrel in New York.  “Oil is actually rising quite significantly, so that’s
quite a boost to Canada,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior currency
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone from New York.  Gold Gains  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities also rose
for a fifth straight day, with the spot price of gold reaching
its highest in almost two months. The gauge increased 0.8
percent, and gold climbed as much as 2.5 percent to $1,370.13,
the highest since June 19. The world’s two largest gold
producers by market value,  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
are both Canadian.  The Fed buys $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage bonds
each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs and spur
economic growth. The purchases also tend to devalue the American
dollar.  Canada ’s dollar declined earlier on speculation slowing
the stimulus would benefit the dollar.  Bets the central bank may begin slowing the purchase pace
as soon as next month were boosted by U.S. Labor Department data
that showed the number of applications for  unemployment
insurance  benefits in the U.S. declined to 320,000 in the week
ended Aug. 10, the fewest since October 2007, from a revised
335,000 the week before. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 335,000.  Consumer Prices  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent last
month after a 0.5 percent gain in June, Labor Department figures
showed. The advance matched the forecast in another Bloomberg
survey. The core measure, which excludes food and fuel, also
climbed 0.2 percent from June.  American industrial production was unexpectedly unchanged
in July as a slowdown at factories overshadowed an increase in
mining, another report showed. A 0.3 percent rise was forecast.  Canada’s currency has lost 0.6 percent this month against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has weakened 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  