-- Cathay Pacific Shares Fall After Profit Misses Estimate on Cargo
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-15T01:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/cathay-pacific-shares-fall-after-profit-misses-estimate-on-cargo.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
biggest international carrier, fell the most in more than two
month in Hong Kong trading after reporting first-half profit
that missed analyst estimates as cargo revenue dropped.  The stock declined as much as 2.5 percent to HK$13.90,
heading for its biggest drop since June 7. Hong Kong’s stock
market was closed for trading yesterday.  Cathay’s cargo revenue fell 5.2 percent in the first half
as it shipped fewer goods at lower rates while travel within the
Asia Pacific region was  affected  by avian flu and political
issues in Northeast Asia, the carrier said. Wall Street job cuts
have crimped premium business travel for Asian airlines and
Cathay’s Chief Executive John Slosar has cut capacity and phased
out some planes to take excess capacity out.  “The cargo market will stay subdued in the third quarter
and is unlikely to recover until fourth quarter at the
earliest,” Kelvin Lau, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets HK
Ltd., wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Net income  totaled HK$24 million ($3.1 million) in the six
months ended in June, Cathay said in a stock exchange  statement 
yesterday, compared with the HK$590 million median profit
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of five analysts. It was the
smallest profit in at least 15 years for the Hong Kong-based
 airline . The carrier had a year-earlier loss.  The company posted about HK$350 million loss in the first
half from the newly-opened cargo terminal and also had a loss of
HK$50 million a month from its cargo venture with Air China
Ltd., Finance Director Martin Murray told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  