-- Centuria Property Trust to Double in a Year After Australian IPO
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-15T22:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-15/centuria-property-trust-to-double-in-a-year-after-australian-ipo.html
Centuria Property Trust (CCT) , which is
seeking A$215.3 million ($197.5 million) for an initial public
offering in September, wants to double in size in a year by
acquiring offices and warehouses in  Australia .  The trust has so far raised more than A$100 million from
investors, in addition to A$42.8 million from Tower Holdings
Pty, said Nicholas Collishaw, who will oversee the new vehicle
and was managing director of  Mirvac Group (MGR)  until October.
Centuria, which owns an office tower in North Sydney, will begin
a book-building process for the remainder of the funds on Aug.
26, and is seeing strong interest from Asia, he said.  While similar IPOs, such as Pacific Retail REIT and Domus
U.S. Multifamily Real Estate Fund, failed to raise sufficient
capital in recent weeks, Centuria is betting on investor
appetite for stable returns that are relatively high in a low-yield environment. Average yields in the office market in North
Sydney, a secondary office hub in the city, are as high as 9.5
percent, compared with 8.75 percent in Sydney’s center,
according to broker Knight Frank LLP.  “We’re in a very fickle marketplace,” Collishaw said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “But we’ve been pleasantly
surprised with the amount of interest from Asian markets,”
driven by the trust’s 7.8 percent dividend yield and its
moderate debt levels. The average dividend yield on the  S&P/ASX
200 (AS51)  share index is 4.23 percent.  The  average dividend yield  for the S&P/ASX 200 Australian
REIT index is 5.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The trust’s gearing, a ratio of debt to assets, will
be at 33.1 percent at the IPO, and is unlikely to exceed 40
percent, it said in investor documents.  Increase Assets  The ultimate goal is to increase assets to A$1 billion and
seek inclusion into the benchmark share index over the next
three years, Collishaw said. Centuria, based in Sydney, would
then consider seeking a debt rating, he said.  Centuria plans to refurbish the North Sydney office block,
 Northpoint Tower , upgrading it to an A-grade property from its
current B-grade status, Collishaw said. Tower Holdings, a
private investment group, previously owned the building.  Centuria will then seek higher-quality buildings with a
focus on security of income, and undertake redevelopments only
when necessary, he said. The trust will focus on acquisitions in
Australia’s 10-largest markets, which include most of the
nation’s state and territory capitals, he said.  Logistics Facilities  The fund will limit its industrial property weighting to
about 20 percent of assets, preferring buildings suited for
general warehousing and manufacturing over modern logistics
facilities, he said. This will allow it to avoid competing
against bigger rivals  Stockland (SGP) ,  GPT Group (GPT)  and Mirvac, which are
seeking to add to their industrial property holdings, he said.  “There has been a lot of focus on industrial, after many
years of being the ugly ducking of the industry,” Collishaw
said. “But the investor demand is very tightly focused on the
big logistics facilities rather than the mainstream assets.”  The trust’s book build will conclude on Aug. 29 and the
shares are expected to begin trading on Sept. 4, according to
the IPO prospectus. It expects to pay a dividend of 6.48
Australian cents a share for the 10 months to June 30, the
document said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  